1 . Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That, where any
■goods and chattels shall be distrained for any rent, reserved
and due upon any demise, lease or contract whatsoever, and
the tenant or owner of the goods so distrained shall not, within
ten days after such distress taken, and notice thereof, and
the cause of such taking, left at the chief mansion house, or
other most notorious place on the premises charged with the
rent distrained for, replevy the same, by sufficient security
given to the sheriff or officer serving such distress, to pay the
money or tobacco, and all costs, with lawful interest for the
same, at the end of three months ; in such case, such sheriff
or officer shall and may sell the goods and chattels so distrained
for, by public auction, to the highest bidder, either for money
or tobacco, according as the rent reserved shall be due and
payable, to be paid at the end of three months ; and shall take
bond of the buyer or buyers, with one or more sufficient secu
rities, to pay the same accordingly, with interest, to the land
lord for whom the distress was maAe.(a)
2. All and every bond and bonds, so taken in pursuance
of this act, shall mention that the same was or were entered
into, for goods or other estate distrained for rent, and restored
to the debtor, or sold to the obligor, (as the case shall be,) and,
before the expiration of the said three months, shall be delivered
to the landlord for whom distress was made. And if the
money or tobacco shall not be paid, according to the condition
of such bond, it shall be lawful, and full power and authority
is hereby given to the justices of the court where such bond
shall be lodged, upon motion of the party to whom the same is
payable, to award execution thereupon, with costs : Provided,
the obligors have ten days' notice of such motion ; and, upon
such execution, the sheriff or officer shall not take any sureties
for payment of the money or tobacco at a further day, but shall
levy the same immediately. And, for the better direction of
such sheriff or officer, the clerk shall endorse upon the back of
every such execution, that " no security is to be taken.'Y^J
3. Provided, always, That, when distress shall be made
for tobacco, between the last day of September and the last
day of December, in any year, and the goods distrained shall
not be replevied as aforesaid, such goods shall be sold and
security taken for paying the tobacco by the first day of January
then next ensuing; and the bonds, taken for the same and
costs of seizure and sale, shall be by the officer delivered to
the landlord for whom distress was made ; which last men
tioned bonds shall have the like force, and may be proceeded
upon in the same manner as any other bond, directed to be
taken by this act.fc)
4. Any officer who shall levy distress for rent, shall be
entitled, in case the property be replevied, to the same com-si
mission as in the case of a forthcoming bond, taken under any
writ of execution for the like sum, and may include such com
mission in every bond taken under such distress.(d)
5. In case any distress and sale shall be made, under color
of this act, for rent pretended to be in arrear or due, where iii
truth no rent is in arrear or due, to the person or persons distraining,
or to him, her or them, in whose name or names, or
right, such distress shall be taken as aforesaid, then the owners
of the goods and chattels so distrained and sold, his executors
or administrators shall have remedy, by action of trespass, or
upon the case, against the person or persons so wrongfully dis
training, or either of them, his, her or their executors and
administrators, and shall recover double the value of the goods
and chattels so distrained and sold, together with full costs of
suit.(e)
6. Upon any pound breach, or rescous, of goods or chattels,
distrained for rent, the person or persons grieved thereby shall,
■ • , ... r r c , 0 ,, .J
in a special action upon the case, tor the wrong thereby sustained, recover treble damages, with costs of suit, against thes
offender or offenders, in any such rescous or pound breach, or
ejther 0f them, or against the owner of the goods distrained, in
case the same be afterwards found to have come to his or her
Use or possession//^
7. No goods or chattels whatsoever, lying or being in or upon
anv messuage, lands or tenements, which are or shall be leased
li,e or lives> terlu of years, at will or otherwise, shall, at
any time hereafter be liable to be taken by virtue of any writ
of execution, or on any pretense whatsoever, unless the party,
so taking the same, shall, before removal of the goods from oft"
such premises, pay or tender to the landlord or lessor thereof,
or his agent, all the money or tobacco due, for the rent of the
said premises, at the time of taking such goods or chattels in.
execution.(g)
8. Provided, nevertheless, That such rent arrear do not
amount to more than one year's rent; and, if more be due,
then the party suing out such execution, paying or tendering
to such landlord, or This agent, one year's rent, niay proceed to
execute his judgment ; and the sheriff or officer serving the
same, is hereby empowered and required to levy and pay to
the plaintifff, as well the money or tobacco so paid for rent, as
the execution money.(A)
9. Where any landlord or lessor shall have sufficient
grounds to suspect, that his tenant will remove his effects from
the leased tenement, to any other place, whether within or
without the county or corporation, before the expiration of his
term, so as no distress for the said rent can be made, it shall be
lawful for sucli landlord to go before any justice of the peace
of the county or corporation, where the lands leased do lie,
and make oath what rent the tenant is to pay, and at what
time the same will be due, and that he has just cause to sus
pect, and verily believes such tenant will remove his or her
effects out of the county or corporation before the time of paynient
; and thereupon such justice may, and he is hereby empowered and required, to issue an attachment against the goods
and chattels of such tenant, returnable to his next county or
corporation court ; and if such tenant shall not, at the time of
serving such attachment, or before, or at such next court, enter
into recognizance, with one or more sufficient securities, for
the payment of the said rent at the time it shall become due, it
shall be lawful for such court, and they are hereby required,
to order the goods attached to be sold by the sheriff* or Serjeant
at public auction, for money or tobacco, according to the reser
vation of the rent, to be paid at the time the rent shall become
due, the purchasers giving good security for such payment, and
to assign the bonds, taken for the same and the costs, to such
landlord or lessor; and the overplus of such sale, if any be
sides the charges of attachment and sale, to return to the
owner.(i)
10. When any tenant shall have actually removed his effects
from the leased tenement, before the rent reserved thereon
hath become due, so that there be not left on such tenement
property liable to distress, sufficient to secure the payment of
the rent so reserved, it shall be lawful for the landlord or lessor,
in like manner, to obtain an attachment, at anytime within
ten days after such removal, and to levy the same on the effects
of the tenant, wherever they may be found ; and in other res
pects to proceed therein, in the manner, and under the regu
lations herein -before prescribed.^
11. The agent or attorney in fact of any landlord or lessor
shall have the same right to obtain and prosecute, in the name
of such landlord or lessor, any attachment, upon taking th
oath prescribed by law, which the landlord or lessor would
himself have under like circumstances.(Z)
12. Whenever any distress shall be made for rent reserved
in wheat, corn, or any thing other than money, it shall be lawful
for the landlord or lessor to apply to the court of the county
or corporation, or to the superior court of law for the county
in which the leased tenement may lie, to ascertain the value
in money of the rent in arrear so reserved, and to order the
property so distrained, or so much thereof as may be neces
sary, to be sold for the satisfaction of such rent. And th
court, to which such application shall be made, ten days previ
ous notice thereof having been given to the tenant, or, in case
of his absence from the county, being set up at some conspi
cuous place on the tenement, shall proceed to ascertain th
value in money of the rent in arrear so reserved, either by thei
own judgment, or, if required by either party, by the verdic
of a jury, summoned and impannelled at their bar for tha
purpose, without the formality of pleading ; and, having so
ascertained the value, shall order a sale of the property s
distrained, and award costs to the landlord or lessor. In pursuance
of such order, the sheriff or seijeant of the court, o
the officer having distrained the property, shall proceed t
advertise and sell, under the rules and regulations prescribed
for the sale of property taken under execution, the propert
distrained as aforesaid, or so much thereof as shall be neces
sary to raise the amount of money and costs aforesaid ; and
shall return the residue thereof to the owner. The sheriff or
other officer receiving the money and costs aforesaid, or any
part thereof, under such order of court, shall pay over the
same to the landlord or lessor, and, on failure, may be proceed
ed against for its recovery, and subjected to costs and damages,
in the same manner and to the extent provided in the case o
a sheriff failing to pay money received by him on an execution
returned satisfied. It shall be lawful, however, for any such
tenant, at any time after the value of the rent shall be ascertained
as aforesaid, and before the sale shall have been made,
to execute a replevy bond, with sufficient security, for th
amount of the rent so ascertained and costs, payable with in
terest at the end of three months from the date thereof. Such
bond shall be taken in other respects in the same manner, shall
have the same force and effect, and shall be in the same manner recoverable, as other replevy bonds hereby authorized in
cases of distress for rent.(m)
13. Whenever an attachment to secure the payment of rent
reserved in any other thing than money, and not due, shall be
issued against any tenant about to remove, or having removed,
his effects from the rented tenement, and such tenant shall
fa.il to give security for the payment of the rent, so reserved,
when " sha11 become due> ^ sha11 be lawful for the landlord or
lessor, in like manner, to have the value in money of the rent
so reserved ascertained by the court, before which the attach
ment shall be returned ; and thereupon, to have such proceed
ings for the recovery thereof, as would have been proper if the
amount so ascertained had been reserved in money.(n)
14. All actions of debt for rent in arrear, all actions on the
case for the use and occupation of lands and tenements, all
actions of trespass quare clausum fregit, and all actions of
waste, may hereafter be sued and prosecuted in the court of
the county or corporation, or the superior court of the county,
wn*cn *ne defendant may reside or be found, in like manner
^ transitory actions may now be sued and prosecuted therem.(o)
_
*5- No goods or chattels found or being in or upon any depremises,
such goods and chattels bona fide belonging to
any person other than the tenant of such premises, or some
person or persons bound or liable for the payment of the
arrears of rent, or of some portion thereof, due on such demise(j
premises, shall be liable to be distrained for the payment of
suc^ arrears 0f rent : Provided, however, That if such tenant
or other person, bound or liable for the payment of such arrears
of rent, or of any portion thereof, shall have any limited pro
perty or interest in such goods and chattels, the same may be
distrained and sold for such interest as such tenant, or other
person or persons bound or liable for the payment of such
arrears of rent, or of any portion thereof, may have therein :
Provided also, That no person, claiming title to such property
distrained for rent, shall, in any manner, avail himself of the
provisions of this section, unless by a writ of replevin sued
out and levied before the sale of such property under the dis
tress.^)
16. Any process of attachment against a tenant or tenants
^or ren** under anv lease or other contract, may hereafter be
executed and returned by a constable, in the same manner as
bylaw sheriffs are directed to execute and return the same.(<7)
17. In case any lessee for life or lives, term of years, at will,
or otherwise, of messuages, lands or tenements, upon the demise
whereof any rents are or shall be reserved, or made payable, shall, at any time, fraudulently or clandestinely, convey or
carrv °' or from sucn demised premises, his goods or chattels,
'with intent to prevent the landlord or lessor from distraining
(m) 1815,c. 15, §4 . (/>) 1815, c. 15, § 7.
the same for arrears of rent so reserved, it shall be lawful for
such lessor or landlord, or any person or persons by him for
that purpose lawfully empowered, within ten days next after
such conveying away or carrying off such goods and chattels,
to take and seize the same wherever they shall be found, as a.
distress for the arrears of such rent, and the same to sell, in
the like manner as if they actually had been distrained by
such lessor or landlord in and upon the demised premises.(r)
18. Provided, always, That no goods or chattels so carried B
off, and bona fide sold for valuable consideration, before such ^
seizure made, shall be afterwards liable to be so taken or seiz- 8
ed for any arrears of rent.(s) U
19. Any person or persons having rent in arrear, or due K
upon any lease or demise for life or lives, may bring an action o
r.. . j. ' . ■', 5
or actions of debt lor such arrears ot rent, in the same manner b
as if such rent was due and reserved upon a lease for years.(i)
20. It shall be lawful for any person or persons having rent
in arrear, or due upon any lease for life or lives, or for years,
or at will, ended or determined, to distrain for such arrears
after the determination of the respective leases, in the same
manner, as if such lease or leases had not been determined. (v)
21. Provided, That such distress be made within six
months after the determination of such lease, and during the
continuance of such landlord's title or interest, and during the
possession of the tenant from whom such arrears became due.
And no distress for rent shall be made in any case whatsoever,
but within five years after such rent shall become due and in
. . •
arrear.(w)
22. Provided, also, That nothing in this act contained shall
extend or be construed to let, hinder or prejudice the Commonwealth,
in the levying, recovering or seizing any debts, fines,
penalties or forfeitures due, payable or answerable to the Com
monwealth ; but that the same may be levied, recovered and
seized in the same manner as if this act had never been
made.fx)
23. And, whereas very great and unjust delays have arisen
from the suing out writs of replevin in cases of goods dis
trained for rent ; for remedy whereof,
Be it enacted, That, before any writ of replevin shall be
granted in case of goods and chattels distrained for rent, the
person or persons praying such writ, shall enter into bond, with
one or more sufficient securities, in th« clerk's office, in the
penalty of at least double the value of the rent distrained for,
and costs of suit, to perform and satisfy the judgment of the
court in such suit, in case he, she or they shall be cast therein ;
and if, upon the trial of such suit, it shall be found that the
rent distrained for was justly due, the party injured or delayed
by suing forth the said writ shall recover, against the party
suing forth and prosecuting the same, double the value of the
rent in arrear and distrained for, with full costs of the suit.
And, upon any execution issued upon such judgment, the
clerk shall, in like manner, endorse that no security is to be
taken.(y)
W. . „ , ., , .. . ,.
24. VV here any person shall suggest, that the goods distrained
are his or her property, and not the property of the
tenant, nor held in trust for the use of the tenant in any man,
, . , . , . . J
ner whatsoever, and that the same, in Ins or her opinion, are
not liable to such distress, he or she, giving bond and security
*n manner herein-before directed, may sue out a writ of repleyjn
^ such goods, but not otherwise; and, in case the person
or persons suing out the said writ shall be cast in such suit,
judgment shall be given against him for double the value of
the rent in arrear and distrained for, with full costs as afore
said.^)
25. And, for the more speedy determination of such writs
0f replevin ; Be it further enacted, That every such writ issuing from the clerk's office of any county or corporation court
shall be returnable to the next court after the same shall be
issued ; and such court shall, at their next sitting after the re
turn, cause an issue to be made up therein; and every issue
made up on such writ of replevin, whether in a superior or
inferior court, shall be tried at the following term, without
waiting for its turn in the order of priority in regard to other
svits.(y)
26. All persons, being grantees or assignees of any lands,
tenements or hereditaments let to lease, or of the reversions
thereof, from any person or persons, and the heirs, executors
and administrators and assigns of such grantees or assignees,
siiaji and may have and enjoy the like advantages against the
lessees, their executors, administrators and assigns, by entry
for non-payment of the rent, or for doing of waste, or other
forfeitures, and also shall and may have and enjoy all and eve
ry such like covenants and agreements, contained and expres
sed in the indentures of their said leases, demises or grants,
against all the said lessees, their executors, administrators and
assigns, as the said lessors themselves, or their heirs ought,
should or might have had, or enjoy at any time or times.(z)
27. All lessees of any lands, tenements or hereditaments,
a tem of 7ears» life or lives, their executors, administrators or assigns, shall and may have like action and advantage
against all and every person or persons, their heirs and assigns,
'iave> or 8naH 'iave anv g1^ or grant of the reversion of
the said lands, tenements or hereditaments, so letten, or any
parcel thereof, for any condition, covenant or agreement contained
or expressed in the indentures of their lease and leases,
as the same lessees, or any-of them, might and should have
had against the said lessors and their heirs ; "all benefit and
advantage of recoveries in value, by reason of any warranty
in deed or law, only excepted.(a)
28. The exccutous and administrators of any person unto
whom any rent is or shall be due, and not paid at the time of
his death, shall and may have an action of debt for all such
arrearages against the tenant or tenants, that ought to have paid
the said rent, so being behind in the life of their testator, or
against the executors or administrators of such tenants ; and
also, furthermore, it shall and may be lawful, for every such
executor and administrator of any such person, to whom such
rent is or shall be due and not paid at the time of his death, to
distrain for the arrearages of all such rents on the lands, tene
ments and other hereditaments which were charged with the
payment of such rents and chargeable to the distress of the
said testator, or intestate, so long as the same continue, remain
and be in the seisin or possession of the said tenant in demesne,
who ought immediately to have paid the said rent, so being
behind, to the said testator or intestate in his life time, or in the
seisin or possession of any person or persons claiming the said
lands, tenements and hereditaments only by and from the said
tenant by purchase, gift or descent, in like manner and form as
their said testator might or ought to have done in his life time ;
and the said executors and administrators for the same distress
lawfully may make avowry upon the matter aforesaid.(6)
29. If any man which now hath or hereafter shall have in
the right of his wife any estate in fee simple, or for term of
life, of, or in any rents, or fee-farms, and the same rents, or
fee-farms now be, or hereafter shall be due, behind and unpaid
in the said wife's life, then the said husband, after the death of
his said wife, his executors and administrators, shall have an
action of debt for the said arrearages against the tenant of the
demesne that ought to have paid the same, his executors or
administrators ; and also the said husband, after the death of
his said wife, may distrain for the said arrearages in like man
ner and form, as lie might have done if his said wife had been
then living, and make avowry upon his matter as is aforesaid. (cj
30. The executors and administrators of any person or persons
having rent in arrear or due upon any demise or lease, for
life or lives, or for years, or at will, although the same be determined,
shall and may have the like remedy by action of
debt, or by distress, against the person who ought to have paid
the same, his or her executors or administrators, as the testator if living might or could have had.((i)
3 1. It shall not be lawful for any person taking any distress
to drive or remove the same out of the county where such distress
was taken; and whosoever doth so shall be amerced at
the discretion of the jury : moreover, distresses shall be reasonable
and not too great, and he that taketh great and unreasonable distresses shall be amerced for the excess of such distresses.(e)
32. All and every act and acts, clauses and parts of acts,
coming in the purview of this act, shall be and the same are
hereby repealed : Provided, That all rights and remedies,
given by every such act or acts, and all such parts of acts,
8nan ue and remain as if this act had not been made.
33. This act shall commence and be in force, from and aftelthe
first day of January next. »
C. 114.
An act concerning Awards.*
[Passed December 17, 17m]
B£ enacted by the General Assembly, That it shall and
may be lawful for all merchants, and traders, and others desiring
to end any controversy, suit or quarrel, for which there
's n0 other remedy but by personal action or suit in equity, by
arbitration, to agree, that their submission of the suit to the
award or umpirage of any person or persons should be made a
rule of any court of record which the parties shall choose, and
to insert such their agreement in their submission or the con
dition of the bond or promise, whereby they oblige themselves,
respectively, to submit to the award or umpirage of any person
or persons ; which agreement being so made and inserted in
their submission or promise, or condition «of their "respective
bonds, shall or may, upon producing an affidavit thereof made
by the witnesses thereunto, or any one of them, in the court of
which the same is agreed to be made a rule, and reading and
filing the said affidavit in court, be entered in the proceedings
of such court; and a rule shall be made thereupon by the said
court, that the parties shall submit to and finally be concluded
by the arbitration or umpirage, which shall be made concern
ing them by the arbitrators or umpire pursuant to such sub
mission.
2. And the award made in pursuance of such submission
ma„ De en^ere(j up as ^\le jucijrment or decree of the court,
v ,. r J o "»
and the same execution or process may issue thereupon as on
other judgments or decrees; and the court shall not invalidate
such award, arbitrament, or umpirage, unless it be made appear
to such court, that such award, arbitrament, or umpirage was
procured by corruption or other undue means, or that there
was evident partiality or misbehavior in the arbitrators or umpires, or any of them. And any award, arbitrament, or umpirage
procured by corruption or other undue means, or where
there shall have been such evident partiality or misbehavior
as aforesaid, shall be deemed and judged void and of none
effect, and accordingly set aside by the court in which the
submission shall be made, so as complaint of such corruption
or undue means, or evident partiality or misbehavior as aforesaid,
be made before the end of the second court of quarter
sessions in the case of a county court, or at the end of the
second term of any other court next after such awardj arbitra
ment, or umpirage be made and returned to such coujjt.
3. Trovided, nevertheless, That nothing herein contained,
shall be construed to take away from courts of equity their
power over awards, arbitraments, or umpirages.
C. 115.
An act to explain and amend an act, " reducing into one the
several acts concerning Forcible Entries and .Detainers."*
[Passed February 12, 1814.]
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That none shall
enter into any lands or tenements, but in case where entry is
given by law, ; and, in such case, not with strong hand, nor
with multitude of people, but only in a peaceable and easy
manner ; and that none, who shall have entered in a peaceable
manner, shall hold the same afterwards, against the consent of
the party entitled to the possession thereof.
2. If any shall enter, or shall have entered, into any lands
or tenements, in case where entry is not given by law ; or if
any shall enter, or shall have entered, into any lands or tenements,
with strong hand or with multitude of people, even in
case where entry is given by law; the party turned out of
possession by such unlawful, or by such forcible entry, by
whatever right or title he held such possession, or whatever
estate he held or claimed, in the lands or tenements, of which
he was so dispossessed, shall, at any time within three years
thereafter, be entitled to the summary remedy herein provided.
3. And, if any shall enter, or shall have entered, in a peaceable
manner, into any lands or tenements, in case where sucli
entry is lawful ; and, after the expiration of his right, shall
continue to hold the same, against the consent of the party
entitled to the possession ; the party so entitled, whether as
tenant of the freehold, tenant for years, or otherwise, shall be
entitled to the like summary remedy, at any time within three
years after the possession shall so have been withheld from him
"against his consent.
4. The party so turned out of possession, or so held out of
possession, may exhibit his complaint before any justice of the
peace for the county or corporation within which such lands or
tenements may lie, in the following form, or to the following
e.ft'ect, that is to say :
County (or corporation of ) to wit :
Jl. B. of the said county {or corporation) complains, fftat
C. D- hath unlawfully (or forcibly) turned him out of posses
sion, (or unlawfully, and against his consent, withholds from
him the possession,) of a certain tenement, containing by estimotion, of land, with the appurtenances, lying and
6etng> i« ffte county (or corporation) aforesaid— Whereof he
prays restitution of the possession.
Jl. B., Plaintiff.
5. Such complaint shall be verified by the oath or affirmation
of the plaintifft', certified at the foot thereof, after the
fitfollowing manner :
County (or corporation of ) to wit :
This day, the above named A. B. made oath (or affirmed,)
before me, a justice of the peace for said county, (or corpora
tion,) that he verily believes the allegations of the above com
plaint to be correct and true,
t Given under my hand this day of
E. F.
6. The justice before whom such complaint shall be made,
snay tliereupon issue his warrant, to the following effect:
County (or corporation of ,) to wit :
Whereas Jl. B. hath made complaint on oath (or affirmation,)
before me, a justice of the peace for said county (or corpora
tion?) that C. D. hath unlawfully (or forcibly) turned him out
of possession, (or unlawfully, and against his consent, holds
him out of possession) of a certain tenement, containing by es
timation of land, with its appurtenances, lying and
being in the said county, (or corporation,) and hath prayed
restitution of the possession thereof ; These are, thereforee, in
the name of the Commonwealth, to require you to summon the
said C. D. to appear at the court-house of your county (or
corporation,) on the day of , before the justices
of the county (or corporation) aforesaid, to answer the com
plaint aforesaid; and also to require you to summon at least
eighteen good and lawful men, being freeliolders of your baili
wick, and not of kin to either party, then and there to be at
tendant upon the said justices, as jurors, to try the complaint
aforesaid. You are furthermore required to give notice of this
warrant to at least two other justices of the peace for the said
county (or corporation) and to request their attendance at the
time and place aforesaid ; and have then there this warrant.
Witness my hand and seal this day of
E. F., [Seal.]
7. The warrant aforesaid shall be directed to the sheriff,
Serjeant or coroner, as the case may require ; shall be made
returnable on a day certain, not less than ten, nor more than
twenty days, after its date ; and shall be forthwith executed
by the proper officer, who shall make due return to the justices,
at the time and place therein mentioned, of the manner in
which he shall have executed the same.
8. The said warrant shall be served on the defendant at
least eight days before the return day, either by delivering to
him a copy thereof, or, if he cannot be found, by delivering a
copy to any white person of his family, above the age of six
teen years, at his usual place of residence ; or, if no such
person be found, then by setting up a copy on some conspicu
ous place on the tenement in the warrant mentioned.
9. At any time after such warrant shall have been issued,
lt sha11 be lawful fl»r the justice issuing the same, or any jus
tice of the peace for the county or corporation, or for the clerk
of the county or corporation court, as the case may be, upon
the application of either party, to issue subpoenas for witnesses,
requiring them to attend at the court-house, before the justices,
at the time appointed as aforesaid, to give evidence on the
trial. Any subpoena, so issued, shall be executed in the same
manner, and, to all intents and purposes, shall have the same
force and effect, as a subpoena issued according to law, in a
cause depending in a county court.
10. It shall be the duty of the Justices notified as aforesaid,
and of the justice who shall have issued the warrant, to attend
at the court-house on the day therein specified, for the purpose
of holding a court for the trial of the complaint aforesaid ;
for which purpose, such justices, or any two of them, or any
two or more justices of the county or corporation, as the case
may be, shall constitute a court. Such court shall be considcred a court of record ; they shall have power to issue all proper
process to bring before them witnesses, or other persons,
whose attendance may be lawfully required by them ; and they
May adjourn from day to day, and from time to time, until the
trial shall be ended : the sheriff, Serjeant or coroner, as the
case may require, shall be attendant upon them, and execute
their orders : And the clerk of the county or corporation
court, as the case may be, shall attend them, and shall record
their proceedings in the proper books of his office, and file
away and preserve the complaint and warrant aforesaid, with
all other papers exhibited on the trial.
11. When the justices shall have so met, and formed a
eourt, on the day and at the place aforesaid, if it shall appear
to them that the defendant has been duly served with the war
rant, agreeably to the requisitions of this act, they shall pro
ceed, without further pleadings in writing, to empannel a jury
for the trial of the complaint aforesaid. The jury shall be
composed of any twelve of the freeholders, summoned as
aforesaid, to be selected by lot, to whom neither party hath
any legal exception ; or, if a sufficient number of such free
holders, to whom neither party hath any legal exception, be
not attending, the deficiency shall be made up of by-standers,
being freeholders of the county or corporation.
12. When the jury shall have been so empannelled, they
shall be charged on oath, in the following manner ; that is to
gay,
If the complaint be of a forcible entry, or of an unlawful
entry, they shall be charged thus :
You shall well and truly try, whether the defendant C. D.,
at any time within three years next before the exhibition of the
complaint filed by the plaintifff in tliis cause, did forcibly (or
unlawfully) enter upon the tenement in the said complaint
mentioned, and turn tlie said plaintifff out of the possession
thereof; and whether the said defendant continued to hold the
possession thereof at the time of the exhibition of said complaint.
And you shall find a true verdict thereupon according to the
evidence. So help you God.
^ ^e comP"aint De °f an unlawful detainer against the
consent of the plaintifff, they shall be charged thus :
^ou s^a^ we^ an^ truty trU> whether the defendant C. D.
against the consent of the plaintifff, holds possession of the tene
ment mentioned in the complaint filed in this cause ; whether
the said defendant hath so held possession thereof, against the
consent of the plaintifff, for three years next before the exhibi
tion of the said complaint ; and whether the plaintifff hath the
right of possession in the tenement aforesaid: and you shall
find a true verdict thereupon according to the evidence. So
help you God.
13> The jury being so empannelled and charged, the iustices
shall then admit before them all legal evidence which snail
be offered, as well on the part of the defendant as on the part
of the plaintifff; shall suffer each party to be heard by counsel;
shall decide all questions of law which shall be properly sub
mitted to them, in the course of the trial ; shall admit bills of
exception to their opinions ; and shall, in all respects, conduct
the trial according to the usages of courts of law in this Com
monwealth.
14. When the jury shall have unanimously agreed upon
their verdict, they shall find the same in the following form, or
to the following effect ; that is to say,
cases of forcible entry, or unlawful entry, thus :
' me jwry' fi11^ that the defendant did, (or did not,) with »B mreg years next before the exhibition of the complaint filed
by the plaintifff in this cause, forcibly (or unlawfully) enter
upon the tenement, in the said complaint mentioned, and turn
the plaintifff out of possession thereof; and that the said defen
dant did {or did not) continue to hold the possession thereof, - at
the date of the said complaint.
Ob, in case of unlawful detainer against the plaintifff's con
sent, thus :
We, the jury, find that the defendant did, {or did not,) at the
time of the exhibition of the complaint filed in this cause, hold
possession of the tenement therein mentioned, against the consent
of the plaintifffs that the said defendant ham {or hath not) so
held possession thereof against the consent of the plaintifff,, for
three years next before the exhibition of said complaint ; and
that the plaintifff hath {or hath not) the right of possession in
the tenement aforesaid.
15. IF the verdict so found, on a complaint of a forcible
entry or of an unlawful entry, shall ascertain that such forci
ble entry, or unlawful entry, as the case may be, whereby the
plaintifff was turned out of possession, was made by the defen
dant within three years before the exhibition of the complaint,
and that the defendant's possession continued at /the time of
exhibiting the complaint ; or if the verdict found as aforesaid,
upon a complaint of unlawful detainer against the consent of
the plaintifff, shall ascertain that the defendant, at the time of
the exhibition of said complaint, held the possession of the
tenement therein mentioned against the consent of the plain
tiff ; that the said defendant had not so held, against the con
sent of the plaintifff, for three years next before the exhibition
of said complaint ; and that the plaintifff hath the right of pos
session, in the tenement aforesaid; then, in either of these
cases, the justices shall render judgment in favor of the plaintiff, that he recover possession of the tenement aforesaid, with
full costs, and shall award a writ of habere facias possessionem,
16. If the verdict found as aforesaid, in either of the said
cases, shall be in favor of the defendant, the justices shall
render judgment against the plaintifff', that his complaint be
dismissed, and that the defendant recover of him full costs.
17. The judgment of the justices rendered as aforesaid,
either in favor of the plaintifff', or in favor of the defendant,
shall, in all respects, be executed, in the same manner, as if it
had been the judgment of the court of the county or corpora
tion, at an ordinary term thereof. And either party thinking
himself aggrieved thereby shall have the same remedy to correct
any error therein, either by writ of error, or supersedeas,
as if it had been the judgment of such county or corporation
court.
18. No judgment rendered as aforesaid, either for the plaintifff"
or defendant, shall bar any action of trespass, or any writ
of ejectment or writ of right, between the same parties, respecting
the same tenement, nor shall any verdict found as
aforesaid be held conclusive of the facts therein found, in any
such action of trespass, ejectment or writ of right.
19. Every juror summoned to attend the justices aforesaid,
and failing to attend without sufficient cause therefore, shall be
liable to a fine of sixteen dollars, to the use of the Common
wealth, which may be imposed by the justices aforesaid, or by
the court of the county or corporation, at their ordinary terms.
20. The sheriff, or other proper officer, shall be allowed, for
his services in executing and returning the warrant aforesaid,
the sum of four dollars, and for attending the justices during
the trial, the sum of one dollar and five cents for each day
All other fees of officers for services rendered, in relation to
the proceedings and trial aforesaid, shall be the same as the
fees for similar services, rendered in a suit at law, respectin
the title of land, depending in a county or corporation court.
21. All and every act, clause and clauses, of acts coming
within the purview of this act, shall be and the same are hereby
repealed.
22. This act shall commence and be in force from and afte
the passing thereof. "
l. Be it enacted, That, in all cases where judgment hath
been, or snaN hereafter be, entered up in any of the courts of
record within this Commonwealth, against any person or persons,
as security or securities, their lieirs, executors or admi
nistrators, upon any note, bill, bond or obligation, and in all
cases where execution hath been, or shall hereafter be, awarded
by or issued from any of the courts of record within this Com
monwealth, against any person or persons, as security or secu
rities, his, her or their heirs, executors or administrators, upon
any bond, obligation or recognizance, upon which, by the laws
of this Commonwealth, execution can be so awarded or issued
without judgment, and the amount of such judgment or execu
tion, or any part thereof, hath been paid or discharged by such
security or securities, his, her or their heirs, executors or admi
nistrators, it shall and may be lawful for such security or secu
rities, his, her or their heirs, executors or administrators, to
obtain judgment by motion against such principal obligor or
obligors, recognizor or recognizors, his, her or their heirs, exe
cutors or administrators, in any court, where such judgment
may have been entered up, or from which such execution may
have issued, against such security or securities, his, her or their
heirs, executors or administrators, for the full amount which,
shall have been paid, with interest thereon, from the time the
same shall have been paid and satisfied, until such judgment
shall be discharged. (a)
2. Where the principal obligor or obligors, recognizor or
recognizors, have, or hereafter shall become insolvent, and
there have been, or shall be, two or more securities, jointly
bound with the said principal obligor or obligors, recognizor or
recognizors, in any bond, bill, note, recognizance or other obli
gation, for the payment of money or other thing, and judgment
hath been, or hereafter shall be obtained, or execution awarded
or issued against one or more of such securities, or his or their
legal representatives, it shall and may be lawful for the court
before whom such judgment was or shall be obtained, or from
which such execution was issued, upon motion of the party or
parties, his or their legal representatives, against whom judg
ment hath been entered up, or execution issued, as securities
aforesaid, to grant judgment, and award execution against all
and every of the obligors and recognizors, and their legal representatives, for their and each of their respective shaves and
proportions of the said debt or damages.(6) '
3. No security or securities, his, her or their executors or
administrators, shall be suffered to confess judgment, or suffer
judgment to go by default, so as to distress his, her or their
principal or principals, if such principal or principals will enter
him, her or themselves a defendant or defendants to the suit,
and tender to the said security or securities, his, her or their
executors or administrators, other good and sufficient collateral
security, to be approved of by the court before whom the suit
shall be depending.(c)
4. In all cases where judgment hath been, or shall hereafter
be entered up, in any of the courts of record in this Commonwealth, against any person as common bail for the appearance
of another to defend any suit depending in such court, and the
amount of such judgment, or any part thereof, hath been paid
or discharged by such common bail, his, her or their heirs, exe
cutors or administrators, it shall and may be lawful for such
common bail, his, her or their heirs, executors or administrators,
to obtain judgment by motion against the person or persons for
whose appearance they were bound, his, her or their lieirs, exe
cutors or administrators, for the full amount of what shall have
been paid by the said common bail, his or her heirs, executors
or administrators, in any court where judgment may have been
entered up against such common bail.(d)
5. Provided, always, That no judgment shall be obtained
by motion, as aforesaid, unless the party or parties, against
whom the same is prayed, shall have ten days previous notice
thereof.(e)
6. When any person or persons shall hereafter become bound
as security or securities by bond, bill or note, for the payment
of money or tobacco, and shall apprehend, that his or their
principal or principals is, or are likely to become insolvent, or
to migrate from this Commonwealth, without previously dis
charging any such bond, bill or note, so that it will be impos
sible or extremely difficult for such security or securities, after
b>eing compelled to pay the amount of the tobacco or money
which may be due by such bond, bill or note, to recover the
same back from such principal or principals, it shall and may
be lawful for such security or securities, in every such case,
provided an action shall have accrued on such bond, bill or
note, to require, by notice in writing, of his or their creditor
or creditors forthwith to put the bond, bill or note, by which
lie or they may be bound as security or securities as aforesaid,
in suit. And, unless the creditor or creditors so required to
put such bond, bill or note in suit, shall in a reasonable time
commence an action on such bond, bill or note, and proceed
•with due diligence in the ordinary course of law to recover
judgment for, and by execution to make the amount of tobacco
or money due by such bond, bill or note, the creditor or creditors, so failing to comply with the requisition of such security
or securities, shall thereby forfeit the right which he or they
would otherwise have to demand and receive of such security
or securities, the amount of the money or tobacco which may
be due by such bond, bill or note.(fJ
7. Any security or securities, or, in case of his or their death,,
then his or their executors or administrators, may in like man
ner, and for the same cause, make such requisition of the exe
cutors or administrators of the creditor or creditors of such,
security or securities, as it is herein-before enacted may be
made by a security or securities of his or their creditor or cre
ditors ; and, in case of failure of the executors or administra
tors so to proceed, such requisitions as aforesaid being duly
made, the security or securities, his, her or their executors or
administrators making the same shall have the Same relief
that is herein-before provided, for a security or securities, when
his or their creditor or creditors shall be guilty of a similar
failure, (g) *
8. Provided, always, That nothing in the two last pre
ceding sections contained shall be so construed as to affect
bonds with collateral conditions, or the bonds that may be en
tered into by guardians, executors, administrators or public
officers : Jind provided also, That the rights and remedies of
any creditor or creditors, against any principal debtor or debt
ors, shall be in no wise affected thereby ; any thing to the con
trary, or seeming to the contrary, notwithstanding.^)
9. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of
this act, shall be, and are hereby repealed : Provided, however^
That all rights and remedies accrued, and proceedings insti
tuted, before the commencement of this act, shall be, and re
main as if this act had never been passed.
10. This act shall commence ana be in force from and after
the first day ef January eighteen hundred and nineteen.
C. 117.
Jin act concerning Waste.*
[Passed December 26, 1792.]
!• BE ^ enacted by the General Assembly, That if any tenant by the curtesy, tenant in dower, or otherwise for term of
life or years, shall commit waste during their several estates
or terms, of the houses, woods, or any other thing belonging to
the tenants,t so held without special license in writing so to
do, they shall be subject respectively to an action of waste,
and shall moreover lose the thing wasted, and recompense the
party injured in three times the amount at which the waste
shall be assessed.
2. In case any of the said tenants shall aliene their
estate, and notwithstanding retain possession of the same and
commit waste, he in the reversion shall be entitled to his action
of waste, and likewise recover against them the place wasted,
and treble damages.
3. If one tenant in common shall commit waste of the estate
held in common, he shall be subject to an action of waste at
the suit of the other tenant or tenants in common.
4. An action of waste shall be maintainable by the heir,
whether within Or of full age, for waste done in the time of his
ancestor, as well as in his own time.
5. If tenant for life commit waste, and he in the reversion
brings his action of waste and dieth before judgment, his heir
may bring an action of waste for the same.
6. If a guardian shall commit waste of the estate of his
ward, such ward when he attains his full age shall have his
action to recompense him for the injury.
7. The process in an action of waste, shall be summons, attachment, and distress, and if the defendant appear not upon
the distress, the -waste shall nevertheless be inquired of by a
verdict of a jury, and the court proceed to judgment according
to the directions of this act.
8. After the commencement of any suit in any court of
this Commonwealth, the tenant shall have no power to commit
waste or estrepement of the land in demand, whilst such suit
is depending ; and if he do, the sheriff" shall be commanded to
keep the same at the suit of the plaintifff.
9. This act shall commence and be in force, from and after
the passing thereof.
C. 118.
Jin act for reforming the method of proceeding in Writs of
Right.*
[Passed January 10, 1818.]
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That, for the trial
of disputed titles to lands in a more simple mode than that
which hath most commonly been used of late, the claimant or
demandant of an estate in fee simple may sue forth, against
the possessor or tenant, a writ of praecipe quod reddat, which,
from any court having jurisdiction thereof, shall be in
form or to this effect : * ,
The Commonwealth of Virginia, to the sheriff o f E. greet: Command C. I)., that he, justly and without delay, reBder unto A. B., tenement containing of land,
with the appurtenances, in the county of E., which he claimeth
to be his right, and whereof he complaineth that the aforesaid
C. IJ. doth withhold the possession. And, unless he shall do so,
then summon the said C. D., that he appear before the justices
of our court, at on the day of nesct
court, to shew wherefore he hath not done it. And have you
then there this writ. Witness clerk of our said
court, at , the day of , in the year
Upon which writ the count shall be in this form, or to this
effect : »
E. to wit : A. B. by F. G., his attorney demands against
C. V., tenement, containing of land, with the
appurtenances, in the county of E., and bounded by
And whereupon the said A. B., saith that he hath right to have
the tenement aforesaid, with the appurtenances, and qffereth
proof that such is his right.
If several tenements be demanded in the same count, the
contents, situations and boundaries of each shall be inserted,
therein. To which count the tenant may plead in this form,
or to this effect :
And the aforesaid, C. D., by H. I., his attorney, cometh and
defendeth the right of the said A. B., when and where it behoveth
him, and all that concerneth it, and whatsoever he ought
to defend, and chiefly the tenement aforesaid with the appur
tenances as of right, namely tenement, containing
of land in the county of E, and bounded by ,
and putteth himself upon the assize, and prayeth recognition
to be made, whether he hath greater right to hold the tenement
aforesaid with the appurtenances, as he now holdeth it (or
them,) or the said A. B., to have it as he now demandeth it
(or them.)
And to such plea the replication shall be in this form, or to
this effect:
And the aforesaid A. B., in like manner, putteth himself
upon the assize, and prayeth recognition to be made whether he
hath greater right to hold the tenement aforesaid, as he de
mandeth, or the said C. D., as he holdeth it (or them.)
Whereupon, twelve good and lawful men, qualified as jurors
are required to be, shall be elected, tried and charged as the
manner is, to make recognition of the assize ; which charge
shall be in this form, or to this effect :
You shall say the truth, whether C. D,hath more right to
hold the tenement which A. B. demandeth against him by his
writ of right, or A. B. to have it (or them) as he demandeth.
And at the trial any matter may be given in evidence,
which might have been specially pleaded. And upon the ver
dict, or in case of a demurrer, the like judgment shall be given,
and upon such judgment the like execution awarded, as in case
of a writ of right ; and the party for whom judgment shall be
given shall recover his costs of suit ; and the demandant, if he
recover his seisin, may also recover damages, to be assessed by
the recognitors of assize, for the tenant's withholding posses
sion of the tenement demanded.
2. Where the prmcipe quod reddat shall issue from the general
court, or a superior court of law, if return thereof be made
that the tenant is not found in the bailiwick of the officer to
whom it was directed, the demandant may sue forth a writ of
exigi facias, in this form, or to this effect ;
The Commonwealth of Virginia to the sheriff of E. gruting : We command you, that you cause C. D., to be required
from county court to county court, until five courts be passed
if he doth not appear; and if he doth appear, then summo
him that he be before the justices of our court at
, on the day of the next court, to shew tcherefore
he hath not rendered unto A. B. tenement, contain
ing of land, with the, appurtenances in the county of E.
And have you then there this writ. Witness clerk
of our said court, at the day of
in the year • ■
And when the residence or last place of abode of the tenant
shall be out of the county in which the land demanded lieth,
alike writ of exigi facias shall also be directed to the sheriff
of the latter county f and in either case a copy of such writ
shall, within four weeks after the teste thereof, be printed in
such public newspaper as the court wherein the suit is brought
shall direct ; and the said writ or writs of exigi facias being
returned in due form, and being printed as aforesaid, if the
tenant shall not appear at the court to which the same is ora
are returnable, judgment shall be entered, that the demandant
recover his seisin against the tenant.
3. Where the prmcipe quod reddat shall issue from theC
court of a county, citv or borough, if return thereof be made,
that the tenant is not "found in the bailiwick of the officer t
whom it was directed, the demandant may sue forth a new
jirmcipe every court for five courts following, successively, if
the tenant be not by one or other of them before summoned ;
and when the residence or last place of abode of the tenant
shall be out of the county, city or borough, in which the land
demanded lieth, a testatum, prmcipe shall also be directed to
ihe sheriff or proper officer of the latter county, city or borough ;
and, in either case, a copy of the first of the said five prmcipes
shall, within four weeks after the teste thereof, be printed in
such public newspaper as the court wherein the suit is brought
6hall direct; and a copy of that and every other of them shall,
within fourteen days after the teste of each, be set up at the
door of his court-house, by the officer to whom it shall ^^
directed, and who, by an endorsement on such writ, shall be
recjuired by the clerk to do so; and return of the said five
-writs being made, that the tenant is not found in the bailiwick
or bailiwicks of the officer or officers, to whom they were
directed, and that they had been set up as is before directed,
-and the first of them being printed as aforesaid, if the tenant
shall not appear at the court, to which some one ot the saidt
writs was returnable, judgment shall be entered, that the de-a
mandant recover his seisin against the tenant ; but if the ten
ant against whom, without having appeared, or without having
been summoned, any such judgment shall be rendered, shall be
out of Virginia at the time of the suit brought, the judgment;
shan be n0 5ar to an action commenced by him, or any claim, ing
under him, to be restored to the land recovered, within a
year and a day after he or they shall come into the country,
or, remaining out of it, within seven years after the judgment ;
in which action, or in a separate one, damages may also be
recovered.
4. If the tenant, whether summoned or not, shall appear and
afterwards make default, judgment shall be entered against
' an^ ^* having been summoned, he shall not appear, the
shall make an order that, unless he appear at the then
next court, judgment shall be entered against him, which shall
^e entere(^ accordingly, if, a copy of that order being delivered
to him, or left at the place of his usual abode, fifteen days or
more before such next court, and affidavit thereof being made,
he shall not then appear.
5. IK the demandant or tenant, against whom any such judgt 8nau ^ rendered, at the time of the suit brought shall be
. r .,' _ P-iji
an mlant, a married woman, or a person ot unsound mind, the
judgment shall be no bar to another action, commenced within
five years after attainment of full age, discoverture, or re
covery of understanding, or within the same time after the
death of such privilegea person.
6. All acts and parts of acts comingwithin the purview of
this shall be and are hereby repealed : Provided, however, that
all rights accrued and proceedings instituted before the com
mencement of this act shall be and remain in the same con
dition as if the same had never been passed.
7. This act shall commence and be in force, from and after
the first day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
nineteen.
C. 119.
An act to reduce into one the several acts declaring and regulating the practice of suing out, and prosecuting writs of
scirefacias, to repeal letters patent*
[Passed March 8, 1819.]
1, Be it enacted and declared by the General Assembly, That
whensoever any person shall desire to prosecute a writ of scire
to repeal any letter patent, or grant of this Commonwealth, for lands, tenements, or other hereditaments, either
because the same letter patent or grant was obtained from the
Commonwealth by false suggestion, or issued contrary to law,
or to the prejudice of his or her private right, such person
shall have liberty to prosecute such writ of scire facias, in any
superior court of chancery for the district in which the lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, granted by such letter patent, grant
or any part thereof, may be situated ; Provided, however, That,
when any such writ of scire facias shall be prosecuted upon
the petition of any person or persons, body politic or corporate, other than the Commonwealth, no such letter patent or
grant shall be repealed, either in the whole or in part, unless
such petitioner hath a good equitable right to such lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, or to some part thereof, commencing
ftrior to the date of such letter patent, or grant ; nor shall such
etter patent or grant in such case be repealed further than
such equitable right may extend : Provided, also, That no such
letter patent, or grant, issued before the twenty -sixth day of
February in the year eighteen hundred and eighteen, shall be
repealed upon any scire facias sued out more than ten years
after the said date ; and that no such letter patent, or grant,
issued upon or after the said twenty-sixth day of February,
shall be repealed, upon any scire facias sued out more than
ten years after the elate of such letter patent or grant, saving
to all persons, non compos mentis, infants, femes covert, persons imprisoned, or out of this Commonwealth, in the service
thereof, or of the United States, the said term of ten years,
after their several disabilities removed.
2. The person desirous to prosecute such scirefacias shall
exhibit a petition to the said superior court of chancery, or to
the judge thereof in vacation, briefly stating the causes, for
which, in his or her opinion, the letter patent, or grant, sought
to be repealed, ought not to have issued. The said court or
judge shall thereupon order the clerk of such court to issue to
the register of the land -office a writ of certiorari, commanding
him to certify to the court aforesaid, on or before the first day
of its next term, whether such letter patent, or grant, had ever
issued ; and, if it had, to certify a true copy thereof; and it
shall be the duty of the register to conform to the directions of
the said writ.
3. Upon the return of such writ, if the register shall certify
a copy of such letter patent, or grant, the same shall be filed
in such court, as an exhibit in the cause ; and the petitioner
may thereupon exhibit his bill in equity, setting forth the cause
of his complaint, making all persons claiming title under such
letter patent, or grant, parties defendants thereto, and praying
a repeal of such letter patent, or grant.
4. When such bill shall be filed, a scire facias shall be issued
by the clerk against the defendants in the said bill, returnable as other process of the court, requiring such defendants
to appear and answer the said bill, and to shew cause, if any
they can, why the said letter patent or grant should not be
repealed.
5. After the return of such scire facias, the proceedings in
the cause aforesaid shall be in all respects similar to the proceedings on other bills in equity ; the defendant may in like
manner shew cause, against the relief sought, by answer, plea
or demurrer ; the plaintifff may in like manner set the cause
for hearing, except or reply, and have commissions awarded
for taking depositions ; and, if the defendant fail to appear,
have the bill taken for confessed, or have an order of publica
against any absent defendant or defendants.
6. Upon the final hearing of the cause, the court shall decree
8ucn ietter patent or grant to be repealed, in the whole or
'n Part> or dismiss the plaintifffs bill, as law and equity may
require.
7. Any such final decree repealing such letter patent or
S1"8,11^ either wholly or in part, shall be certified to the register
°f the land office, and the substance thereof shall be thereupon
entered in the margin of the original record of such letter
patent or grant ; and thereupon such letter patent or grant, for
so much thereof as shall have been so repealed, shall be utterly
null and void. .
8. The register for the services hereby required of him,
sna^ receiye the following fees, viz. : for making a return to
the certiorari, the same fee as for a copy of the patent ; and
for entering the substance of the decree in the margin of the
record, twenty -five cents.
9. All acts and parts of acts, coming within the purview of
this act, shall be and the same are hereby repealed : Provided
however, That any proceedings instituted before the com
mencement of this act may be prosecuted in the same manner
as if this act had never passed.
10. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the passing thereof.
C ISO.
An act to reduce into one act the acts now in force, directing
ff,e modg 0f suing out and prosecuting writs of Habeas
Gorpus, and to annul the remedy by writ de homine repkgiando.*
[Passed January 17, 1818.t]
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That whenever
any person detained in custody, whether charged With a
criminal offense or not,J shall, by himself, or by some other
person in his behalf, apply to the general court, or any superior court of law, or superior court of chancery in this Com
monwealth, or to any judge thereof, in vacation, for a writ of
habeas corpus ad subjiciendum, and shall shew, by affidavit or
other evidence, probable cause to believe that he is detained \u
custody without lawful authority, it shall be the duty of the
court or judge to whom such application shall be made, forth
with to grant the writ, signed by nimself, directed to the person
in whose custody the applicant is detained, and returnable,
immediately, before such court or judge, or any of the said
courts or judges : Provided, That in all cases where it shall
appear necessary, the court or judge granting the writ, shall
previously require bond, with sufficient security, executed in
such manner, and in such reasonable penalty, as such court or
judge shall prescribe, conditioned for the payment of such
charges as may be awarded against the prisoner, and that he
will not escape by the way. Every bond, so executed, shall
be recorded with the other proceedings, as herein -after provided
for ; and may be sued on, in the name of the person to whom
it is made payable, for the benefit of any person really interested1
therein.(a)
2. Whenever any such writ shall be served on the officer
or other person to whom it is directed, or, in his absence, from
the place where the prisoner is confined, on the person having
the immediate custody of the prisoner, it shall be the duty of
him on whom the writ shall be so executed, without delay, to
bring the body of the prisoner, or cause it to be brought before
the court or judge before whom the writ is made returnable, or,
in case of the absence of such court or judge, before any of
them ; and, at the same time, to certify the cause of the detain
er of such prisoner.(fe)
3. Any person failing to return the writ so served upon him,
with the cause of the prisoner's detainer, or to bring the b°dy
of the prisoner before the court or judge, according to the
command of the writ, for three days after such service, or,
when the prisoner is to be brought more than twenty miles, for
so many days more as will be equal to one day for every
twenty miles of such further distance, shall forfeit and pay to
the prisoner the sum of three hundred dollars; the right to
recover which shall not cease by the death of either or both of
the parties.fc)
4. It shall be lawful for a judge, in vacation, to take the
same steps to enforce obedience to any writ of habeas cor/nt
ad subjiciendum, as may be taken in term-time by any court
having jurisdiction over such writs.W)
5. The court or judge before whom the prisoner shall be
brought, shall, without delay, proceed to inquire into the cause
of his imprisonment, and shall either discharge him, admit him
to bail, or remand him into custody, as the law and the evidence
shall require ; and shall, moreover, either award against
the prisoner the charges of his transportation, not exceeding
seventeen cents per mile, and the costs of the proceedings, of
shall award costs jn his favor, or shall award no costs or charges
against either party, as shall seem right. The clerk of the court,
in the office of which the proceedings shall be recorded, may is
sue execution for the costs and charges, so awarded by a judgment
rendered in vacation, in the same manner as if the judgment had been rendered in term time.(e)
6. The return made to such writ shall not hereafter be taken
to be conclusive as to the facts stated therein ; but it shall be
,
competent for the judge or court, before whom such return is
made, to receive evidence in contradiction thereof, and to determine the same, as the very truth of the case shall require.f/y)
7. In vacation, a judge shall have the same power to coiupel the attendance of a witness, to give evidence upon the triaU
as a court would have in term-time ; and whenever, either
. . » . ■ i l 1 1 i_ * • • i
ui term-time or in vacation, it shall be inconvenient to procure
the personal attendance of a witness, his affidavit, taken upon
reasonaD'e notice to the adverse party, may be received in evidence.fg")
8. rl he proceedings and judgment shall, in all cases, be eu*ered °^ recol*d- If they be had in vacation, before a judge in
chancery, they shall be signed by the judge, certified to the
clerk, and by him entered among the records of the chancery
court> wi*hin the jurisdiction of which the judgment shall be
rendered : if before a judge of the general court in vacation,
they shall be in like manner signed, certified and entered
among the records of the superior court of law for the county
in which the judgment shall be rendered. Whenever either
party shall require it, upon the trial, the court or judge shall
cause to be made a Part of the record a11 the material fact*
proved. The clerk shall be allowed the same fee for entering
the record, as is allowed by law for copying a record, of the
same number of words ; which fee shall be charged to the pri9oner>
and taxed in the bil1 of costs' wllen costs are recovered
by him.(A)
9. The judgment so entered of record shall be conclusive,
until reversed in the manner herein provided for ; and noperson
remanded by such judgment, whilst the same continue
m force, shall be at liberty to obtain another habeas carpus, for
tne same cause> or> by any other proceeding, to bring the same
matter again in question, except by writ of error or by action
of false imprisonment ; nor shall any person, who shall hereafter be discharged from confinement by such judgment, be
afterwards imprisoned or confined for the same cause, unless
by the order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.(i)
10- If any party to such judgment shall feel himself aggrieved
thereby, it shall be lawful for the court of appeals, on
mo^on> *° grant a writ of error ; and, upon the trial, to reverse
or anirm the judgment, wholly or in part^; and to cause
such other judgment to be entered, and such other proceed;n^s
to be had, as the law and the right of the case may re<lulre 5 either awarding costs or not, at their discretion.(&)
11. If, by any judgment entered as aforesaid, any person
held in service of this'State, or of the United States, shall be
it shall be lawful for the attorney -general, on behalf of the Commonwealth, or for any attorney, duly authorized,
on behalf of the United States, to obtain from the court
of appeals a writ of
error to such judgment, and to cause the
same to be reversed and otherwise proceeded on, in the same
manner as is allowed to the parties thereto. And, if, at any
time during the recess of the court of appeals, the Executive
of this Commonwealth should think that the public interest
requires the immediate revision of such judgment, it shall be
lawful for them to convene the said court, on any day which
to them shall. seem proper (0
12. The trial of all writs of error to judgments in case ot
habeas corpus, shall have preference, in the court of appeals,
to all other trials.(m)
13. The remedy by writ de homine replegiando, shall be,
and the same is hereby annulled.(w)
14. A citizen of this Commonwealth, committed to prison
in custody of any officer, for any criminal matter, shall not be
removed from thence, into the custody of another officer, unless
it be by habeas corpus, or some other legal writ, or where the
prisoner shall be delivered to the constable, or other inferior
officer, to be carried to some common jail, or shall be sent, by
warrant of an overseer of the poor, to some common workhouse, or shall be removed from one place to another within the
same county, in order to his discharge or trial in due course of
law, or in case of sudden fire or infection, or other necessity ;
or where the prisoner shall be charged, by affidavit, with treason,
felony or other crime, alleged to be done in any other of
the United States of America; in which last case, he shall,
on demand of the Executive authority of the State from which
he fled, be sent thither in custody, by order of the general
court, or by warrant of any two judges thereof in vacation
time, or may be bound by recognizance with sureties, before
them, to appear there, whichsoever shall seem most proper, if
the said court or judges, upon consideration of the matter,
shall think he ought to be put upon his trial. (o)
15. All and every act and acts, clause and clauses of acts,
coming within the purview of this act, shall be and the same
are hereby repealed ; saving to all persons all rights and rem
edies which may have accrued under them.
16. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and nineteen.
C. 181.
An act authorizing certain proceedings on the Writ of Mandamus* '
[Passed January 22, 1799.]
Whereas great difficulty and delay attends the present me
thod of proceeding on writs of mandamus, and it is proper that
the same should be amended by authorizing certain other pro
ceedings thereupon :
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia, That,
as often as a writ of mandamus shall issue out of a court hav
ing competent jurisdiction within this Commonwealth, and a
return shall be made thereunto, it shall and may be lawful to,
and for the person or persons, suing or prosecuting such writ
of mandamus, to plead to, or traverse all or any of the material
facts contained within the said return, to which the person or
persons making such return shall reply, take issue, or demur ;
and such further proceedings, and in such manner, shall be had
therein for the determination thereof, as might have been had,
if the person or persons suing such writ, had brought his or
their action on the case for a false return, and if any issue
shall be joined on such proceedings, the person or persons
suing such writ shall and may try the same in such place as
an issue joined in such action on the case should or might have
been tried : and, in case a verdict shall be found for the person
or persons suing such writ, or judgment given for him or them
on demurrer, or by nil dicit, or for want of a replication or
other pleading, he or they shall recover his or their damages
and costs in such manner as he or they might have done in
such action on the case as aforesaid ; sucli costs and damages
to be levied by capias ad satisfaciendum, fieri facias, or elegit,
and a peremptory writ of mandamus shall be granted without
delay, for him or them for whom such judgment shall be given,
as might have been if such return had been adjudged insuffi
cient ; and in case judgment shall be given for the person or
persons making such return to such writ, he or they shall re
cover his or their costs of suit, to be levied in manner afore
said.
C. 128.
Jin act to regulate the proceedings in suits against corpora'
tions-,
[Passed February 19, 1816.]
j. j]E it enacted by the General Assembly, That, in all ac*'ons
or su'ts whicn may De instituted against any corporation,
instead of the process heretofore used to compel the appear
ance of such corporation, it shall be sufficient to issue a sum
mons to the sheriff or other proper officer, reciting the cause
of action, and summoning the said corporation to appear and
answer the same on the proper return day; which summons
shall be returnable in like manner, and subject to the same
rules and regulations, as other original process.
2. j}ND fig it further enacted, 'lhat, if a summons be issued
M°refiaid, against any banking, turnpike, insurance, or other
incorporated company, service on the president or other head,
or, in his absence, on the cashier, or treasurer, or, in the absence
of both the president or chief officer, and the cashier or treasurer,
then on any director of such company ; such president,
or other officer, being, at the time of service, within the county
in which he usually resides ; shall be deemed sufficient service
of the said summons. And, if the summons be issued against
the corporation of any city, borough or town, service on the
mayor or chief magistrate, or, in his absence, on the recorder,
or, in the absence 01 the mayor or chief magistrate, and recor
der, then on any alderman of the corporation, such mayor or
other officer being at the time of service within the limits of
such corporation, shall also be deemed sufficient. And, in like
manner, the service of such summons on the president, or, in
his absence, on any visitor or trustee of any incorporated college
or academy, or on the chief officer of any other corpora
tion whatever, or, for want of such chief officer, on any member
of such corporation, such president, visitor, trustee, chief officer
or other member, being, at the time of service, within the
county in which he usually resides, shall be deemed sufficient
service of such summons ; and, on the return of such summons
in any of the said cases, the same proceedings to a final judg
ment shall be had against such corporation as are had in other
suits at law after the return of a capias ad respondendum exe
cuted. On every summons served as aforesaid, the sheriff or
other proper officer shall make return distinctly on whom the
same nath been executed : otherwise, such service shall not be
deemed valid.
3. And be it further enacted, That suits in chancery against
corporations »hall hereafter commence by subpoena; and the
service of such subpoena, and of all interlocutory orders and
decrees, against such corporations, shall be made in the same
manner, and under the same restriction, as is herein-before
provided for the service of a summons in a suit at law. And
the same proceedings to a final decree shall be had against
such corporations, as are had in other suits in chancery.
4. And be it further enacted, That, if any judgment at law,
or decree in chancery, shall be rendered against any corporation, it shall be lawful for the plaintifff in the suit, to sue out
either a distringas, fieri facias, levari facias, or elegit, as he
may think proper ; and that the said writs of fieri facias and
elegit may be levied as well on the current money as on the
goods and chattels of said corporation.
5. All acts and parts of acts within the purview of this act,
are hereby repealed.
6. This act ^shall be in force from the time of passing
thereof. •
Whereas creditors have experienced great difficulties in the
recovery of debts due from persons residing without the juris
diction of this Commonwealth, but who have effects here suffi
cient to satisfy and pay such debts : for remedy whereof,
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That if, in any
suit which hath been or hereafter shall be commenced, for relief
'n e<lu^J» ln an7 superior court of chancery, or in any other
court, against any defendant or defendants, who are out of
this country, and others, within the same, having in their hands'
effects of, or otherwise indebted to, such absent defendant or
defendants, « or against any such absent defendant or defen*
dants having lands or tenements within the Commonwealth,*
and the appearance of such absentees be not entered, and secu
rity given to the satisfaction of the court, for performing the
decrees ; upon affidavit, that such defendant or defendants are
out of the country, or that, upon inquiry at his, her, or their
usual place of abode, he, she, or they could not be found, so as
to be served with process ; in all such cases, such court may
ma'<e any or<^er> an^ require surety if it shall appear necessary,
to restrain the defendants in this country from paying ,conveying away, or secreting the debts by them owing to, or the,
effects in their hands of, such absent defendant or defendants,
and for that purpose may order such debts to be paid, and
effects to be delivered, to the said plaintifff or plaintifffs, upon
*neir giving sufficient security for the return thereof to such
persons, and in such manner as the court shall direct^)
2. The court shall also appoint some day in the succeeding
term, for the absent defendant or defendants, to enter his or
their appearance to the suit, and give security for performing
the decree ; a copy of which order shall, by direction of the
court, be forthwith published in any newspaper within this
Commonwealth, the circulation of wjiich shall, in the opinion
thereof, be best calculated to apprise the absent defendant or
defendants, of the pendency of such suit, and continued for
two months successively ; and another copy thereof shall be
posted at the front door of such court; or, such order of publication
may be entered at rules held in the clerk's office of
any superior court of chancery, subject to the control of the
court, in the same manner, that other proceedings at the rules
are subject to such control. If such absent defendants shall
not appear and give such security, within the time limited, or p
such further time as the court may allow for good cause shewn,
the court may proceed to take such proof as the complainant
shall offer; and, if they shall, thereupon, be satisfied of the x
justice of the demand, they may order the bill to be taken as f
confessed, and make such order and decree therein, as shall
appear just, and may enforce due performance and execution
thereof, by such ways and means, as have heretofore been used
for enforcing other decrees, requiring the plaintifff or plaintifffs B
to give security, as the court shall approve, for abiding such
future order as may be made, for restoring the estate or effects
to the absent defendant or defendants, upon his or their appearance and answering the bill : and, if the plaintifff or plaintifffs
shall refuse to give, or not be able to procure such secu-1
rity, the effects shall remain under the direction of the court,
in the hands of a receiver, or otherwise, for so long a time, and
shall then be finally disposed of in such manner, as to the
court shall seem just(6)
3. ' No sale, however, of any lands or tenements belonging
' to such absent defendant shall be decreed, for the satisfaction
' of any debt appearing to be due from him, unless the personal
' fund in the power of the court shall be insufficient for that
* purpose ; nor shall any such sale be decreed, until such lands
' or tenements shall have been fairly valued by discreet com* missioners, for that purpose appointed by the court, and act*
ing upon oath, and the valuation so made shall have been
* returned into court; nor shall such sale be decreed, until the
* plaintifff, or some one for him, shall have filed in court, or in*
* the clerk's office, bond with good security, in double the value
" of such lands or tenements, for performing the future orders
* and decrees of the court in that behalf.'
4. If any person or persons, who shall be out of the Commomvealth
at the time any decree is pronounced as aforesaid,
shall, within seven years from the passing such decree, return
and appear openly; or, in case of nis pr her death, if his or
her heir, executor or administrator, shall, within the said seven
years, be and appear openly within this Commonwealth, the*
plaintifff or plaintifffs, their executors or administrators, shall
serve such person or persons, so returning or appearing, with
a copy of the decree, within a reasonable time after such re
turn or appearance shall be known to the plaintifff or plaintifffs;
and, thereupon, such defendant or defendants, or their representatives,
may, within twelve months after such service, or
those defendants not served with a copy, or their representatives,
may, within seven years after the decree pronounced,
appear in court, and petition to have the cause re-heard ; and,
upon their paying down, or giving security for payment of such
costs, as the court shall think reasonable, they shall be admitted
to answer the bill, and issue may be joined, and witnesses
on both sides examined, and such other proceedings, decree
and execution hail, as may be just and right in the cause : but,
if the several defendants or their representatives, upon whom
*'le decree 8nall De so served, shall not, within twelve months
after such service, and the other defendants or their represen
tatives, upon whom no such service is made, shall not within
seven years from the time of the decree pronounced, appear
and petition to have the cause re-heard a9 aforesaid, and pay,
or secure to be paid, such costs as the court shall think rea
sonable, all and every decree, to be made in pursuance of this
act, against any defendant or defendants so failing, shall stand
absolutely confirmed against him, her or them ; and, at the end
0f such term, the court may make such further order for quiet'ing.the
plaintifff' or plaintifffs, in any such suits, in their posses-sfon and title to the estate and effects so sequestered or made
liable, as to them shall seem reasonable.(c)
5. In all cases whatever, where a suit is or shall be depend™8
'n a suPer'or C0U1't of chancery, or other court of equity,
concerning any matter or thing whatever, against any absent
defendant or defendants, the court may, on satisfactory proof
to them made, that such defendant or defendants is or are out
of this Commonwealth, or that, upon inquiry at his, her, or
their usual place of abode, he, she or they could not be found,
make any order similar to that which is directed to be made in
case of absent debtors, adapting the same to the nature of the
case; a copy of which order shall be published in like manner
as is directed in case of absent debtors ; and thereupon the
proceedings in relation to such absent defendant shall be, in
all respects, the same, both before and after the decree, as are
above prescribed in relation to absent debtors, so far as such
proceedings against absent debtors shall be applicable toother
absent defendants.(d)
6. If any person shall make complaint to any justice of the
peac6) that ]ns debtor is removing out of the county or corporation
privately, or absconds or conceals himself, so that the
ordinary process of law cannot be served on him, such justice
shall grant an attachment against the estate of such debtor, or
g0 much thereof as sHaJl be sufficient to satisfy the debt and
costs of such complainant; which attachment, where the debt
or demand shall exceed ten dollars, or four hundred pounds of
tobacco, shall be returnable to the next county or corporation
court, and directed to, and served by, the sheriff or his under8neriff,
unless in case where the sheriff is a party interested,
and then the same shall be directed to, and served by, a coro
ner or Serjeant ; and it shall be lawful for such sheriff or officer,
to serve and levy the same, upon the slaves, goods and chattels
of the party absconding, wherever the same shall be found, or
in the hands of any person indebted to, or having any effects
of, the party absconding, and to summon such garnishee or
garnishees, to appear at the next court to be held for the said
county or corporation, there to answer upon oath, what he or
she is indebted to such party, and what effects of such party
he or she hath in his or her hands, or had at the time of serving
such attachment; which, being returned executed, the court
may thereupon compel such garnishee to appear and answer
as aforesaid. (e)
7. Provided, always, That every justice of the peace, be-Pl
fore granting such attachment, shall take bond and security of b
the party for whom the same shall be issued, in double the
sum to be attached, payable to the defendant, for satisfying and
paying all costs, which shall be awarded to the said defendant,
in case the plaintifff', suing out the attachment therein men
tioned, shall be cast in his suit, and also all damages which
shall be recovered against the said plaintifff for his suing out
such attachment; which bond shall be, by the said justice,
returned to the court, to which the attachment is return-e
able; and the party entitled to such costs or damages, mayJ|
thereupon bring suit, and recover; and every attachment,
issued without such bond taken, or where no bond shall be
returned, is hereby declared illegal and void, and shall be dis-l
missed.f/^)
8. Provided also, That all attachments shall be i*epleviable
by appearance and putting in good bail, if by the court ruled r
so to do, or by giving bond with good security to the sheriff or
other officer serving the same ; which bond, the sheriff or other
officer is hereby empowered and required to take, to appear
at the court to which such attachment shall be returnable,
and to abide by and perform the order and judgment of such
court^
9. Upon the defendant or defendants replevying any attached
effects, by giving bond and security to the sheriff" or other
officer as aforesaid, the sheriff shall return the name of the
security by him so taken; and if such security shall be ad-fe
judged insufficient by the court, and if the defendant shall fail
to appear and give special bail, if thereunto ruled by the court,
such sheriff and security shall be subject to the same judgment
and recovery, and have the same liberty of defense and relief
as if such security had been taken upon the execution of mesne
proccss.(A)
10. It shall be lawful for any creditor, where his debt doth
not exceed twenty dollars, or one thousand pounds of tobacco,
to go before any justice of the peace of the county or corporation
where his debtor resides, and make oath how much is
justly due to him, and that he hath grounds to suspect, andP
verily believes, that such debtor intends to remove his effects ;
and, thereupon, such justice shall issue an attachment against
the estate ot such debtor, returnable to his next county or cor
poration court, directed to all sheriffs, Serjeants and constables
within the Commonwealth ; and, by virtue thereof, it shall be
lawful, as well for the sheriff, Serjeant, or any constable of the
county or corporation, where such attachment shall be obtained,
as for the sheriff, Serjeant or any constable of other counties or
corporations, to pursue and seize such effects, and to make
return of such attachment, to the court where the same shall
De returnable ; and, thereupon, such proceedings shall be had,
as in other cases of attachments.(i)
11. And, upon complaint made to a justice of the peace,
that anv person indebted to the complainant, in any less sum
than ten dollars, or four hundred pounds of tobacco, is removout of the county or corporation privately, or so absconds
or conceals himself, that a warrant cannot be served upon him.
such justice shall, taking bond and security, as in this act is
before directed, grant an attachment against the estate of 9uch
debtor, or so much thereof, as shall be of value sufficient to
satisfy the debt and costs of the party praying such attach
ment, directed to the sheriff, or any constable of his county,
or Serjeant, or any constable of his corporation, and returnable
before himself, or any other justice thereof, who shall and may
proceed thereupon, as upon an attachment returnable to the
county or corporation court, (fc)
12. In all cases of attachments, the defendant shall be adm;tted to make defense, and any other person claiming the
property attached, may interplead, without giving bail : Frovided, That the property attached shall not thereby be replevied.(i)
13. JF any sUCh attachment as aforesaid, returnable to the
county or corporation court, or before a justice of the peace,
shall be returned executed, and the goods or effects attached
shall not be replevied, or defense shall not be made without
bail as this act directs, the plaintifff shall be entitled to a judg
ment for his whole debt, and may take execution thereupon ;
and all goods and effects attached and not replevied as aforesajd>
shall be sold and disposed of, for and towards satisfaction
of the plaintifff's judgment, in the same manner as goods taken
execution upon a writ of fieri facias. And, where any attachment shall be returned served in the hands of any earnishec,
it shall be lawful, upon his or her appearance and exa
mination, in the manner by this act before directed, to enter up
judgment, and award execution, against every such garnishee
and garnishees, for all sums of money due from him, her or
them, to the person absconding, or in his, her or their custody
or possession, for the use of such person, or so much thereof
as shall be of the value sufficient to satisfy the debt and costs
0f the complainant ; and all goods and effects whatsoever, in
the hands of any garnishee or garnishees, belonging to such
absconding person, shall be liable to satisfy such judgment.(m)
14, Whenever any creditor, whose claim amounts to ten
or four h<"»dred pounds of tobacco, shall have sufficient
grounds to suspect that his debtor will remove with his effect
out of this Commonwealth, before his debt will be payable, o
whenever such debtor shall have so removed, leaving effects
it shall be lawful for such creditor, to go before any magistrate
of the county or corporation where his debtor resides, or, i
case such debtor has removed, where he last resided, or where
his effects may be found,, and make oath to the true amount of
his debt, and the time when it will be payable, and that he hath o
just cause to suspect, and verily believes, that such debtor will
remove himself, with his effects, out of the Commonwealth,
before the said debt will become payable, or hath actually so
removed ; and also, that he had no knowledge, when the said
debt was contracted, of the intention of such debtor so to re
move; and, thereupon such magistrate, taking bond and secu-Bo
rity from such creditor, as in other cases of attachments, shall H
issue an attachment against the goods and chattels of the
debtor, returnable to the next court to be hold en for such
county or corporation, which attachment may be served on any
goods and chattels of such debtor, or any garnishee or garnishees. If such debtor shall not, on or before the return of
such attachment, enter into bond, with sufficient security, for
the payment of the said debt, when it shall become due, the
court, on due proof of the justice thereof, and of the intention
of the debtor to remove, or of his having actually removed out
of this Commonwealth, shall grant judgment, as in other cases j
of attachments: But execution shall be staid against any garnishee, who shall state, that he is indebted, or will at a future a
day be indebted to the defendant, until the claim of the plain
tiff, or such garnishee's debt to the defendant shall become
due ; and the goods condemned shall be sold upon a credit,
until the time the plaintifff's claim shall be payable. The sheriff,
or other officer selling such goods, shall take a bond or
bonds with good security from the purchaser or purchasers, and
assign the same to the plaintifff, to the amount of his debt, interest and costs ; and, where the property sold shall amount
to more than the debt, interest and costs, shall take a bond,
with good security, for the surplus, and assign the same to the
defendant : Provided, always, That not more of the goods attached shall be sold, than shall be necessary to satisfy the debt,
interest and costs, except in cases where the property sold
cannot be divided; and, in such cases, the sheriff or other
officer shall be entitled to commissions only on the amount of
the plaintifff's demand ; which commissions shall be included
in the bond or bonds assigned to such plaintifff, who shall be
liable therefore, as for commissions included in a forthcoming
bond taken by virtue of an execution : Provided, also, That
all such attachments shall be repleviable in the same manner
as other attachments are by law repleviable. Where any such
debt shall be less than ten dollars, or four hundred pounds of
tobacco, an attachment maybe attained as aforesaid, returnable before any magistrate of the county or corporation, who
shall and may grant judgment thereon, and direct the goods
condemned by nim to be sold in manner aforesaid, or execu
tion to be staid as aforesaid, against any garnishee or garni
shees.^)
15. JIsd be it further enacted, That, whenever the plaintifff
in any attachment shall alledge, that any garnishee summoned
in such attachment hath not discovered the true amount of
debts due from him to the defendant, or what goods and chat.
^ejs belonging to the defendant are in his possession, the court
shall direct, without the formality of pleading, a jury to be impannelled
immediately, (unless good cause be shewn by either
party for a continuance,^ to inquire, what is the true amount
due from such garnishee to the defendant, and what goods and
chattels are in his possession belonging to the defendant. If
the finding of the jury shall be against such garnishee, the
court shall grant judgment, in the same manner, as if the facts
found by the jury, had been confessed by him on his examination
; and, if the jury find in his favor, he shall recover his
costs arrainst the plaintifff.fo)
l6- Whenever, the goods and chattels, taken by virtue of
any attachment, shall be claimed by any person, other than
suc|, debtor, the court shall immediately, (unless good cause be
shewn by either party for a continuance,) direct a jury to be
impannelled to inquire into the right of property ; and, in all
cases, where the jury find for a claimant, such claimant shall
be entitled to his costs ; and where the jury find for the plain
tiff in the attachment, such plaintifff shall recover his costs
against such claimant.^
17. ANY process of attachment against absconding debtors,
may hereafter be executed and returned by a constable, in the
sa,,ie manner, as, by law, sheriffs are directed to execute and
return the same.f^)
18. When any sheriff, or other officer, shall serve an attach
ment on slaves, horses, or other live stock, and the same shall
not be immediately replevied or restored to the debtor, it shall
and may be lawful for such officers, and they are hereby requi
red, to provide sufficient sustenance for the support of such
slaves, and live stock, until such slaves or stock shall be sold,
or otherwise legally discharged from such attachment; and
their compensation for the same shall be ascertained, regulated
an(j najj ,Q yfce manncr, as in case of slaves and live stock
taken in executioner )
19. And, upon proof being made before a magistrate, that a
^eD*or. 's actually moving or absconding, as aforesaid, on Sunt\aji jj snajj De iavvfu[ to issue and serve an attachment against
such debtor, as is directed by this act on any other day.(s)
20. All and every act or acts, and parts of acts, within the
purview of this act, shall be, and the same are hereby repealed :
Provided, That all rights vested before the commencement of
this act, shall be and remain as if this act had never passed.
21. This act shall commence, and be in force from and after
the first day of January eighteen hundred and twenty.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That every poor
person, who shall have cause of action against any person
within this Commonwealth, shall have, by the direction of the
court before whom he would sue, writ or writs original, and
writs of subpeena, according to the nature of his cause, noth
ing paying for the same.(a)
2. The said court shall direct their clerk to issue the neces9ary process, shall assign him counsel learned in the laws, and
appoint all other officers requisite and necessary to be had
for the speed of the said suit to be had and made, who shall
do their duties without any reward for their counsels, help and
business in the same.ffr)
3. All and every such poor person or persons, being plaintifff
or plaintifffs in any such action or suit, so admitted by the
court, shall not be compelled to pay any costs. (c)
4. When any person shall conceive himself or herself ille
gaily detained as a slave in the possession of another, it shall
and may be lawful for such person to make complaint thereof,
. , X , , ., v ■ , J
either to a magistrate out ot court, or to the superior court ot
law for the county, or the court of the countv or corporation
where he or she shall reside, and not elsewhere. When the
complaint shall be made to a magistrate of such illegal detention,
it shall be the duty of the said magistrate, forthwith, to
issue his warrant summoning the owner or possessor of such
complainant, to appear before him or some other magistrate of
the county, to answer the complaint so made, and, upon his
appearance, shall compel him to give bond with security, equal
at least to the full value of such complainant, conditioned that
he shall suffer him or her to appear at the next superior court
of law, or court of the county or corporation, wherein he or she
resides, for the purpose of petitioning the said court to be
allowed to sue therein in forma pauperis, for the recovery o
his or her freedom ; and, if such master or holder shall fail o
deny to give security as aforesaid, such magistrate shall order
the complainant into the custody of the officer serving the war
rant, to be kept by him safely, at the expense of such maste
or holder, until the sitting of the first court that shall happen
after such judgment by him given, and produce him or he
before such court.(d)
5. When a petition shall be offered to any superior court o
law, or to the court of any county or corporation, by any Per"
Son or persons so complaining, it shall state the material facts
of the case, which being proved by affidavit or otherwise, ta
satisfaction of such court, the petitioner shall obtain counsel,
■ to be assigned by the said court, who, without fee or
reward, shall prosecute the suit of such complainant : but,
De^ore process shall issue upon the said petition, the counsel so
app0;nted shall make an exact statement to the court of the
circumstances of the case, with his opinion thereupon ; and
unless, from such circumstances and opinion, the court shall
see manifest reason to deny their interference, they shall order
their clerk to issue process against the owner to appear and
answer the complaint, and, in the mean time, that such com
plainant shall be in custody of the sheriff, until the owner shall
give bond with security, either in court, or with the clerk of
the court, to have him or her forthcoming, to answer the judgmerit
of the court ; in which case, the complainant shall be
returned into the possession of the owner.(e)
6. And, if any person or persons shall be found aiding, abetting or maintaining any person in the prosecution of a suit
upon a petition as aforesaid, and such person or persons shall
rr., r , ,. , ,. . . ' . . , t r , 1
fa" *° establish his or their claim to freedom, every person so
found aiding, abetting or maintaining, shall forfeit and pay to
the owner of such slave, or to the person who shall prosecute
for the same, the sum of one hundred dollars for every person
so complaining ; to be recovered by action of debt or infor
mation, in any court of record within this Commonwealth ; and
moreover be liable to an action on the case for damages arisingtherefrom
to the party grieved thereby.f/j
7. I« all c ases wherein the property of a person, held as a
siave> demanding freedom, shall come before a court for trial,
n0 person who shall be proved to be a member of any society
instituted for the purpose of emancipating negroes from the
possession of their masters, shall be admitted to serve as a
juror in the trial of the said cause.(jr)
8. Every petition or suit instituted for the emancipation of
a person held as a slave shall be tried at the next quarterly or
superior court succeeding such petition or suit, without waiting
its regular turn on the dooket, unless good cause be shewn, by
one of the parties, for a continuance thereof.(fe)
9. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and nineteen.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That all bills of
exchange or drafts for money in the nature of bills of exchange,
drawn by any person or persons residing in this State, on any
person or persons in the United States, or in the territories
thereof, or in the District of Columbia, shall be considered, in
all cases whatsoever, as inland bills of exchange ; and, if such
bill of exchange or draft shall be protested for non-acceptance
or non-payment, the drawer or endorser shall be subject to the
payment of one per centum damages thereon; and the bill of
exchange or draft shall carry an interest of six per centum
per annum, from the date of the protest, until the money
therein drawn for shall be fully satisfied and "paid, any thing
in any law to the contrary notwithstanding.(a)
2. If a bill of exchange, for the sum of sixteen dollars and
sixty -seven cents, or upwards, dated at any place in Virginia,
drawn upon a person at any other place therein, or in the
United States, or in the territories thereof, or the District of
Columbia, expressed to be for value received, and payable at a
certain number of days, weeks or months after date, being presented to the person, upon whom it shall be drawn, shall not
be accepted by subscribing his name, with his proper hand, to
the acceptance, written at the foot, or on the back of the bill
or, being accepted in that manner, and not otherwise, shall not
be paid before the expiration of three days after it shall be
come due, the person to whom it shall be payable, or his agent
or assigns, may cause the bill to be protested by a notary pub
lic, or, if there be no such, by any other person, in presence o
two or more credible witnesses, for non-acceptance, in the form
or to the effect following, written under a fair copy of the bill
Know all men, that I, , on the day of
at the usual place o f abode of the above, named , pj-e
sented to him the bill, of which the above is a copy, and which
the said did not accept, wherefore I, the said
do hereby protest the said bill. Dated at , this
day of
Or, for non-payment after acceptance, in the same form, or
to the same effect, except that the words, presented to him the
bill, of ivhich the above is a copy, and which the said
did not accept, shall be left out, and instead of them the words,
demanded payment of the bill, of which the aboveis a copy, and
which the said did not pay, be inserted. And the
drawer, such protest being sent to him, or notice thereof in
writing being given to him, or left at the place of his usual
abode, within a reasonable time thereafter, shall pay the money
mentioned in the bill to the person entitled to it, with interest
"aid damages as aforesaid ; and he, to whom the bill shall be
payable, neglecting to procure the protest to be made, or due
notice thereof to be given, shall be liable for all costs and da•
,,\
mages accruing thereby.(n)
S. If the bill shall be lost or shall miscarry, the drawer
s'£n an(i deliver another of the same tenor, sufficient se
curity being given to indemnify him against all persons who
may claim under the former.(c)
4. An action of debt may be maintained upon a note or
writing by which the person signing the same shall promise or
himself to pay a sum of money or quantity of tobacco
to another.(d)
5. Assignments of all bonds, bills and promissory notes,
and other writings obligatory, whatsoever, shall be valid ; and
assignee of any such may thereupon maintain any action, in
.. » V. , . 1 . XL. J ... .
his own name, which the original obligee or payee might nave
brought, but shall allow all just discounts, not only against himgel^
DU£ a„aing(; the assignor, before notice of the assign
ment was given to the defendant.(e )
6. The assignee or assignees, his, her, or their executors or
administrators, of any bill, note or obligation, shall hereafter
')e enticed *° recover from any previous assignor or assignors,
his, her or their executors or administrators ; Provided, That,
in any suit brought against a remote assignor or assignors, his,
ner or *ne'r executors, or administrators, he, she or they shall
De subject only to sucli recovery, and shall have the benefit of
the same defense, as if the suit had been instituted by the
immediate assignee or assignees : And provided, also, That no
joint action shall be commenced or prosecuted against any two
or more persons, unless when they shall be joint assignors.
But n°thing m this act contained shall be so construed, as in
any manner to abridge or destroy any rights which endorsers
of bills of exchange, or assignees of bonds, notes and obliga
^n&> now are entitled to by law, or to which they were enti
tied on the first day of April, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and seven.ff )
7". All and every act and acts, part and parts of acts, com
ing within the purview of this act, shall be and the same are
hereby repealed : Provided, That nothing herein contained
shall extend to rights which have, or may have accrued before
the commencement of this act.
8. Tuts act shall commence and be in force from and after
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and nineteen.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That, where any
' foreign't bill of exchange is, or shall be drawn, for the payment of any sum of money, in which the value is or shall be
expressed to be received, and such bill is or shall be protested
for non-acceptance, or non-payment, the drawer or endorser
shall be subject to the payment of fifteen per centum damages
thereon, and the bill shall carry an interest of six per centum
per annum from the date of the protest, until the money therein
drawn for shall be fully satisfied and paid.(a)
2. It shall be lawful for any person or persons, having a
right to demand any sum of money upon „' such'J protested bill
of exchange, to commence and prosecute an action of debt,
for principal, damages, interest and charges of protest, against
the drawers and || endorsers jointly, or against either of them
separately ; and judgment shall and may be given for such
principal, damages and charges, and interest upon such prin
cipal, after the rate aforesaid, until such judgment shall be
fully satisfied. (6)
3. *And, whereas doubts have arisen, whether the fourth
' section of the act, entitled, An act for ascertaining the dama-**
* ges upon protested bills of exchange, and for the better reco'
very of debts due on promissory notes, and for the Assignment
' of bonds, obligations and notes, which passed in the year
■ seventeen hundred and forty -eight, be, or be not yet in force;
' Be it enacted, That the same shall be, and is hereby re•
pealed.'lf
4. In all ' foreign'§ bills of exchange, given for any debt due
in current money of this Commonwealth, or for current money
advanced and paid for such bills, the sum in current money
that was paid, or allowed for the same, shall be mentioned anil
expressed in such bill ; and in default thereof, in case such bill
shall be protested, and a suit brought for the recovery of the
money due thereby, the sum of money expressed in such bill
shall be held and taken as current money, and judgment shall
^e enteret' accordingly; and, if any person, so receiving or
purchasing a bill of exchange, shall express, or cause to be expressed therein, any other than the true sum in current money
allowed for the same, every such person so offending shall forfeit and pay to the person drawing such bill, the whole sum of
money for which such bill shall be drawn, to be recovered,
with costs, by action of debt in any court of record within thisCommonwealth,
wherein the same shall be cognizable.(c)
5. And, that people may not be injured for want of due
pr00f 0f the rate of exchange, so given or allowed for such
bills, where the same is not truly expressed therein; (such bills
Being usually negotiated in secret, and with such caution, that
it can seldom be detected in the ordinary course of evidence;)
Be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful, for any
drawer of such bill of exchange, to exhibit a bill in chancery,
in any court of record in this Commonwealth, having chancery
jurisdiction, against the person to whom such bill shall be pay
able, to compel him to discover, upon his corporal oath, the
true difference of exchange given or allowed for such bill ;
and, in that case, if it shall appear, that a less rate of exchange
was given or allowed than is expressed, the drawee of such
bil1 s"a11 be discharged from the penalty herein-before inflict
ed for the same, but shall be decreed to pay to the drawer, so
much money as the rate of exchange allowed shall be less than
the rate of exchange expressed, together with the damages of
fifteen per centum thereon, and costs of suit to the time of
such decree.(d)
6. In any action, which hath been, or shall be commenced,
anc^ *s or " be depending* for the recovery of any 9ter\\ng
in any court of record within this Commonwealth,
wherein the plaintifff" or plaintifffs shall recover, such court shall
have power, and are hereby directed, by rule to be entered at
the foot of their judgment in such action, to order such judg
ment to be discharged or levied in current money, at such a
difference of exchange as they shall think just ; any law, usage,
or custom to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding.(e)
7. If any person shall, in any suit hereafter to be brought,
^or ster'lng money, except where the debt or duty is
Payable in sterling, the plaintifff in every such suit shali be
nonsuited ; and, if any person shall, after the passing of this
act' id^e a ')0nt'' obligation or note, payable in sterling, for any
current money debt, and shall bring suit thereon, the couit
before wliom such suit shall be tried, upon proof being made
thereof, shall orilerthe judgment to be discharged, or levied in
current money, at the rate of thirty-three and one-third per
ee.ntum.(f) *
8. All and every actor acts, within the purview of this act,
shall be, and are hereby repealed: Provided, That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to extend to any contract
entered into, or right which has accrued, prior to the commencement
of this act ; but the same shall remain in the same
condition, as if this act had never been made.
9. This act shall commence in force from and after the first
day of January next.
C. 137.
An act declaring the Law in cases of Discounts and Offsets.*
[Passed December 29, 1806.]
Whereas doubts have arisen whether there is any law now
in force regulating discounts and offsets in the courts of com
mon law within this Commonwealth ; for removing whereof,
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That , when any
suit shall be commenced and prosecuted in a court within this
Commonwealth, for any debt due by judgment, bond, bill, or
otherwise, the defendant shall have liberty, upon trial thereof,
to make all the discount he canagainst such debt ; and, upon
proof thereof, the same shall be allowed in court.
2. This act shall be in force from and after the first day of
May next.
C. 128.
An act for limitation of actions ; for preventing frivolous and
vexatious suits : concerning Jeofails, and certain proceedings
in civil cases.\
[Passed February 25, 1819.]
I. Limitations of Actions.^
1 . Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That all writs of
formedon in descender remainder, or reverter, of any lands,
J J
• 1806, c. 8 ; edi. 1808, c. 89.—Former laws, touching this subject, 1705
tenements or hereditaments whatsoever, hereafter to be brought
upon any title or cause heretofore accrued, or which may hereafter fall or accrue, shall be sued out within twenty years next
after such title or cause of action accrued, and not afterwards ;
and that no person or persons, who now hath or have, or here
after may have, any right or title of entry, into any lands,
tenements or hereditaments, shall make any entry but within
twenty years next after such right or title accrued ; and such
person shall be barred from any entry afterwards.(a)
2. P rov ided, nevertheless, That if any person or persons,
entitled to such writ or writs, or to such right or title of entry
aforesaid, shall be, or were under the age of one and twenty
years, feme covert, non compos mentis, imprisoned or not with
in this Commonwealth, at the time of such right or title ac
crued, or coming to them, every such person, and his or her
heirs, shall and may, notwithstanding the said twenty years
are, or shall be expired, bring and maintain his action, or make
his entry, within ten years next after such disabilities removed,
or the death of the person so disabled, and not afterwards.^)
3. In all writs of right, and other actions possessory, any
person mav maintain a writ of right upon the possession or
r • • c i • . j -ii • nrj.
seisin of his ancestor or predecessor, within nrty years, or any
other possessory action upon the possession or seisin of his or
0f ner ancestor or predecessor, within forty years, next before
the teste, of the writ ; but no person shall maintain a real action
upon his own possession or seisin, but within thirty years next
before the teste of the writ.(o)*
4. All actions of trespass, quare clausum fregit, all actions
0r trespass, detinue, actions sur trover, and replevin for taking
away of good s and chattels ; all actions of account, and upon
the case, other than such accounts as concern the trade of mevbetween
merchant and merchant, their factors or
servants; all actions of debt, grounded upon any lending or
contract without specialty ; all actions of debt for arrearages
of rent ; all actions of assault, menace, battery, wounding and
imprisonment, or any of them, which shall be sued or brought ;
shall be commenced and sued within the time and limitation
hereafter expressed, and not after; that is to say: The said
actions upon the case, other than for slander, and the said
actions for account, and the said actions for trespass, debt,
detinue and replevin for goods aud chattels, and the said
actions of trespass quare clausum /regit, within five years
next after the cause of such action or suit, and not after ; and
the said actions of trespass, of assault, battery, wounding, imprisonment,
or any of them, within three years next after the
cause of such actions or suits, and not after; and the said
action upon the case for words, within one year next after thes
words spoken, and not after.(d)
5. Judgments in any court of record within this Commonwealth, where execution hath not issued, may be revived by
scire facias, or an action of debt brought thereon, within ten
years next after the date of such judgment, and not after ; or
where execution hath issued, and no return is made thereon,
the party in whose favor the same was issued, shall and may
' 7 r V, ,. . , ' , -a. ,, ■>
obtain other executions, or move against any shenn or other
officer, or his or their security or securities, for not returning
the same, for the term of ten years from the date of such judg
ment, and not after, (e)
6. Provided, That, if any person or persons, entitled to
such judgment, where execution hath not issued, or where execution hath issued, and no return made, (in either case,) shall
be, or were under the age of twenty-one years, feme covert,
non compos mentis, imprisoned or not within this Common
wealth, at the time of such judgment being awarded, whether
execution hath issued thereon or not, every such person, his or
her heirs, executors or administrators, shall and may, notwith
standing the said ten years are or shall be expired, have the
benefit of said judgment, where no execution nath issued, by
reviving the same by scire facias, or by action of debt ; and
where execution hath issued, and no return made, every such
person or persons, his or her heirs, executors or administrators,
may have the benefit of other executions, or may move against
any sheriff or other officer, or his or their security or securi
ties, for the same, within five years after such disabilities
removed, and not ofter.(f) *
7. All actions or suits, founded upon any account for goods,L
wares or merchandize sold and delivered, or for any articles
charged in any store account, shall be commenced and sued
within one year next after the cause of such action or suit, or
the delivery of such goods, wares and merchandize, and not
after ; except, that, in the case of the death of the creditors
or debtors, bef°re the expiration of the said term of one year,
the further time of one year, from the death of such creditor
or debtor, shall be allowed for the commencement of any such
action Or SUlt.(g)
g. And, to prevent imposition or deception herein, the
respective time or date of the delivery of the several articles,
charged in any such account, or any receipt taken for the
delivery of them, shall be particularly specified. And if any
merchant or trader shall willfully post-date any article or
articles in such account, or the receipt taken for the delivery
of them, he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the amount of the
article or articles, so post-dated, to be recovered, with costs,
Qy warrant where the penalty does not exceed twenty dollars,
and by action of debt or information in any court of record,
where the penalty shall exceed that sum ; to the informer,
where the informer prosecutes, or to the Commonwealth, • for
' the use of the literary fund,' where the prosecution shall be
first instituted on the public behalf.(ft )
9. And, to prevent any doubt in the construction hereof, it
*s nereby declared, that the before-mentioned limitation of one
year> shall take place and be computed from the respective
dates or times of delivery of the several articles entered or
charged in any such account ; and that all such articles as
shall have been of more than one year's standing, when the
action or suit was commenced, shall be disallowed and rejected,
and verdict shall be given or judgment rendered, for no more
*nan *'ie amoun* °f 8ucn articles, as appear to have been actuaUy charged or delivered within one year next before the commencement
of the suit as aforesaid.fij*
10. Provided, nevertheless, That if, in any of the said
actions or suits, judgment be given for the plaintifff, and the
'j o o r,-,
same be afterwards reversed by error, or a verdict pass tor the
plaintifff, and, upon matter alleged in arrest of judgment, the
Ju('omen'; °e given against the plaintifff, that he take nothing
by his plaint, writ or bill, in all such cases, the party plaintifff,
his heirs, executors or administrators, (as the case shall require,;
may commence a new action or suit, from time to time, within
one year next after such judgment reversed, or such judgment
given against the plaintifff, and not after.(fc)
11. Provided, always, That in all questions whic/i may
arise in any court of record, upon any act for limitation of
,. -i . , . . . , J ,,J .. ,. r . ,
actions, making entries into lands, or limitation of evidence, in
the computation of time, the several periods between the
twelfth day of Aprrl, one thousand seven hundred and seventy four, and the twelfth day of April, one thousand seven hundred
and seventy -eight, and between the first day of January, one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-one, and the fifth day of
January, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-two, and
between the fifth day of May, one thousand seven hundred and
eighty -three, and the twentieth day of October, in the same
year, shall not be accounted any part thereof, so as to bar such
action, entry or evidence.(Z)
12. Provided, also, That if any person or persons, that is or
shall be entitled to any such action of trespass, detinue, action
sur trover, replevin, actions of account, actions of debt, actions
of trespass for assault, menace, battery, wounding or imprisoninent, be, or shall be, at the time of any such cause of action
given or accrued, fallen or come, within tne age of twenty -one
years, feme covert, non compos mentis, imprisoned, beyond the
seas, or out of the country, that then such person or persons
shall be at liberty to bring the same actions, so as they take
the same within such times as are before limited, after their
coming to, or being of full age, discovert, of sane memory, at
large, and returned from beyond the seas, or from without this
country, as by other persons having no such impediment
should be doue.(?ft)
13. Provided, always, That all suits hereafter brought in
the name or names of any person or persons, residing beyond
the seas, or out of this country, for recovery of any debt due
for goods actually sold and delivered here, by his or their factor or factors, shall be commenced and prosecuted within the
time appointed and limited by this act, for bringing the like
suits, and not after- ; notwithstanding the saving uerein-before
contained to persons beyond the seas at the time their causes
of action accrued ; Provided, nevertheless, That, if any factor
shall happen to die before the expiration of the time in which
suit should* have been brought, such principal shall be allowed
two years from the death of such factor, to commence and
prosecute his, her or their action for any debt due to him, her
or them, on account of any contract or dealing with such factor.(n)
14. Provided, also, That, if any person or persons, defendant
or defendants to any of the aforesaid actions, shall
abscond or conceal themselves, or, by removal out of the country,
or the county where he or they do or shall reside, when
such cause of action accrued, or by any other indirect ways or
means, defeat or obstruct any person or persons, who have
title thereto, from bringing or maintaining all, or any of the
aforesaid actions within the respective times limited by this
act, that then and in such case, such defendant or defendants
are not to be admitted to plead this act in bar to any of the
aforesaid actions ; any thing in this act in any wise to the con
trary notwithstanding.^)
15. Provided, also, That this act shall not extend to any
action which shall be commenced against* any master or commander of a ship or vessel, who shall discharge or cause to be
put on shore, any sick, or disabled sailor belonging to his ship or
or anv servant, without taking due care for their maintenance
and cure, or carrying any debtor, servant or slave out
of this Commonwealth; contrary to law.(y)
16. If any suit be brought against any executor oradministrator, ' or other person having charge of the estate of a testator
or intestate,' for the recovery of a debt due upon an open
account, it shall be the duty of the court, before whom suck
suit shall be brought, to cause to be expunged from such account
every item thereof, which shall appear to have been due five
years before the death of the testator or intestate : saving to
persons non compos mentis, femes covert, infants, imprisoned,
or out of this Commonwealth, who may be plaintifff in such
suits, three years after their several disabilities * shall be' removed* And, if any person shall willfully post-date any such
account, he shall forfeit and pay tenfold the amount of the
articles so post-dated, to be recovered in any court of record,
where the penalty incurred shall exceed twenty-dollars, and
by warrant, before a justice of the peace, where the penalty
incurred shall not exceed that sum.(g)
17. No action of debt shall be brought against any executor
or administrator, ' or other person having charge of the estate
of a testator or intestate,' upon a judgment obtained against
his testator or intestate, nor shall any scire facias be issued
against any executor or administrator, ' or other person having
' charge of the estate as aforesaid,' to revive such judgment,
after the expiration of five years from the qualification of his
executor or administrator, ' or of such other person having
charge of the estate ;' and all such judgments, after the
expiration of five years, upon which no proceedings shall nave
been had, shall be deemed to have been paid and discharged :
saving to all persons, non compos mentis, femes covert, infants,
imprisoned, or out of this Commonwealth, who may have been
entitled to the benefit of such judgment, three years after their
several disabilities removed.m
18. No bill of review* shall be granted by any corporation
or county court sitting in chancery, or by any superior court o
chancery, to any decree pronounced in a cause which shall be
finally decided, unless the same be applied for within three
years, next after such final decision : saving to infants, femes
covert, persons of insane mind, ' persons imprisoned,' and per
sons out of the state, in the service of this State, or of the
United States, a right to obtain such bill of review, within
three years after their respective disabilities are removed.(s)
19. No writ of error or supersedeas shall be granted to an
judgment of a court of law, after the expiration of five year
from tne t;me w]ien Sucn judgment shall have been mad
final : saving to all persons, non compos mentis, infants, femes
covert, persons imprisoned or out of the United States, in the
service thereof, or of this State, three years after their several
disabilities removed.(t)
.1
II. And for the relief of the good people of this Commonwealth
against causeless ana vexatious suits, and for the better enabling
them to recover their just rights ;
20. Be it enacted, That in all actions of assault and battery,
and slander, commenced and prosecuted in any superior court
of law, if the jury find under the sum of sixteen dollars and
sixty-six cents, and in the like actions commenced and pro
secuted in any county or corporation court, if the jury find
under six dollars rand sixty -six cents, the plaintifff, in either
case, shall not recover any costs.(v)
21. And in all actions of trespass 'qnare clausum fregit, '(w)
where the court, before whom the trial shall be, shall not be
satisfied, and enter upon the record, that the freehold, title, or
interest of the land mentioned in the plaintifff's declaration,
was or might have been in question, or that the trespass was
willful or malicious ; and in all other actions of trespass, where
the court before whom the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied,
and enter upon the record, that the trespass was willful or malicious ; « and in all actions upon the case, actions of covenant,
' and actions of debt for a penalty intended to secure the
'performance of a covenant or condition, where the court
* before whom the trial shall be, shall not be satisfied, and enter
« upon the record, that the action was neither frivolous nor
* vexatious,' if the jury find under six dollars, and sixty-six
cents, the plaintifff shall not recover more costs than the sum
so found, and, if more costs are awarded, the judgment shall
be void, and shall be amended upon a motion at any time, by
the court who awarded the same ; and the party injured shall
be redressed, as to such costs so wrongfully awarded, in case
the same be levied upon him. And, where several persons
shall be made defendants, in any action of trespass, assault,
false imprisonment, or ejectment, and, upon the trial thereof,
any one or more of them shall be acquitted by verdict ; every
defendant so acquitted, shall have and recover his costs of suit,
in like manner as if a verdict had been given against the plain
tiff or plaintifffs, and acquitted all the defendants ; unless the
court, before whom such cause shall be tried, shall be satisfied,
that there was reasonable cause for making such person or
persons defendant or defendants to such action, and shall
order it otherwise.(ar)
22. In all actions of trespass qnare clausum fregit, wherein
the defendant or defendants shall disclaim, in his or their plea,
to make any title or claim to the land in which the trespass is
by the declaration supposed to be done, and the trespass be
Dy negligence or involuntary, the defendant or defendants
shall be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass
was by negligence or involuntary, and a tender or offer of suffi
cient amends for such trespass before the action brought ;
whereupon, or upon some of them, the plaintifff or plaintifffs
sna^ ^ enf°rce<l *° j°'n issue » and, if the said issue be found
f°r the defendant or defendants, or the plaintifff or plaintifffs
shall be nonsuited, the plaintifff or plaintifffs shall be clearly
barred from the said action or actions, and all other suits con
cerning the same.(jftr) *
III. And for the further regulation of costs :
23. Be it enacted, That, in all cases at law, except motions,
where judgment shall be given for the defendant or appellee,
ne sna^ recover his costs against the plaintifff or appellant,
and, have execution for the same.; and, in all such cases,
where judgment shall be given for the plaintifff or appellant,
^ not otherwise provided by law, he shall recover his costs
against the defendant or appellee, and have execution for the
same.M
24- "N a'l motions, the court may give or refuse costs, at
their discretion, unless where it is otherwise provided by
law.(i/)
25. In any cause, whether at law or in equity, whether appeNate
°r original, when the judgment or decree shall be ren-dered against an executor or administrator, or other person
having charge of the estate of a testator or intestate, full costs
shall be taxed against him, including an attorney's fee, in the
same manner as costs are taxed against a person suing or sued,
in his own right. If such executor, administrator or other
Per9on> De defendant, the judgment or decree for costs shall
be levied of the goods and chattels of the testator or intestate,
in his hands to be administered, if so much thereof be
found, if not, then of his own proper goods and chattels. If
gucn execut0r, administrator or other person be plaintifff, then
the judgment or decree for costs shall be rendered, to be le
vied only of the goods and chattels of the testator or intestate,
jn his hands to be administered ; unless the court shall be of
opinion, that such executor, administrator or other person, in
the prudent discharge of his official duty, ought not to have
brought the action ; and, if the court shall be of that opinion,
then they shall render the judgment or decree for costs, to be
levied of the goods and chattels of the testator or intestate,
in the hands ot such executor, administrator or other person to
be administered, if so much thereof be found, if not, then of
his own proper goods and chattels : Provided, That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to take away or abridge
the discretion of a court of equity over the subject of costs.(x)
26. When any plea in abatement shall, upon argument in
any court of law, be adjudged insufficient, the plaintifff shall
recover full costs to the time of overruling the plea, a lawyer's
fee only excepted ;(a) * and when, by an interlocutory j adg• ment, any other part of the pleadings shall be adjudged in•sufficient,
all costs occasioned by such insufficient pleading,
' shall be adjudged against him who committed the fault.'
27. ' Every new trial granted at law, shall be upon the
' condition of paying the costs of the former trial, unless such
« new trial be granted for the misconduct of the opposite party
' and in such case, the person guilty of the misconduct, shal
' be adjudged to pay the costs of the former trial.'
28. Every action at law, or suit in equity, commenced or
prosecuted in the name of any person, not residing in Virginia,
unless he be employed abroad, in the service of the Commonwealth,
or of the United States of America, shall be dismissed,
if security be not given with the clerk of the court, in which
the suit shall be depending, within sixty days after notice shall
at any time during such non-residence, have been given to th
demandant or plaintifff, or his attorney, by some person inte
rested, that such security is required for payment of the cost
and damages, which may be awarded to the tenant or defen
dant, and also for the fees which will become due to the officer
of the court :(&) Such non-resident demandant or plaintifff, re
quiring services of the clerk of any court, shall secure th
payment of the fees for such services, before the said cler
shall be obliged to perform them.fc) 'In all cases, where secu
' rity for costs shall be required under the provisions of tli
' section, and a question shall arise as to the residence of th
* plaintifff or demandant, the burthen of proving such residenc
' shall be upon him.'
29. A fee of fifty cents for each legal notice proved to have
been delivered, in any cause, whether at law or in equity, shall
be taxed in the bill of costs.(d)
30. All taxes imposed on law proceedings, shall be included
in the bill of costs.(<>)*
31. The laws ot costs shall not be interpreted as pena
laws.f/;
IV. For preventing delays :
32. Be it enacted, That the parol shall not demur, in any
suit now depending, or hereafter to be brought, in any court o
law or equity, by reason of the infancy of the plaintifffs or de
fendants, or of any or either of them, but the court may never
theless proceed to judgment or final decree, in the same.(g")
55. No plea in abatement shall be admitted or received,
unless the party offering the same shall prove the truth thereof,
by oath or affirmation, as the case may require ; and no plea of
non est factum, offered by any person, charged as obligor, covenantor, or grantor of a deed, shall be admitted or received,
unle9S the truth thereof sha11 in ,ike
manner be proved, by
oath 0l* affirmation ; and where any person, other than the obligor, covenantor or grantor, shall be the defendant, such defenshall
prove, by oath or affirmation, that he or she verily
believes that the deed, on which the action is founded, is nut
the deed of the person charged as obligor, covenantor or grantor.(i)
54. Process in all real actions, other than writs of right,
si,an De according to the course of the common law, except
that the returns shall be according to the laws of this Common wealth; but all essoins, views and vouchers shall be and
they are hereby taken away ; and, after one imparlance, unless
*ne tenant shall plead non-tenure, joint tenancy or several
tenancy, in abatement, and then, after such plea shall be overruled, he shall put himself on the grand assize, and the mise
shall be joined upon the mere right, ' or the general issue be
•joined, as the case may require,' and be tned at the next
court, by twelve jurors, to be summoned, tried and sworn, as
in all other actions : And, to remove all delays and groundless
pretenses, in saving the default of the tenant, no excuse shall
be admitted but non-summons ; and, such excuse being allowed,
he may imparle, and, at the next court, shall either plead in
abatement, or put himself opon the grand assize, or upon the
country, as aforesaid.(fc) .
55. In all actions, real or mixed, which shall hereafter be
brought, f°r the recovery of any lands or tenements, within
this Commonwealth, if the tenant shall plead, that hehoAdeth
the tenements in demand, jointly with nis wife, or any other
person, not named in the writ, and shew forth a deed testify
ing the same, and demand judgment of the writ, and thereupon.
issue be joined, and it be found against the truth of the plea,
by him in manner aforesaid pleaded, the plaintifff shall recover
^ geisin rf the tenement9 f„ den]
ms seism °f the tenements in demand, and double damages,
against the party by whom such plea shall have been pleaded ;
but, if it be found that the matter aforesaid was truly and lawfully alleged, by such defendant, in his plea, the writ shall be
abated ; Provided, always, That no such plea shall be admitted
or received in any case, unless the party offering the same
shall prove the truth thereof by oath or affirmation, as the
case may require.(Z)
36* By the excePt»On of non-tenure of parcel of any lands
or tenements, for which any action or suit shall be brought, the
writ shall not be abated, but for the quantity of the non -tenure
which shall be allesred.fm)
, ut ° V' > • j • i >i i
• Where any action, real or mixed, is now or shall be
* depending, in any court of this Commonwealth, for the recove« ry of any lands or tenements, and any party thereto shall die,
'before verdict rendered, such action shall not abate, if the
' same be maintainable by or against the heir or devisee of the
' deceased party. But the plaintifff', or, if he be dead, his heir
' or devisee, may have a scire facias against the defendant, or,
' if he be dead, against his heir or devisee, to shew cause gene• rally why such action shall not be proceeded in to a final judg«
ment. Upon the return of such scire facias executed, if no
• good cause be shewn to the contrary, such heir or devisee shall
' be made a party to the action, and the cause shall proceed in
• the same manner as if such heir or devisee had been originally
' a party thereto ; Provided, That such heir or devisee shall
• have liberty to plead de novo, or to amend the pleadings in such
• manner as the nature of the case may require ; and that he
« shall be entitled to a continuance of the cause, for one term
■ after such scire facias returned executed.'
38. Where any 'personal* action' or suit in equity, is now
or shall be depending in any court of this Commonwealth, and
either of the parties shall die, before 'verdict renderedt or
final' decree be had, such action or suit shall not abate, if the
same were originally maintainable by or against an executor
or administrator, but the plaintifff, or, if he be dead, his executor or administrator, or the sheriff, Serjeant, * or other curator
' of the decedent's estate,' shall and may have a sr.ire facias
against the defendant, or, if he be dead, against his executor
or administrator, or against the sheriff, Serjeant, ' or other
• curator of his estate,' to shew cause generally why such ac
tion or suit shall not be proceeded in to a final judgment or
decree. And if such executor, administrator, sheriff', Serjeant
• or curator,' upon the return of a scire facias executed, shall
neglect or refuse to enter his or her appearance to the suit,
the court may proceed to final judgment or decree therein, in
the same manner as if such executor, administrator, sheriff",
Serjeant ' or curator' had entered his or her appearance. And
if such executor, administrator, sheriff, Serjeant ' or curator'
shall appear to the suit upon the return of such scire facias
executed, or if, without a scire facias, he or she shall, volun
tarily, enter himself or herself defendant to such suit, then,
and in either case, such executor, administrator, sheriff, Ser
jeant ' or curator' shall have liberty to plead de novo to the
plaintifff's action, every such plea or pleas, as an executor or
administrator may lawfully plead, or as the deceased party
might or could have pleaded, if he or she had lived ; and if
such executor, administrator, sheriff, Serjeant ' or curator'
should not desire to plead de novo, or, if no issue shall have
been joined or pleadings entered, before the death of his or
her testator or intestate, or if any interlocutory judgment or
decree shall have been entered in the life-time of the deceased
party, and the executor, administrator, sheriff, Serjeant « or cu«
rator,' shall refuse to plead, or shall not desire to set aside
the interlocutory judgment or decree, the court shall proceed
to final judgment or decree, for or against the executor, administrator, sheriff, Serjeant * or curator,' in the same manner, as
if the original writ had been issued against him or her, as
executor, administrator, sheriff, Serjeant * or curator,' anil the
cause shall remain in its place on the issue or rule docket, as
the case may be. But, the defendant being an executor, administrator,
sheriff, Serjeant • or curator,' shall be entitled to
a continuance until the next term after that to which a scire
facias shall have been returned executed, or at which he or
she shall have voluntarily entered himself or herself a defendant.(p)
And, if there be two or more plaintifffs or defendants,
one or m0re of them should die, if the cause of action
surviye to the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs, or against
the surviving defendaut or defendants, the writ or action shall
proceed at the suit of the surviving plaintifff or plaintifffs,
against the surviving defendant or defendants. Antl in all
actions, real, personal and mixed, if either party should die
between verdict and judgment, such death shall not be pleaded
jn aDatement, but judgment shall be entered as if .both parties
,. . . ' i a . > r .
were lmng.(<7) ' In any such action, real, personal or mixed,
and in any such suit in equity, where the demandant or plaintifff
s],a|j jjg Defore verdict rendered, or final decree as aforesaid,
if the heir or devisee, executor, administrator or other representative
of the deceased party, shall not appear and pray for
such scire facias, at or before the second term of the court,
next after that at which the death of such party shall have
' been suggested on the record, such action or suit shaJi be dis'
continued, unless good cause be shewn to the contrary.'
V. For regulating certain proceedings in Civil cases;
39. Be it enacted, That, until an alteration be made, by the
court of appeals, in the forms of writs, the same shall be, as
nearly as may be, assimilated to those heretofore used, in
the general couvt(r)
40. All writs, summonses and other legal process, shall be
issued by the clerk, and bear teste in his name ; and shall be
returnable as herein-after directed, except sitbpaenas for wit
nesses, which may be returnable, either to the next court, or
immediately, or to any day of the term.(sj
41. Except in cases where it shall be otherwise expressly
provided by law, no writ of capias ad respondendum, from any
superior or inferior court of law, shall be issued against any
person, in any other county or corporation, than that in which
he resides, until a non est inventus has been returned in Ins or
|ler own county or corporation, upon a capias issued against
such defendant, for the same cause of action ; and every writ
issued contrary hereto,* shall be void and dismissed, upon thi
first calling thereof: Provided, nevertheless, That, where two
or more persons are or shall be, jointly, or jointly and severally,
bound for the performance of any contract, or for the payment
of any money or tobacco, by bond, covenant, or otherwise, it
shall be lawful to prosecute such persons jointly, in any county
or corporation wherein either of them may reside, and process
shall be issued accordingly from the court having jurisdiction
over such county or corporation, and shall be served on the
non-resident defendant, if he be found therein : Provided,
also, That such writ may issue against any defendant or de-r
fendants, in any county or corporation, wherein the cause of
action or any part thereof arose, although such defendant or
defendants do not reside therein, and although no such previous
wfit shall have issued in his or her own county or corporation:
And provided, moreover, That, where any person hath no fixed
or known residence, in any county or corporation, within this
Commonwealth, such writ may be issued and served upon him,
in any county or corporation, in which he may be found.(t)
42. It shall not be lawful to demand bail, in any personal
action, except as is herein-after particularly mentioned: And
in all such actions wherein bail may not lawfully be demanded,
the plaintifff, or his attorney, shall, on pain of having his suit
dismissed with costs, endorse, on the original writ or subse
quent process, the true species of action, and that bail is not
required in order that the sheriff may be informed how to
govern himself in the execution thereof; and, in the cases belore
mentioned, the sheriff may take the engagement of an
attorney practising in the court, from which the process issued,
endorsed on the writ, that he will appear for the defendant or
defendants, and such appearance shall be entered with the
clerk in the office on the return day of the writ. And although
no such engagement of an attorney shall be offered to the sheriff,
he shall nevertheless be restrained from committing the
defendant to prison, or detaiuing him in his custody, for want
of appearance bail, but the sheriff in such case shall return the
writ executed ; and if the defendant shall fail to appear thereto,
there shall be the like proceeding against him only, as is hereinafter directed, against defendants and their appearance bail,
where sucli is taken.(v)
43. In all actions of debt, founded upon any writing obligatory,
bill or note in writing, for the payment of money or tobacco, all actions of covenant and detinue, and all actions upon
statutes specially authorizing bail to be taken, the plaintifff may
of right demand bail ; and if he shall endorse on the original
writ or subsequent process, the true species of action, in such
manner that his title to bail will appear thereby, and shall also
endorse that bail is required, it shall then be the duty of the
sheriff to take bail accordingly.^)
44. In all other personal actions, it shall be lawful for any
judge of the general court, or any justice of the peace for any
county or corporation, upon proper affidavit, verifying the justice
of the plaintifff's action, and shewing probable cause to
apprehend that the defendant will depart from the jurisdiction
of the court so that process of execution cannot be served upon
ym> ^Q t|n.ect Da;j ^0 i,e taken, by endorsement on the original
writ, or subsequent process, and the sherift' shall govern nimself
accordingly.(x)
45. In all cases, where bail shall so have been required, by
*'ie enJ°r8emen* °f the plaintifff or his attorney, or of a judge
or justice, the sheriff shall return on the writ, the names of the
bail by him taken, and shall return the bail bond or a copy
thereof, to the clerk's office, on the day of appearance. And
^ ^ (|efen(jant shall fail to appear accordingly, and give
special bail, the bail for appearance may defend the suit, and
sliall be subject to the same judgment and recovery, as the
defendant might or would be subject to, if he had appeared
and given special bail. If the sheriff shall not return bail and
the bail bond, or a copy thereof, and the defendant shall fail to
appear and give special bail, in such case the sheriff shall have
like liberty of defense, and shall be subject to the same judgment
and recovery, as is provided in the case of appearance bail.
If the bail, returned by the sheriff, be objected to by the plaintiff, and be adjudged insufficient, by the court, and the defendant
sha11 fail 't0 £>ve sPedal bail> the sheriff shall thereupon be
considered a party to the proceedings ; and, without remanding
the cause to the rules, he, together with the appearance bail,
shall be subject to the same judgment and recovery, that the
appearance bail alone would have been subject to, and shall be
entitled to the same defense.^
46. Objections to the sufficiency of the appearance bail
s^a" be taken, either at the rules, or in court, at or before the
first term after the return day of the writ, and not thereafter \
Thev shall be decided by the court, without del&y,(y) * and the
burtlieii of the proof shall be on the party affirming the suffi
ciency.'
47. If the sheriff ' or appearance bail,' depart this life, before iu(j(rment be confirmed against him, in such case, the
. . » 5 ■ i- i P • i • ± i - •
judgment may be confirmed against his executors or administrators;
or, if there shall not be a certificate of probat or ad
ministration granted, then it may be confirmed against his
estate ; and a writ of execution may in either case be issued.fy)
48. ' In all cases wherein the bail being adjudged insuffi<
cient, judgment shall be rendered against the sherift', his execu« tors, administrators or estate, such sheriff and his representa
tives shall have the same remedy against the estate of the
' bail, as against the estate of the defendant.' *
^N ever/ case> where judgment shall be confirmed
against any defendant or defendants, and the appearance bail,
or the sheriff, or the executors, administrators or estate of such
*?Pearance bail or sheriff, the court, on motion of such bail or
sheriff, or executors or administrators, or other person on be
half of the estate of such sheriff or bail, may order an attach
ment against the estate of such defendant or defendants, returnable
to the next succeeding court, and upon the execution
and return of such attachment, the court shall order the estate
seized, or so much thereof as will be sufficient to satisfy the
judgment and costs, and all tosts accruing under the attachment,
to be sold as goods taken in execution upon a. fieri facias ;
and, out of the money, such judgment and costs shall be satisfied,
and the surplus, if any, restored, to the defendant or de-P
fendants, when required .(z)
50. In any personal action, in which bail shall not have been
required, the court may at any time before final judgment, for
good cause shewn, rule the defendant to give special bail, and,
on his failure to do so, may refuse him permission to plead, or
may set aside any plea already pleaded by him, and award aE
writ of inquiry, or otherwise proceed to judgment according8
to law, or may cause him to be arrested and committed to
prison/ej
51. Any judge of the general court, when not sitting in
court, or any justice of the peace, or any mayor, recorder or
alderman of a corporation, may take recognizance of special
bail, in any action depending in any court of record within
this Commonwealth, which shall be transmitted by the person
taking the same, before the next succeeding court, to the clerk
of the said court, to be filed with the papers in such action ;
the form of which recognizance shall be in substance as followeth, to wit :
County (or corporation) to wit :
Memorandum, that, upon the ' day of in the
year , E. F. of the county of personally
appeared before me, one o f the judges of the general court, (or
a justice of the peace for the county or corporation, aforesaid,)
and undertook for C. D. at the suit of Jf. B. in an action of
now depending in the (here naming
the court where the suit is depending) that, in case the said C. D.
shall be cast in the said suit, he the said C. 1). will pay and
satisfy the condemnation of the court, or render his body to
prison in execution for the same, or that he, the said E. F. will
do it for him. Given under my hand this, day of
52. The person taking such bail as aforesaid, shall, if requir-B
ed, at the same time, deliver to the person or persons acknow-d
ledging the recognizance aforementioned, a bail piece, in sub
stance as followeth, to wit :
County (or corporation) sc.
C. D. of the parish of in the county (or corpo
ration) aforesaid, is delivered to bail, on a cepi corpus, unto
E. F. of the parish and county (or corporation) aforesaid, at
the suit of Jl. B. Given under my hand, this day of
G. H.lb)
53. In actions of detinue, the recognizance of bail shall be
so changed, as to subject the bail to the restitution of the thing,
whether animate or inanimate, sued for, or the alternative
va^ue> M tne court may a('judge.(c) If the plaintifff, or his
j attorney, shall except to the sufficiency of any special bail so
ta^en out °f court, notice of such exception shall be given to
the defendant or his attorney, a reasonable time before the
shall be tried. And if "such bail shall be adjudged insuf^cient
by the court, the recognizance thereof shall be discharge^> antl such proceedings shall be had, as if no such bail had
been taken.(u')
^'VERV special bail may surrender the principal, before
*ne court where the suit hath been or shall be depending, at
any time either before or after judgment shall be given: 5Vo«
riaed, That such surrender be made before the appearance
day of the first scire facias against the bail, returned executed,
or 0f the second returned nihil : but, in either case, the spe^ S'ia" PaV tne COstS °* tne SC*re fac^as' an(' judgment
for the same shall be entered against him accordingly. Upon
such surrender, the bail shall be discharged, and the defendant
or defendants shall be committed to the custody of the sheriff
or jailor attending such court, if the plaintifff or his attorney
shall desire the same. Or sucli special bail may discharge
or '1crse^' Dv surrendering the principal or principals
to the sheriff Serjeant or jailor of the county or corporation,
where the original writ was served ; and such sheriff, serjeant
or jailor shall receive such defendant or defendants, and com
mit him, her or them, to the jail of his county or corporation,
and shall give a receipt for tiie body or bodies of such defenor dt'f'e,)tlants» which »hall be 'by the bail transmitted to
the clerk of the court where the suit is or was depending, to
be preserved and filed by him amongst the papers of such suit,
e s'ia^ f°rthwith S've notice of such render, to the
his agent or attorney at law, if to be found within the
county or corporation. When such surrender after judgment,
S'm" ^e t0 *'le sne""' sel'jcant or jailor, he shall keep such
defendant or defendants in his custody, in the same manner,
and subject to the like rules, as are provided for debtors com
mitted in execution,, for twenty days, unless the creditor, his
agent or attorney, shall sooner consent to his, her or their
discharge ; and, if, within the said twenty days, such creditor,
n's Forney or agent, shall not, in writing, charge the debtor or
debtors in execution, he, she or they shall be forthwith discharged
out of custody. But the plaintifff or plaintifffs may
''nevertheless afterwards sue out any legal execution, without
suing out a. scire facias.(e)
55. When the principal debtor now is or hereafter may be
imprisoned, in any jail in the Commonwealth, by virtue of
process from any court, or any civil officer ; and any person or
persons, his special bail, shall desire to surrender such debtor,
in discharge of the recognizance of bail ; it shall be lawful
for such bail to obtain a certified copy of such recognizance,
a either from the clerk where the same shall have been entered
in court, or returned thereto, or from the judge or justice w ho
shall have taken it, where such recognizance shall not have
been returned to court ; (which copy it shall be the duty of the
clerk, judge or justice to grant;) and to obtain, annexed to
such copy of the recognizance, a certificate from the clerk of
the court, stating the situation of the suit, in which such bail
hath been entered, and specifying particularly whether final
judgment hath been rendered therein, or the same be still
pending: and it shall be lawful for the bail to deliver the said
certified copy of the recognizance, and the said certificate of
the clerk, to the sheriff, Serjeant or jailor, in whose custody the ^
debtor may be, and to demand a receipt therefore. Such sheriff, Serjeant or jailor shall thereupon give to the bail, his agent
or attorney, a receipt for the said copy of the recognizance
and certificate of the clerk, in which shall moreover be express
ed, that the special bail, in discharge of his recognizance afore
said, had committed to the keeping of the said sheriff, seijeant
or jailor, the body of the debtor, then in the custody of such
sheriff, Serjeant or jailor, under process from some court, or
civil officer, of the Commonwealth, which process shall be
plainly described on the face of such receipt. The debtor so
committed shall be detained in custody by such sheriff, ser"}
jeant or jailor, in the same manner, as he ought by law to bec
detained when surrendered under the provisions ot the prece
ding section ; save only, that, where such commitment shall be
after final judgment, and to the sheriff, Serjeant or jailor in
any county or corporation, other than that in whicli the suit
was brought, such debtor, unless sooner discharged by the con
sent of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, shall be detained in
custody above twenty days, at the rate of one dav for every
twenty miles of the computed distance of the place of his
confinement, from the jail of the court in whicli the suit was
brought. The special bail shall immediately give notice of
such commitment, to the creditor, his agetit or attorney at 'aw't°
if to be found in the county or corporation wherein the suit is
or was depending, and shall file with the clerk of the court in
which such suit is or was depending, the receipt of the sheriff,
Serjeant or jailor taken as aforesaid, and take his receipt
therefore// )
56. When, pursuant to the provisions of this act, the special
bail shall have surrendered his principal to the custody ofh
the sheriff, seijeant or jailor, or shall havo committed him to
the keeping of the sheriff, seijeant or jailor, in whose custody
such principal was before, and shall exhibit before the court,
in which the suit is or was depending, satisfactory evidence,
that, in due time thereafter, he gave to the creditor, his agent
or attorney, such notice of the surrender or commitment, as is
hereby required ; or that such creditor, his agent or attorney
was not to be found in the county or corporation aforesaid, and
that in due time he filed with the clerk of the court the re
ceipt of the sheriff, seijeant or jailor, taken as aforesaid ; such
bail shall thereupon be entitled to an exonoretur, to be entered
in court, and shall be thereafter forever discharged from the
said recognizance, in the same manner as if he had surren
dered his principal in court : But no sucli exonoretur shall be
entered, unless the creditor, his agent or attorney be present
jn cour^ or nave reasonable notice of the application there57. Any defendant surrendered into custody, or committed
by his bail, in manner herein provided, may, at any time be^na' jut^Sment shall have been rendered in the action,
discharge himself from such surrender or commitment, by giving
other good special bail : Provided, That the sufficiency of
gucn bail shall be verified on oath, to the satisfaction of the
court. judge or justice, taking the same, and the recognizance
thereof shall be duly filed with the clerk of the court wherein
the suit is depending, before such defendant shall be dis
charged. ('/j
58. ' If any defendant, having given special bail in any action, shall afterwards be convicted of any crime, and senten•
ced therefore to confinement in the penitentiary of this state,
' by a court of this Commonwealth, or of the United States, or
« shall be lawfully arrested, and delivered over to the executive
' authority of the United States, or of any state or territory
• thereof, upon a charge of any crime committed out of the
'jurisdiction of this state, and shall thereupon be carried be'
yond the limits of this Commonwealth, such special bail shall
• be discharged from his recognizance, in the same manner as
if such defendant had died at the time of such sentence, or
• of such delivery.'
59. When the sheriff or other proper officer shall return
upon any original or mesne process, that he hath taken the
body of the defendant, and committed him to prison for want
of appearance bail, the plaintifff may proceed, and the defen
dant make his defense, in like manner, as if bis appearance
bail had been entered and accepted. But the defendant shall
not be discharged out of custody, until he shall put vu good
bail, or the plaintifff shall be ruled by the court to accept an
appearance without bail. And, when any defendant, after ap
pearance entered, shall be confined in prison, the plaintifff may
proceed in the same manner as if he were not so confined.^)
60. When the sheriff or other proper officer, returning the
truth of the case, upon any original or mesne process, to him
directed, shall make return, that any defendant is not an inha
bitant of his county or corporation, the suit shall abate and be
dismissed as to such defendant, if the court, from which such
process issued, have jurisdiction over such county or corpora
tion only.(/i)
61. When the sheriff or other proper officer shall return on
any writ of capias, to answer in any civil action, that the de
fendant is not found within his bailiwick, the plaintifff" may
either sue out an alias or a pluries capias, until the defendant
shall be arrested, or a testatum capias, where the defendant
shall have gone into another county or corporation ; or may, at
his election, sue out an attachment against the estate of the
defendant, to force an appearance ; and if the sheriff or other
officer shall return that lie hath attached any goods, and the
-defendant shall not appear and replevy the same, by entering
his appearance and giving special bail, in case he shall be ruled
so to do, the piaintitt' may file his declaration, and proceed to
final judgment, in the same manner as if the defendant had
been arrested. The goods attached shall remain in the hands
of the officer, until sucu final judgment be entered, and then
be sold in the same manner as goods taken upon a. fieri facias.
Ana, il the judgment shall not be thereby satisfied, the plaintilf may sue out execution for the residue ; and, in case more
goous be attached than will satisfy the judgment, the surplus
shall De returned to the defendant-(i)
62. VV here any sheriff or other officer shall return, on any
original or mesne process to him directed, that he has been
kept off by force of arms, it shall and may be lawful for the
plaintifff in the action in which the process so returned was
issued, either to issue an alias or pluries, as the case may be,
or to proceed in the said action against the defendaut or defen
dants, as if such process had been returned executed. (k)
63. It any writ or process shall be executed, and, .tor want
of a return thereof to the office from which it is issued, an
alias, pluries, attachment or other process be awarded, the
sheriff snail liot execute such subsequent process, but shall return the first process by him executed, if it be in his possession
; but, if it be not in his possession, then he shall return
the subsequent process, with an endorsement of the execution
of such first process, and the name of the appearance bail, i
any was taken ; and shall also return a copy of the bail bond,
on which there shall be the same proceedings, as if the said
first process had been duly returned.(i)
64. On the return of the pluries, that the defendant is not
found, the court instead of the process to outlawry formerly
used, may order a proclamation to issue, warning the defendant
to appear on a certain day therein named, or that judgment will be rendered against him ; which proclamation shall
be published on three successive court days, at the door of the
court-house of the county or corporation, to which the last
process was directed, and also three times in some public
newspaper ; and it the defendant fails to appear pursuant to
such proclamation, the same proceedings shall be had, and the
same judgment shall be given as in other cases of default.(m)
65. On writs of scire facias for the renewal of judgments,
no judgment shall be rendered on the return of two nihils,
unless the defendant resides in the county, or unless he be
absent from the Commonwealth, and have no known attorney
therein. But such scire facias may be directed to the sheriti
of any county in the Commonwealth, wherein the defendant or
his attorney shall reside or be found, which being returned
served, the court may proceed to judgment thereupon, as if
the defendant had resided in the county.(re)
66. Where the defendant can be found, writs of scire facias
from any court, shall hereafter be served in the same manner
as wr'ts °f capias respondendum on which no bail is required.
And where the said defendant cannot be found, it
shall be considered as a sufficient service of the said writ, for
t'le sner'ft» or otner office1" to whom the same is directed, to
leave a copy tliereof with the wife of the defendant, or some
free white person above the age of sixteen years, then and
<j,ere being one of the family of the defendant, and found at
his usual place of abode, or to leave a copy thereof at such
place of abode, in the manner prescribed in the next section.(o)
67. Notices on replevin bonds, and on all other legal occa8'ons' wnerein no particular mode is or shall be prescribed for
their service, shall be good, if given to the party in person, or
delivered in writing to any free white person above the age of
sixteen years, who, being a member of the family of such per
son, and found at his usual place of abode, shall be informed
of the purport of such notice; or left at some public place, at
the dwelling house, or other known place of residence of such
person, hebeing from home, and no such free white person of
his family being found there, willing to receive such notice ;
and it shall be the duty of the sheriff' or seijeant, whenever
required, to serve all such notices within his bailiwick, and to
ma'{e ^ue return thereof : the service thereof, however, shall be
good, when made by any other person, and verified by affidav'it(p)
68. In all actions or suits which may be commenced against
the Governor of this Commonwealth, any member of the privy
council, any of the judges of the superior courts, or the sheriff"
of any county, during his continuance in office, instead of the
ordinary process, a summons shall issue directed to the sheriff
or other proper officer, reciting the cause of action, and com
manding him to summon such defendant to appear, and answer
the same, on the proper return day : and if such defendant,
being summoned, or after a copy shall have been left at his
usual place of abode, ten days before the return day, shall not
appear to answer the same, the court shall proceed against such
defendant, in the same manner as if he had been taken upon a
capias ad respondendum : Provided, always, That, after judgment and the return of a fieri facias, by the sheriff" of that
c»unty in which the defendant in any such case resides, that
no effects, or not sufficient, are to be found in his bailiwick to
satisfy the said judgment, a. capias ad satisfaciendum maybe
issued as in other cases.(^)
69. The rules in the clerk's office of the county and corporat'on courts, of the superior courts of law, and the general
court, shall be holden on the first Monday in every month, and
may be continued from day to day, not exceeding six days.(r)
70. Every writ of capias ad respondendum or scire facias,
every summons to answer any action, and every subpoena in
chancery, issued from the clerk's office of any such court shall
be returnable, at the option of the plaintifff", either to the first
day of the next succeeding term, or in the clerk's office to
some previous rule day ; and, if it shall be returned not executed, any subsequent proper process may issue thereupon
returnable in like manner. All such process may be executed
at any time before the return day shall have passetl.(s)
71. Process to bring the representative or representatives
of any deceased party into court, may be awarded at the rules
i-i r- J . /.\ J
in like manner as in open court.(i)
72. The plaintifff shall file his declaration in the clerk's
office on the rule day at which the writ or other process shall
be returned executed ; or, the defendant having entered his
appearance, may give a rule for the plaintifff1 to declare ; which
it he fails or neglects to do, at the succeeding rule day, or
shall at any time fail to prosecute his suit, he shall be nonsuit
ed, and pay to the defendant or tenant, besides his costs, five
dollarsir)
73. When the plaintifff hath filed his declaration, he may
give a rule to plead with the clerk; and if the defendant shall
not plead accordingly, at the expiration of such rule, the plaintiff may enter judgment for his debt or damages and costs,
and have a writ of inquiry awarded where one shall be necessary.(w)
74. All rules to declare, plead, reply, rejoin, or for other
proceedings, shall be given regularly from month to month,
shall be entered in a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall
expire on the succeeding rule day.(w)
75. No discontinuance of any cause shall take place for
failure to take any rule therein, during any vacancy in the
office of clerk of the court, in which such cause may be depending
; but all causes on the rule docket, shall stand con
tinued, until the rule day after the vacancy shall be filled ; and
all process issued before, but not returnable till after such va-t
cancy happened, shall be returnable to the same rule-day.^)
76. Before every term of the general court, or a superior
court of law, and before every quarterly term of a eounty or
corporation court, the clerk shall enter, In a particular docket,
separate and distinct from the rule docket, and, in the county
court, separate and distinct from the chancery docket, all those
causes and those only, in which there is an issue to be tried, or
an inquiry of damages to be made, or an office judgment which
may be set aside, or a special verdict, case agreed, demurrer,
or other matter of law, or other question before the court, is to
be argued or decided. He shall docket the causes, in the
order in which they are put to issue, or writs of inquiry are
awarded, or office judgments rendered in them; and no cause
shall be removed from its place on the docket, unless when,0
being called for trial, it shall be continued at the plaintifff's
motion, in which case, it shall be put at the end of the docket,
unless the defendant consent that it shall retain its place.
-pi^ cierjC) under the control of the court, shall apportion the
011 *ne docket, to so many days, and in such numbers to
each day, as may be deemed most expedient; and he shall
issue subpoenas for witnesses to attend on the day, to which
the causes stand for tr\a\.(y)
77. Every judgment entered in the office against any defendant,
or against any defendant and bail, or against any defendant aud sheriff, shall be set aside, if the defendant, at the
succeeding term of the general court, or a superior court of
law, or at the succeeding quarterly term of a county or corpo
ration court, shall be allowed to appear without bail, put in
good bail, being ruled so to do, or surrender himself in custody,
and shall plead to issue immediately: Provided, however,
no such office judgment shall be set aside, at any time,
after a writ of inquiry awarded thereupon shall have been
executed, unless good cause be shewn therefore. The court
shall have control over all other proceedings in the office, durtne Preceding vacation, may correct any mistakes or errors,
which may have happened therein, and may, for good cause
shewn, set aside any of the said rules or proceedings, and
make such order concerning the same, as may be just and
right. They may also, for good cause shewn, re-instate any
cau9e discontinued during such preceding vacation.^z)
78. Any new issue made up, on setting aside an office judgment, unless good cause be shewn for a continuance, may be
tried at the same term. And any writ of inquiry awarded at
rules> may be executed at the next succeeding court, and
final judgment be rendered thereupon, unless good cause be
shewn for a continuance.(a)
79. All judgments, by default, obtained in the office, for
want of appearance, or bail or plea, in which no writ of inquiry
shall be awarded, and which shall not be set aside on some day
of the next succeeding term as aforesaid; and all non-suits and
dismissions, obtained in the office, and not so set aside, shall
be considered as final judgments of the last day of the term,
anc^ executions may issue thereupon accordingly. Every such
execution in favor of the plaintifff, in any action of debt, founded
upon any bond, bill, promissory note, or other writing, for the
Pavment of
money or tobacco, shall be issued, as well for interest
until paid, upon the principal sum due, from the time when
such bond, bill, promissory note, or other writing was payable,
as for such principal sum and costs.(6)
80. In all actions founded on contracts, where judgment
shall be rendered in court, if interest be allowed, such interest
sha^ De uP.on tne principal sum due, and shall continue until
such principal sum be paid. And in all actions, founded on
contracts, and tried before a jury, the jury shall ascertain the
principal sum due, and fix the period at which interest shall
commence, if interest be allowed by them ; and judgment shall
be rendered accordingly, carrying on the interest till the judgment
shall be satisfied.(c)
81. Actions of account may be brought and maintained,
against the executors or administrators of every guardian,
bailiff and receiver, and also by one joint tenant, or tenant in
common, his executors or administrators, against the other as
bailiff, for receiving more than comes to his just share or proportion, and against the executors or administrators of sucli
joint tenant or tenant in common.(d)
82. In all actions on any bond, or on any penal sum for the
non-performance of covenants or agreements, in any indenture,
deed or writing contained, the plaintifff or plaintifffs may assign
. <? . r 1 i-. 1 ,l •
as many breaches as he or they may think tit; and the jury,
upon trial of such action or actions, shall and may assess
damages for such of the breaches as the plaintifff shall prove »
and, on such verdict, the like judgment shall be entered, &8
heretofore has been usually done, in such actions. And, where
judgment on a demurrer, or by confession, or nihil dicit, shall
be given for the plaintifff, he may assign as many breaches o1
the covenants or agreements as lie may think fit : upon which,
a jury shall be summoned, to inquire of the truth of eveiy one
of those breaches, and to assess the damages the plaintifff shall
have sustained thereby ; and execution shall issue for so much ;
and the judgment shall remain as a security to the plaintifff,
his executors and administrators, for any other breaches which
may afterwards happen ; and he or they may have a scire facias
against the defendant, his executors or administrators, and
assign any other breach ; and, thereupon, damages shall be
° . * . . . . r *• 1 / \ 0
assessed, and execution issued as aforesaid. (e)
83. In all actions which shall be brought upon any bond or
bonds for the payment of money or tobacco, wherein the plaintiff shall recover, judgment shall be entered for the penalty **f
such bond, to be discharged by the payment of the principal
and the interest due thereon, and the costs of suit, and execution
shall issue accordingly; or, if, before judgment, the defendant shall- bring into court the principal and interest due upon
such bond, he shall be discharged, and in that case judgment
shall be entered for the costs only.(e)
84. In any action of debt, on a single or penal bill, or in
debt or scire facias upon a judgment, or in debt upon a bond,
if, before action brought, the defendant hath paid the principal
and interest due by the defeasance or condition, he may plead
payment in bar.(p)
85. If any action be brought on a bond or other writing, filed
in any suit brought thereupon in any other court of this Com-wh
monwealth, it shall be sufficient for the plaintifff to file with
his declaration a copy of such bond or other writing, attested
by the clerk of the court in which the original may be filed ;
and the defendant or defendants shall be obliged to plead
thereto, in like manner as if the original- bond or writing was
filed, and such copy shall be admitted as' evidence on the trial.
however, the defendant or defendants shall plead, that the
original bond or writing is not his, her or their deed, the clerk
°^ *he cour* having such original paper in his custody, shall, on
being summoned as a witness, attend with the same, on the
of the issue, for the inspection of the jury.(/)
' *N evel7 aption of indebitatus assumpsit, the plaintifff
shall file, with his declaration, an account, stating distinctly
the several items of his claim against the defendant; and,*in
fa^ure thereof, he shall not be entitled to prove, before the
jUI7» any item, which is not so plainly and particularly
described in the declaration, as to give the defendant full
notice of the character thereof.'
87. « In every action in which a defendant shall desire to
Prove an7 payment or set-off, he shall file with his plea an
account, stating distinctly the nature of such payment or
set-off, and the several items thereof ; and in failure to do so,
he shall not be entitled to prove before the jury, such payment
or set-off, unless the same be so plainly and particularly
described in the plea, as to give the plaintifff full notice of the
character thereof.'*
g8. The plaintifff in replevin, and the defendant in all other
may plead as many several matters, whether of law
or of fact, as he shall think necessary for his defenc e.(^)t
89. In controversies affecting lands, tenements or hereditaments' possession of part shall not be construed as possesof
the whole, when an actual adverse possession can be
proved.(A)
^O. Actual possession need not be proved to maintain a
Writ of right(fc)
91. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when.
necessary.(/l)
92. Private acts of Assembly may be given in evidence,
without pleading them specially.(n)
93. pAPERS read in evidence, though not under seal, may be
• ■ c j.\ u l au ■ /1 \
carried from the bar, by the lury.(ft)
94. Any instrument, to which the person making the same,
shall affixt a scroll, by way of seal, shall be adjudged and
holden to be of the same force and obligation, as if it were
actually sealed. (A)
95. Every person desirous of suffering a nonsuit on trial,
sha11 be Darred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury re
tire from the bar.(ft)
96. « New trials may hereafter be granted, as well where
the damages are manifestly too small, as where they are excesgjve>5
97. Not more than two new trials shall be granted to the
same Party> 'n the same cause.(ft)
98. All declarations, pleas, evidences, and other papers,
relating to any cause in court, shall be carefully preserved by
the clerk, and they shall be all filed together, in the office.(i)
99. When any cause shall be finally determined, and an appeal,
writ of error, or supersedeas shall be granted to the judgment, and in all causes, where the title or bounds of land shall
be determined, whether an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas,
be granted from the judgment or not, it shall be the duty of the
clerk to enter, in books to be kept for that purpose, all the
pleadings and papers filed as evidence therein, and the judg
ment thereupon, so as to make a complete record thereof: and
those, wherein the title or bounds of land is determined, shall
lbe entered in a separate book.(fc)
VI.—For remedying certain defects in proceedings in courts.*
100. Be it enacted, That, in all personal actions, where the
declaration shall plainly set forth sufficient matter of substance,
for the court to proceed upon the merits of the cause, the suit
shall not abate for want of form.(i)
101. Where a demurrer shall be joined, in any action, the
court shall not regard any other defect or imperfection in the
writ, return, declaration or pleadings, than what shall be spe
cially alleged in the demurrer as causes thereof, unless
something so essential to the action or defense, as that judg
ment, according to law, and the very right of the cause, cannot
be given, be omitted.(m)
102. After issue joined in an ejectment, on the title only,
no exception of form or substance, shall be taken to the declaration, in any court whatsoever.(n)
103. No judgment, after the verdict of twelve men, shall be
stayed or reversed, for any defect or default, in the writ,c
original or. judicial; or for a variance, in the writ from the
declaration, or other proceedings ; or for any mispleading, insufficient
pleading, discontinuance, misjoining of issue, or lack
of warrant of attorney ; or for the appearance of either party,
being under the age of twenty -one years, by attorney, if the.
verdict be for him, and not to his prejudice; or for not alleging
any deed, letters testamentary, or commission of adminis
tration, to be brought into court ; or for omission of the
words with force and arms, or against the peace ; or for mis
take of the christian name, or surname of either party, sum of
money, quantity of merchandize, day, month or year, in the de
claration or pleading, (the name, sum, quantity or time being
right in any part of the record or proceeding ;) or for omis
sion of the averment, this he is ready to verify ; or, this he is
ready to verify by the record) or for not alledging as appeareth
by the record ; or for omitting the averment of any matter,
without proving which, the jury ought not to have given such
verdict; * or for setting forth, oy way of recital, any matter
« which ought to have been set forth by averment ;' or for not
alleging that the suit or matter is within the jurisdiction of
the court; ' or, for not alleging that the property in the declaration mentioned is the property of the plaintifff ; or for
« any mistake or misconception of the form of the action ; or
• for any other defect whatsoever, in the declaration or pleading
whether of form or of substance, which might have been
taken advantage of by a demurrer, and which shall not have
been so taken advantage of;' or for any informality, in entering up the judgment, by the clerk : neither shall any judgment,
entered by nildicit, or non sum informatus, be reversed, nor i
judgment, after inquiry of damages, be stayed or reversed,
for any omission or fault, which would not have been a good
cause to stay or reverse the judgment, if there had been a
verdict.(o^
104. "W hen there are several counts, one of which is faulty,
and entire damages are given, the verdict shall be good ; but
fjle defendant may apply to the court to instruct the jury to
■ f ,,J vv J. , N J J
disregard the faulty count.(p)
105. If, in detinue, the verdict shall omit price or value,
the court may, at any time, award a writ, of inquiry to ascer• ,i rr ■ • i n • •
tain the same. If, on an issue concerning several things in
one count, in detinue, no verdict be found for part of them, it
ghall not be error, but the plaintifff shall be barred of his title
to the things omitted.(p)
106. A judgment, on confession, shall be equal to a release
of errors ;(q) but all powers of attorney for confessing or suffaring judgment to pass by default, or otherwise, and all general
releases of error, made or to be made, by any person or
persons whatsoever, within this Commonwealth, before action
Drougnt> snaU De> ^ are hereby declared to be, absolutely null
and void.(r) "
107. An execution, writ or other process, appearing to be
?*U'y servet' m other respects, shall be deemed good, although
it be not directed to any sheriff.(s)
108. ' Where, in the record of any judgment or decree of
' an^ suPer'or court of law or equity, there shall be any mis«take,
miscalculation, or misrecital, of any sum or sums of
' money, tobacco, wheat, or other such thing, or of any name or
< names ; and there shall be, among the record of the proceed™%s *n t!le suli ^n wh*ch such judgment or decree shall be
' rendered, any verdict, bond, bill, note, or other writing of the
' like nature or kind, whereby such judgment or decree may
' be safely amended, it shall be the duty of the court in which
' such judgment shall be rendered, and of the judge thereof
' in vacation, to amend such judgment or decree thereby ac' cording to the very truth and justice of the case : Provided,
That the opposite party, his agent, or attorney in fact, or at
law, shall have had reasonable notice of the application for
such amendment. And, if the transcript of such judgment
'or decree, at the time of such amendment, or at any time
thereafter, shall be removed to the court of appeals, it shall
: be the duty of that court, upon the inspection of such amended
record, (to be brought before it by certiorari, if need be,)
to affirm such judgment, if there be no other error apparent
on such record .'(t)
109. ' Where any bond, taken by virtue of any distress for
rent or execution, by miscalculation or mistake, shall be conditioned for the payment of a larger sum of money, than by
law ought to have been required thereby, or where a verdict
shall be rendered for more damages than the plaintifff shall
have demanded by his suit, and judgment shall be rendered
accordingly, and the court in which such judgment shall be
rendered, shall have adjourned to another term, without release of such excess having been made, it shall be lawful for
the plaintifff, at any time before the record of such judgment
shall be removed into an appellate court, at any future term
of the court in which such judgment shall be rendered, to
release in open court any such excess ; or he may in vacation
release the same by deed under his hand and seal, witnessed
by the clerk or deputy clerk of such court, and filed of record
among the papers of the cause; and such release, made in
either of the forms aforesaid, shall cure any error growing out
of such excess.'(t)
110. ' If the record of any such judgment shall be removed
into an appellate court, before such release shall be made, f
shall be competent for the defendant in error to make such
release as aforesaid in the appellate court ; and thereupon the
said court, after reversing the judgment, shall proceed to give
such judgment as the court below ought to have given if the
release had been filed therein.'(i)
11 1. For removing all doubts concerning the courts to which
act may apply; Be it further enacted, That all things
contained, ' not restricted by their nature, or by express
provision, to particular courts,' shall be the rules of decision
and proceeding in all courts whatsoever within this Common
112. All and every act or acts, and all parts of acts, conany
thing within the purview of this act, shall be, and
hereby repealed.
113. This act shall commence and be in force, from and
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and twenty.
!• Where a husband doth lose the lands of his wife by de
fault, it is unreasonable that the wife, after the death of her
husband, should have no other recovery but by writ of right :
g. £E n thereforee enacted by the General Assembly, That a
woman, after the death of her husband, shall not be injured by
such default, but shall, ' not withstanding, retain her right of
entry, and may prosecute the same by any real or mixed
action that may best suit the case. If the tenant shall object
to the wife's claim, that he entered by judgment, and it be
found that his entry was by default, to which he shall answer,
if required, he shall then further answer and shew his right in
like manner as in the writ he first purchased against the
husband and wife ; and if he can shew such right, the wife
shall gain nothing by her writ ; but if the husband absent himself
and will not defend his wife's right, or, against the wife's
consent> W'H render the wife's lands in any suit instituted
against the husband and wife for lands which are her inheri
tance during the coverture, then the wife may come at any
time before judgment, and defend her right.t
3. If tenant in dower, tenant by the curtesy, or otherwise
for term of life, or by gift, where the reversion is reserved, do
ma'ce default, or will give up, the heirs, or they unto whom the
reversion belongeth, shall be admitted to their answer if they
come before judgment ; and if, upon such default or surrender,
judgment happen to be given, then the heir, or they unto whom
the reversion belongeth, after the death of such tenants, shall
in no wise be injured by such default or surrender.
4. The dying seised hereafter of any disseisor having no
or title, shall not be such descent in law as to take away
the right of entry from such, as, at the time of the death of
the disseisor, had lawful title of entry, except such disseisor
jjath peaceable possession five years, next after the disseisin
committed, without entry or continual claim of such as have
lawful title.
5. No feoffment, or other conveyance, ' or other act or acts
hereafter to be made, suffered, or done by the husband only, of
lan(ls» tenements, or hereditaments, being the inheritance
or freehold of his wife, during the coverture between them,
shall in anywise be, or make, any discontinuance thereof, or be
prejudicial or hurtful to the said wife or her heirs, or to such
as shall have right, title, or interest to the same by the death
of such wife ; but the said wife or heirs, and such other to
whom such right shall appertain after her decease, shall anil
may then lawfully enter into all such lands, tenements, and
hereditaments, according to their rights and titles therein ; any
such feoffment, or other conveyance, or act to the contrary not
withstanding.
6. All and every statute and act, "or clause and clauses o
any statute or act, coming within the purview of this act, shal
be, and the same are hereby repealed : Provided, nevertheless
That nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect any
right which may have accrued, or been vested before the com
mencement of this act.
7. This act shall commence in force, from and after the
passing thereof.
C. 130k
An act to reduce into one, the several acts, for the relief o
persons, who have been or may be injured, by the destruction
of the records of certain courts of justice.
[Passed March 1, 1819.]
Whereas divers records of courts of justice within this
Commonwealth, and other papers of consequence, have been
or may be destroyed by fraud, accident or otherwise, to the
great injury of the citizens of this Commonwealth : For relief,
thereforee, of such persons, whose estates, titles or interests
have been, or may be, affected thereby ;
1. Be it enacted, That the several superior court's of law,
county and corporation courts, where any such losses may navee
accrued, or shall hereafter accrue, when any original deeds,
with an endorsement of the acknowledgment or proof thereof,
and order for recording the same, attested by the clerks of
such courts, or of the former district courts, respectively, or
the copies of any deeds with the endorsement so attested, or
any wills, with the endorsement of the proof and the order
for recording the same, so attested, or of any judgment, decree
or order of court, in like manner attested, or of any inventory
or other document before admitted to record in such courts,
and of all bonds, bills, notes and all other papers necessarily
filed in the office of such court, (the original of the same being
lost, or otherwise destroyed,) shall be produced to them, shall
order their clerks again to record all such original deeds,
copies of deeds, or wills, with the said endorsements respec
tively, and all such copies of judgments, decrees and orders of
court, or of inventories or other documents : and the said
clerks, when they shall have recorded any thing in pursuance
of this act, shall endorse on the same, that the original had
been lost or destroyed, and shall make an entry to the same
effect on the record, with the thing recorded, which shall have
the same operation and effect in law, to all intents and purposes, as the original record would have had.(a)
2. The clerks of the said several courts, shall do and perform
the services in this act mentioned, for the same fees that
a'l°wec' Dy ^aw m other cases for a copy of any thing
herein before mentioned ; and, in like manner, shall take no
other or greater fee for recording any deed, which hath been
already recorded, or shall be made only by occasion of the
misfortune aforesaid, for settling the right or title of any per
son or persons whatsoever, to lands and tenements, slaves, or
goods and chattels, than in other cases is, or shall be allow
ed by law, for the copy of any such deed ; any law, usage
or custom, to the contrary notwithstanding.^
3. It shall and may be lawful for the Governor, with the advice
of Council, to issue one or more commissions, as the case
may require, under the seal of the Commonwealth, to nine able
and discreet persons directed, giving them or any of them,
fuii p0wer anj authority, • to meet at some convenient place,
by them to be appointed, and to adjourn from time to time, as
they shall think fit, and to summon, hear and examine all wit
nesses, at the instance of any person, touching the premises,
and to take their depositions in writing. And the said commissioners shall have power to appoint some person, skilled in
clerkship, to attend them for keeping a journal of their proceedings, and drawing the depositions aforesaid ; which person
shall be paid for his services by each county, respectively ; and
all depositions which have been taken by virtue of the act entitled,
Jin act for the relief of persons who have been or may be
injured by the destruction of the records of county courts,
passed December the seventeenth one thoasand seven hundred
and eighty-seven, or by virtue of The act to amend the said act,
passed December the twentieth, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety -six, or which may hereafter be taken by virtue of
this act, shall be so lodged with the clerks of the courts, in
which such accident or loss may have happened, there to re
main, as evidence in all cases, for establishing the rights of the
person or persons injured, when better evidence cannot be
obtained.(c)
4. All acts and parts of acts, coming within the purview of
this act, shall be and the same are hereby repealed ; Provided,
That all rights and remedies vested and accrued under the
same, shall remain in the same condition as if this act had not
been passed.
5. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the first day of January eighteen hundred and twenty.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That no person
convicted of treason, murder or other felony whatsoever, shall
be admitted as a witness in any case whatsoever, unless lie be
first pardoned, or shall have received such punishment, as by
law ought to be inflicted upon such conviction.(n)
2. No person convicted of perjury, although he be pardoned
or punished for the same, shay be capable of being a witness
in any case.(6)
3. No negro, mulatto or Indian, shall be admitted to give
evidence but against, or between negroes, mulattoes or IndiansJe)
v / .
4. If any person summoned as a witness to attend any court
within this Commonwealth, or to appear before commissioners,
referees or other persons appointed by or under the authority
r , , , r . rr . . J J
of such court, to take or receive his deposition, or testimony,
or upon any order of survey, shall fail to attend accordingly,
not having a reasonable excuse for such failure, such person
shall be fined by the court from whence the subpasna issued,
sixteen dollars, to the use of the party for whom such witness
was summoned ; and the witness so failing shall farther be liable
to the action of the party for all damages sustained by the nonattendance
of such witness : Provided, That the witness on
whom such line shall be imposed, shall either be present in
court at the time, or shall have been duly served with the rule
of the court, returnable to some certain day, requiring him to
shew cause why such fine should not be imposed upon him,
and shall have failed to shew such cause ; but if sufficient cause
of his or her inability to attend be shewn, then no fine or ac
tion shall be incurred by such failure.(d)
5. If any person, so summoned and attending in any of the
causes above-mentioned, shall refuse to give evidence upon
oath or affirmation, (as the case may be,) to the best of his or
her knowledge, every person so refusing shall be committed to
prison by the court, commissioners, referees, or other persons
authorized to take or receive his or her deposition or testimony,
there to remain without bail or mainprize, until he or she shall
give such evidence.(e)
6. It shall not be lawful in any criminal prosecution whatever,
(other than a prosecution lor perjury,) or in any action
founded upon a penal statute, to give in evidence, against the
defendant, any confession or statement, which he or she may
have made in the course of his or her legal examination as a
witness before any competent tribunal.f/j
7. Witnesses shall be privileged from arrests in all cases,
except treason, felony and breaches of the peace, during their
attendance at any court, or other place where their attendance
shall, by subpoena first duly executed by a sworn officer, or by
some indifferent person who shall have made oath to the due
execution thereof, have been required ; and in coming to, and
returning from thence, allowing; one day for every twenty miles
from their places of abode : Provided, always, That no per
son whatsoever, attending any of the courts in this Common
wealth, or upon any reference or survey, by order of any such
court in virtue of any subpwna, shall be privileged from an
arrest, by original or other process, unless such person shall be
actually a witness in the matter in such subpoena ex pressed .(g)
8. In all cases where witnesses are required to attend any
court, commissioners or referees, or on any order of survey, a
summons shall be issued by the clerk, at the request of either
party, or of the commissioners, referees, or surveyor, interested
in, or acting under the order of any such court, expressing the
day and place where they are to appear, the names of the par
ties to the suit, and in whose behalf summoned. Any subpoena,
or process to require or compel the attendance of any witness,
may be served or executed in the county or corporation wherein
the said witness shall be found. (/i)
9. Every witness so summoned to appear at any county
court, or superior court of law, or to attend commissioners,
referees, or other persons, for the purpose of giving testimony,
or upon any survey of lands, and being an inhabitant of the
same county, shall be paid by the person or persons at whose
suit the summons issued, fifty-three cents, for every day's attendance upon such summons, and ferriages ; and every person
residing in, and summoned out of another county, shall have
the said allowance of fifty -three cents per day for attendance,
and be paid for travelling to the places of attendance, four cents
per mile, and the same for returning, and also their ferriages.(i)
10. In all cases, when ariy person or persons shall be summoned
as a witness or witnesses, in any prosecution for a crime
or misdemeanor, to attend any court out of the county or counties
in which he, she, or they may reside, the same allowance
shall be made him, her or them, for such attendance, as is
allowed by law to witnesses attending the superior courts of
law.(fc)
n. Every person summoned and attending as a witness on
behalf of tne Commonwealth, before any court, in a civil case
therein depending, shall be entitled to the same compensation
for his or her attendance, as is allowed by law to witnesses at
tending such courts on behalf of individuals in like cases ; and,
on a certificate of such attendance, under the hand of the clerk
of the court wherein the same was entered, being produced to,
and filed with the auditor of public accounts, lie shall issue his
warrant for the amount thereof, payable out of the public treasury.
And in every civil case where the Commonwealth shall C
prevail, all costs, which it is liable to pay, shall be taxed in the j
bill of costs, and recovered in like manner as is provided in c
the case of individuals.(i)
12. Every witness summoned and attending the court of A
appeals, general court, or any superior court of chancery, shall j
be paid, by the party at whose suit the summons issued, four p
cents per mile for travelling to the places of attendance, and c
the same for returning, besides ferriages; and one dollar and r
four cents per day for his attendance; which allowance shall c
be entered by the clerk, of course, except where disputes arise
concerning the same, and then such disputes shall be deter
mined by the court. The clerks of the several superior courts
of law, and of the several county and corporation courts shall,
in like manner, enter the allowances to witnesses attending
the said courts. "Witnesses in all cases, as well civil as crimi
nal, shall be sworn as to their travelling, ferriages and atten
dance, for which purpose, the clerk, or some of his assistants,
specially empowered by the court, or the commissioners, re
ferees, or surveyor, as the case may be, shall administer the
oaths.(m)
, 13. No witness shall be permitted to charge his attendance
in more than one suit at the same time ; but, if he be summoned to attend in several suits, he may charge his attendance, to
either of the parties by whom he shall be summoned, at his
election.(w)
14. There shall not be allowed in the bill of costs the charge
of more than three witnesses for the proof of any one partii
f. . / v * j r
cular fact.(o)
15. When any witness shall be about to depart the country,
or, by age, sickness, or otherwise, shall be unable to attend the
court, upon affidavit thereof, in open court, or before the clerk
in his office, or on a certificate that an affidavit has been made
to that effect, from any justice of the peace, the clerk of the
court, in which any suit is or shall be depending, may, on request
of either party, award a commission for taking the depo
sition of such witness de bene esse, to be read as evidence at
the trial, in case the witness should be unable to attend ; but
the party obtaining such commission shall give reasonable no
tice to the other party, of the time and place of taking the
deposition ; otherwise, the same shall be void.(p)
16. When any plaintifff or defendant, in any suit depending
in any court of law within this Commonwealth, shall wish too
have the benefit of the testimony of any of the judges of th
court of appeals, superior court of chancery, or general court,
or of any other officer of government, who, on account of his
official duties, cannot attend court to give testimony on the
trial of such suit, the party wishing the benefit of the testimony
0f suc|j judge or other officer, may, on application to the
clerk of the court in which such suit is depending, obtain a
commission to take the deposition of such judge or other officer,
which commission the said clerk is hereby authorized to issue ;
and any deposition or depositions of such judge or other officer,
taken before any two magistrates in the county in which such
witness or witnesses reside, shall be read in evidence on the
trial of such suit : Provided, the adverse party have reason
able notice of the time and place of taking such deposition or
depositions.(y)*
17. Whenever any party to a suit depending in any court
of lawt shall desire to take the deposition of any witness, in
the United States, or in the territories thereof, or in the District
of Columbia, who resides out of this Commonwealth, or
who is engaged in military service, or about to go into military
service) or who from any other cause cannot be compelled, by
the proper process, to attend the court, and give evidence in
person, it shall be lawful for the clerk, at his office, on affidavit
of the fact, to issue a commission to take the deposition of such
witness. In case of a witness residing out of the Commonwealth, the commission shall be directed to any two justices of
t,le Peace of the state' territorv or district in which the witness
may be, who will certify themselves to be such ; and the deposition
taken in pursuance thereof, upon reasonable notice to the
adverse party, shall be read in chief, as evidence in the cause.
In the case of a witness, within the Commonwealth, the commission shall issue in the usual form ; and the deposition takert
jn pUr8Uance thereof, upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party, shall be read in evidence, if the personal attendance of
the witness cannot be had.(r)
18. Upon affidavit that any witness resides beyond sea, or
in any foreign country, the court wherein the suit is depending
ma^' on retlues* of either party, direct a commission to issue from
the clerk's office directed to such commissioners, not exceed ing five, as shall be nominated and agreed upon by the parties
litigant ; for which purpose, the party applying for a commis
sion in such cases shall give the adverse party, his attorney or
agent, ten days previous notice of the day of his intended ap
plication to the court; without which, no commission shall
issue ; and if the adverse party, his attorney or agent, shall not
attend for the purpose, in that case the party praying the com
mission may nominate the commissioners himself ; any three
of whom in either case may proceed to execute the said com
mission : Provided nevertheless, That reasonable notice shall be
given to the party, of the time and place of taking such depo
sitions. The costs of giving notices, as aforesaid, as well as of
taking any deposition or depositions, in any or either of the
United States, or territories, or district thereof, or beyond sea,
or in any foreign country, may be taxed by the court against
ike party who in their opinion ought in justice to pay the
same.(s)
19. If any party, in a suit at common law or in chancery, shall
make oath that he verily believes his claim or defense, (as the
case may be,) or a material point thereof, depends on a single
witness, the court, or the clerk in vacation, may award a com
mission to take the deposition of such witness de bene esse,
although he or she be not about to depart the country, nor un
der any disability; the party, in such case, giving reasonable
notice, of the time and place of taking such deposition, to the
adverse party.(t)
20. When airy will shall be produced to any court, having
jurisdiction in the case of such will, for probat, and any witness
or witnesses attesting the same shall reside out of this Common
wealth, it shall be lawful for such court to issue a commis
sion, or commissions annexed to such will, and directed to the
presiding judge of any court of law, to any notary public,
mayor or other chief magistrate of any city, town or corpora
tion, or county, or to such other person or persons as, by the
laws of such country where such witness or witnesses may be
found, are duly authorized to administer an oath, empowering
him or them to take and certify their attestations. If the per
son, to whom such commission shall be directed, shall certify,
in the manner such acts are usually authenticated by him or
them, that the witness or witnesses personally appeared before
him or them, and made oath, or affirmed, as the case may
require, that the testator signed and published the writing,
annexed to such commission, as his last will and testament, or
that some other person signed it by his direction, that he was
of disposing mind and memory, and that he or they subscribed
their names thereto in his presence, and at his request, such
oath or affirmation shall have the same operation, and the will
be recorded in like manner, as if such oath or affirmation had
been made in the court from whence such commission issued.fr)
21. And, whereas great inconvenience may arise to the
suitors in the several courts of this Commonwealth, who are
litigant with persons residing without this Commonwealth, and
have not agents or attornies within the same, by the death or
removal of witnesses, whose depositions cannot legally be
taken for want of notice to such absent persons ;(w)
Be it thereforee enacted, That, when any commission shall
be obtained to take the deposition of a witness in a suit depending in any of the courts of this Commonwealth, where
the plaintifff or defendant in such suit doth not reside within
the same, or hath not an attorney within the same, to; whom
notice of the time and place of taking such deposition can be
given, then-the person obtaining such commission, having pub
lished in some public newspaper printed within this Common
wealth, four weeks successively, the time and place, when and
where the witness is to be examined, and the name of the
witness, together with the names of the parties to the suit ia
which such witness is to be examined, it shall and may be lawful for any plaintifff or defendant, as aforesaid, to proceed to
take any deposition authorized by the commission issuing from
the court, agreeably to law, where the suit depends ns afore
said ; and such deposition, when taken and returned to the
clerk's office, agreeably to the rules of the court from whence
the commission issued, shall there be filed, and allowed to
be read in evidence, in the same manner and under the like re
striction's, as if notice had been duly given to the opposite party;
any law, usage or custom, to the contrary in any wise, notwith
standing. And the printer may demand and receive the sum
of two dollars for publishing such advertisement four weeks,
which shall be taxed in the bill of costs, if the party chargea
ble therewith shall prevail in the suit,(a?)
22. All and every act and acts, clauses and parts of acts,
for, or concerning any matter or thing within the purview of
this act, shall be, and the same are hereby repealed : Provided,
That all rights, remedies and proceedings, fines and penalties,
accrued, commenced or incurred, before the commencement of
this act, shall be and remain in the same condition as if this act
had never been passed.
23. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the first day of January next
C. 132.
Hie fifth and sixth sections of the act increasing the number of
magistrates within the. city of Richmond, and for other
purposes, therein mentioned:*
[Passed February 6, 1808.]
Be it enacted, That the notaries public within the said citv.t
shall be and hereby are authorized to examine and take the
affidavits or depositions of witnesses, in like manner as the
same may be now taken by magistrates of the citj', and which
shall be considered as valid and effectual as if the same were
taken or received by the said magistrates ;t and, if any person
sworn by a notary public shall give any evidence under such
circumstances as would have constituted the same to be perjury
if done before a magistrate, the same shall be deemed perjury,
to all intents and purposes. The said notaries, for receiving
or taking the affidavits or depositions of witnesses, shall be
allowed and paid by the person, at whose instance the service
are rendered, seventy -five cents for each affidavit or depositio
so taken ; and in all cases where the affidavits or depositions s
taken, shall be filed in causes in a court of record, the aforesai
fees shall be taxed in the bill of costs, and recovered by the
party prevailing : Provided, That no charge shall be made or
taxed, on the notarial seal, which shall be affixed to any of the
said affidavits or depositions.^:
This act shall be in force from the .first Wednesday in
April next.
C. 133.
An act to reduce into one the several acts allowing a bill of
exceptions to be sealed.
[Passed January 6, 1819.]
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That, when one
impleaded before any court, and in any cause where appeal,
writ of error or supersedeas, lies to a higher court, doth allege
an exception, praying that the justices will allow it, if they will
not allow it, and he that allegeth the exception, do, write the
same exception, and require that the justices will put their
seals in testimony thereof, the justices, or the greater part of
them present, shall so do ; and if such higher court, upon
complaint made of the said justices, cause the record to come
before them, and the same exceptions be'not found in the roll,
and the plaintifff shew the exception written, with the seals of
the justices put to it, the justices shall be commanded, that
they appear at a certain day, either to confess or deny their
seals ; and, if the justices cannot deny their seals, it shall pro
ceed to judgment according to the same exception, as it ought
to be allowed or disallowed.(a)
2. Hereafter, in the prosecution of any person or persons
for any crime or misdemeanor, in any court of law, of this
Commonwealth, it shall be the duty of the judge or justices,
before whom such prosecution is pending, to sign and seal any
bill of exceptions tendered to the court during the progress
thereof; Provided, The truth of the case be fairly stated in
such exceptions. And thereupon, the said exceptions shall,
by the clerk of the said court, be entered in the record of such
prosecution, and become to all intents and purposes a part
thereof.(A)
3. All and every act and acts, part or parts of acts, coming
within the purview of this act, shall be and the same are hereby
repealed.
4. This act shall commence and be in force from and after
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and twenty.
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That all persons
who have or shall hereafter recover any debt, damages or costs,
by the judgment of any court of record within this Common
wealth, may, at their election, prosecute writs of fieri facias,
elegit and capias ad satisfaciendum, within the year, for taking
the goods, lands, or body of the person or persons, against whom
such judgment is obtained, in manner following. All such
writs shall run in the name of the Commonwealth, and bear
teste by the clerks of the said courts respectively, shall be
returnable to the first day of the next succeeding court, so
that there be always at least fifteen days between the teste,
an(j return of each of the said writs : Provided, That execu^.-ons mav De issued f10m the general court, returnable to the
second term of the said court, following the day of issuing the
same.(ft) and that executions shall issue to any sheriff or coroner
from the clerks of the superior courts of law, returnable,
at the election of the party suing out the same, on the first day
of the next superior court of law for that county, or to the
next rule day of the said superior court, after the emanation
0f such writ ;(&) and that attachments to compel the performance
°f decrees and executions, shall issue to the marshals
of the superior courts of chancery from the clerk of any
such court, returnable, at the option of the party suing out the
same> on the first Monday in any month after the issuing
thereof, or to the first or tenth day of the next term of such
court ; Provided, There be not more than ninety days between
the teste and return of such writ, when the same is made
returnable to the first Monday in any month.(c) And, provided'
als0' That if the Plaintiff in anv county or other inferior
court, shall desire an execution to issue, returnable at a further
day, the clerk shall issue the same accordingly, so as the day
of such return be upon a court day, within ninety days next
after the teste thereof ; and that the forms of the said several
writs shall be as follows, mutatis mutandis, to wit : (d)
A FIERI FACIAS IN DEBT.
The Commonwealth of Virginia to the sheriff of
county, greeting : We command you, that of the goods and
chattels of A. B., late in your bailiwick, you cause to be made
the sum of , which C. D., lately in our
court, hath recovered against him for debt, also the sum of
, which to the said C. D. in the same court were
aajudged for his damages, as well by reason of detaining the
said debt, as for his costs in that suit expended, whereof he is
convicted, as appears to us of record, and that you have the
said before the judges or justices (as the case may
be,) of our said court, the day of , to render to
the said C. I), of the debt and damages aforesaid. And have
then there this writ. Witness, Sfc.
THE SAME, IN CASE UPON A PROMISec.
As before, unto , for his damages, which he
sustained, as well by reason of his not performing a certain
promise and assumption to the, said C. D. by the said A. B.,
lately made, as for his costs, by him, about his suit in this behalf
expended, Sfc.
IN TRESPASS.
As before, unto , for damages, as well by
occasion' of a certain trespass by the said A. B. to the said
C. D. offered, as for his costs, Sfc.
IF FOR THE DEFENDANT—SAY,
For his costs about his defense in a certain action, at the suit
of the said, Sfc. ,
IN COVENANT.
As before, unto , for damages, Sfc. by occasion
of a breach of a certain covenant between the said A. B.
and C. D. lately made, Sfc.
THE FORM OF A WRIT OF ELEGIT.
The Commonwealth, Sfc. greeting : Whereas, A. B. at our
court, Sfc. before our judges, (or justices,) held, hath recovered
against C. I), the sum of , which to the said plaintifff
was adjudgedfor a certain debt or damages, ( as before) ;
and the said A. B. hath chosen to have delivered to him all the
goods and chattels of the said C. D., saving only the oxen and
beasts of his plough, and also a moiety of all his lands and
tenements in your bailiwick, to have and to hold the goods and
chattels aforesaid, as Ms own proper goods, and the said moiety
as his freehold, to him and his assigns, until he shall have levied,
thereof the debt and damages aforesaid : Therefore, we com
mand you that you cause to be delivered all the goods and chattels
of the said C. D., saving the oxen and beasts of his plough, and
also a moiety of all his lands and tenements in your bailiwick,
whereof he at the day of obtaining the said judgment was
seized, or at any time afterwards, by reasonable price and extent,
to have and to hold the said goods and chattels, to him the said
A. B., as his own proper goods and chattels, and the said moiety
as his freehold, to him and his assigns, until he shall have levied
thereof the debt and damages aforesaid; and that you certify
our saidjudges, (orjustices,) under your own seal, and the seals
of those by whose oath you shall make this extent and appraise
ment, how you execute this writ, the day of
And have then there this writ, Sfc.
, . A CAPIAS AD SATISFACIENDUM.
Th e 'Commonwealth, Sfc. greeting : We command you thatf
you take A. B. late of , if he be found within your
bailiwick, and him safely keep, so that you have his body before
our judges (or justices ) of our court, §'c. the
Qj , to satisfy C. D. the. sum of , which
the said C. D. hath recovered against him for debt, also, <§"c. as
before.
IN CASE, TRESPASS OR COVENANT, AS IN THE FIERI FACIASWhich
said writ9 so issued, shall be executed by the sheriff
or other officer to whom the same shall be directed, and shall
be returned according to the respective forms hereafter men
tioned, to wit :
THE RETURN OF A FIERI FACIAS.
Br virtue of this writ to me directed,
1.
1 have caused to be
made the within mentioned sum of ' , of the goods and
chattels of the within named A. B. which said sum of
before the judges (or justices) within mentioned, at the day
and place within contained, I have ready, as that writ requires.
OR,
The within named A. B. hath no goods or chattels, within
my bailiwick, whereof I can make the sum within mentioned.
OR,
Br virtue, Sfc. I have caused to be made of the goods and
chattels of the within named A. B. tlie sum of , which
I have ready to render to the within named C. D. in part of
the debt and damages within mentioned ; and I do further
certify, that the said A. B. hath no more goods and chattels
within my bailiwick, whereof at ■present I can make the
residue of the said debt and damages, as by the said writ is
required.
RETURN OF A WRIT OF ELEGIT.
Inquisition indented, taken at , in the county
aforesaid, the day of , in the year of our
Lord , before me E. F. sheriff in the county aforesaid,
by virtue of a writ to me directed, and to this inquisition an
nexed, and by oath of A. B. C. <${c. good and lawful men of my
bailiwick, who, being, charged and sworn, upon their oath, do
say, 'that A. B. in the said writ to this inquisition annexed,
named the day of the caption of this inquisition, was possessed
of the goods and chattels following, as of his own proper goods,
to ii'it : of the price of ,
which J, the said sheriff, have caused to be delivered to the sajyie
C. D. to hold to him as his own proper goods and chattels in
part of satisfaction of his debt and damages aforesaid, in the
same writ mentioned: and, further, the said jurors upon their
oath, do say, that the said A. B. at the time of rendering the
judgment- aforesaid was seized in his own demesne, as of fee,
of and in [here name the houses and lands) with the appurte
nances, of the annual value, in all the issues beyond reprises, of
dollars ; acres of which, or thereabouts, are a
true and equal moiety of all and singular the lands, tenements,
and hereditaments whatsoever, in the county aforesaid, of the
■said A. B. ; which said moiety, T, the said sheriff, the day afore
said, to C. I), in the said writ named, at a reasonable extent
have delivered, to hold to him and his assigns as his freehold,
according to the form of the act in that case made and provided,
until he shall have levied the residue of the debt and damages
aforesaid, asthewrit aforesaid requires ; and, farther, the said
jurors, upon their oath do say, that the. said A. B. at the time
of giving the judgment aforesaid had not, nor, at the day of
taking this inquisition, hath any other or more goods and chat
tels, lands or tenements, in the county aforesaid, to the know
ledge of the jurors aforesaid. In testimony whereof, as well
I, the said sheriff, as the jurors aforesaid, to this inquisition
have severally put our seals the day, year and place above men
tioned.
RETURN OF A CAPIAS AD SATISFACIENDUM.
Br virtue of this writ to me directed, Ihave taken the with- c
in named A. B. whose body, before the judges, (or justices,)
within named, at the day and place within contained, I have
ready to satisfy C. D. of the debt and damages within men
tioned, as within to me is commanded.
OR,
The within named A. B. is not found in my bailiwick.(e) .
2. Until the court of appeals shall direct the forms of e*ecutions returnable in vacation of the courts, the same shall be
adapted by the clerks to the nature of the case.f/j 3. When any writ of execution shall issue, and the party,
at whose suit the same is issued, shall afterwards desire to take
out another writ of execution at his own proper costs and
charges, the clerk may issue the same, if the first writ be not
returned and executed; and where, upon a capias ad satisfa
ciendum, the sheriff" shall return, that the defendant is not
found, the clerk may issue a fieri facias ; and if, upon a fieri
facias, he shall return that the party hath no goods, or that only
part of the debt is levied, in such case it shall ,be lawful to
issue a capias ad satisfaciendum upon the same judgment;
and where part of a debt shall be levied upon an elegit, a new
elegit shall issue for the residue ; and, where nihil shall be returned upon any writ of elegit, a capias ad satisfaciendum orm
fieri facias may issue, and so vice versa ; and where one
judgment is obtained against several defendants, execution
thereon shall issue, as if it were against one defendant, and
not otherwise.^)
4. If a tenant by elegit be evicted of his title in the lands,
tenements or hereditaments, which he holds by virtue of any
extent thereof, by judgment had against him, otherwise than
by his own fraud or default, before satisfaction shall be made
him for his debt, or damages, and costs, he shall and may have
a writ of scire facias against the debtor, his heirs, executors
or administrators ; and may thereafter sue out such other writ
of execution for the residue of his debt or damages, and costs,
as shall appear to remain unpaid, as if no execution had been
theretofore issued. (li)
5. When any judgment or recognizance shall be extended,
the same shall not be avoided or delayed by occasion that any
J J J
part of the lands or tenements extendible are or shall be omitted
out of such extent.(i)
®" Saving, always, to the party and parties, whose lands
shall be extended, his and their heirs, executors and assigns,
his and their remedy for contribution against such person and
persons, whose lands are or shall be omitted out of such extent,
J. . ... ...
irom tune to tnne.(i)
7. Provided nevertheless^ That this act, or any thing there'n
conta'net'» shall not be construed to give any extent or contribution against any heir or devisee within the age of twenty one
years, during such minority of such heir or devisee, for or
in respect of any lands to such heir or devisee descended or
devised, farther, or otherwise, than might have been made be
fore the making of this act.(t)
8. If any person, being in prison charged in execution, shall
happen to die in execution, the party or parties, at whose suit,
or to whom such person shall stand charged in execution, for
any debt or damages recovered, his or their executors or adinin'st''ators, may, after the death of the person so dying in execution,
lawfully sue forth and have new execution against the
lands and tenements, goods and chattels, or any of them, of
the person so deceased.(fr)
9. Provided, always, That this act shall not extend to give
i;Derty to any person or persons, their executors or administra, ' , . J " .. " , , , i, , ■ .
tors, at whose suit any such party shall be and die in execution, to have or take any new execution, against any the
^an(^s> tenements, or hereditaments of such party dying in
execution, which shall, at any time after the said judgment or
judgments, be by hiin sold bona fide for the payment of any
of his creditors, at whose suit he shall be in execution, and the
money paid, or secured to be paid, to any such creditors, with
their privity, in discharge of his or their debts, or some part
thereof.(i) i
io. 'And it is hereby declared and enacted, That every sale,
conveyance and transfer of any lands or tenements, made by
' any person charged in execution for. any debt or damages,
' shall be absolutely null and void, as to the creditor or credi« tors at whose suit he is so charged in execution ; unless such
• sale, transfer or conveyance, be absolute and bona fide, and
' be made for the payment of the debt and damages due to
• such creditor or creditors, and the proceeds of such sale, con* veyance or transfer, be paid, or be secured to be paid within
a reasonable time, to such creditor or creditors : and that all
'-esecutions of capias ad satisfaciendum, levied after the corn'
mencement of this act, shall bind the real estate of the de*
fendant, from the time when they shall be levied.'
11. If any person, taken in execution, be delivered by priyjWe
of either House of Assembly, so soon as such priviles?
» . . „ .. ?«•■'. . j>
ceaseth, he shall return himselt a prisoner in execution, or be
liable to an escape.(m)
12. Where judgment shall be obtained in any court of record
within this Commonwealth, for any debt or daniages, and
the person against whom such judgment shall be obtained,
shall remove himself or his effects,* or shall reside out of the
limits of the jurisdiction of such court, it shall be lawful
for the clerk of the court where judgment was given, at the
, c t ii i \ i
request of the party for whom the same was rendered, to issue
a writ of fieri facias or capias ad satisfaciendum, or any other
legal or proper writ of execution, or attachment for the non
performance of a decree in chancery, (as the case may require,)
in the form and under the teste herein-before prescribed, and
to direct the same to the sheriff of any county, or Serjeant of
any corporation within this Commonwealth, where the defen
dant or debtor, or his goods shall be found ; which said sheriff,
or other officer, to whom the same shall be directed, is hereby
empowered and required to serve and execute the same, and
shall make return thereof, to the court where the judgment
was given, in the manner herein-before prescribed and di
rected.^)
13. No writ of fieri facias, or other writ of execution, shall
bind the property of the goods, against which such writ is sued
forth, but from the time that such writ shall be delivered to
the sheriff, under-sheriff, coroner, or other officer, to be executed
; and, for the better manifestation of the said time, such
sheriff, coroner, or other officer, his deputy or agent, shall,
upon the receipt of any such writ, without fee for doing the
same, endorse upon the back thereof the day of the month and
year when he received the same ; and, if two or more writs
shall be delivered against the same person in the same day,
that which was first delivered shall be first satisfied. If any
sheriff, coroner or other officer, to whom any execution shall
be delivered, shall fail or neglect to endorse thereon the day
of the month and year when he received the same, every such
person, for every such failure, shall be liable, on a motion to
be made before the court from whence the execution issued, to
a penalty not exceeding fifteen per centum upon the amount of
the said execution, if it be for money or tobacco, and if it be
for a specific thing, one hundred dollars, to the use of the party
injured, upon giving ten days previous notice of such motion ;
and, shall moreover be liable to the action of the party grieved,
for all damages arising from such failure.(o)
14, All arms, ammunition and equipments of the militia,
shall be exempted from executions and distresses at all
^mes'iP)*
15- 0" a^ executions, which have heretofore issued, or shall
hereafter be issued, the sheriff or other officer, having published
n°tice of the time and place of sale, at the door of the court house
of his county on some court day, and at some public
place near the residence of the debtor, at least ten days before
such sale, shall proceed to sell, by auction, the goods or chattels
so taken, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the
judgment or decree, for the best price that can be got for the
same. (7)
16. Provided always, That if the owner of such goods
and chattels shall give sufficient security to such sheriff or officer^ ^Q naye ^ same g00ds art(i chattels forthcoming at the
day of sale, it shall be lawful for the sheriff or other officer, to
take a bond from such debtor and securities, payable to the
creditor, reciting the service of such execution, and the amount
of money or tobacco due thereon, and with condition to have
the goods or chattels forthcoming at the day of sale appointed
by such sheriff or officer, and shall thereupon suffer the said
goods and chattels to remain in the possession, and at the risk
of the debtor, until that time; and if the owner of such goods
chattels shall fail to deliver up the same, according to the
condition of the bond, or to pay the money or tobacco mentioned
in the execution, such sheriff or officer shall return the bond to
tne 0ffjce 0f the clerk of the court from whence the execution
issued, to be there safely kept, and to have the force of a judg>
ment ; and thereupon, it shall be lawful for the 'clerk of ther
COurt, where such bond shall be lodged, upon motion of the
person to whom the same is payable, his executors or adminis
trators, to award execution for the money and tobacco therein
mentioned, with interest thereon from the date of the bond,
till payment and costs ; and, upon such execution, the sheriff
or officer- shall not take any security, either to have the goods
forthcoming at the day of sale, or for the payment of the money
at a future day ; but shall levy the same immediately, ana
keep in his hands the goods and chattels taken thereupon, until
he shall have sold sufficient thereof to raise the money and to
bacco mentioned in the execution, or the same be otherwise
satisfied : and for the better direction of such officer, the clerk
shall endorse upon every such execution, that no security of
any kind is to be taken.{r)\
17. If any sheriff or other officer shall fail to deliver to the
creditor, his agent or attorney, or other legal representative, on
demand, any bond taken for the forthcoming of property, or to
return the same to the office from whence it issued, on the return day* of the execution, such sheriff or other officer, his executors
or administrators, shall be liable to the same fine and
penalty, for every month of such failure, to be recovered in the
same manner by the party injured, as is directed by law against
a sheriff failing to return an execution.(s)t
18. 1y a forthcoming bond be, at any time, quashed as faulty,
the obligee or obligees in such bond, besides his or their remedy
against the sheriff or other officer, may moreover have execu^on on '"s or their judgment, in the same manner, as if such
forthcoming bond had never been taken.(t)
Every sheriff or other officer may include his commis
sion, and fee for taking the bond, in any forthcoming bond,
-taken by virtue of any writ of execution, but he shall not de,nan
or receive sucn commission, unless the same shall be
forfeited.(f)
20. When execution shall issue against the estate of any
sheriff, under sheriff, sergeant of a corporation, coroner or constable,
or their securities, or the heirs, executors or administrators of either of them, upon a judgment obtained against
such sheriff, under sheriff, sergeant of a corporation, coroner
or constable, or securities, or the heirs, executors or adminis
trators of either of them, for money or tobacco received by such
sheriff, under sheriff, sergeant of a corporation, coroner or con
stable, by virtue of any execution or process, levied or execut
ed by him, or them, or for any money collected or received by
them in any manner, as sheriffs, sergeants, coroners, or consta
bles, no security, for payment of the money or tobacco, men
tioned in such execution, at a future day, or to have the goods
forthcoming at the day of sale, shall be taken or received ; but,
the officer taking such estate in execution, shall proceed im
mediately to the sale thereof, notwithstanding such security
shall be tendered ; and for the better direction of such officer,
the clerk issuing such execution shall endorse thereon, that wo
security of any kind is to be taken. In like manner, * on all
executions upon judgments obtained by any sheriff, his heirs, exor
administrators, against any deputy and his securities, their heirs, executors or administrators, or either of them,'
and on all executions which may issue against any collector of
*'le P00r rates, his heirs, executors or administrators, or against
any overseer or overseers of the poor, his or their heirs, execu
tors or administrators, on any judgment obtained, or which may
hereafter be obtained, against him or them, for, or on account of
any money or tobacco, which have or may hereafter come to
his or their hands, levied for the support of the poor, the clerk
shall endorse no security to be taken.(w)
21. No sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ of fieri
yflc{as sna}] De directed, shall take in execution any slave or
slaves, unless the debt and costs mentioned in such fieri facias
shall amount to the sum of thirty -three dollars, or two thousand
pounds of tobacco ; Provided, There be shewn to such sheriff
or officer, by the defendant, or any other person, sufficient
other goods or chattels of such defendant, within the bailiwick
of such sheriff or officer, upon which he may levy the debt and
costs mentioned in such fieri facias.{x)
22" Where any slave or slaves shall be taken in execution
and solt1' the names of such slaves shall be certified on the
back of such execution, and returned to and recorded anions:
the records of the court from which such execution shall
issued)
23. If the goods taken by any sheriff or other officer, or any R
part thereof, shall remain in his hands unsold, he shall make
return accordingly ; and, thereupon, the clerk of the • court
from whence the execution issued, shall and may, and he is
hereby required to issue a venditioni exponas, to such sheriff
or other officer directed ; whereupon, the like proceedings
shall be had as might and ought to have been had on the first
execution ; which writ of venditioni exponas shall be in the
form following :
The Commonwealth, £%c. greeting : We command you that
you expose to sale those goods and chattels of A. B., to the value
of , which, according to our command, you have taken, and
which remain in your hands unsold, as you have certified to
our judges [or justices,) of our court, to satisfy C. D.
the sum of , whereof, in our said court, he hath re
covered execution, against the said A. B., by virtue of a judg
ment in the said court, and that you have, $c.{z)
24- When any sheriff, or other officer, shall serve any writ
of execution on slaves, horses, or any live stock, and the same
shall not be immediately restored to the debtor, it shall and
may be lawful for such officers, and they are hereby required to
firovide sufficient sustenance for the support of such slaves or
ive stock, until such slaves or stock be sold, or otherwise legally
discharged from such execution. And the county and corporation courts within this Commonwealth shall be, and they are
respectively authorized and empowered, in the months of May
and October, in each and every year, to settle and adjust the
compensation to be allowed to sheriffs and other officers within
their respective counties and corporations, for supporting
slaves or live stock, taken by them as aforesaid, till the same
be sold or otherwise legally discharged from such execution :
Provided, The allowance so made shall not exceed twenty
cents per day for each slave, seventeen cents per day for each
horse or mule, nine cents per day for each head of horned
cattle or hog, and six cents per day for every sheep or goat ;
which allowance such sheriff or other officer snail charge to the
plaintifff, to be collected in the same manner as commissions
arising on executions, and shall be paid by the defendant to the
plaintifff, to be taxed in the bills of costs by the said sheriff or
other officer.(a)
25. If any sheriff or other officer shall levy an execution
on property, and a doubt shall arise whether the right of such
property is in the debtor or not, such sheriff or officer mayd
apply to the plaintifff, his attorney or agent, for his bond, with
good security, payable to the high sheriff of the county, or
other officer, and conditioned to indemnify the said sheriff or
other officer, against all damages, which he may sustain, in
consequence of the seizure or sale of the property on which
*'ie execut'on s'ia" ^ave been levied; and, moreover, to pay
and satisfy to any person or persons, claiming title to such
property, all damages which such person or persons may sus
tain in consequence of such seizure or sale, which, if the plain
tiff, his attorney or agent, shall refuse or fail to give, on or
before the day of sale, the sheriff or other officer shall be
justifiable in delivering such property to the party from whose
possession it was taken : Provided, however, That such proper^
nQ^ ^ gQ restorecjj unless the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, shall have reasonable notice, before the time of sale,
that such bond and security would be required of him.(ft)
26. If such bond and security be given, it shall be returned,
with the executi0I1) to tne office of the court, from whence it
issued, and any person claiming such property, may, in the
name of such high sheriff, or other officer, prosecute his or her
su't uPon tne bond, anl* recover such damages as a jury may
assess.(c)
2r. The party claiming such property shall, after the due
execution of such bond, be barred of his right of action,
aSa'ns* the sheriff or other officer levying such execution, unless
the obligors in the said bond shall become insolvent.(d)
28. Where any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum has been
or silau De served on any debtor, it shall be lawful for such
debtor to tender to the sheriff or other officer serving the same,
slaves or personal property to the value of the debt and costs,
for which such execution has issued, or may hereafter issue,
which property the said sheriff or other officer shall receive
and proceed to sell in like manner as is herein directed, in the
case of goods taken in execution upon a writ of Jim- facias,
aT1(j shall thereupon discharge such debtor out of custody :
Provided always, That, if such property, so tendered, shall
m^ ^e sufficient to satisfy the debt or damages, and costs, or
shall be under any lien or encumbrance, so as that the whole
cannot be sold, a new capias ad satisfaciendum, or fieri facias,
at the option of the plaintifff, shall issue for any balance, and
the clerk of the court, from which such execution originally
issued, shall, upon the return of the sheriff of the insufficiency
or encumbrance, as aforesaid, issue a new capias ad satisfaciendum,
or fieri facias, if required. But, where such pro
perty shall have been under any encumbrance, the debtor shall
not be at liberty to tender slaves or personal estate on a second
capias ad satisfaciendum being served, or, in case of a. fieri
facias issued in consequence of such return, to avail himself
of the privileges of this act.(e)
29. "When any sheriff, or other officer, under any execution,
gnan receive the whole, or any part of the money or tobacco
J r J
for which the said execution was issued, and the person against
whom such execution may have issued, his executors or administrators, shall obtain an injunction to such execution, or
for any part of the money or tobacco mentioned therein,
before the money or tobacco so received by such sheriff" or
officer is paid to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, or his ex
ecutors or administrators, in every such case, the sheriff or
other officer, his executors or administrators, shall repay the
person or persons, against whom such execution issued, his or
their executors, administrators or agent, the money or tobacco
so received, or such part thereof as may be injoined ; and i
any sheriff or other officer, his or their executors or administra-<
tors, shall fail or refuse, when required, to pay such sum o
money or tobacco, so received and injoined, to the person
having a right to demand the same, such sheriff or other officer,
and their securities, his and their executors, and administrators,
and every of them, shall be liable to the like penalty and
judgment, in favor of the person, his executors or administra
tors, by whom the said injunction is obtained, as is directed by
law, in favor of the plaintifff, against the sheriff, for not paying
the money or tobacco levied on an execution.(/)*
30. If any person or persons taken or charged in execution,
shall enter into bond with good and sufficient securities, under
a reasonable penalty, upon condition that he, she or they shall
not depart or go out of the rules or bounds of the prison, to
which ne, she or they be committed, and that he, she or they
will render his, her or their body or bodies to prison, in satisfac
tion of such execution, at or before the expiration of one year
from the date of such bond ; it shall be lawful for the sheriff or
other officer, in whose custody such prisoner or prisoners shall
be, to permit him, her or them to go out of the prison and return
at his, her or their pleasure, during one year after the date of
such bond ; after the expiration of which time, if the person or
persons so taken or charged in execution, shall not have been
discharged by due course of law, ' and shall not have rendered
' his, her or their body or bodies to prison, according to the
' condition of such bond, the sheriff or other officer of the
1 county or corporation, where such prisoner or prisoners were
' in custody, shall immediately proceed in the, same manner,
' and the creditor, at whose suit he, she or they was or were
* in custody, shall be entitled to the same remedies, as aret
« prescribed by law in relation to prisoners escaping and going
' out of the prison rules. And if the person or persons so
* charged in custody shall render his, her or their body or
* bodies to prison, according to the condition of such bond, or
1 shall be taken and committed to jail on an escape warrant,
' after the expiration of the time during which he, she or they
« was or were entitled to the benefit of the rules or bounds of
'the prison, such prisoner or prisoners shall thereafter be
' closely confined in jail, and' shall not be discharged, until
the debt or demand for which he, she or they was or were
taken or charged in execution shall be paid, or until he, she or
they shall have taken and subscribed the oath and schedule,
and shall have made the delivery and transfer of his, her or
their property as required by law for the discharge of insol
vent aebtors.(g')*
31. And for the relief of insolvent debtors, who shall be
taken in execution, and to prevent the long imprisonment of
unfortunate people, which can be of no benefit, but rather a
disadvantage to their creditors : Be it further enacted, That, if
any person hereafter be taken or charged in execution, in any
suit commenced or prosecuted in any court of record within
this Commonwealth, it shall be lawful for any judge or justice
0f the said court, or of the court of that county or corpocation
to whose jail such person shall be committed, by warrant under
his hand and seal, to command the jailor or keeper of the said
prison, to bring before the said court, if sitting, or, if not sitting,
before any two justices of the county or corporation, to whose
jail he may be committed, at the court-house of such county
or corporation, on a certain day to be appointed by such
warrant, the body or bodies of such person or persons so in •
prison as aforesaid, together with a list of the several execu
tions, with which he or she shall stand charged in the said jail ;
which warrant such jailor is hereby required to obey, and
reasonable notice thereof shall be given to the party or parties,
his or their executors, administrators or agents, at whose suit
sucn Prisoner or prisoners shall be in execution. And every
such prisoner, coming before the said court, or justices, as the
case shall be, shall subscribe and deliver in a schedule of his
wh0]e estate, and make oath and swear, that is to say : /, A- B.
do, in the presence of Almighty God, solemnly swear or affirm,
(as the case may be,) that the schedule now delivered and by
me subscribed, doth contain, to the best of my knowledge and
remembrance, a full, just, true and perfect account and dis
covery of all the estate, goods and effects unto me, in any ways
belonging, and such debts as are to me owing, or to any person
in trust for me ; and of all securities and contracts, whereby
any money may hereafter become payable, or any benefit or ad
vantage accrue to me, or to my use, or to any other person or
persons in trust for me ; and that I, or any other person or
persons in trust for me, have not land, money, stock, or any
other estate, real or personal, in possession, reversion, or re
mainder, of the value of the debt, or debts with which J am
chargedin execution ; and that I have not, directly or indirectly
sold, lessened or otherwise disposed of in trust, or concealed,
all, or any part of my lands, money, goods, stocks, debts, secu
rities, contracts, or estate, whereby to secure the same ; or to
receive or expect any profit or advantage therefrom; or to defraud
or deceive any creditor, or creditors, to whom I am indebted in any wise howsoever. So help me GoD.(h) And shall,
moreover, before he shall be discharged, under the directions
of the court or persons before whom such oath of insolvency
shall be taken, transfer, and deliver all the personal estate
contained in such schedule, and convey all the real estate
therein, to the sheriff of the county where they lie or shall be
found, to be by him disposed of according to law, which
schedule being so subscribed in open court, if taken in court,
and if not, in the presence of two justices, shall, if taken in
the court from whence the execution issu ed, be retained by the
clerk of such court, there to remain for the information of the
creditors. But when such oath shall be administered in any
other court, than that from which such execution issued, the
clerk of the court shall in like manner retain the original
schedule, but shall deliver to the sheriff" or other officer a certified
copy thereof, to be returned to the office from whence
such execution issued, to have there the same force and effect,
that the original would have if returned with the execution,
Anil, if the oath shall be taken before two justices of the peace
it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other officer, from whose
custody he shall be discharged, to return the schedule subscri
bed and delivered in, by such insolvent debtor, to the office
from which such execution issued : Provided always, That, if
there be more than one execution, the schedule shall be return
ed with that which came first to the officer's hands. And it
shall moreover be, the duty of such sheriff, or other officer, to
make a return to each office from which any other execution
issued, under which such insolvent debtor may have been com
mitted, stating the truth of the case, and specifying the office
to which such schedule may have been returned.(i)
32. * If any sheriff or other officer shall fail to make the
* returns hereby required, or any of them, within thirty days&
■ after such schedule is rendered and oath taken, he shall be
' fined, at the motion of the plaintifff in each of the said exe* cutions, in the same manner and to the same extent, as for a
' failure to return such execution.'(fc)*
53. After delivering in such schedule, and taking such
oath, such prisoner shall be discharged by warrant from suchch
court, or from two justices, (as the case may be ;) which war-g
rant shall be sufficient to indemnify such sheriffor other officer
against any escape or escapes, action or actions whatsoever,
which shall or may be brought or prosecuted against him or
them by reason thereof. And, if any action shall be commenc-Off
ed against any sheriff or officer, for performing his duty inP
pursuance of this act, he may plead the general issue, and give j
this act in evidence : Provided, always, That; notwithstanding
9Ucn discharge, it shall be lawful for any creditor, or creditors,
judgment at any time afterwards, to sue out a writ of scire
to have execution against any lands or tenements, goods
chattels, which such insolvent person shall thereafter acqUire
or be possessed of. But, no person delivering in such
and having taken the said oath, shall again be imprion
account of any judgment which shall have been
obtained against him previous to the time of taking such oath ;
unjess by virtue 0f a capias ad satisfaciendum, directed to
issue by the court in which the said judgment shall have been
rendered. And it shall moreover be lawful for the court, from
w'1'0'1 an^ execution shall issue, under which such oath of
insolvency shall be taken by any debtor, on motion to award
execution against the goods and chattels by him or her acquir
ed after taking such oath : Provided, That the defendant shall
have ten days previous notice of such motion.(i)
34. All the estate which shall be contained in such schedule>
and any other estate which may be discovered to belong
^Q yle pr;soner) for sucn interest therein as such prisoner hath,
and may lawfully depart withal, shall be vested in the sheriff
of the county wherein such lands, tenements, goods or chattels
shall lie or be found ; and such sheriff is hereby authorized, empowered and required, within sixty days after the tak
ing the said oath, ten days previous notice of the time and
place of sale being given, to sell and convey the same to any
person or persons, whatsoever, for the best price that can be
got for the same ; and the money arising from such sale shall
be, by such sheriff or officer, paid to the creditor or creditors,
at whose suit such prisoner or prisoners shall be imprisoned ;
saving to every sucli prisoner, his or her necessary apparel
and utensils of trade. And, if any sheriff or other officer shall
^ *° Pay *ne money arising from such sale according to law,
shall be liable to the same penalty, to be recovered in the
same manner, and by the same persons, as if the said money
na(j Deen ievie(j Dy a fieri facias.(m)*
35. When any insolvent debtor shall be discharged pursuant
to this act, and the schedule subscribed and delivered in
Dv sucn prisoner shall contain articles of money or tobacco,
due to such prisoner, or goods, chattels, or estates belonging to
him» and in the possession of any other, in that case the clerk
of the court, with whom such schedule is directed to remain,
may, at the instance of the creditor, issue a summons against
each of the persons named as debtors, to have possession of
any goods, chattels, or estates, of the property of the prisoner,
reciting the sum of money or the quantity of tobacco, he or
she is charged with, or the particular goods, chattels or estates
said to be in his possession, and requiring him or her to appear
at the next court, and to declare on oath, whether the sai
money or tobacco, or any part thereof, be really due to such
process, at whose instance the same was issued. And all offi- o
cer's fees in such prosecution shall be charged to such creditor,
And, if the person so summoned shall fail to attend accord-J
ing to such summons, or to shew good cause for his non-attendance,
it shall be lawful for the court to enter judgment against
every such person, for the money, tobacco, goods, chattels, or
estates in such schedule mentioned, together with costs of suit,c
a lawyer's fee excepted ; and, if any such person so summoned
shall appear and be sworn, judgment shall be entered for so
much of the money, tobacco, goods, chattels or estates, as hei
or she shall acknowledge to be due, or to be of the property of
such prisoner, and in his possession, with costs as aforesaid,
which judgment shall be entered in the name of the sheriff,
who may thereupon proceed to levy the executions, as in otherE
cases, and to dispose of the money, tobacco, goods, chattels or
estates so recovered, in the same manner as the estate con
tained in the schedule is hereby directed to be disposed of.(w)
36. Provided, always, That, where any such garnishee
shall not acknowledge the whole money, or tobacco to be due,J
or all the goods, chattels, or estates mentioned in the schedule,
to be of the property of the prisoner, and in his possession, thes
sheriff or such prisoner, at any time after, unless barred by
any of the acts limiting the time for the commencement of
actions, shall be at liberty to claim the residue by ljgal pro
cess ; and the former judgment as to such garnishee, shall be
no further bar to such process than for so much money or
tobacco, or sach goods, chattels and estates, as the garnishee is
thereby ordered to pay or deliver.(n)
37. If any garnishee shall, at the time of executing such
summons, tender to the officer executing the same, the money,
goods or chattels mentioned therein, or any part thereof, it
shall be the duty of such officer to receive the same, and give
a receipt therefore; and any goods and chattels, thus received,
shall be sold by such officer in the same manner as goods and
chattels taken in execution : Provided always, That, where all
the money, goods or chattels mentioned in such summons shall
not be paid or delivered to such officer as aforesaid, like pro
ceedings may be had for the residue, as in cases where no part
is paid or delivered.(o)
38. If any sheriff or other officer shall receive any money,
goods or chattels in pursuance of the above section, and shall
fail to return the summons, or make a false return thereon, or
shall fail to pay the money by him received, he shall be liable
te the same recovery as for like delinquency in the case of an
execution.* And the court, before whom such motion may be
made, shall estimate the value of any goods or chattels named
in such summons, and assess the fine accordingly.(p)
39. If the garnishee shall pay the money, or so much thereof
as may be due, or shall deliver the goods and chattels, in his or
^er 'ian<^8' *° sneriff or other officer, at the time of executing
the summons, such garnishee shall not be liable to costs ;
but the legal costs, together with a commission of five per
centum to the officer collecting the same, shall be paid out of
such insolvent debtor's estate.^)
40. Any of the creditors may proceed against the garnishee
or garnishees, or either of them, ' but he shall thereby acquire
' n0 preference to the money or other thing sued for,' except
that, out of the subject recovered, it shall be the duty of the
sheriff, in whose name the claim is prosecuted, to pay to him.
his costs expended in the prosecution.(r)
41. Every sheriff shall be allowed to retain, out of the effects
0f such insolvent debtor, all reasonable expenses in recovering
sucn moneTj tobacco, goods, chattels and estates a9 aforesaid,
including such a fee to a lawyer, for the proceeding against
the garnishee, as shall be judged reasonable by the court; and
if such effects be not sufficient, he shall be reimbursed such
expenses, by such creditor as would have been entitled to re
ceive the thing sued for ; or, if there be more than one so
entitled, then by such creditors in proportion to the debts due
them.(s)
42. Where such insolvent person shall not be able to satisfy
and pay his ordinary prison fees, the sheriff or jailor may
demand and receive ot the party, or parties, at whose suit such
insolvent person shall be imprisoned, all such fees as shall
become flue, until such creditor shall agree to release such
prisoner ; and, if the creditor, upon notice given to him or her,
]u8 or ner attorney or agent, shall refuse to give security to the
sheriff or jailor, for the payment of such prison fees, or shall
fail to pay the same when demanded, such sheriff or jailor
shall discharge such debtor out of prison. And whenever a
creditor shall be liable to a jailor for prison fees, on account of
his debtor, it shall and may be lawful for such jailor, to charge
the same fees as may be charged against the Commonwealth,
by virtue of the act, entitled, Jin act to reduce, into one, the
several acts concerning the method of prosecuting free persons
charged with certain crimes, declaring the mode of proceeding
on indictments, informations, and prosecutions on penal sta
tutes; and for preventing vexatious and malicious prosecutions
and moderating amercements. And it shall be lawful for any
jailor to demand, at the end of every three months, of the
creditor at whose suit the debtor is in custody, or his agent,
where by law the creditor is now liable, the amount of his
account for maintenance of such debtor: and, in case such
creditor shall fail to make immediate payment thereof, it shall
be lawful for such jailor, upon giving ten days notice to such
creditor, or his agent, to recover, by motion to the court of which
he is jailor, the amount thereof ; and the clerk of the court,
Derore whom such judgment shall be had, shall endorse upon
any execution issued thereon, that no security is to be taken ;
and, if the sheriff or other officer shall make return, on two
several executions, that he cannot make the amount therein
mentioned, it shall and may be lawful for such jailor to discharge such debtor out of his custody : but nothing in this, or
any other act, is to be construed so as to compel any creditor
to pay for the maintenance of his debtor, or the jailor to support
him, when such debtor hath taken the benefit of the prison
bounds.(t)
43. Provided, nevertheless, That such insolvent prisoner
shall be afterwards liable to the action of the creditor to recover
such fees; and such creditor shall and may, notwithstanding his consent to the releasing such prisoner, at any time afterwards
sue out a scire facias to have a new execution against the
lands and tenements, goods and chattels of such prisoner.(r)
44. Every person on whom any fine or amercement has been
or hereafter shall be imposed by the judgment of any court,
and who by such judgment is directed to stand committed
Hntil the fine or amercement is paid, or who is or shall be in
custody by virtue of any capias pro fine, or execution on behalf of the Commonwealth, may take the oath of insolvency
in the same manner as is now directed by law in the case of
insolvent debtors, and shall thereupon be discharged out of
custody: Provided, nevertheless, That nothing in this act contained shall be so construed as to comprehend cases, when,
by the judgment of any court, a certain period of imprisonment is imposed as a punishment ; but, in every such case, the
party shall remain in custody, until such period is expired, or
until he or she shall be otherwise discharged by due course of
law.(tt--)
45; When any debtor is in custody on several executions,
it shall not be lawful for such debtor to demand any more or
other dieting than if he was in custody on one execution only ;
nor shall any sheriff or jailor demand or receive more than the
rate fixed by law, in case of a debtor confined on one execution
only ; which shall be paid by the creditor, at whose suit
such debtor was first taken.(a?)
46. If a distringas issue in detinue, the court, for good
cause shewn, may direct it to be superseded, so far as it relates
to the specific thing, and to be executed for the alternative
price or value only, if fixed in the judgment, or if the same
shall afterwards be fixed by a writ of inquiry.^/)
47. And whereas doubts have arisen, in what manner judgment
should be rendered, against any sheriff, coroner or serjeant of a corporation, who shall fail to return an execution to
the office from whence it issued, on or before the return day
thereof; Be it enacted, That where any writ of execution, or
attachment for not performing a decree in chancery, shall come
into the possession of any sheriff, coroner, Serjeant of a corpotion,
or other officer, and he shall fail to return the same to the
office from whence it was issued, on or before the return day
thereof, it shall be lawful for the court, ten days' previous
notice being given, upon the motion of the party injured, to
fine such sheriff, coroner, Serjeant of a corporation, or other
officer, or the executors or administrators of such sheriff, coro
ner, serjeant or other officer, as well as the securities of such
sheriff, coroner, serjeant or other officer, and the executors or
administrators of such securities, at their discretion, in any
sum not exceeding five dollars per month, for every hundred
dollars contained in the judgment or decree, on which the
execution or attachment, so by him detained, was founded ;
and so in proportion for any greater or lesser sum, counting
the aforesaid months, from the return day of the execution or
attachment, to the day of rendering judgment for the said
fine.(«)*
48. If any sheriff, under-sheriff or other officer, shall make
upon any writ of fieri facias or venditioni exponas,
^ jey^e(j ,lamages or costs, as in Such Writ
is required, or any part thereof, and shall not immediately pay
the same to the party, to whom the same is payable, or his
attorney ; or shall return, upon any writ of capias ad satisfa
ciendum, or attachment for not performing a decree in chan
cery, for payment of any sum of money or tobacco, that he
hath taken the body or bodies of the defendant or defendants,
and hath the same ready to satisfy the money and tobacco in
such writ mentioned, and shall have actually received such,
money or tobacco of the defendant or defendants, or have
suffered him, her or them to escape, with the consent of such
sheriff, under-sheriff or officer, and shall not immediately pay
gucji money or tobacco t0 t|le party to whom the same is pay
or his attorney; ' or shall make any other return, upon
anv such execution, as will shew that such sheriff, under' sheriff or other officer, hath voluntarily, and without authority,
< omitted to levy the same, or as would entitle the plaintifff to
, recover from sucn sheriff or other officer, by action of debt,
* the debt, damages or costs in such execution mentioned, and
« such sheriff or other officer shall not immediately pay the
• same to the party to whom it is payable, or to his attorney ;'
then, or in either of the said cases, it shall and may be lawful
for the creditor, at whose suit such writ of fieri facias, vendi-r
tioni exponas, capias ad satisfaciendum, or attachment, shall
issue, upon a motion made in the next succeeding general
court, or other court from whence such writ shall issue, to
demand judgment against such sheriff, under-sheriff or other
officer, or the « securities of either of them, or their legal re'
presentatives jointly,' for the money or tobacco mentioned in
such writ, or so much as shall be returned levied on such writs
of fieri facias or -enditioni exponas, with interest thereon, at
the rate of fifteen per centum per annum, from the return day
of the execution, until the judgment shall be discharged ; and
such courtis hereby authorized and required to give judgment
accordingly, and to award execution thereon ; Provided, such
sheriff or officer have ten days' previous notice of such motion.(o)
49. Where any fine or penalty is inflicted on the executors
or administrators of any sheriff, under authority of this act,
the same shall be considered to aftect only the assets in their
hands as executors or administrators.(6)
50. No sheriff or other officer shall return any execution or
attachment for not performing a decree in chancery, to the
office from whence the same issued, without noting thereon how
he hath executed the same, unless by the express directions, in
writing, of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney ; and, if anyp
sheriff or other officer, having no such directions, shall return
such execution or attachment to the office from whence the same
issued, without noting or endorsing thereon how he hath exe
cuted the same, such sheriff or other officer, and his securities,
and the executors or administrators of all and every of them,
shall, in every such case, be liable to the like fine, and recover
able in the same manner as a recovery may be had against a
sheriff failing to return an execution;* and, moreover, every
sheriff and other officer whatsoever, in returning all executions
by them levied or settled, and the monies thereon received, or
any part thereof, shall make a statement on every execution
of the amount thereof, including their own fees and commis
sions, and return the same, with the execution, to the office
from whence it issued. (c)
51. In all cases where the sheriff or other officer, taking
property under execution, shall die before he sells such property, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the court from which
such execution issued, and he is hereby required, to issue a
venditioni exponas, directed to the sheriff or Serjeant of the
county or corporation in which the property was taken in
execution ; and the said sheriff or Serjeant shall, under the
said venditioni exponas, receive the property from the representatives
of the former sheriff or other officer, who are hereby
required to deliver such property to the said sheriff, upon his
producing to them the venditioni exponas, and executing to
them a receipt for the property ; and the said sheriff shall
proceed to sell such property in the manner prescribed by law
in other cases of venditioni exponas,(d)
53. \¥ the representatives of the deceased sheriff shall
refuse or neglect to deliver to the sheriff the property so
taken under execution by their testator or intestate, upon the
sheriff's producing the venditioni exponas ; or if, after the
expiration of three months from the death of the sheriff, col
lector or other officer, there be no executor or administrator of
the same ; he shall return the truth of the case on the said
wr;t; upon which return, the plaintifff, (or, if it be a Commonwealth's case, the auditor,) may, at their option, have an exe
cution, by virtue of which the sheriff or other officer may seize
the property taken by the former sheriff or other officer, wherever
it may be found, and sell the same in manner prescribed by law,
under similar executions. Or the said plaintifff or auditor, as
^he case may be, may move, in the court from which the original
execution issued, against the representatives of the deceased
sheriff or other officer ; upon which motion, judgment shall be
entered up against the representatives of the deceased sheriff
or other officer, for the amount of the execution, which came to
the hands of their testator or intestate, with lawful interest,
thereon, and the costs of the said motion ; Provided always,
That the execution issuing on such judgment shall be levied
on the estate of the said deceased sheriff or other officer, in the
hands of his representatives, who shall, in all cases, have ten
days' previous notice of the time and place of making such
motion.(g)
53. The sheriff, or other officer, discharging the duties aforesaid,
shall have the same powers, receive the same fees and
commissions, and be liable to the same penalties as in other
, . r
cases.(e)
54. And, whereas it is unreasonable that sheriffs should be
obliged to go out of their counties, to give notice to creditors,
a(- wilose suit any person may be in the custody of such sheriff,
or to Pav money levied by execution ; Be it thereforee enacted,
That, where any execution shall be delivered to the sheriff of
allv 0t]ler county, than that where any creditor resides, such
creditor shall name some person, in the county where the exe
cution is to be levied, to be his, her or their agent, for the par
ticular purpose of receiving the money on such execution, and
for giving to, and receiving from the sheriff, any notices which
may be necessary relating thereto ; and payments made, and
notices given to such agent, shall be as effectual as if made or
given to the creditor : And, if any creditor shall fail to appoint
such agent, no judgment shall be entered against the sheriff
non-payment of the money and tobacco mentioned in such
execution, unless a demand thereof shall have been first made
of such sheriff, in his county, by the creditor, or some other
person having a written order from him : Nor, in case of fail
ure in appointing such agent, shall the sheriff or prisoner be
obliged to give notice, previous to the discharge of such pri
soner, either for want of security for his prison fees, or upon
his taking the oath of an insolvent debtor ; but such prisoner
shall be discharged, in those cases respectively, without any
notice to be given to the creditor so faihng.(/"j
55. After obtaining a final decree, for lands, slaves, or mo- E
ney, or things of a specific nature, in any court having chan-a{
eery jurisdiction, the clerk of such court shall, upon the re-e
quest of the party obtaining such decree, issue any writ of
execution, either a fieri facias, capias ad satisfaciendum, ha
bere facias possessionem, or any judicial process which may
now issue from any court of common law, according to the e
nature of the case, for carrying the said decree into effect ; j
which writ shall issue in the name of the Commonwealth, and
bear teste, and be signed by the clerk of the court ; and all
process so issued shall be executed and returned to the clerk's
office from which the same issued, on the return days thereof,
by the officer or officers to whom the same shall be directed,
and shall have the same operation, and possess the same force,
to all intents and purposes, as similar process issued upon
j udgments at common law. The officer or officers, to whom any
such process is directed, shall be subject to the like penalties
for misconduct or neglect, and the court shall exercise, in this,
and in all cases relating to such process, the same powers, as
if the said process had issued upon a judgment obtained at
common law. But nothing herein contained shall prohibit any
party from proceeding to carry an order or decree in chancery
into execution, in any manner of which he might avail himself
before the passing of this act.(g)
56. Upon any interlocutory decree of any superior court of
chancery, which shall not be appealed from, or upon such interlocutory decree as shall be appealed from and affirmed, such
process of execution shall be awarded, as, to such court, or the
judge thereof in vacation, shall seem proper.(A)
57. The marshal of each superior court of chancery, for
failure to execute and make due return of any decree for sale,
or execution, besides being liable to an action of the party aggrieved, for damages, shall be fined at the discretion of the
court, from which such decree or execution shall have issued,
for the use of the party injured, in any sum not exceeding five
per centum per month, to be computed from the time when
such execution or decree ought to have been returned, until
the time of entering such fine, upon the whole amount of mo
ney to be levied, or upon the value of the specific property to
be recovered or sold ; and the court imposing the fine shall
estimate the value of such property. For failure to pay any
money, which shall appear by his return to have been received
by him in virtue of any execution or decree, ' or for which he
« shall have made himself liable by his return on such execu
« tion or decree,' he shall forfeit and pay, to the person entitled
to receive such money, fifteen per centum, per annum damages
thereon, to be computed from the time when such money ought
to be paid, until the time when it shall be paid, and to be re
covered, together with the principal sum, by motion on reason
able notice, before the court from which such execution or
decree issued: Provided, That the marshal shall not be subjected to damages for not paying such money to any person
residing out of his district, unless it shall previously have been
demanded of him, by such person or his attorney, or by some
other person having written authority to make such demand.(i)
' In all cases where a fine is imposed on the marshal for his
« failing to execute or return an execution or decree, or pay
* money for which he is liable as above, the securities of such
' marshal, or his or their legal representatives, shall be liable
• for the sam,e, to be recovered by motion on reasonable notice
' before the court from which such execution or decree issued.'
58. When any execution shall be levied upon the body of
a defendant by the marshal, he shall commit him to the jail of
*'ie county» ^n which such defendant may reside, if resident
within the district, and if not, then to the jail of the county
which the execution shall have been levied : Provided, hovcever>
That no execution shall be levied on the body of any defendant in any other district, than that in which he resides,
unless an execution against his body shall have been previously
issued to that district, and returned non est inventus, or unless
such defendant shall have no fixed residence within the Commonwea'tn- At the time of committing such defendant to jail,
the marshal shall deliver to the sheriff of the county, or keeper
of the jail, a copy of the execution, under which the arrest
shall have been made, and shall take from such sheriff or keep
er, a receipt for the body of the defendant, which he shall re
turn, together with the execution, to the court from whence it
issued. It shall be the duty of such sheriff or keeper, to receive the body of such defendant, and to give a receipt therefore;
and, in failure thereof, the sheriff shall be liable to an action
for ^ne escape 0f the defendant, in which the same recovery
shall be had, as if the execution had issued from a court of
law, in due form directed to such sheriff, had been levied by
him upon the defendant, and such defendant had then been
voluntarily permitted by him to escape. When any defendant
shall have been so committed to jail by the marshal, and a re"rip*
sha11 have been so taken for his body> lle sha11 be kePt
in all respects, by the sheriff of the county, and the keeper of
the jail, and be entitled, in all things, to the same immunities
and privileges, as if the execution, under which he had been
arrested, had been directed to the sheriff of the (
had been executed by him.(/r)
59. In all other respects, executions levied by a marshal
shall be proceeded on, in the same manner, as such executions
wouy haye been procee(le(l upon> jf directed by law to a sheriff,
and levied by him ; and forthcoming bonds taken by a marshal shall have the same force and effect, as forthcoming bonds
taken by a sheriff.(A-)
60. The commission allowed to marshals, upon all monies
received by them in virtue of their office, and upon all forthcoming
bonds, shall be the same with that allowed to the she- M
riffs upon similar receipts and bonds; and their fees shall bt m
regulated by the courts to which they belong, so that they shall, H
in no case, exceed three times the amount allowed to sheriffs te
for similar services.(Ar)
61. All acts or parts of acts, coming within the purview of R
this act, shall be, and are hereby repealed : Provided, always, P
That nothing in this act shall be construed to affect any rights,
remedies, fines, forfeitures, penalties or amercements, which
have accrued, been vested, or incurred, prior to the commence
ment of this act.
62. Provided, also, That all executions issued under any F
former act, shall go on to be satisfied as such former act di
rects.
63. This act shall commence and be in force from and after C
the first day of January, eighteen hundred and twenty.
C. 135.
An Act concerning such debtors in execution as may have had
the benefit of the prison rules for the term of one year*
[Passed February 25, 1818.]
1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly, That, whenever
any debtor taken or charged in execution since the first day of
May, 1807, who may have had, or hereafter may have the benefit
of the prison rules or bounds for one year, shall not have
been discharged by due course of law, or broken the condition
of his prison bounds bond, at or before the expiration of the
said year, and the sheriff or other officer, in whose custody
such prisoner may be, shall not, without delay, after the said
term of one year shall have expired, recommit such prisoner to
close jail and confinement, it shall be lawful for the court in
which the judgment was rendered, or from which the execution
issued, by virtue of which such debtor shall have been commit
ted or charged in execution, upon motion of the person or per
sons entitled to such judgment or execution, his, her or their
executors or administrators, ten days previous notice of such
motion being given, to impose, from time to time, a fine upon
such sheriff or other officer, and his securities, his, her or their
executors or administrators, not exceeding five per centum per
month, on the whole amount of the principal, interest and
costs, of such judgment, during the time for which such duty
shall be neglected by such sheriff or other officer. After the
sa'^ recomm'tment, the prison bounds bond, which had been
executed by the said debtor and his securities, shall be considered
as discharged, and not sooner.
2. Ihis act shall be in force from the first day of July next.
C. 136.
Jin act declaring the law concerning the Escape of Debtors
an(i 0iher Prisoners.
[Passed November 24, 1792.]
1. For the more effectual retaking and securing persons
w|10 escape out of prison; Beit enacted, That if any person
committed, rendered, or charged in custody, in execution or
upon mesne process, to any county or corporation prison, or to
the jail of any district, shall thence escape, it shall and may
be lawful for any justice of the peace in the county or corpora
tion where such prisoner was in custody, upon oath of such
escape before him made by the sheriff, under-sheriff, jailor, or
other credible person, to grant unto any one demanding the
gamej one or more warrants under his hand and seal, directed
to all sheriffs, mayors, Serjeants, bailiffs and constables, within
this Commonwealth, reciting the cause of such prisoner's com
mitment, and time of his order escape, and commanding them,
and every of them in their respective counties, cities, towns,
and precincts, to seize and retalce such prisoner so escaped or
going at large, and being so retaken, forthwith to convey and
commit to the prison where debtors are usually kept in the
county or corporation where such retaking shall be, there to be
kept in safe custody, until he or she be thence discharged by
due course of law ; which warrant the sheriff or other officer
is hereby required to obey, and to receive the prisoner into his
safe custody, and to give a note to the person or persons de
livering him or her, testifying his receipt of such prisoner, and
sha11 als0 make return °* the execution of such warrant to the
court of that county, corporation, or district from whence the
prisoner escaped; and if he or she was there in custody,
charged in execution, then the sheriff or other officer shall
safely keep him or her, without bail or mainprise, until he or
she shall make full payment and satisfaction to the plaintifff or
plaintifffs, creditor or creditors, in whose name such execution
was sued out, or until the judgment or judgments obtained
against him or her shall be reversed or discharged by due
course of law. And if such prisoner shall have been in custody
upon mesne process, in any action of debt, or upon the case,
the sheriff or other officer to whom he or she shall be so recom
mitted, shall, in like manner, keep such prisoner in his safe
custody, and make return of the execution of the warrant by
which he or she was retaken, to the court of that county, cor
poration, or district wherein he or she was first arrested ; and
thereupon it shall be lawful for the said court, upon the plain
tiff's or creditor's filing his declaration, to proceed and give
judgment thereon according as the truth of the case shall
appear to them, in the same manner as if the defendant had
appeared in the said court and refused to plead ; unless such
defendant shall cause special bail to be entered in the said
court, and shall immediately plead to issue; and then, upon
certificate under the hand of the clerk of the said court, that
such bail is given, delivered to the sheriff or other oificer in
whose custody such defendant then shall be, it shall be lawful
for the said sheriff or other officer, to set at large such prisoner,
and not otherwise : but, where any prisoner escaped and reta
ken upon such warrant as aforesaid, shall thereafter be charged
with treason, felony, or other crime or cause in behalf of the
Commonwealth, for which he or she ought to be tried in the dis
trict court, and shall be for such cause removed to the jail of
the district court, every such prisoner shall be charged, in the
said district jail, with all the causes wherewith he or she stood
charged in the prison from whence he or she was removed,
until he or she be thence delivered by due course of law, in
like manner as is herein before directed.(n)
2. When any person in execution, who shall have obtained
the liberty of the prison rules by giving bond and security
for the same, shall hereafter escape and go out of the same,
the sheriff or other officer of the county or corporation, where
such prisoner was in custody, shall, and he is hereby requir
ed immediately to apply to a justice of the peace for an
escape warrant to retake such prisoner according to the direc
tions of this act ; and such sheriff or other officer shall, and he is
hereby required immediately to give notice thereof to the credi
tor at whose suit he was in custody, or to his attorney or agent,
and shall assign over and deliver to such creditor, or his attor
ney, the bond by him taken for the liberty of the prison rules,
who shall be obliged to receive the same ; and thereupon it shall
and may be lawful for such creditor, or his attorney, to pursue
the method directed by this act for retaking such debtor upon
the escape warrant aforesaid ; and if he be retaken thereupon,
and committed to jail, the securities for his keeping the prison
rules shall be discharged from their bond ; or such creditor, or
his attorney, shall or may, at their election, commence and pro
secute an action or suit at law against the security or securities
named in such bond, for the recovery of his debt, notwithstand
ing he shall- have applied for and obtained an escape warrant
against his debtor, as aforesaid, if such debtor is not retaken
and committed to jail thereupon; and the sheriff or other offi
cer shall not be liable or answerable for the payment of the
debt for which such prisoner was in custody, unless the secu
rity or securities, named in the bond by him taken of such pri
soner for the liberty of the prison rules, shall afterwards be
found to have been insufficient for the payment of such debt
at the time the same was taken.(6)
3. And whereas the situation of most prisons in this Commonwealth
hath given opportunities to evil disposed persons
to break open the same, and turn out debtors and others in cus
tody, to the hindrance of justice, prejudice of creditors, and
ruin of sheriffs, who have been compelled to pay the debts
with which such prisoners stood charged : For remedy thereof,
&e it further enacted, That no judgment shall be entered
against any sheriff or other officer, in any suit brought upon
the escape of any debtor in his or their custody, unless the jury,
who sha11 trv tlle issue> sha11 expressly find that such debtor
or prisoner did escape with the consent or through the negligence
of such sheriff, (or Serjeant,) or his officer or officers, or
that such prisoner might have been retaken, and that the she
riff, (or Serjeant,) and his officers, neglected to make immediate
Pursuit ' Provided always, That, where any sheriff or other
shall have taken the body of any debtor in execution,
and shall willfully and negligently suffer such debtor to escape,
tne person suing out such execution, his executors or administrators, shall and may have and maintain an action of debt
against such sheriff or other officer, his executors or adminis
trators, for the recovery. of all such sums of money and tobacco,
as are mentioned in the said execution, and damages for de
taining the same ; any law, custom, or usage to the contrary,
notwithstanding. If any private person have any prisoner in
his keeping arrested for suspicion of felony, treason or murder,
and the person that is so arrested escape by negligent keeping,
that he be Dr0ught to the jail, then the person, from whom
such prisoner so escaped, shall be liable to a fine on being found
guilty on an indictment in the court of that district in which
such escape was made.(c)
4' ^LL ant* eveiT act ana< acts> clause and clauses of acts,
coming within the purview of this act, shall be, and the same
are hereby repealed: Provided always, That all rights, reme
dies, fines, forfeitures and penalties, incurred previous to the
passing of this act, shall remain in the same condition as i
this act had never been made.
5. This act shall commence and be in force, from and after
the passing thereof.

