. AN AC1, 
TO REGULATE THE PRACTICE .AND PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL
ACTIONS IN THE DISTRICT COURTS. 
Of the Parties to Civil Actions.
CH.APTER I. 
Be it enacted Liy the Legrsla u ve Assembly of the Territory
of Washington: 
~ection 1. 'I'hat the common law of England, so far as it
is uot repugnant to, or inconsistent with the constitution and 
laws of the united States and the organic act and laws of
Washington Territory, shall be the rule of decision in all the 
courts of this Territory.
~ec. ~- All common law torms of action, and all distinc
tions between law and equity are hereby abolished, and hereafter there shall be in this 1'erritory but one form of action to
establish and enforce private rights, which shall be called a 
civil action.
~ec. a. The party commencing the action shall be 
known as the plaintifff, and the opposite party the defendant.
Sec. 4. Every action shall be presented in t he name 
of the real party in interest, except as is otherwise provided 
by law; but in all cases where the action is brought by an
assignee, the same defense may be set up as could be done
were the suit brought in the name of the original party for
the use of the assignee, except in cases where the action is
upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange transferred in good faith and upon good consideration before due. 
Sec. 5. An executor or administrator, or guardian
of a minor or lunatic, a trustee of an express trust,
or a person authorized by statute, may sue without
joining the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted. 
Sec. 6. A married woman, may sue . .and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, without joining or having her husband joined
with her in the action. 
Sec. 7. When an, infant -is a party, he shall appear 
by guardian, or if he has no guardian, or in the opinion of the
court the guardian is an improper person, the court shall ap
point one to act.
Sec. 8. The guardian shall be appointed as follows: 
1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of
the infant if he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under
that age upon the application of a relative or friend of the infant. 
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of
the infant if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply on
the first day of the return term; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect to apply, then upon the application of any
other party to the action, or of a relative or friend of the infant. 
Sec. 9. All persons interested in the cause of action, or necessary to the complete determination of the questions involved, shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be
joined as plaintifffs when their interest is in common with the
party making the complaint, and as defendants when their 
interestis adverse to the plaintifff: Provided, That where
good cause exists, which shall be made to appear in the complaint, why a party who should be a plaintifff cannot, from a
want of consent on his part or otherwise, be made such complainant, he shall be made a defendant. 
Sec. 10. When the question is one of common or g-eneral interest to many persons, or where the parties are numerous and it is impracticable to bring them all before the 
court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the
whole. 
Sec. 11. Persons severally liable upon the sanu- obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all or any of them be in
cluded in the same action, at the option of the plaintifff.
Sec. 12. No action shall abate by the death mar
riage or other disability of the party, or by the transfer of any
interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue;
but the court may on motion, allow the action to be continued
by or against his representatives or successors in interest. 
Sec. 13. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract, or for specific real or personal prop
erty, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that a person
not a party to the action, and without collusion with him,
makes against him a demand for the same debt or property,
upon due notice to such person and the adverse party,
apply to the court for an order to substitute such person in
his place, and discharge him from liability to either party on
his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering 
the property or its value to such person as the court may direct; and the court may in its discretion make the order. 
Sec. 14. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an
action who has an interest in the final determination thereof. An intervention takes place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action between other persons,
either by joining the plaintifff in claiming what is sought by
the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting
the claims of the plaintifff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintifff and defendant. 
Rec. 15. The intervention shall be by petition or complaint filed in the court in which the action is pending, and
must set forth the grounds on which it is based, and a copy
thereof be served upon the party or parties against whom
anything is demanded, who shall thereupon be required to
answer it as i! i~ were an original complaint in the action.
The court shall determine upon the intervention at the same
time the action is decided, and if the claim of the party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay ail costs incurred by the 
interventionProvided, That no Intervention shall 'be cause
for delay in the trial of an action between the original parties
thereto beyond the term to which the action is brought. 
Of Limitation of Actions.
CHAPTER II. 
Sec. lG. Actions can only be commenced within the
periods herein prescribed after the cause of action shall have
accrued, except when in special cases a ditf erent limitation is 
prescribed by statute; but in the district court the objection
that the action was not commenced within the time l.mited,
can only be taken by answer. 
Sec. 17. The period prescribed in the preceding section for the commencement of actions shall be as follows: 
Within twenty years. 
1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or for the
recovery of the possession thereof; and no action shall be
maintained for such recovery unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was seized or possessed of the premises in question within twenty years before
the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 1.8. Within six years: 
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of
the United States. 
2. An action upon a contract in writing, or liability express or implied arising out of a written agreement. 
:t An action for the rents and profits or for the use and
occupation of real estate. 
Sec. 19. Within three years:
1. An action for waste or trespass upon real property. 
:!. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal
property, including an action for the specific recovery there
of, or for any other injury to the person or rights of another
not hereinafter enumerated. 
~- Action upon all contracts, express or implied, which
are not in writing and do not arise out of any written instru
ment. 
4. An action for relief upon the ground of fraud, the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued
until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts con
stituting the fraud. 
5. An action against a sheriff, coroner 01constable upon
a liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official
duty, including the non-payment of money collected upon an
execution; but this section shall not apply to action for 
an escape. 
H. An action upon a statute for penalty or foreiture,
where action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party
and the territory except where the statute imposing it prescribed a diff erent limitation and for seduction and breach
of marriage contract. 
Sec. 20. Wlthin one vear:
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, assault and bat
tery and imprisonment.
2 .. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to 
the Territory.
3. An action against a sheriff, or other officer for the 
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
Sec. 21. An action upon a statute for a penalty given in 
the whole or in part to the person who will prosecute for the
same, shall be commenced within one year after the com
mission of the offense; and if the action be not commenced
within one year by a private party, it may be commenced
within two years thereafter in behalf of the Territory by the
prosecuting attornev of the district in which the county is situated, where the offense was committed. 
Sec. 22. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for, shall be commenced within two years after the
cause of action shall have accrued. 
Sec. 23. In an action brought to recover a balance
due upon a mutual open and current account, where there
have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause 
of action shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of
the last item proved in the account on either side. 
Sec. 24. 'I'he limitations prescribed in this act shall
apply to actions brought in the name of the Territory or for its
benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties. 
Sec. 25. If when the cause of action shall accrue against
any person who shall be out of the Territory or concealed
such action may be commenced within the terms
herein respectively limited after the return of such person
into the Territory, or the time of his concealment; and
if after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person
shall depart from and reside out of this Territrory or conceal
himself, the time of his absence or concealment shall not be
deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of such action. 
Sec. 2G. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this act, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or
against a sheriff or other officer, for an escape, be at the time 
the cause of action accrued either:
lst.-\Vithin the age of twenty-one years. 
:!d.-I nsane.
The time of such diabi lity shall not he a part of the time 
limited for the eouuneuceurent of action. .
Sec. 27. If a person eutitled to bring an action die be
fore the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced by his representatives after the expiration of the
time and within one year from his death. If a person against
whom an action may be brought die before the expiration of
the time limited for the commencement thereof and the cause
of action survives, an action may be commenced against his
representatives after the expiration of that time and within
one year after the issuing of letters testamentary or of admin
istration.
Sec. 28. When a person shall be an alien subject or 
a citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time
of the continuance of the war shall not be a part of the period
limited for the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 29. When the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction or a statutory prohibition, the time of 
the continuance of the.Injunction or prohibition shall not be
a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action. 
Sec. 30. If an action shall be commenced within the
time prescribed therefore. and a judgment therein for the
plaintifff be reversed on error or appeal. the plaintifff. or if he
die and the cause of action survives, his heirs or representa- 
ti ves may commence a new action within one year after the
reversal. 
See. 31. No person shall avail himself of a disability
unless it existed when his right of action accrued. 
Sec. 32. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist
at the time the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not
attach until they all be removed. 
Sec. ::m. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract whereby to take
the case out of the operation of this act, unless the same
is contained in some writing signed t>y the party to be charged 
thereby; but this section shall not alter the etf ect of any payment of principal or interest. 
Sec. 84. Whenever any payment of principal or interest
has been or shall be made upon any existing contract, whether
it be a bill of exchange, promissory note, bond or other evideuce of indebtedness, if such payment be made after the same
shall have become due, the limitation shall commence from
the time the last payment was made. 
Sec. H5. When the cause of ar-tion has arisen in another state, territory or country between non-residents of this
Territory, and by the laws of the state, territory or country
where the cause of action arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time, no action shall
be maintained thereon in this Territory. 
Sec. 36. This act shall not extend to actions already
commenced, but the statutes now in force shall be applicable
to such cases according to the subject of the act lon and without regard to form, nor shall any cause of action, barred by
the statutes now in force, be revived by the provisions of this
act, but upon any cause of action, now existing, time already
elapsed prior to the passage of this act shall be computed as
if the same had elapsed under this act. 
Of Venue of Civil Actions.
CHAPTER III. 
Sec. 37. Actions for the following causes shall be
commenced in the county or district in which the subject of 
the action, or some part thereof, is situated.
1. For the recovery of, for the possession of, for the par
tition of, for the foreclosure of a mortgage on, or for the determination of all questions affecting the title, or for any injuries
to real property. 
2. All questions involving the rights to the possession or
title to any specific article of personal property, in which last 
mentioned class of cases, damages may also be awarded for
the detention and for injury to such personal property. 
Sec. 38. Actions for the following causes shall be
tried in the district or county where the cause, or, some part
thereof, arose: 
1. For the recovery of the penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute. 
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his
office, or against a person who, by his command or in his aid,
shall do anything touching the duties of such officer. 
Sec. 39. In all cases, the action shall be tried in the district or county in which the defendant may be served with
process except as is hereinafter specially provided by law:
Provided, That nothing contained in any of the foregoing sections shall be so construed as to prevent a change in the place
of trial to the adjoining county or district, when it shall be
made to appear to the satisfaction of the court, that a fair
trial cannot be had in the district or county in which such act.ion may be brought, by reason of the prejudice of the inhabitants or the disqualification of the judge: And provided further, That any party in a civil action, pending in any district
court of a county out of whose limits a new county, in whole
or in part, has been created, not attached to any other county
for judicial purposes, and in which a district court has been
created by law, may file, with the clerk of such district court,
an affldavit, setting forth that be is a resident of such newly
created county, and that the venue of such action is transitory, or that the venue of such actlon is local, and that it
ought properly to be tried in such newly created county; and
upon the filing of such affidavit, the clerk shall make out a
transcript of all the proceedings already had in such action in
such district court, and certify it, under the seal of the court,
and transmit such transcript, together with all the papers on
file in his office, connected with such action, to the clerk of the
district court of such newly created county, wherein it shall 
be proceeded with as in other cases. 
Manner of Commencement of Civil Actions.
CHAPTER IV. 
Sec. 40. Civil actions in the several district courts of this
Territory shall be commenced by the service upon the defendant of a copy of the complaint and a notice, which notice shall
be s~gned by the plaintifff or his attorney, and the copies shall 
be certified to be correct by the officer or person making the
service. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
Territory of Washington, County of---. ss. 
To---: You are hereby notified that unless you ap
pear in the district court of the --- judicial district on the
first day of the next term thereof, which shall commence
twenty days or more after the service of this complaint, the
same will be taken as confessed and the prayer thereof
granted. 
Dated --18-.
Sec. 41. The clerk shall file all complaints where service 
of notice is had, as of the day they are received by him; and
no complaint shall be heard at any term, except by consent
of parties, which shall not have been received and placed on
file before the second day of the term, or which i.;ha II not ap
pear to have been served on the dcf'oudunt t wvut y day:,; or
more before the commencement of the term. 
Ree. -!:!. In ull cases, except where the HPnhtiH mudr- by
publication as is hereinafter provided for, the not icr- :,;ha II be
served by the sln-rift' of the countv wln-re the def udan t is 
found, Or by his deputy, Ol' by a ptrson other than t he plain
tiff, specially appointed by the judge or clerk of t IHl'ilUrt
where the action is brought. Rueb uppointuu-n ts shall, prior
to the service, be made in writ ing, endorsed upon the notice
and signed by the party making them. 'I'Iu- uot ice shn ll he re
turned to the office of the district ck-i-k with t lu- return of the
sheriff or his deputy endorsed t hr-rt-ou ; 01if :,;p1n1l by a person special ly appointed, his affidn v it. 
~1<. -t:t T'lu- nnt ieslui ll lit:-lPl'VPd by dt>linl'ing a eopy
thereof, together with a: cert ifled l'Opy of tho complaint as fol
lows: 
1. If the snit be against a corporution, to the presidcut or 
other head of the corporation, Sl'('rPtmy i cushier or managing
agcnt thereof. 
:!. If against any county in this Tcr i-itorv, to tlu- .r-ouuty 
auditor.
:L If against a minor under the age of fourteen vr-ar, to 
such minor pcrsonallv, and also to his fathf'r, mother.' or guardian: 01if there he none within this TPJTitory. tlu-n to any per
son having the care or control of such minor, or with whom 
he l'P:-:i<1Ps or in whose service he is employed. 
4. If n~:rainst a person for whom a guardian has been ap
pointed for anv cause, to such guardian and to the defendant 
persona Ilv, 
fi. In a 11 other cases. to the def erulunt pr-rxonn llv, or if he 
be not found, to some suitable person at the dwelling house or
usual place of business of the defendant. 
Sec. 44. In case personal service cannot be had by reason
of the absence of the defendant, and the defendant is a proper
party to an action where actual personal notice is not required
by law, or is a proper party to an action relating to real estate
in the district, it shall be proper to publish the notice, with 
a brief statement of the object and prayer of the petition or
complaint, in some weekly newspaper published in this ter- ritory, which notice shall be published not less than once a
week for two months prior to the conuneucement of the te1111
of the court when such cause shall be heard. Said notice may
be substantially as follows:
Territory of Washington, County of---. ss. 
In the district court of the --- judicial district:
To---: You are hereby notified that --- has filed 
a complaint against you in said court, which will come on to
be heard at he first term of the court which shall commence
more than two months after the (here Insert the date of the
publication) and unless you appear at said term and answer,
the same will be taken as confessed and the prayer thereof
granted. The object and prayer of said complaint is (here insert a brief statement). 
(Signature of plaintifff or his attorney.) 
(Date of filing complaint). 
Before publir-ution is made, the crnupla int slm ll lw filed
with the clerk of the court wlu-rr- the action is to be tr ierl. and 
fm-thwith, upon pnbl lcut ion, the patty shall causa copv of
the notice and r-otnplu in t. tP11ifl,,1l hy tlu- clvrk to hdeposited 
in the post offlco, directed to the defendant, at his place of 
residence, unk-ss it shall appear that such residence is not 
known to. or cannot, with rensouafile diligcnr-, bP ascertained 
by the party; and before heuring the ease, thconrt sha ll be
sat isflod by a ttiduvit. or other proof', that all the provisions
herein .ont ained have been complied with; nnd a piiuted
copy of the notice published. with thuffldavit of the printer 
or puhlislu-r of 11Hnewspaper that it has been published the 
requisirv length of time, and as is herein provided, shall be
placed upon flle : Provided, That personal sorvice out of the 
dist rict or tr-rritorv shall be equivalent to personal service
within the dist rlr-t or 'l'ert-itor-v, at the expiration of two
months from the time servicis made. 
SP,. 45. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the
sheriff. or his deputy, or the person appointed to spryp a nofice, that he has not served it upon t he defendants us prescribed, the plaintifffs may issue another notice, and so on till 
the service be had; or, the plaintifff may proceed by publication in the manner before stated, at his election. 
Sec. 46. When the action is against two or more def endants upon a joint contract or liability, and one or more cannot be served with notice, the plaintifff may proceed to judgment against the defendant served, and at any time thereafter while such judgment remains unsatisfied, the plaintifff
or his attorney may issue a notice to the defendant not served
and upon the service thereof, with a copy of the complaint,
upon such defendant, the same proceedings shall be had as
though he had been originally served. When the action is
against the defendants severally and jointly, or severally liable, be may proceed against the defendants served, in the same
manner as though they were the only defendants. 
Sec. 47. Proof of the service of the notice of the complaint
shall be as follows: 
1. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the return of
such sheriff or deputy; or 
2. If by any other person. his affidavit thereof': or
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or 
his foreman or principal clerk, showing the same, and an aftidavit of a deposit of a copy of the notice and complaint in the
post office, if the same shall have been deposited; or 
4. The written admission of the defendant.
5. In case of personal service out of the district or Ter
ritory, the return of the sheriff of the county in the state or
Territory in which the defendant was served or the affidavit
of the person appointed to make the service. In case of service otherwise than by publication, the certiflcat.. , affldavit or 
admission must state the time, place and manner of service.
Rn'. 48. The r-ourt shall be deemed to have obtained 
possession of the case from the time the complaint is flied with
the clerk after completion of the service, whether by publication or otherwise, and shall have control of all subsequent 
proceedings.
Rec. M). A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall 
be equivalent to personal service, but no motion which may
properly be made before demurrer or answer filed, shall be 
deemed a voluntary appearance. 
CHAPTER V. 
Of Pleadings.
Sec. 50. All the forms of pleadings heretofore ex
isting in civil actions inconsistent with the provisions of this 
act, are abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleading and
the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, shall be those prescribed by statute. 
Sec. 51. The only pleadings on the part of plaintifff shall
be: 
1. The complaint. 2. The demurrer. 3. The reply. And OD 
the part of the defendant: 1. The demurrer. 2. The answer.
Sec. 52. The first pleading on the part of the plain
tiff shall be the complaint.
Sec. 53. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court, 
the name of the county in which the action is brought, and
the name of the parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant. 
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constitut- 
ing the cause of action, without unnecessary repetition. 
3. A demand for the relief which the plaintifff claims;
if the recovery of money, or damages be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated. 
Sec. 54. The defendant may demur to the complaint,
when it shall appear upon the face thereof, either 
1. That the court has no jurisdiction or, 
2. That the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue; or 
3. That there is another action pending between the same 
parties for the same cause; or, 
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or, 
5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or, 
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
Sec. 55. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the
~rounds of objection to the complaint; unless it does so, it may
be disregarded; it may be taken to the whole complaint; or 
~I) any one of the alleged causes of action stated therein.
Rec. 56. When any of the matters enumerated in sec
tion fifty-four do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer. 
Rec. 57. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the
same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the
court, and the objection that the complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
Sec. 58. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
1. A specific denial of each material allegation of the 
complaint controverted by the defendant according to his
knowledge, information or belief, or of any knowledge or in 
formation thereof sufficient to form a belief. 
2. A plain concise statement of any new matter constituting a defense or set-off, without unnecessary repetition. 
Sec. 59. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as
many defenses as he may have. They shall each be separately stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are
intended to answer, in any manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished. 
Sec. 60. The defendant mav demur to one or more of
several causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer
the residue. 
Sec. 61. Sham and irrelevant pleadings may be stricken
out, and upon such terms as the court may in its discretion
impose. 
Sec. 62. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a defense or set-off, the plaintifff may reply to Ruch new 
matter, denying specifically each allegation, controverted by
him according to his knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief; and he may allege in a plain and concise manner, without unnecessary repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense 
to such new matter in the answer ; or he may demur to the
same for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds
thereof, and the plaintifff may demur to one or more of several
defenses or set-offs in the answer, and reply to the residue. 
8ec. 63. If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting a defense, and the plaintifff fa ils to rtply or
demur : hereto, within the time prescribed by law, the (lpfpnd
and may move in the court for such judgment HR In- shall be
entitled t o upon such statement, and if t he case rr-qui rt- H, n
writ of damages may be issued. 
Rec. (Lt If a reply of the plaintifff to any def ensr- set- np
by the answer of the defendant be insufflcient. t lu- dofr-ndant
may demur thereto, and shall state thgrounds thereof', 
Rec. 65. 'I'he court shall establish the rules prr-scribing the time in which pleadings subsequent to the corn
plaint shall be filed. 
CHAP'fER VI. 
Verification of Pleadings.
8(c. GG. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the parry 
or his attorney, and except a demurrer shall also be ver-lfied
by a Illda vit, as set forth in the next section. 
Sec. t:i'i. The verification shall be to the effect thu t the
same is true, except as to matters stated on information, and 
as to those matters that he believes them to be true. The affldavit may be made by the party, or if there be several parties,
united in interest, and pleading jointly, by one of such parties,
and shall be made before some officer authorized to administer
oaths within this Territory, or before any notary public,
(whether attorney for the party or otherwise) or clerk of a
court having a seal, of any other state or Territory, and if
made before a notary public, his official seal shall be sufficient
evidence of his authority; or said affidavit may be made by
an agent, attorney, or other person having a knowledge of the
facts. which affidavit shall be made before an officer competent to administer oaths, within this Territory or other
state 01'I'errttorv as aforesaid. When the affidavit is made
by another than 'the party, if made upon personal knowledge
of the facts, the person making such affidavit, shall state there
in the grounds of his knowledge; if made by a person having
no personal knowledge of the facts, he shall set forth therein
the ~Tounds for his information; and in such latter case it
sha ll be sufficient for the person making the affidavit, to swear
that he believes the facts set forth in the pleading to be true.
'Yhl'n a corporation is a party the verification may be made 
by any officer thereof. and when the Territory or county, or
any officer thereof is a party, the verification may be made
by any person acquainted with the facts. No pleading shall
be used in a criminal prosecution against the party, as proof 
of a fact alleged in such pleading. 
CHAPTER VII. 
General Rules of Pleading.
Sec. 68. It shall not be necessary for a party to set 
forth in pleading a eopy of tlu- instrument of writing, or the
items of an account therein alleged; but unless he file a veri
tied copy thereof with such pleadings, and serve the same on
the adverse party, he shall, within ten days after a demand
thereof, in writing, deliver to the adverse party a copy of such
Instrument of writing, or the items of an account, verified by
his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that
he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence
thereof. 'I'hc court, or a judge thereof, may order a further account, when the one delivered is defective; and the court may,
in all cases, order a bill of particulars of the claim of either
party to be furnished. . 
Rec. {1!). In the consrruction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liber- 
ally construed, with a view to substantiate justice between the
parties. 
Sec. 70 .. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading it may be stricken out on motion ol any
person aggrieved thereby; and when the allegations of a plead
ing are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require the
pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment, or
may dismiss the same. 
Sec. 71. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or office of special jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such
judgment or determination may be stated to have been duly 
given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction. 
Sec. 72. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated general
ly that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part;
and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall
be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such
performance. 
Sec. 73. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute 
by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court shall
thereupon take judicial notice thereof. 
Sec. 74. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not
be necessary to state in the complaint any intrinsic facts, for
the purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff, of the
defamatory matter out of which the cause of action arose, but
it shall be sufficient to state generally, that the same was published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish
on trial that it was so published or spoken. 
Sec. 75. In the actions mentioned. in the last section,
the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth of
the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating cir
cumstances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he
prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances. 
Sec. 76. In an action to recover the possession of
property distrained doing damage, an answer that the defandant or person by whose command he acted, was la wf ully possessed of the real property upon which the distress was made. 
and that the property distrained was at the time doing the 
damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title
to such real property. 
Sec. 77. The plaintifff may unite all the causes of action
which he may have in the same complaint, but the causes of
action so united must affect all the parties to the action and
not require different places of trial, and must be separately
stated: Provided, That where two or more persons are or
claim to be interested in the subject matter of the suit whether adversely to the plaintifff or each other, or in any other manner, they may all be made either parties plaintifff or defendant
as the case shall require and their respective rights be deter
mined.
Sec. 78. A material allegation in a pleading is one 
essential to the claim or defense, and which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient. 
Sec. 79. No variance between the allegation in a
pleading and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it 
have actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice
in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that
fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in 
what respect he has been misled, and, thereupon, the court
may order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as
shall be just. 
Sec. 80. When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to 
be found according to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs. 
Sec. 81. When. however. the allegation of the cause
of action or defense, to which the proof is directed, is not
proved, not in some particular or particu tars only, but in its
entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections. but a foilure of proof. 
Sec. 82. Where the plaintifff in action to recover the possession of personal property on 11 claim of being the
owner thereof, shall fail to establish on the trial such ownership, but shall prove that he is entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, he shall not thereby
be defeated of his action. but shall be permitted to amend, on
reasonable terms his complaint. and he =ntltled to iudgment. 
according to the proof in the case. 
~t(_. ~7. ~o JH1~on sh.i l l k~ annntd DI' lu-ld to hai l in 
any aetio11, txe<pt upon tlu- order of tlu- nm-t w lu-rr- the ac
tion is ln-oughr, 01a judge of the suprc-ruourr.
Bce. ~~- ThP dcfrHdnnt ma v be- ;.u,p:-:tP,1 as i~ lu-rt-iuaf'ter 
provided in t lu- f'ol lowlug eH~l'~ and f'o r t ht> fol l owinjr ta USPS 
only: 
Amedments of Pleadings.
Sec. 83. At any time before judgment, the court, on 
motion, may authorize any of the pleadings to be amended on
such terms as shall be deemed reasonable; and at any tune
before the close of the next term of the court, after the term
in which any judgment, order or other proceeding, is had, the
court, on motion, and upon good cause shown, after reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, may relieve
a party from such judgment, order, or proceeding taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect, and supply an omission in any proceedings. 
~ee. M. vv hen the pla int itf shall be- iguorunr or trre 
nauu- of t lu- defr-ndunt , it shall l>t> so stnr--d i11 tlu- pleading, 
and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name shall be discovered. the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordiuuly. 
~e<. ~5. TlHcourt sha II, iu <'\'<ty i-;t ,t:.r<' of an action, 
disregard any 1:1Tor 01defect in plt->a<ling~ 01procevdings 
which shall not affect the substantial 1ights of t he adverse
party, and no judamvnt slial l be 1t~,p1~ed or a tf'er-tr-d by reason
of such error or defect. 
~P<'. ~f), 'l'hcourt may. on m ot iou. allow supploun-ntal
procer-dinus, show inz fa,1-s whir-h 011111T<'cl dtl'J' t lu- former 
pleadings were filed. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
l'HAPTEH IX. 
Of .\ JTP:-:t. 
1. \\1i<,n 1"11<> ad ion is upon n on tru <t to r<10,11dam
a:n,, and t lu- dd~tHl.rnt has m onev or p101w1ty, and is about 
to abscond f'roiu 1 IH'L'('t1it01y with. or <011cTal or dispo:--e of
the same, with intent to defraud his creditors. 
:!. \\lwn t lie action is to rvvovc-r pm,~P:-:~Lrn of SJHeific 
articles of personal property, or any instrument of writing,
and the defendant conceals, or is about to conceal, destroy or
dispose of the subject matter of the suit, with intent to de
fraud the plaintifff. 
:J. \\"hen the action is to prevent threatened injury to, or
destruction of property, in which the party bringing the action 
has some right, interest, or title, which will be impaired or
destroyed by such injury or destruction, and the danger is imminent that such property will be destroyed, or its value impaired, to the injury of the plaintitI. 
-1. Un the final judgment or order of any court in this
Territory, while the same remains in force, when the defend
ant, having no property subject to execution, or not sufficient
to satisfy such judgment, has money which he ought to apply in payment upon such judgment, and which he refuses to
apply, with intent to defraud the plaintifff, or when he refuses
to comply with the legal order of the court, with intent to de
fraud the plaintifff; or, when any one or more of the causes
exist for which an arrest is allowed, in the first class of cases
mentioned in this section. 
~,'.c. :,.:fl. The court or judge making the order sha1l first
bl' safo1P<l by the affidavit of the party, and ot her proof', that 
the ,;1~P is oru- in which an arrest is provided for in section 
tighty-dght, and that one or more of theprescribed can scs exist. which prnof shal l bl' in writiug, and, together with the 
order, be tih-d w it h t lu- vle rk, Li. Io re he sha ll issue any warrunt for t lu- arr.st. 
~t<. !)0. 'l'Iu- court or jndgP uiakiug the order shal l, in 
all cases, specify therein the amount in which the defendant shall be In-Id to bair, which shall, in no case, exceed
the demand of the plaintifff', and one hundred dollars in addition thereto, whch uruuuut the clerk shall endorse upon the 
writ, and the court shall also, in the order, fix the amount of
the bond to be given by the plaintifff, as provided in the next 
succeeding section. which amuunt sha ll in no case be less than
one hundred do] la rs. 
~p(. !ll. Bdo1<amclerk sha 11 issue a warrant fur the
arrest of the defendant, he shall require the plaintifff 
to place on file in his office, a eopy of the order granting the
warrant, unless the same was made in open court and appears in the minutes; the original affidavit and proofs, upon
which the order was made, and a bond on behalf of the plaintiff, in such an amount as the court or judge may have fixed
in the order. with sureties to the satisfaction of the clerk, conditioned to pay to the defendant all damages which he shall
suffer. and all expenses he shall incur by reason of such arrest
or imprisonment, if the order sha ll be vacated in the manner 
provided for in the next succeeding section, or if the plajntiff
fail to recover in his action. 
Het. H:!. The defendant may, on motion apply to the
court to vacate the order of arrest, on the ground of insufficiency of the proof, or he may show that the facts alleged
upon which the order issued, are untrue, or he may apply to
have the amount of bail reduced. If the court, upon any such
motion, shall vacate the order, the defendant shall be discharged from the arrest, and any bond he may have given
shall be canceled, but the action, unless dismissed for other
cause, shall be conducted in the same manner as in cases 
where complaint and notice were duly served and filed. 
~<.-'('. H:L When an order of an arrest is granted prior lo the
filing of the complaint, the warrant shall not issue 
until the complaint is filed with the clerk, and a copy of r;aid
wurruut sha ll he served on the defendant with the wnrrant ;
but an order of arrest may be granted at any time after the
action is commenced and before judgment is satisfied, when
the party seeking the order shall comply with the preceding
provisions in regard to arrests. 
~t'<.-. !l4. The warrant must be delivered tn the sheriff,
who, upon arresting the defendant, must deliver to him a ~opy
thereof. 
~t<. H:i. Thr- 1-1lwriff shall execute the wnrrant bv arresting the defendant, and keeping him in custody ~ntil 
discharged by law. And the plaintifff, in first instance,
shall be liable for the sheriff's fees, for the food and mainte
nance of any person. under arrest. which, if required by the
sheriff, shall be paid weekly in advance. And such fees, so
paid, shall be added to the costs taxed or accruing in the case,
and be collected as other costs. And if the plaintifff shall
neglect to pay such fees for t h ree days after a demand, in
writing. upon the plaintifff or his attorney, for payment, the
sheriff may discharge the defendant out of custody. 
Kn. !Ht ThP defendant may gin:' bail by causing a bond
to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stat
ing their places of residence and occupations, conditioned
that the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable 
to tbe process of the court during the pendeucy of the action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment
rendered therein or. if he be arrested for the cause mentioned
in the second subdivision of section eighty-eight it shall be
further conditioned that the specificartir-le of propertv, or
inst rurnent of writing which is the subject matter of the writ,
shall be Iortheoming, to abide any order which shall be made
therein; or, if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the
third subdivision of said section it shall be further conditioned 
that he will not commit the injury or destruction alleged to
be threatened in the affidavit or proofs on which the arrest
is ordered. 
Sec. 97. The warrant shall, in all cases, contain a short
statement of the alleged causes for which the order was
granted, and also the amount for which bail is required. 
Sec. 98. At any time before a failure to comply with
their bonds, the bail may surrender the defendant in
their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff
of the county where he was arrested, in the following manner: 
1. A certified copy of the bail bond shall be delivered to
the sheriff, who shall retain the defendant in his custody
thereon as upon an order of arrest, and by a certificate in
writing, acknowledge the surrender. 
2. Upon the production of a copy of the bail bond and
sheriff's certificate, a judge of the district court may, upon a 
notice to the plaintifff of eight days, with a copy or the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated, and on filing the
order and the papers used on such application, they shall be
exonerated accordingly. But this section does not apply to
an arrest for the cause meutioned in the third subdlvision of
section eighty-eight. 
Sec. !lU. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant
the bail, at any time or place before they are finally
discharged, may themselves arrest him, or, by written auth
thority, indorsed upon a certified copy of the bond, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so. 
Sec. 100. In case of failure to comply with the condition
of the bond, the bail can be proceeded against by action only. 
Ste. 101. The bail may be exonerated, either by the
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a penitentiary, or by bis legal discharge from the obligation to
render himself amenable to the process, or by his surrender
to the sherift of the county where he was arrested, in exon
eration thereof. within twenty days after the commencement
of the action against the bail, or within such further time as
may be granted by the court. 
Sec. 102. ,vithin the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff must deliver the order of arrest to the clerk. with
his return endorsed thereon, and the bond of the bail or a 
copy thereof. The plaintifff. within ten days thereafter, may
serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the
bail, or be must be deemed to have accepted it. and the
sheriff shall be exonerated from liabilitv. 
Sec. 103. On the receipt of the notice, the sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff 
or his attorney notice of the justification of the same, or
other bail, (specifying the places of residences and occupations of the latter), before a judge of the court or justice
of the peace, at a specined time and place, the time to be not
less than ti ve days nor more than ten thereafter. In case
other bail be given there must be a new bond in the form
prescribed in section ninety-six. 
l:5ec. 104. The qualificatlous of the Lail shall Le as follows: 
1. Each of them shall be a resident of the Territory; but
no counsellor or attorney at law, sheriff, clerk of the district
court, or other officer of such court, shall be permitted to become bail in any action. 
2. Each of the bail shall be worth the amount specified in 
the order of arrest, or the amount tu which the order may 
be reduced, as prodded in this act, OVPL' and above all
debts and liabilities, and exclusive of property exempt from
execution; but the judge or justice, on justification, may ullow
more than two sureties to Justify, severally, in amounts less
than that expressed in the order, if the whole justiflcatton be
equivalent to that of two sufficient bail. 
See. 105. For tlu- purpose of justitlcat ion, 1',uh of the
bail must attend before the judge or justice of the peace
at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be
examined on oath on the part of the plaintifff touching his
sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or justice of the
peace, in his discretion, may think proper. 'I'he examination
must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff. 
RP,. HHi. If tlu- juctg-<' or just ice find t hhail sutflcieut,
he shall annex the examination tr, the bond, endorse his allowance thereon and cause them to be filed with the clerk, 
and the sheriff shall thereupon be oxoneraterl from liability.
RPe. 107. ThP dof'endnnt may at tho t imof his arrr-st, 
instead of giYing bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount
mentioned in the ordlr.-1'he sheriff must thereu pon give the
defendant a certlflcnte of deposit, and the defendant shall be
discharged out of .-ustodv. 
Rt-1<. 10~. Thr- slu-i-iff shall, w it h in tr-n dan.: a f'tr-r t lu
deposit, pay the same into court, and take frofn the officer
receiving the same two cerfiflcates of such pavment. the one
of which he must deliver to the plaintifff and the other to the
defendant F'lr any rlef<:\P14- in making such pnvment, the
same pl'O<'PPdings mav bl' had on the offlcin l bond of thP shr-i-iff 
to cnllr-ct the sum deposited, as in othr-r rai,;pi,; of ,lflinqn,.nry.
Rer. Hl!l. If mOJH'.Y lw deposited, as prnvid,! in the 
last two sections, bail may be given and justified, upon
notice as hereinbef'ore provided, at any time before judgment;
and thereupon the judge before whom [ustiflcation is had,
shall direct in the order of allowance that the money deposited be refunded by the sheriff or clerk to the defendant, and
it shall be refunded accordingly. 
Sec. 110. ,vhen money shall have been so deposited, if
it remain on deposit at the time of an order or [udgment for the payment of money to the plaintifff, the clerk
shall, under the direction of the court, apply the same in the
satisfaction thereof, and, after satisfying the judgment, refund
the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in
favor of the defendant, the' clerk shall refund to him the whole
sum deposited and remaining unnpplied. 
Sec. 111. If, after being a rrested, the defendant escape
or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be
not made instead thereof, the sheriff himself shall be liable as
bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability by
the giving and justification of bail, as is hereinbefore pro
vided may be done by the defendant, at any time before process against the person of the defendant to enforce an order or
judgment in the action. 
N<-'o(. 11:.!. If the jndgtuont be recovered against the
sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be
returned unsn tlsfled, in the same JH'Of'PPdings may be, had on
the offlcia I bond of t ho sheriff to collect tho deflciencv, as in
otlu-r tasf~ of dr-l iuqur-ncv. 
RP<. lrn. Tho hail ta ken on urrest sha 11, unless thev
justify. or other hail be ~iven or justified, be liable to th~ 
sheriff, by action. for the damages which he may sustain by
reason of such omission. 
CHAPTER X. 
Claim to Recover Persoua l Property. 
SPr. 114. 'I'he plaintifff in an action to recover the
possession of personul property may. at the time of issuing
the notice. or at any time before answer, claim the immediate
delivery of such property as herein provided. 
~Pt. 11;";. \\'lwu a dPlin:'ty is clahued, au affidavit
shall be made by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, 
showing:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed 
(particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the
possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein,
the facts in respect to which shall be set forth. 
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant. 
3. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintifff; or if
so seized, that it is by law exempt from such seizure. And 
4. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 116. Upon tire receipt of the affidavit, and a 
bond to the defendant, executed py one or more sufficient
sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are
bound in double the value of the property, as stated in the
affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavt, lf it
be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain
it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the
defendant a copy of the affidavit and bond, by delivering the
same to him personally, if he can be found, or his agent, from
whose possession the property is taken; or if neither can be
found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either,
with some person of suitable age and discretion; or, if neither 
have any known place of abode, by putting them in the postofflce, directed to the defendant, at the postoffice nearest bis
place of residence. 
Sec. 117. The defendant may, within three days after
the service of a copy of the affidavit and bond, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the
sureties; if he fail to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived
all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the
sureties shall justify on notice, in like manner as bail on arrest, and the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency
of the sureties until the objection to them is either waived
as above provided, or until they shall justify, or new sureties
shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant except to
the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as providd in
the next section. 
Rec. 118. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof. upon giving- to the sheriff a bond executed by one or more
sufficient sureties to the effect that thev are bound in double 
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the 
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum
as may, for any cause, be recovered against the defendant. 
If a return of the property be not so required within three
days after the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it
shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one hundred and twenty-three. 
Sec. 119. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the
plaintifff, or his attorney, of not less than two, or more than
six days, shall justify in the same manner as upon bail upon
arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the
property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible
for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or until Justification is completed, or expressly waived, and may retain the
property until that time; but if they, or others in their place,
fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff. 
Ht<. 1~0. The quuliflcation of sureties and their [ustlftcn
tion shall be as prescribed in respect to bail upon an order of
arrest. 
S?l .121. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly
demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he shall cause
the building or enclosure to be broken open and take the
property into his possession, and if necessary, he may call to
his aid the power of his county. 
SP<'. 122. When the sheriff shall have taken the prnperty as herein provided, he shall keep it in a secure place
and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving
his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for 
keeping the same. 
. St1.. 128. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or his right to the
possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or right,
and serve the same upon the sheriff before the delivery of the
property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep
the property or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff,
on . demand indemnify the sheriff against such claim by a
bond, executed by two sufficient sureties, accompanied by
their affidavits that they are each worth double the value of
the property, as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff, over
and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution, and freeholders or householders of the
county; and no claim to such property by any other person
than the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the
sheriff. unless made as aforesaid; and notwitb standing such 
claim, w nen so wade, he 11uiJ retain the property a reasonable
time to demand such indemnity. 
Sec. 124. The sheriff shall file the affidavit, with the
proceedings thereon, with the c1erk of the court in which
the action is pending, within twenty days after taking the
property mentioned therein; or if the clerk reside in another
county, shall mail or forward the same withir. that time. 
CHAPTER XI 
Injunctions and Restraining Orders.
Sec. 125. Restraining orders and injunctions may be 
granted by the district court in term time, or by any judge
of the supreme court in vacation. 
Sec. 126. \Vhen it appears by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded and the relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of
which during the litigation would produce great injury to the
plaintifff; or when during the litigation, it appears that the
defendant is doing, or threatened, or is about to do, or is procuring, or is sutf ering some act to be done in violation of the
plaintifff's rights respecting the subject of the action and tending to render the judgment ineffectual; or where such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining proceedings upon any
final order or judgment, an injunction may be granted to
restrain such act or proceedings until the further order of the
court, which may afterwards be dissolved or modified upon
motion. And where it appears in the complaint at the commencement of the action, or during the pendency thereof,
by affidavit, that the defendant threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his property with intent to defraud his
creditors, a temporary injuction may be granted to restrain
the removal or disposition of his property. 
Sec. 127. The injunction may be granted at the time
of commencing the action, or at any time afterwards, before 
judgment in that proceeding. Sec. 12.8. No injunction shall be granted until it 
shall appear to the court or judge granting it, that some one
or more of the opposite party concerned, has had reasonable
notice of the time and place of making application, except that
in cases of emergency to be shown in the complaint, the court
may grant a restraining order until notice can be given and
bearing thereon. 
Sec. 129. On the hearing of. an application for an injune 
tion, each party may read affidavits. 
Sec. 130. Upon the granting or continuing an mjunction such terms and conditions may be imposed upon the 
party obtaining it as may be deemed equitable.
~ec. 131. No injunction or restraining order shall be 
granted until the party asking it shall enter into bond
in such a sum as shall be fixed by the court or judge granting
the order, with surety to the satisfaction of the clerk of the
district court, to the adverse party affected thereby, condi
tioned to pay all damages and costs which may accrue hy
reason of the injunction or restraining order. The sureties
shall, if required by the clerk, justify in like manner as bail
upon an arrest, and until they so justify, the clerk shall be
responsible for their sufficiency. 
Sec. 1:t!. \Yhen an injunction is granted upon the
hearing, after a temporary restraining order, the plaintifff
shall not be required to enter into a second bond, unless the
former shall be deemed insufficient, but the plaintifff and his
surety shall remain liable upon his original bond. 
Hee. 13:l. It shall not be necessarv to issue a writ
of injunction, but the clerk shall issue a copy of the order 
or injunction duly certifled by him, which shall be forthwith
served by delivering the same to the adverse party. 
Sec. 134. In application to stay proceedings after
judgment, the plaintifff shall endorse upon his complaint a release of errors in the judgment whenever required to do sc by
the judge or court. 
Sec. 135. An order of injuetion shall bind every
person and officer restrained from the time he is informed
thereof. 
Sec. Vl6. When notice of the application for an injunction has been served upon the adverse party, it shall not
be necessary to serve the order upon him, but he shall be
bound by the injunction as soon as the bond required of the
plaintifff is executed and delivered to the proper officer. 
Sec. 137. Money collected upon a judgment afterward
enjoined, remaining in the hands of the collecting officer,
shall be paid to the clerk of the court granting the injunction.
subject to the order of the court. 
Sec. 138. Whenever it shall appear to any court
granting an order of injunction, or judge thereof in vacation,
by affidavit that any person has willfully disobeyed the order
after notice thereof, such court or judge shall award an at
tachment for contempt against the party charged, or a rule
to show cause why it should not issue. The attachment or
rule shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and directed to
the sheriff, and shall be served by him. 
Sec. 139. The attachment for contempt shall be imme
diately served, by arresting the party charged, and bringing
him into court, if in session, to be dealt with as in other cases
of contemnt ; and the court shall also take all necessary
measures to secure and indemnify the plaintifff against damages in the premises. 
Sec. 140. If the court is not in session, the officer
making the arrest shall cause the person to enter into a bond, 
with surety, to be approved by the officer, conditioned that
he personally appear in open court, on the first day of the
next term thereof, to answer such contempt, and that he will
pay to the plaintifff all his damages and costs occasioned by
the breach of the order; and in default thereof, he shall be
committed to the jail of the county until he shall enter into
such bond with surety, or be otherwise legally discharged, 
Sec. 141. Motions to dissol ve or modify Injunctions may
be made in open court, or before a judge of the supreme court
in vacation, at any time after reasonable notice to the adverse 
party.
Rec. 142. When an injunction to stay proceedings 
after judgment for debt or damages shall be dissolved, the
court shall award such damages not exceeding ten per cent.
on the judgment, as the court may deem right, against the
party in whose favor the injunction issued. 
Sec. 143. If an injuction to stay proceedings after
verdict or judgment in an action for the recovery of real
estate, or the possession thereof, be dissolved, the damages 
assessed against the party obtaining the injunction, shall
include the reasonable rents and profits of the lands recovered, and all waste committed after granting injunction. 
Sec. 144. Upon an order being made dissolving or
modifying an order of injunction, the plaintifff may move the
court to reinstate the order, and the court mav, in its discretion, allow the motion, and appoint a time for hearing the
same before the court, or a time and place for hearing before some judge thereof. and upon the hearing, the parties
may produce such additional affidavits or depositions as the
court shall direct, and the order of injunction shall be dissolved, modified, or reinstated. as the court or judge may deem
right. Until the hearing of the motion to reinstate the order
of-Injunctlon, the order to dissolve or modify it shall be sus- 
pended. .
Sec. 145. The judge of the district court shall have power 
to make every order in vacation which by the provisions of
this chapter, may be made by the court in term time. 
Of Attachments,
Sec. 146. In an 'action for the recovery of money, the 
plaintifff at the time of commencing suit, by placing in the
hands of the sheriff of the proper county, the complaint and
notice, or at any time afterwards, may have the property of
the defendant attached in the manner hereinafter prescribed,
as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as he may 
recover.
See. 147. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the 
clerk of the court in which the action is brought, whenever
the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, shall make affidavit that
a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the
amount of such claim over and above all legal set-offs, and
the nature thereof; that suit thereon has been commenced,
and that, as the affiant verily believes, the defendant, 
1. Is a fort>i;n corporation; or 
:!. Is a non-resident of this 'I'ert-itory ; or 
:t ls SN'l'Pt1y leaving, or has left the Terrttorv, with. the
intent to hinder, defraud, or delay his creditors; or 
4. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his
property, with like intent ; or 
5. Is reinoviug, or about to remove his propertv, subject
to execution, or a material part therr-uf, out of this Territory,
not leaving enough therein to satisfy the claim of the plain
tiff; or 
CHAPTER XII. 
fi. Has concealed, or is attempting to conceal himself,
so Jrn t t ht- ordinary process of law cannot be served upon 
him.
St-c. 14-K Xo attru-luuent for the causes mentioned in the 
second and third clauses of rlu- preceding section. shall issue
against anv debtor while his funrilv remains settled within
the countv where he usually J'(sided prior to his absence, if
he 8ha11 not ontlnue absent from the 'I'errit orv more than 0111- 
Jt>ar aftvr lt<' 8hall ha ve absented l, in.self', m{Iess an att.:mpt 
be mnrle to ,ou(eal hi~ absence.
f4N. l !f}. If tho wife or fan.ilv of tln- debtor shall rehs,~, 
or he unu hk- to giw~ an account of thr- :, use of his absence,
or the pluce where he may be found, or shall give a false lit> 
count of itlu-r, such refusal. ln-ibiltrv <1false account, sha li
Le deemed nn attempt to conce-il his u hsence. 
Sec. mo .. 1'!le plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall,
before the writ issues execute a bond in a sum equal to the
amount cla lmed, with sufficient surety, to be approved by 
the clerk, payable to the defendant, to the effect that the
plaintitt will duly prosecute his proceeding in attachment.
and will pa~v all damages which may be sustained by the defendant, if the proceedings of the plaintifff shall be wrongful
and opprcssi ve, 
Sec. I 51. The writ shall be directed and delivered to the
sheriff. It shall require him to seize and take into his possession, the property of the defendant in his county, not exempt
from execution, or sufficient thereof to satisfy the amount of
the ulaintiffs claim and costs. 
sel". 152. Wrlts of attachment mav be issued to the sheriff
of an:, t her county, and several of tiwm may, at the option 
of the plaint iff', be issued at the same time, or in successlon ;
but the costs onlv of such as have been t .. xecuted, in whole or
in part. shall be iemoved against the defendant, unless otherwise directed by the court. The plaintifff shall not have judgment in any such action, except in some one of the following
cases, viz: 
1. When the defendant shall have been personally served
with }Jl'O('<-'SS; or, 
!!. "hen property of the defendant shall ha ve been attached in the district or county where the r. -tion is brought; 
or, 
;;_ When a garnishee shall have been summoned in the
district or county where the action is brought, who shall be
found to be indebted to the defendant, or to have property or
assets in his hands subject to the attachment. 
~ee. 153. A writ of attachment mav be issued and executed on Sunday, if the plaintifff will shO\~ in his affldavit that
the defendant is about to abscond on that day to the injury
of the plaintifff. 
Sec. 154. The sheriff shall proceed. with the asslstance
of a disinterested and credible householder of the countv, to
attach the lands and tenements, goods and chattels ol the
defendant, subject to execution, and shall, with the assistance
of such householder, make an inventory and appraisement
thereof, and return the same with the writ. 
Sec. 155. A writ of attachment binds the defendant's
property from the time it is served. 
Sec. 156. The defendant's personal property shall be
first taken under an attachment; if enough thereof is not found 
t o satisfy the plaintifff's claim and costs of the action, then
his real estate. If. after a writ of attachment is placed in
the hands of I he sheriff, any property of the defendant is removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and seize the 
same in any county within three days after the removal
thereof. 
Sec. 157. The estate, property, and interest descended to
non-resident heirs, or devisees, or vested in non-resident executors or .administratora of decedents, shall be liable to an
attachment for debt, or other demands against decedent's
estate. 
Sec. 158. The defendant, or other person, having possession of property attached, may have the same, or any part
thereof, delivered to hiin, by executing and delivering to the
sheriff a. bond, with surety approved by the sheriff, payable
to the plaintifff, to the effect that such property shall be properly kept and taken care of, and shall be delivered to the
sheriff on demand, or so much thereof as may be required to
be sold on execution, to satisfy any judgment which may be
recovered against him in the action, or that he wilJ pay the
appraised value of the property, not exceeding the amount of 
the judgment and costs.
See. 15U. Whenever any person, other than the defend
ant, shall claim any property attached, the right of property
may be tried, as in cases of property taken in execution, and
the claimant, having notice of the attachment, shall be bound
to prosecute him claim. as in such cases, or be barred of his
right against the officer or person serving the writ. 
Sec. 160. The defendant or claimant of any attached
property, may be required by the court to attend before it, 
and give information, on oath, respecting the property.
Hee. 161. An attachment shall only bind the interest of 
the defendant, subject to the rights existing at the time of the
attachment, of any other person to the property. 
Sec. 162. If the defendant, at any time before judgment,
shall appear and answer to the complaint of the plaintifff,
and shall satisfy the court or judge in vacation, that the property attached is exempt from attachment or that the cause
alleged in the affldavit did not exist at the time the writ issued, the attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the
plaintifff, who shall also be liable to the defendant; and the
attachment shall also be dismissed at any time after answer
before judgment, when the defendant shall satisfy the court,
or judge in vacation, that the alleged causes upon which the
writ issued, have ceased to exist; in this case the costs to abide
the issue of the action, and in case the attachment shall be
dismissed as above, the action may be further prosecuted to
final judgment, as in cases where the notice has been served. 
Sec. 163. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf
at any time before judgment shall execute a. bond to the plain: 
tiff, and to each plaintifff who has filed his complaint under the
attachment, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the
court, clerk, or sheriff, to the effect that the defendant will
appear to the action, and will perform the judgment of the
court, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution
made of any property taken under it, or the proceeds thereof. 
Sec. 164. When personal property attached is of a perishable nature, or its keeping expensive, the court may direct
the sheriff to sell it at public auction, on reasonable notice.
If the property is liable to immediate damage, the sheriff, in
vacation, may sell it, by giving ten days' notice, without an
order of court, and the proceeds of all sales shall be deposited
with the clerk. 
Sec. 165. The sheriff shall be allowed his reasonable and
necessary expenses for keeping attached property, to be paid
by the plaintifff and taxed in the bill of costs ; and if the plaintiff shall fail to pay such expenses, as they accrue, or advance
them to the sheriff, the sheriff may give the plaintifff written
notice, that unless so paid or advanced, he will release .. the
property, and after the expiration of forty-eight hours from
the service of such notice upon the plaintifff or his attorney,
the sheriff may, if such expenses are not paid or advanced, return, at the cost of the plaintifff, said property to the person
from whom, or to the place where it was takeu ; and if all the
property so attached shall be so returned, the action shall be
dismissed at the cost of the plaintifff. 
Sec. 166. If at the time a writ of attaelnnent issues, enat
any time afterwards, the plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, shall file with the clerk an affidavit, that he has good
reason to believe that any person (naming him) has property
of the defendant, of any description, in his possession or under his control, which the sheriff cannot attach by virtue of
such writ; or that such person is indebted to the defendant,
or has the control or agency of any property, monies,. credits,
or effects; or that the defendant has any shares or interest in
the stock of any association or corporation, the clerk shall issue a summons, notifying such person, corporation or association, to appear at the ensuing term of the court, and answer
as garnishee in the action. The summons shall be directed to
the sheriff, and served and returned by him in the same manner as notice is served and returned in the commencement of
civil actions. 
Sec. 167. From the day of the service of the summons, as
provided in section one hundred and sixty-six, the garnishee
shall be accountable to the plaintifff in the action, for the 
amount of money, property, or credits in his hands, or due and
owing from him to the defendant. 
Sec. 168. It shall be the duty of any officer or agent of an 
association or corporation, and of every other person summoned as a garnishee, when served, or within fifteen days afterwards, to furnish the sheriff with a certificate of the IIUIU
ber of shares or rights of the defendant in the stock of such
corporation or association, or a description of the property
held by such corporation, association, or person belonging to
or for the benefit of the defendant, or the amount of the debt
owing to the defendant by such association, corporation, or 
person, whether due or not; which certificate shall be returned
by the sheriff with the summons. If such officer, agent or
person refuse so to do, he may be required by the court to attend before it, and be examined on oath concerning the same,
and obedience to the orders may be enforced by attachment as
for contempt. 
Rec. 169. Whenever any garnishee, being duly summoned, fail to appear and make discovery as required by law, or
fails to answer or demur to the matters set forth against him
in the affidavit, or additional complaint or interrogatories,
such matters may be taken for confessed, or judgment entered
by default, as the case may require, or he may be examined
under oath touching all the matters charged in the affidavit
or additional complaint; and all such proceedings, pleadings
and process. shall be had according to the practice in other
cases, as shall be necessary to determine the rights of the
parties under a final j udgment. 
~ec. 170. If any plaintifff, or any other person in his behalf, shall satisfy the court or judge in the manner required
in this act, of the existence of any of the causes authorizing
an arrest in civil action against any garnishee, he may have
an order for a warrant of arrest, which shall be issued, and
the same proceedings had thereon as in ordinary cases of ar
rest in civil action.
Sec. 171. Final judgment shall not be rendered against 
a garnishee until the action against the defendant in attachment is determined; and if the plaintifff fails to recover judgmet either against the defendant or the garnishee, the garnishee shall be discharged, and recover his costs. 
Sec. 172. The return of "no property found," upon the
writ of attachment, shall not affect the proceedings against 
the garnishee.
Sec. 173. If the plaintifff t><'<>nver judgment against the 
defendant, and the garnisheddiver up to the sheriff, before
judgment against him, all the defendant's goods and chattelsr 
or other effects in his possession, subject to execution or a 
eufflcient amount thereof to satisfy the plaintifff's judgment, or 
an inventory thereof, and pay to the sheriff, or into court, all
monies due from him or belonging to the defendant, or a sufficient amount thereof to satisfy the plaintifff's judgment, the
costs in the proceeding against the garnishee shall be paid
by the defendant; but if the garnishee shall not appear, or if
appearing, shall refuse truly to confess the matter alleged
and on the trial the plaintifff shall recover judgment against
him, or if he admit that he has monies, credits, or effects belonging to the defendant in his hands, and shall refuse to pay
or deliver the same as above provided, he shall pay costs. 
Sec. 174. .A garnishee in attachment shall not be compelled in any case, to pay or perform any contract in any
other manner, or at any other time than he would be bound 
to do for the defendant in attachment.
Sec. 175. A garnishee may pay the monies owing to the 
defendant by him, to the sheriff, or into court, and shall be
discharged from liability to the defendant for money so paid,
not exceeding the plaintifff's claim; and not be liable for costs
if paid at or before the first term after the writ or notice is
served upon the garnishee, or as soon as the same shall be 
clone.
Sec. 176. A garnishee, or officer of a corporation sum
moned as a garnishee. at any time after fifteen days from the
service of the summons, may be examined in open court on
oath, and if it be discovered on such examination that at the
thne, or after the service of the summons upon him, be or the
corporation was possessed of any property of the defendant,
or was indebted to him, the court may order the delivery of
such property, and the payment of any such indebtedness into
court, or the execution of a bond by the garnishee, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court, payable to the
plaintifff, to the effect that the indebtedness shall be paid, or
the property forthcoming, as the court shall direct. 
Sec. 177. Any creditor of the defendant, upon commencing his suit, or afterwards, upon filing bond and affidavit as
hereinbefore required, shall have a writ of attachment issued, 
01any person summoned as garnishee, or held to bail. and
propound nterrogatories to the garnishee, and enforce answer thereto, in like manner as the first attaching creditor. 
Sec. 178. Any defendant against whom a writ of attachment has been issued, may, after appearing to the action,
move to have the attachment discharged and restitution
awarded of any property taken under it; but an appearance
to an action shall not operate to discharge the attachment, un- 
less a bond be flied as required in section one hundred and
sixty-three. If the defendant appear and judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and any part thereof remain 
uusatisned, after exhausting the property attached, such
judgment shall be deemed a judgment against the defendant
personally, and shall have the same effect as other judgments
and execution shall issue thereon accordingly for the colleetion of such residue. If the plaintifff's bond be insufficient, he
shall have a reasonable time to file an additional one. 
~ec. 179. If the judgment in the action is rendered for:
the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the
property attached or its proceeds returned to him. 
Sec. 180. If judgment in the action be rendered for the
plaintifff, or one or more of several plaintifffs, and sufficient
proof be made of the goods, chattels, rights, credits, monies
and offects in possession of the garnishee, the court shall also
give judgment in favor of the plaintifff or plaintifffs, against
the garnishee, or the property of the defendant, or both, as
the ease may require, which may be enforced by execution. 
Sec. 1.81. After judgment for the plaintifff, or one or more
of several plaintifffs, property attached and remaining unsold
may be sold on execution as in other cases. 
Hee. 182. The monev realized from the attachment and
guruishee, shall under the direction of the court, after paying
all costs and expenses, and the debt of the creditor who comrueuced the attachment, provided sufficient shall have been
attached on writs issued by him, be paid to the several attaching creditors in the order of their several claims as adjusted, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the defendant. 
Hee. 183. Every defendant shall be entitled to an action
on the bond of the plaintifff or creditor, by whose proceedings
in attachment he shall have been aggrieved, if it shall appear
that the proceedings were wrongful and oppressive, and he
8ha11 recover damages at the discretion of a jury: Provided, 
If the plaintifff shall have recovered judgment against the defendant in the original suit, the amount of such judgment may
be set off against any judgment recovered on the bond. 
Sec. 184. When an order of attachment is fully executed,
or discharged, the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings therein, to the court. 
Sec. 185. The judge of the district court shall have.
power to make every order in vacation which, by the provisiona of this chapter, may be made by the court in term 
time. 
CHAP'fER XIII. 
Of Receivers and Deposits in Court.
Sec. 186. A receiver may be appointed by the court 
in the following cases:
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent pur
chase of property, or by a creditor to subject any property
or fund to his claim. 
2. In an action between partners, or other persons joint
ly interested in any property or fund. 
a. In all actions where it is shown that the property,
fund or rent and profits in controversy are in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured. 
4. In action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of a
mortgage and the sale of the mortgaged property, when it
appears that such property is in danger of being !ost, removed, or materially injured; or when such property ie insufficient to discharge the debt, to secure the application of
the rents and profits accruing, before a sale can be had. 
5. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is lusolvent, or is in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights. 
6. And in such other cases as may be provided for by
law, or when, in the discretion of the court it may be neces
sary to secure ample justice to the parties.
Sec. 187. No party or attorney or other person interested 
in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
Sec. 188. Before entering upon his duties, the re
ceiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with
one or more sureties, approved by the court, execute a bond
to such person as the court may direct, conditioned that he
will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action,
and obey the orders of the court therein. 
Sec. 189. When it is admitted by the pleading or
examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or other thing capable of deliv
ery, which being the subject of the litigation, is held by him
as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited
ln court, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the further direction of the court. 
Sec. 190. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of
money or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court,
besides punishing the disobedience as for contempt, may make
an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing,. 
and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of
the court. . 
Sec. 191. Mo0;ey deposited, or paid into. court i:q
an action, shall not be loaned out, unless, with the consent
of all parties having an interest in, or making claim to the
same. 
Sec. 192. The receiver shall have power, under the control ~f the court, to bring and defend actions, to take and keep 
possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts and
generally to do such acts respecting the property as the court
may authorize. 
Sec. 193. When the answer of the defendant admits part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order the defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, 
and may enforce the order by execution or attachment. 
Of Issues in Civil Actions.
CHAPTER XIV. 
Sec. 194. Issues arise upon the pleadings when a
fact or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party,
and controverted by the other, and are of two kinds: 
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.
Sec. 195. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the 
complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 196. An issue of facts arises: 
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the answer; or 
2. Upon new matter or a set-off, controverted by the reply; or 
3. Upon new matter in the reply.
Sec. 197. Issues both of law and of fact may arise 
upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action. In
such cases, the issues of law shall be first tried, unless the 
court .otherwise direct. 
Of the Trial of Civil Actions.
CHAPTER XV. 
Sec. 198. An Issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless referred upon consent as provided in this act. An issue of 
fact shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived,
or a reference be ordered, as provided in this act. 
Sec. 199. A motion to continue a trial on the ground 
Of the absence Of evidence, shall only be made upon affida vtt
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due dilgence has been used to procure it.
The court may also require the moving party to state, upon
affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain; and if the
adverse party admit that such evidence would be given, and
that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered
and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be continued. 
Sec. 200. "Then the action is called for trial, the
clerk shall prepare separate ballots, containing the nauu-s of
the jurors summoned, who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall then draw from
the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are
drawn shall constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted, before the jury is complete, or if from any cause, a
juror or jurors be excused or discharged, the sheriff, under
the direction of the court, shall summon from the bystanders,
citizens of the county so many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the. jury. The jury shall consist of twelve
persons, unless the parties consent to a less number. The
parties may consent to any number not less than three, and
such consent shall be entered bv the clerk on the minutes of the 
trial. .,
Sec. 201. Either party may challenge the jurors, 
but when there are several parties on either side, they shall
join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenge
shall be to individual jurors, and be peremptory or for cause.
Each party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges. 
Sec. 20:!. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or
more of the following grounds: lst.-A want of any of the
qualifications prescribed by law to render a person competent
as a juror. 2d.-Consanguinity or affinity within the third
degree, to either party. 3d.-Standing in relation of guardian
and ward, master and servant, employer and clerk, or princtpal and agent, to either party; or being a member of the family
of either party; or a partner in business with either party; or
being security on any bond for either party. 4th.-lnterest
on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in the
main question involved in the action. 5th.-Having formed
or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to the merits
of the action. 6th.-The existence of a state of mind in the
juror evincing enmity against either party, or under bias, 
in favor of either party.
Sec. 203. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. 
The juror challenged, and any other person as a witness, may
be examined on the trial of the challenge. 
Sec. 204. As soon as the jury is full, an oath or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance, that
they will well and truly try the matter in issue between the
plaintifff and the defendant, and a true verdict give, according
to the evidence. 
Sec. 205. When the jury is full and sworn, the ballots
containing the names of the jurors sworn shall be laid a.side
till. the jury so sworn is discharged, and then they shall be
returned to the box; and every ballot drawn containing the
name of a juror not so sworn, shall be returned to the box as
soon as the jury is completed. 
Sec. 206. The jurors may be kept together, in charge of
a proper officer, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any
time before the submission of the case to the jury, be permitted to separate. I either case they" may be admonished by 
the court that it is their duty not to converse with any person,
or allow any other person to converse with them, or among
themselves on any subject connected with the trial, or to express any opinion thereon, until the case is finally submitted
to them. 
Sec. 207. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and before
a verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform
his duty, the court may order him to be discharged. In that
case, unless the parties agree to proceed with the other jurors
a new juror may be sworn, and the trial begin anew; or the
jury may be discharged, and a new jury, then or afterwards,
impanneled. 
Sec. 208. When the evidence is completed the plaintifff or
party having the burden of proof, may, by himself, or counsel,
address the court and jury upon the law and facts of thP case;
after which the other party may address the court and jury
in like manner, and be followed by the party first addressing
the court, by himself or one counsel. The court shall then
proceed to charge the jury upon the law in the case, to which
charge, or any part thereof. at any time before the jury return the verdict, either party shall have the right to except;
but no exception shall be regarded by the supreme court, unless the same shall specify the particular parts accepted to.
No court shall charge a jury as to what facts have or have not
been proved by either party. 
Sec. 209. Either party shall have the privilege of requesting said charge to be made in writing, and may also ask the
court to give instructions, and if the court refuse to give such
instructions, the party asking the same may except. 
Sec. 210. The jury may either decide in the court room, or
retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept to- 
gether in a room provided for them, or some other convenient
place, under the charge of one or more officers, until they
agree upon their verdict, or are discharged. The officer shall, 
to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury together, separate
from other persons. He shall not suffer any communication
to be made to them, or make any himself, unless by order of
the court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their
verdict: and he shall not, before the verdict is renderd communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or
the verdict agreed upon. 
Sec. 211. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury
may take with them the pleadings in the cause, and all papers 
which have been received as evidence on the trial, (except depositions.) or copies of such parts of the public records or
private documents given in evidence, as ought not, in the 
opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them
in possession. 
Sec. 212. After the jury have retired for delibera
tion, if there be a disagreement between them as to any part
of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any
point of law arising in the cause, they may require the officer
to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into
court the information may be given in the presence of or after
notice to the parties, or counsel. 
Sec. 213. While the jury are absent the court may
adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business, but
it is nevertheless to be deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury until a verdict is
rendered or the jury is discharged. A final adjournment of
the court diseharges the jury. 
Of the Verdict.
CHAPTER XVI. 
Sec. 214. The verdict of a jury is either general
or special. A general verdict is that by which the jury pro
nounces generally upon all or any of the issues either in favor
of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by
which the jury find the facts, only, leaving the judgment to 
the court.
Sec. 215. In an action for the recovery of specific 
personal property, if the property have not been delivered to
the plaintifff, or the def PniJant by his answer claim a return
thereof, the jury shall a.--~ess the value of the property if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if they find in favor of the
defendant and that he is entitled to a return thereof, and may 
at the same time assess the damages, if they are claimed in
the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has
sustained by reason of the detention or taking and withholding such property. 
Sec. 216. In every action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury, in their dlscretlon,
may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases,
the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct 
them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of facts, to be stated in writing, and may direct
a written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding
shall be filed with the clerk and entered on the minutes. 
Sec. 217. When a special finding of facts shall be
inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall con
trol the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly.
Sec. 218. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff 
in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant
when a set-off for the recovery of money is established beyond
the amount of the plaintifff's claim established, the jury shall 
also assess the amount of the recovery, when the court give
judgment for the plaintifff on the answer. 
Sec. 219.. If the verdict be informal, it may be corrected
by the jury under the advice of the court, or the jury may be 
again sent out. When rendered, the party in whose favor the
verdict shall be, shall, before the same is recorded, pay to
the clerk the sum of twelve dollars as a jury fee, which shall
be taxed against the opposite party as a part of the costs, and
no other jury fee shall be taxed in the case. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
Trial by the Court.
Sec. 220. Trial by jury may, with the assent of the 
court, be waived by the several parties in the manner following: 
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with 
the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court entered in the minutes 
. Sec. 221. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the
court. its decisions shall be given in writing and filed with 
the clerk. In giving the decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated. Judgment upon
the decision shn 11 be entered accordingly. 
Trial by Referees.
Sec. 222. All or any of the issues in the action 
whether of fact or law, or both, may be referred upon the
written consent of the parties . 
. Sec. 223. When the parties do not consent, the court, or
any judge of the district court in vacation, shall, upon appli
cation of either, or of its own motion, order SJ. reference in any
civil action which has been commenced ten days or more be
fore the application for said order. The pleadings before
and at the trial by referees, shall be subject to the same rules
and restrictions in all respects as in cases tried by the court
and the court may direct a reference in the following cases: 
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either side, in which case the
referees may be directed to hear .and decide the whole issue,
or to report any specific question of fact involved therein; or, 
2. \Vhen the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court, before judgment upon an issue
at law, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect; or, 
. 3. When a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall arise, upon a motion or otherwise, in any stage of 
the action; or,
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court 
in a special proceeding.
Sec. 224. A reference may be ordered to any person 
or persons not exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If
the parties do not agree the court or judge may appoint one
or more, not exceeding three who reside in the county in which
the action is brought or the proceedings are triable. 
Sec. 225. " ... hen the appointment of referees is made by
the court or judge, each referee shall be: 
1. Qualified as a juror as provided by statute.
2. Competent as juror between the parties.
~ec. 226. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the 
same manner as a trial by the court. They shall first be sworn
well and faithfully to discharge their duties as such referees,
and shall have the same power to administer oaths to witnesses, and to grant continuances as the court upon such
trial. Thev shall state the facts found and the conclusions of
law, separately, and their decision shall be given, and may
be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of
the referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision
of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon at the next 
. 
.. 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
term of the court after the decision is made, in the same manner as if the action had been tried by the court. When the
reference to report the fact, the report shall have the effect
of a special verdict. 
Sec. 227. An exception is an objection taken at the trial
to a decision upon matter of law, whether such trial be by
jury, court or referees, and whether the decision be made
during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to the jury, or at any other time from
the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a
motion for a new trial or on an appeal, unless the exception
be material and affect the substantial rights of the parties. 
Sec. 228. The point of exception shall be taken at the
time when the decision is made; be particularly stated in writing, and may be signed by the judge and fl.led with the clerk,
or may, by order of the court, be entered at large upon the
journal. 
Sec. 229. No particular form of exception shall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of the
evidence or other matter as is necessary to explain it, but no
more. 
Sec. 230. When a cause has been tried by the court or by
referees, and the decision or report is not made immediately 
after the closing of the testimony, the decision or report shall
be deemed excepted to on a motion for a new trial or on ap
peal, without any special notice that an exception is taken
thereto. 
Arbitration and A wards.
CHAPTER XIX. 
Sec. 231. All persons desirous to end, by arbitration, any controversy, suit or quarrel, except such as respect
the title to real estate, may submit their matters of difference
to the award or umpirage of any person or persons mutually
selected. 
Sec. 232. Said agreement to arbitrate shall be in
writing, signed by the parties and may he by bond in any sum
conditioned that the pa rtiPR entering into said submission
shall abide the aware, 
Sec. 233. The said arbitrators shall be dulv sworn
to try and determine the cause referred to them, and a just 
award make out, under the bands and seals of a majority of
tliem, agreeably to the terms of the submission. Said award,
together with the written agreement to submit, shall be sealed 
up by the referees and delivered to the party in whose favor
it shall be made, who shall deliver the same, without break
ing the seal, to _the clerk of the district court of the district
Including the county wherein said arbtration ls held, who
shall enter the same on record in his office. A copy of the
award, signed by said arbitrators, or a majority of them, shall
also be delivered to the party in whose favor it is so rendered,
who shall, if the matter be not settled, serve a copy of the
same on the adverse party at least twenty days before the
commencement of the next term of the said district court,
and if no exceptions be filed against the same, by or before
the second day of said term, the judgment of the court shall
be entered uponsaid award with like effect as though said
award were the verdict of a jury, and execution may issue
therefore and the same proceedings had as in civil actions. 
Sec. 234. The referees chosen under the provisions of this act shall each be allowed three dollars per
day, to be taxed with other costs of suit; but if either party 
fail to appear on the day agreed upon for the referees to
meet, said party shall be liable for all costs accruing that day
unless his absence was unavoidable, and shall be so decided
to the satisfaction of said referees. And any arbitrator failing to attend on the day appointed, unless delayed by sickness
or unavoidable accident, shall forff:'it and pay the sum of five
dollars to the school fund of the county, to be recovered by
action before a justice of the peace, in the name of the county
commissioners of the county. as other fines are recoverable. 
Rec. 235. The party against whom an award may be made,
may except thereto for either of the following causes: 
1. That the arbitrators or umpire misbehaved themselves
in the case. 
2. That they committed an error in fact or law ..
3. That the award was procured by corruption or other 
undue meanr. '
Sec. 236. If upon exceptions filed it shall appear 
to the said district court that the referees have made a mistake
in fact or law, the court may refer the cause back to
said referees, directing the amendment of said award
forthwith, returnable to the current term of said court, and on
the failure so to correct said proceedings, the court shall be
possessed of the case and proceed to its determination. 
Sec. 237. Arbitrators, or a majority of them, shall have
power: 
1. To compel the attendance of witnesses duly notified
by either party and to enforce from either party the produc- 
tlon of all such books, papers and documents as they ma1
deem material to the cause. 
2. To administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses.
3. To adjourn their meetings from day to day, or for a 
longer time, and also from place to place, if they think proper.
4. To decide both the law and the fact that may be in
volved in the cause submitted to them.
Sec. 23R The laws in force in this Territory relating 
to evidence and the manner of procuring the attendance of
witnesses, shall govern in arbitrations. 
Sec. 2?9, The law governing proceedings for contempt, in the trial of cases before justices of the peace, so far
as the same may be applicable, shall apply to proceedings
before arbitrations. 
Sec. 240. The costs of witnesses, and other fees in
the case, shall be taxed against the losing party; said fees
shall be indorsed upon the award, and when said award is affirmed as the judgment of the district court, execution shall 
issue therefore as for costs in civil actions. Sec. 241. Such award, when so affirmed, shall be 
in all respects like any other judgment of the district court,
and a transcript of such judgment, or execution issued thereon, recorded in the county auditor's office in the same manner
as other judgments, shall be a lien noon real estate in said
county. 
New Trial.
CHAPTER XX. 
Sec. 242. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury,
court or referees. 
Sec. 24:-l. The former verdict or other decision may,
be vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of the
party aggrieved, for any of the following causes materially
affecting the substantial rights of such party: 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or
adverse party; or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion
by which such party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of prevailing party or jury.
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could 
not have guarded against.
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party 
making the application, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the trial. 
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given nnder the influence of passion or prejudice. ' 
7. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or
other decision, or that it is against law. 
Sec. 244. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of
the last preceding section, the facts upon which it is based
shall be made to appear by affidavit. For any other cause it
shall be made upon a written statement. 
Sec. 245. Notice of an intended motion for a new trial
shall be on the day when the verdict is rendered, or within
two days thereafter; and all motions shall be made during
the term at which a cause is tried, unless for good cause the
court allow further time. 
Sec. 246. If the application be made upon affidavit flied,
the adverse party may use counter affidavits on the bearing,
but such counter affidavits shall be flied with the clerk previous to the bearing. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
Judgment in General.
Sec. 247. A judgment is the final determination of the 
rights of the parties to the action.
Sec. 248. Judgment may be given for one or 
more of several plaintifffs and for or against one or more of
several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the case
requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on
each side, as between themselves. 
. Sec. 249. In an action against several defendants, the
court may, in its discretion, render the judgment against one
or more of them, whenever a several judgment is proper, leaving the action to proceed against the others. 
Sec. 250. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of
non-suit entered in the following cases: 
1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time, either in term
time or in vacation, before the jury retire to consider of their
verdict, unless set-off be interposed as a defense, or unless the
defendant sets up a counterclaim to the specific property or
thing which is the subject matter of the action. 
2. By either party, upon the written consent of the
other. 
3. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on trial,
and the defendant appears and asks for a dismissal. 
4. By the court, when upon the trial and before the final
submission of the case, the plaintifff abandons it. 
5. By the court, on the refusal or neglect of the plaintifff
to make the necessary parties, after having been ordered by
the court. 
6. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, where there are others whom the plaintifff fails to
prosecute with diligence. 
7. By the court for disobedience by the plaintifff of an order concerning the proceedings in the action. 
8. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when
upon the trial, the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient cause
for the jury. 
Sec. 251. In every case other than those mentioned in the
last section, the judgment shall be rendered on the merits. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
Judgment by Default.
Sec. 252. Judgment may be had on proof of the service 
of the complaint and notice, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint as follows ; 
1. In an action arising upon a contract for the recovery
of money only, if no answer be filed with the clerk of the
court within the time prescribed by law, or such further time 
as may have been granted, thecourt upon the application of
the defendant may direct the clerk to enter the default of the
defendant and immediately thereafter enter judgment for the
amount mentioned in the complaint, including the costs
against the defendant, or against one or more of the several
defendants, in the cases provided for in section forty-six of 
this act.
2. In other actions, if no answer be filed with the clerk 
of the court within the time prescribed by law or such further
time as may have been granted, the court shall in like manner direct the clerk to enter the default of the defendant; and
thereafter the plaintifff may apply at that or any subsequent
term of the court for the relief demanded in the complaint.
If the taking of an account or other proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment or to carry the
judgment into effect, the court may take the account, or hear
the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that
purpose. And when the action is for the recovery of damages only, or of specific, real, or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may order the 
damages to be assessed by a jury; or if to determine the amount
of damages the examination of a long account be necessary, 
by a reference, as above provided. 
3. In actions when the service shall be by publication,
the plaintifff may in like manner apply for judgment, and the
court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand
mentioned in the complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of the Territory, shall require the plaintifff or his agent to
be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been
made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use on account of
such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which
he is entitled to recover. Before rendering judgment the court 
may, in its discretion, require the plaintifff to cause to be filed
satisfactory security to abide the order of the court touching
the restitution of any property collected or received under the
judgment, in case the defendant or his representatives shall
be admitted to defend the action and succeed in the defense. 
4. The court may, in its discretion, before final judgment,
set aside any default, upon affidavit showing good and sufficient
cause, and upon such terms as may be deemed reasonable. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
Judgment by Confession.
Sec. 253. It shall be the duty of any clef k of a district 
court in this Territory, on the application of any person being
the original holder, or assignee of such holder, of a note, bond
or other instrument or writing, in which judgment is confessed
or containing a warrant to any attorney or other person to
confess a judgment, to enter judgment against the person or
persons who executed the same, for the amount which from
the face of said instrument may appear to be due, without the
agency of an attorney, or complaint or notice filed; said judgment to bear the rate of interest specified in said note, bond
or instrument of writing, and if no rate of interest is specified
therein, the legal rate of interest, with such stay of execution
as may be mentioned therein; for which entry, said clerk shall
be entitled to receive from said defendant a fee of one dollar.
Said clerk shall particularly enter on his docket the date and
tenor of the instrument of writing on which said judgment is
founded, which shall have the same force and effect as if complaint and notice had .. been duly served and filed, or judgment 
obtained in open court, and in term time; and the defendant 
shall not be liable for any other costs of enforcing the collection thereof. 
Sec. 254. Judgments confessed in accordance with the
preceding section shall be similar in all respects to other
judgments, and shall take effect and be a lien from the day 
upon which they are rendered: Provided, That a certified
transcript thereof shall be filed in the office of the auditor of
the county in which property may be situated, before such
judgment shall be a lien thereon. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
Of the Modeof Taking and Entering Judgments.
Sec. 255. When a trial by jury has been had 
judgment shall be entered in conformity to the verdict, at
the term during which it is rendered, unless an affidavit or
statement' of grounds for a new trial shall be filed, or unless
the court order the case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings. 
Sec. 256. When the case is reserved for argument
or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it 
may be brought by either party before the court for argument,
at the first term thereafter. 
Sec. 257. If a set-off established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand so established, judgment for the 
defendant shall be given for the excess} or if it appear that
the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief, judgment shall be given accordingly. 
Sec. 258. In an action to recover the possession of
personal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the
possession or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be 
had, and damages for the detention. If the property has been
delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a return
thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of
the property, or the value thereof. in case a return cannot be
had, and damages for taking and withholding the same. 
Sec. 259. Immediately after entering the judgment, the
clerk shall attach all the papers in the case and carefully keep
them in his office. 
Sec. 260. Every clerk shall keep in his office a wellbound book, to be called the execution docket, which shall be
a public record and open during the usual business hours to al! 
persons desirous of inspecting it.
Sec. 261. Within twenty days after the close of any 
term of the court, the clerk shall enter in said execution docket
a statement of each final judgment rendered at such term, con
taining:
1. The names at length of all the parties.
2. The date of the judgment and against whom ren
dered.
3. The amount or nature of the judgment and costs. 
4. An abstract of the costs of each party, and to whom 
belonging. 
Sec. 262. The clerk shall also enter in his execution docket a minute, in like manner, of any transcript of a
judgment from the supreme court, or from any other district
court of the Territory, or from a justice of the peace, when
the same are presented to him for that purpose, as shall be 
provided for by law.
Sec. 263. He shall leave space on the same page, if 
practicable, with each case, in which he shall enter, in the
order in which they occur, all the proceedings subsequent to
the judgment in said case, until its final satisfaction, including the time when and to what county the execution is issued
and when returned, and the return or substance thereof.
\Vhen the execution is levied on personal property, which is
returned unsold, the entry shall be: "Levied (noting the date)
on property not sold." When any sheriff shall furnish the
clerk with a copy of any levy upon rea J estate on any judgment, the minutes of which are entered in his execution docket, the entry shall be: "Levied upon real estate," noting the
date, and shall refer to the page upon the book of levies where
the same is entered, as is hereinafter provided. When any
execution issued to any other county is returned, levied upon
real estate in such county, the entry in the execution docket
shall be: "Levied on real estate of--, in -- county," noting the date, county, and defendant whose estate is levied upon, and when the money is made. or any part thereof, the
amount and time when made shall be entered; also when a
writ of error has been taken. or the judgment is appealed,
modifled. discharged or in any manner satisfied, the facts in
respect thereto shall be entered -. The parties interested may
also assign or discharge such judgment on such execution
docket. When the judgment is fully satisfied in any way, the
clerk shall write the word "satisfied," in large letters across
the face of the entry of such judgment. 
Sec. 264. The clerk shall prefix to the execution docket a
full and correct alphabetical index, containing the names of
all persons parties to judgments, plaintifffs and defendants, in 
separate columns. Sec. 265. The auditor of each county shall keep in his 
office, a well-bound book, which shall be a public record, open
to inspection at all reasonable hours. in which he shall enter,
whenever a transcript of a judgment from the supreme or
district courts, or an execution shall be presented to him for 
that purpose: 
lst.-The names at length of all the parties, plaintifffs and 
defendants. 
2d.-The date of the judgment, and against whom rendered. , 
3d.-The amount, or nature of the judgment and costs.
4th.-An abstract of the costs of each party, and to whom 
belonging, leaving room in connection with each case, if practicable to enter all the subsequent proceedings upon the execution, levies, sales, etc., and when a judgment is satisfied, he
shall write across the face in large letters the word "satisfied." 
Sec. 266. It shall be the duty of every sheriff into whose
hands an execution may come from the district or supreme
courts, before he shall proceed to execute the same, to present
it to the auditor of the county for record in the "execution
docket." And be shall present to the auditor, for a like purpose, copies of all levies and proceedings made and had by
him under and by virtue of said execution. 
Sec. 267. The clerk shall also keep in his office a
well bound book, to be called the book of levies, which shall
be a public record and open during the usual business hours 
to all persons desirous of inspecting the same, in which he
shall enter all levies upon real estate in his county, when delivered to him by the sheriff, as provided by law. An alphabetical index shall be prefixed to the book of levies, containing
the names of all persons upon whose real estate such levies
have been made, and when such levies are discharged in any
manner, an entry thereof shall be made in the margin of the
book of levies where the levy is recorded. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
Lien of Judgments.
Sec. 268. Judgments shall bear the legal rate of 
interest from date thereof, except when rendered upon an express contract in writing, wherein a different rate of interest
is agreed upon by the parties, in which case the judgment
shall, until paid and satisfied, bear the same rate of interest 
specified in such written contract. 
Sec. 269. The real estate of any judgment debtor, 
and such as he may acquire, shall be held and bound to satisfy
any judgment of the district or supreme court, or any judgment of a justice of the peace, authorized by law to be levied
upon real estate, for the period of five years from the day on
which said judgment was rendered: Provided, That unless a
certified transcript of the said judgment be lodged with the 
county auditor of the county where the lands lie, or unless a
copy of an execution, directed to the sheriff of said county, be
presented to said auditor for entry in his execution docket,
within twenty days after the close of the term at which it is
rendered, the lien upon real estate in that county shall be suspended, until the transcript of such judgment is so lodged for
entry, or the execution so presented. An appeal to the supreme court, writ of error, or stay of execution shall not affect any existing lien; and in all eases of an appeal or writ of
error, the date of final judgment in the supreme court shall
be the time from which said five vears shall commence to run. 
Sec. 270. Personal property shall only be held from the
time it is actually levied upon. 
Of Executions.
CHAPTER XXYI. 
Sec. 271. The party in whose favor judgment is given,
may at any time, within five years thereafter, issue a writ of 
execution for its enforcement, as prescribed by law.
Sec. 272. After the lapse of five years from the date of 
the judgment, an execution. can be issued only by leave of the
court, upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse party,
unless he be absent or non-resident, or cannot be found, in 
which case it may be given by publication, or in such other
manner as the court shall direct.. Such leave shall not be
given unless it be established by oath of the party, or other
satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof,
remains unsatisfied and due. 
Sec. 273. When a judgment requires the payment
of money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the
same may be enforced in those respects by execution, as pro
vided in this act. When it requires the performance of
any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
on the party against whom it is given, or the person or officer
who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and a
writ shall be issued commanding him to obey or enforce the
same. If he refuses, he may be punished by the court as for a
contempt. 
Sec. 27 4. There shall be four kinds of executions;
one against the property of the judgment debtor, another
against his person, the third for the delivery of the nossesaion
of real or personal property, or such delivery with damages
for withholding the same. and the fourth, commanding the 
enforcement of or obedience to any special order of the court.
And in all cases there shall be an order to collect the costs. 
Sec. 275. The writ of execution shall be issued in the
name of the U. S., sealed with the seal o.f the court, and 
subscribed by the clerk, and shall be directed to the shedff of
the county in which the property is situated, or coroner, when
the sheriff is a party, or interested, and shall intelligibly refer
to the judgment, stating the court, the district or county where
judgment was rendered. the names of the parties, the amount
of the judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually
due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially as follows: 
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor
it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of the debtor. and if sufficient
personal property cannot be found, ont of his real property,
upon which the judgment is a lien. 
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs. devlsees. legatees. t:nants
of real. property or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment. with interest. out of such property. 
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheeiff' to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the j~il of the county. until he shall pay the judgment,
with interest. or he discharged aeoordinz to Jaw. 
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property. it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possesalon of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may. at the same time, require the sheriff
to satisfy any charges. damages or rents and profits recovered
by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the
party against whom it was rendered. and the value of the property for which the judgment was recovered. to be specified
therein. If a deliverv thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient
personal property cannot be found, then out of Ms real nropertv. When it is to enforce obedience to any special order, it
shall particularly command what is required to be done. or to
be omitted. When the nature of the case shall require it,
the execution may embrace one or more of the requirements
above mentioned. And in all cases. the execution shall require the collection of all interest, costs. and increased costs 
thereon,
Sec. 276. When the execution is against the prop
erty of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff
of any county in this Territory. but it shall not he isaned in
the first instance. to the sheriff of any county out of the district
in which the judgment is rendered. unless the plaintifff or his
attorney, shall flrst make and file with the clerk an affidavit
that the defendant has not subject to execution. sufficient 
property, real or personal, in any county in said district, to
satisfy the judgment, but that he has property subject to ex
ecution it some other county or counties. But after an execu tion has been returned "no property found" in the district or
county in which judgment was rendered, an execution may be
issued to any county outside of said district, upon the plaintifff
or his attorney making oath that the defendant has property
subject to execution in such county. When it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it shall be issued to the
sheriff of the county where the property, or some part thereof,
is situated. 
Sec. 277. The sheriff shall indorse upon a writ
or execution, the time when he received the same, and such
execution shall be returnable within sixty days after its date, 
to the clerk who issued the same. And no sheriff shall retain
any monies collected on execution, more than twenty days,
before paying the same to the clerk of the court who issues
the writ, under penalty of twenty per cent. on the amount collected, .to be paid by the sheriff; the one-half to the party to
whom the judgment is payable, and the other half to the county commissioners of the county wherein the action was
brought, for the use of the school fund of the county. And
the clerk shall immediately after the receipt of any monies
collected on any judgment, notify the party to whom the same
is payable, and pay over the amount to the said party on demand. On failure to so notify and pay over, without reasonable cause shown for delay, the clerk shall forfeit and pay the
same penalty, to the same parties, as is above prescribed for
the sheriff. 
Sec. 278. If the action be one in which the defendant may be arrested, as provided by law, an execution against 
the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to any county
in the Territory: Provided, That the sheriff shall not arrest
the defendant if he shall deliver to him property subject
to levy, sufficient to satisfy said judgment. 
Rec. 279. A person arrested on execution, shall be
imprisoned within the jail, or the liberties thereof, and kept at
bis own expense until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal
discharge; but the plaintifff shall be liable to the sheriff in the
first instance, for such expense, as in other cases of arrest in
the same manner, and to the same extent as herein prescribed. 
Sec. 280. All property, real and personal, of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, shall be liable to execution. 
Sec. 281. In all cases in which a judgment has been
recovered in any of the courts of this Territory, and shall
have been assigned to ally person, execution may issue in 
the name of the assignee, upon the assignment being recorded 
in the execution docket by the clerk of the court in which the
judgment is recovered, and the provisions of this section shall
extend to all judgments heretofore recovered as well as to
those hereafter to be recovered. 
CHAPTER XXVII.
Of Stay of Execution. 
Sec. 282. Stay of execution shall be allowed on judgments rendered in the supreme court and district courts, as
follows: 
In the supreme court:
1. On all sums under five hundred dollars, thirty days. 
z, On all sums over five and under fifteen hundred dollars, sixty days. 
a. Un all sums over fifteen hundred dollars, ninety days.
Un judgments rendered in the district court: 
1. On all sums under three hundred dollars, two months. 
z, On all sums over three hundred and under one thousand dollars, five months. 
3. On all sums over one thousand dollars, six months.
Sec. 283. Before any execution shall be stayed un
der the provisions of this act, the defendant shall give
bond to the opposite party, in double the amount of the judgment and costs, with surety to the satisfaction of the clerk, 
conditioned to pay said judgment, interest, costs and increased costs, at the expiration of the period of said stay. 
Sec. 284. If the judgment is not satisfied, at any
time after the expiration of the period for which excecution had
been stayed, the plaintifff, at any subsequent term of the court
from which the execution issued, may, upon motion supported 
by an affidavit that such judgment or any part thereof is u11paid, and stating how much still remains due thereon, have
judgment against the sureties upon said bond, for the balance remaining due, and have an execution therefore, upon
which no stay shall be allowed. 
Sec. 285. The sureties upon a bond for stay of execution shall possess the same qualifications, and justify in
the same manner as bail upon arrest in civil actions. 
Sec. 286. When execution has not been stayed, and
execution issues before the time has elapsed for which it
might have been stayed, as is herein provided, the defendant
may have stay for the balance of time, upon giving the
proper bond and surety, which bond and surety shall be approved by and justified before the sheriff. 
Sec. 287. Bonds required by this ad shall, when 
taken, be lodged with the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered;' and placed on fiie in his office. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
Exemption.
Sec. 288. All real and personal estate belonging to 
any married woman at the time of her marriage, and aU which
she may have acquired subsequently to such marriage, or to
w.hich she shall hereafter become entitled in her own right,
and all her personal earnings, and all the issues, rents and
profits of such real estate, shall not be liable to attachment
for or execution upon any liability or judgment against the
husband, so long as she or any minor heir vf her body shall be
living: Provided, That her separate proi1e1ty shall be liable
for debts owing by her at the time of her marriage. 
Sec. 289. The following property shall be exempt
from execution or attachment, except as is hereinafter specially provided: 
1. A homestead, not exceeding five hundred dollars in
value, to include the dwelling house and other buildings, and
the land or lots upon which they stand. 
2. All wearing apparel of every person and family.
3. All private libraries, family pictures and keepsakes.
4. To each householder, one bed and bedding, and one 
additional bed and bedding for every two members of the
family, and other household goods and utensils and furniture, not exceeding one hundred and fifty dollars in value. 
5. To each householder, two cows with their calves, five
swine, two stands of bees, twenty-five domestic fowls, and
provisions and fuel for the comfortable maintenance of such
householder and family for six months: Provided, That in
case such householder shall not possess, or shall not desire to
retain the animals named above, he may select from his stock
and retain other animals not to exceed one hundred and fifty
dollars in value. 
6. To a farmer, the tools, implements and farming utensils actually used about the farm, two yoke of oxen with
yokes and chains, or one span of horses with harness, and one 
wagon.
7. To a mechanic, the tools and instruments used to carry 
on the trade, occupation or business in which he is engaged
for his support, or the support of his family. Also, material
not exceeding in value one hundred and twenty-five dollars. 
8. To physicians, their libraries, and medicines to the
amount of one hundred and fifty dollars. 
9. To attorneys, clergymen, and other professional men,
their libraries. 
10. All firearms kept for the 'use of any person or family.
11. To any person, a canoe, skiff or small boat with its 
oars, sails and rigging not exceeding in value fifty dollars.
12. To a person engaged in lightering for the support of 
himself and family, one or more lighters, barges or scows,
and a small boat, with oars. sails and rigging, not exceeding
in value, in the aggregate, two hundred dollars. 
13. A sufficient quantity of hay or grain, or feed for keeping for six weeks the animals mentioned in the several subdivisions of this section as exempted from execution and attachment. 
But no article of property mentioned in this section. shall
be exempt from an execution issued upon a judgment for its
price or upon a mortgage thereon, or for any tax levied thereon,
Provided, That no mortgage ma.de by a married man of any
property exempted from execution and attachment in this
act, shall be of any validity, unless the wife shall join in said
mortgage, and the same be witnessed and. acknowledged by
her as is required in case of a deed conveying her interest in
real estate. 
Sec. 290. This act shall not be so construed as to prevent any single man, or married man, his wife joining him in
the waiver, from waiving: by agreement in writing, to any
person or persons the benefit of this act: Prowlded, That any
agreement of waiver made by a married man and his wife.
shall be witnessed and acknowledged by them in the same
manner required in case of a deed made by them conveying
real estate. 
Sec. 291. In all cases the defendant himself may select
the property which is exempt. 
Sec. 292. When a sheriff or other officer has levied upo~
or attached, or is about to levy upon or attach, personal property which is claimed' to be by law exempt from execution or
attachment, the sheriff or other officer shall, if required by
the person claiming, forthwith summon three discreet and
disinterested men having the qualifications of jurors, being 
householders and resident in the vicinity where the property
is found, and administer to them an oath, impartially to examine and determine how much, if any, of Paid property is so
exempt. Such persons shall have full power to summon witnesses, administer the necessary oaths, and adjourn from time
to time not longer than three days in all. They shall also
have power to appraise the property claimed, and the other
property of the claimant, so far as may be necessary to deter- 
. 
mine what portion, if any, is so exempt. They shall deliver
their decision to the sheriff, in writing, and he shall forthwith
deliver to the person claiming, such property as is by them decided exempt from execution; but nothing in this section contained shall prevent the person claiming the property fron.
giving a bond and trying his right before the district court,
as is provided in cases for trying the rights of property claimed
by other persons than the judgment debtor. 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
Claim to Property Levied Upon and Attached.
Sec. ~93. When any other person than the judg
ment debtor shall claim property levied upon or attached, he
may have the right to demand and receive the same from the
sheriff or other officer making the attachment or levy, upon
his making an affidavit that the property is his, or that he has
a right to the immediate possession thereof, stating on oath
the value thereof, and giving to the sheriff or officer a bond,
with sureties in double the value of such property, conditioned
that be will appear at the next term of the district court in
which the property was seized, which shall commence ten days
or more after the bond is accepted by the sheriff or other officer,
and make good his title to the same, or that he will return the
property or pay its value to the said sheriff or other officer.
If the sheriff OP other officer require it, the sureties shall justify as in other cases, and in case they do not so justify when
required, the sheriff or officer shall retain the property; if the
sheriff or officer do not require the bail to justify he shall
stand good for their sufficiency. He shall date and endorse his
acceptance upon the bond. 
Sec. 294. The officer shall return the affidavit,
bond and justification if any, to the office of the clerk of the
district court, and the clerk shall place the same upon his 
trial docket at the first term, which shall commence ten days
or more after it was accepted by the sheriff or officer as above
provided for, and it shall stand for trial at that term. 
Sec. 295. The person claiming the property shall
be plaintifff, and the sheriff and plaintifff in the execution, defendants. 
Sec. 296. If the claimant makes good his title to
the property, the bond shall be canceled; if to a portion thereof, a like proportion of the bond shall be canceled; but if he
shall not maintain his title, judgment shall be rendered against
him and his sureties for the value of the property, or for such
a les~ amount as shall not exceed the amount due on the orig- 
inal execution or attachment. Where the judgment is in favor
of the sheriff for the entire property, the claimant shall pay
the costs; where the claimant recovers all the property, judgment shall be given in favor of the claimant for costs; where
the claimant recovers a portion of the property only, the costs
shall be apportioned. When the plaintifff prevails, the costs
may be taxed against the defendant who was plaintifff In the
execution or attachment, or the court may, if they shall be of 
opinion that the sheriff attached or levied upon said property
without the exercise of due caution, adjudge him to pay the
costs or any portion thereof 
CHAPTER XXX. 
Sales of Property Under Execution.
Sec. 297. Before the sale of property on execution, 
notice thereof shall be given as follows:
1. In case of personal property; by posting written or 
printed notice of the time and place of sale in three public
places of the county where the sale is to take place, not less.
than fifteen days before the day of sale. 
2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice,
particularly describing the property, in three public places
of the county where the property is situated, one of which
shall be where the property is to be sold, for four weeks prior
to the day of sale, and publishing a copy thereof once a week
for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if there
be one, or if there be none, then in a newspaper of the Territory published nearest the place of sale. 
Sec. 298. All sales of property under execution,
shall be made by auction between nine o'clock in the morning
and four in the afternoon. After sufficient property
has been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. 
Neither the officer holding the execution nor his deputy, shall
become a purchaser or be interested in any purchase at such
sale. When the sale is of personal property capable of man
UH l delivery, it shall be within view of those who attend the
sa Ir . and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the
highest price and when the sale is of real property and consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately, or where a portion of such real property i's claimed by
a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such
portion shall be thus sold. Sales of real property shall be
made on the premises if occupied by the defendant or any person holding under him, otherwise such sales shall be made at
the court house door. 
Sec. 299. The form and manner of sale of real
estate by execution shall be as follows: The sheriff shall proclaim aloud at the place of sale, in the hearing of all the bystanders: "I am about to sell the following tracts of real
estate (here reading the description,) upon the following execution:" (here reading the execution). He shall also state
the amount which is required to be made upon the execution,
which shall include damages, interests and costs up to the day
of sale and increased costs. If town property, and divided
into two or more known lots, he shall ask: 
lst.-\Vho will pay this debt for a seven years' lease of all
these lots? If there is a bidder, he shall then inquire: 
2d.-Who will pay the debt for a seven years' lease of
any less number of lots than the whole? If there is a bidder,
he shall inquire in respect to the smallest number of lots, for
a lease of which any bidder is willing to pay the debt. 
3d-Who will pay this debt for the lease of the least period of time'? If other lands, and divided into tracts or parcels,
he shall make similar inquiries concerning the whole and the
several parcels. and the separate acres in each parcel, If a
single tract of land, he shall make similar inquiry concerning
the whole, and the number of acres. If there is no bidder who
is willing to pay the debt for such lease of the whole, or of any
part known as separate lots. parcels or acres, he shall then
inquire who will pay the debt for the whole, or any known
part, in lots. parcels or acres, as the case may require. If 
he shall have a bidder he shall then offer for sale to the highest bidder above the debt. the lowest number of lots, or parcels, or acres. for which any one is willing to pay the debt. If 
he has no bid for the whole. or any portion equal to the
amount of the debt, he shall then off Pr the land for sale. the
lots and parcels separately or together, as he shall deem
most advantageous. All land, efflcept town lots, shall be sold 
bv the acre.
.. Sec. 300. When the land is sold by the acre and 
any less number of acres than the whole tract or parcel ie
sold, it shall be measured off to the purchaser in a square
form, from the northeast corner of the tract or parcel, unless
some person having an interest in the land shall, at the sale,
or prior thereto and before the bidding is made, request that
the land sold shall be taken from some other part, or in some
other form; in such case, if such request is reasonable. the 
officer making the sale shall sell accordingly.
Sec. 301. When an entire tract or parcel Is sold 
by the acre it shall not be measured but shall be
deemed and taken to contain the number of acres named In 
the description, and be paid for accordingly; and when the
number of acres is not contained in the description, the Jfflcer
shall declare according to his judgment how many acres are
contained therein, which shall be deemed and taken to be the
true number of acres. 
Sec. 302. The officer shall strike off the land to the
highest bidder, who shall forthwith pay the money bid to the 
officer, who shall return the money with his execution and bis doings thereon, to the clerk of the court from which the execution issued, according to the order thereof. 
Sec. 303. Upon the return. of any sale of real estate
as aforesaid, the clerk shall enter the cause on which the ex
ecution issued, by its title, in the docket of the term next atter
such return, and mark opposite the same "sale of land for confirmation," and if no objection is made, the court, at such
term, shall confirm such sale, and order the officer to make
out and deliver to the purchaser a deed or rPlease of the land sold, as the ease may require. If the court shall be satisfied
that by any irregularity of the officer, or from any cause, injustice has been done, the court shall set aside the sale or
lease, and order a new execution. "'lwn the sale is confirmed
the money shall be paid to those entitled thereto. When the
sale is set aside, the money shall be repaid to the purchaser. 
Sec. ao4. The party to whom such lease or deed is given
shall, upon the receipt thereof, take the same to the clerk of
the district court of the distrtct or county where the land lies,
who shall enter in his book of levies, where the levy is recorded, what disposition has been made of such portion of real
estate, and shall endorse the fact upon the deed or lease, with
the date when presented to him and when made. And no
county auditor shall record any such deed or lease without
such endorsement. 
Sec. 305. When the sheriff shall levy upon personal property, by virtue of an execution, he may permit the defendant
to retain the same or any part thereof in his possession until
the day of sale, upon the defendant executing a bond to the
sheriff, with sufficient sureties, in double the value of such
property, to the effect that it shall be delivered to the sheriff
at the time and place of sale, and for non-delivery thereof, an
action may be maintained upon such bond by the sheriff or 
the plaintifff in the execution.
Rec. 306. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff 
should be prevented from attending at the place appointed,
or, being present, should deem it for the advantage of all concerned, to postpone the sale for want of purchasers, or other
sufficient causes, he may postpone the sale, not exceeding one 
week next after the day appointed, and so from time to time
for like causes, giving notice of every adjournment by public
proclamation, made at the same time, not exceeding the life
of the execution. 
Sec. 307. When the purchaser of any personal property
capable of manual delivery, shall pay the purchase money,
the sheriff shall deliver to him the property, and shall give
him a receipted bill of sale. When such personal property
shall not be capable of manual delivery, the sheriff shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a receipted bill of sale. 
Sec. 308. The lease and sale of real estate under execution, after the same is confirmed. shall be absolute. 
Sec. 309. Where property liable to an execution against
several persons is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property of one of
them, or one of them pays without a sale more than his proportion, he may compel contributions from the others; and
when a judgment is against several, and is upon an obligation
or contract of one of them as securltv for another, and the
surety pays the amount, or any part thereof. either bv sale
of his property or before sale, he may compel repayment from
the principal. In such cases, the person so paving or contributing, shall be entitled to the benefit of the judgment to
enforce contribution or repayment, if within thirty days after
his payment, he fl.le with the clerk of the court where the
judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to
contribution or repayment; upon filing such notice, the clerk
shall make the entry thereof in the margin of the docket where 
the judgment is entered. 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
Proceedings Supplementary to Execution.
Sec. 310. After the issuing of an execution against prop
erty, and upon proof by affidavit of a party or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the district court, or any judge thereof,
that the judgment debtor has property or eff Pcts liable to execution which he unjustly refuses to apply t wards the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by order 
require the judgment debtor to appear and answer under 
oath concerning the same before such court, or judge, or before a referee appointed by such court or judge, at the time 
and place specified in the order, the place to be within the
county in which the judgment debtor resides, and disobedience to such order may be punished as for contempt. 
Sec. 311. The judgment debtor, on his appearance, may
he examined on oath concerning his property, and his answers reduced to writing, and flied with the clerk of the court
bv whom the execution was issued. Either party may also
examine witnesses in his behalf; and if, during such examination, any property, rights or credits of such judgment debtor,
not exempt by law, be discovered, they may be levied upon
by execution. 
Sec. 312. After the issuing of an execution against
property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may
pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid;
Provided, Such inedbtedness has not arisen from the personal earnings of the judgment debtor within sixty days prior
to the time of payment. 
Sec. am. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of a judgment debtor, or any one of several
debtors in the same judgment, and upon an affidavit that any
person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding twenty-five dollars, the district court, or any judge thereof, may, by order,
require such person or corporation, or any officer or member
thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before such
court or judge, and answer concerning the same. If before a
referee, the examination shall be taken by the referee and certified to the court or judge. The court or judge may also, in
their discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given
to any party to the action, in such manner as may seem proper. 
Rec. 314. At any time after the making of such order,
the judgment creditor may exhibit written allegations and
interrogatories touching the property, stock or credits of the
judgment debtor, in the possession of, or held by such person
or corporation as garnishee, or debts owing to judgment 
debtor by him or it, and such garnishee shall be required to
make full, direct and true answers to the sameon oath, 
Sec. 315. On the day when the garnishee shall be required
to attend before the court, judge or referee, he shall exhibit
on oath his answer to the allegations an interrogatories of
the judgment creditor, unless for cause shown, a further time
shall be allowed; in default of such answer, the judgment
creditor may take judgment by default against him at the
next term thereafter, or the court or judge may punish him as 
for a contempt.
Sec. 316. Such judgment by default may be proceeded on 
to final judgment, in like manner as action against defend- 
ants; but no final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee for a greater amount than that specified in the execu
tion.
Sec. 317. The judgment creditor may except to the an
swer of any garnishee for insufficiency, and if the same shall
be judged insufficient, the court or judge may allow the garnishee to amend his answer, in such time and upon such terms
as shall be just; or the judgment creditor may take judgment
by default, or move the court or judge to attach the body of
the garnishee, to compel a sufficient answer. 
Sec. 318. The judgment creditor may deny the answer
of the garnishee, in whole or in part, and the issue shall be
tried as ordinary issues between plaintifff and defendant. If 
the answer of the garnishee be not excepted to. or denied in
such time as the judge or court may deem proper, it shall be
taken to be true and sufficient. . 
Sec. 319. If by the answer not excepted to or denied, or
if upon trial it shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of
property or effects of the judgment debtor, or is indebted to
him the value of such property or effects, or of the debt being
ascertained, judgment may be rendered against the garnishee
for the proper amount in money; but if such debt be not yet
due, execution shall not be awarded against the garnishee un
til it becomes due; and in such cases, the court may make him
a reasonable allowance for his trouble in answering, to be
paid out of the fund in his hand. 
Sec. 320. When any property, effects, money or debts
belonging or owing to the judgment debtor. shall be confessed or found by the court, judge or referee or jur~, to be in
possession of the garnishee, he may, at any time before final
judgment, discharge himself by delivering the same to the 
sheriff.
Sec. 321. The judgment debtor orclaimant may be re
quired to attend before the court, judge or jury, for the purpose of giving ?,DY necessary information respecting property
or effects alleged to be in the possession of the garnishee, and
may be thereupon examined on oath concerning the same, 
Sec. 322. In all cases of controversy between the judgment creditor and garnishee, the parties may be adjudged to
pay or recover costs, as in ordinary cases between plaintifff
and defendant. 
Sec. 323. Execution may be issued to collect any judgment rendered against a garnishee as in ordinary cases of
judgment against defendants. 
Sec. 324. The earnings of a judgment debtor for personal
services, at any time within sixty days next preceding the 
judgment against a garnishee, shall not be included in such
statement. . 
Sec. 325. No territorial or county treasurer, sheriff, constable or other public officer, shall be liable to answer as gar~
nishee for monies in his possession as such public officer, belonging to or claimed by any judgment debtor. 
Witnesses and Evidence.
CHAPTER XXXII. 
Sec. 326. Every person of sound mind, suitable age and
discretion, except as hereinafter provided, may be a witness
in any action or proceeding. 
Sec. 327. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded
from giving evidence by reason of his interest _in the event of
the action, but such interest may be shown to affect his credlbility. 
Sec. 328. The last section shall not _apply to a party to
the action, nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it
is prosecuted or defended. ,vhen any assignor of a thing in
action, or contract is examined as a witness on behalf of any
person deriving title through or from him, the adverse party
may offer himself as a witness to the same matter in his OW]) 
behalf, and he shall be so received. But such assignor shall
not be admitted to be examined in behalf of any person deriving title through or from him against any executor or administrator. 
Sec. :~29. No person offered as a witness shall be exduded from giving evidence by reason of conviction for crime,
but such conviction may be shown to affect his credibility:
Provided, That no person who shall have been convicted of
the crime of perjury, shall be a competent witness in any case,
unless such conviction shall have been reversed, or unless he
shall have received a pardon. 
Sec. 330. The following persons shall not be competent
to testify: 
1. Those who are of unsound mind, or intoxicated at the
time of their production for examination. 
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable
of receiving just impressions of the :facts, eespecttng which
they are examined, or of relating them truly. 
3. Indians, or persons having more than one-half Indian
blood, in an action or proceeding to which a white person is a 
party. .,, j 
4. Negroes or Chinamen in actions or proceedings to
which a white person is a party. 
Sec. 331. In order to encourage confidence and to preserve it inviolate the following persons shall not be examined 
as witnesses.
1. A husband shall not be examined for or against his 
wife, nor a wife for or against her husband; nor can either
during marriage or afterwards, be without the consent of the
other, examined as to any communication made by one to the
other during marriage. But this exception shall not apply
to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor
to a criminal action or proceeding for n crime committed by
one against the other. 
2. An attorney or counsellor shall not. without the eonsent of his client, be examined as to any communication made
by the client to him, or his advice given thereon in the u.1urse
of professional employment. 
3. A clergyman or priest shall not. without the consent of
the person making the confession, be examined as to any coufession made to him in his professional character, in the course
of discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs. 
4. A regular .physician or surgeon shall not, without the
consent of his patient, be examined in a civil action as to any
information acquired in attending such patient, which was 
necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the patient. 
CHAPTER XXXIII. 
Mode of Procuring Attendance of Witnesses.
Sec. 332. Witnesses in civil causes, pending before the 
district court, shall not be required to attend unless they shall
be served with a notice signed by the clerk, or the party, or
his attorney, requiring their attendance at the time and place
specified, and shall also be tendered payment for one day's
attendance and mileage, or such other compensation 'in lieu
thereof as may be allowed for going to and returning from the
place where the court is held, if such fees for attendance and
mileage, or such compensation, be demanded by him at the
time notice is served upon him . 
. Sec. 333. The notice may require not only the
personal attendance of the person to whom it is directed, at
a particular time and place, to testify as a witness, but may
also require him to bring with him any books, documents or
things under his control; but no public officer or person having
the possession or control of public records or papers which 
by law are required to be kept in any particular office or Jll~ce,
snail be compelled. to produce the same in any court. 
Sec. 334. Such notice may be served by any white person
over eighteen years of age, by exhibiting and reading it to
the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof, or by leaving such
copy at the place of his abode. When service is made by any
other person than an officer authorized to serve process, proof
of service shall be made by affidavit. 
Sec. 335. A person present in court or before a judicial
officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he 
were in attendance upon a notice served by a party desiring
his testimony. 
Sec. 336. If any person duly served with a notice
and obliged to attend as a witness, shall fail to do so,
without any reasonable excuse, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure, to
be recovered in a ci vii action. 
Sec. 337. Such failure to attend as required by the notice, shall also be considered a contempt, and upon due proof,
the witness may be punished for contempt, and upon due
proof, the witness may be punished by a fine not exceeding
fifty dollars, and stand committed until said fine and costs are
paid, or until discharged by due course of law. 
Sec. :-ms. The court, judge, justice of the peace or
other officer, in such case, may issue an attachment to bring 
such witness before them to answer for contempt, and also
to testifv as witness in the cause in which he was notified to 
attend. "
Sec. 389. If the witness be a prisoner confined in 
a jail or prison within this Territory, an order for his examination in prison, upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a court or officer, for the purpose
of being orally examined, may be issued. 
Sec. 340. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testi
mony expected from the witness. and its materiality.
Sec. 341. Every person shall be entitled to one day's fees 
for attendance as witness in any case in which he shall have
been actually sworn and given testimony, but no person shall
be entitled to any greater amount of fees in any case, unless
immediately after the case is tried or disposed of, he shall
apply to the clerk of the court to tax his fees in such case,
and shall ftle with such clerk his affidavit setting forth: 
lst.-The number of days he was in attendance as n witness in said case. 
2d.-The number of miles he actually traveled, in order
to be in attendance. 
3d.-Whether he attended in obedience to "a notice or
otherwise. 
4th.-That he attended the number of days set forth, solely and exclusively as a witness in said case, and that no part 
of said time was he inattendance as a party to any action pending in said court, or as a juror, attorney, or other officer of
said court, or as a witness before the grand jury, or witness
in any. other case pending in said court. 
Examination of Parties.
CH.APTER XXXIV. 
Sec. 342. A party to an action or proceeding may
be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party 
or of one of several adverse parties, and for that purpose may
be compelled in the same manner, and subject to the same
rules of examination as any other witness to testify at the
trial, or he may be examined on a commission. 
~ec. 343. Instead of the examination being had at
the trial, as provided by the last section, the plaintifff, at the 
time of filing his complaint or afterwards, and the defendant
at the time of filing his answer or afterwards, may file in the
clerk's office interrogatories for the discovery of facts and
documents material to the support or defense of the action, to
be answered on oath by the adverse party. 
Sec. 344. Such interrogatories shall be answered,
and such answers fl.led in the clerk's office, within twenty 
days after the same are served on the party interrogated, unless for cause shown a further time be allowed by the court or
judge thereof. 
Sec. 345. A party to an action having filed interrogatories to be answered by the adverse party, as provided 
by the last two sections, shall not thereby be precluded from
examining such adverse party as a witness at the trial. 
Sec. 346. The testimony of a party either upon an
examination at the trial, or upon interrogatories fl.led, may be 
rebutted by adverse testimony.
Sec. 347. If a party refuse to attend and testify at 
the trial, or to be examined upon a commission, or to answerany interrogatories filed, his complaint, answer, or reply may
be stricken out, and judgment taken against him, and he may
also, in the discretion of the court, be proceeded against as
in other cases for contempt: Provided, That the preced- 
ing sections shall not be construed so as to compel any person to answer any question where such answer may tend to
criminate himself. 
Sec. 348. A party examined by an adverse. party, as in
this act provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But if he testify
to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him
by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or qualify his
answer thereto, or to discharge when his answer would charge
himself. such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on
his own behalf, in respect to such new matter, and shall be 
received.
RP<. B49. .\ person for whose immediate benefit the action 
is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action,
mav be examined as a witness in the same manner and sub
. [ect to the rules of examlnation as if he were named as a 
party. 
CHAPTER XXXV. 
Of Depositions of Witnesses in the 'l'erritory.
Sec. 350. In all civil cases, the testimony of a witness re
siding thirty miles or more from the place of holding court,
a going witness, or one sick, infirm or aged, tendering it im-: 
possible he will be able to attend, may be taken by deposftlon,
by giving notice to the opposite party or his attorney of the
time and place when, and the officer before whom the deposition of the witness will be taken, which notice shall be served,
a reasonable time prior to the taking of the deposition, to enable the adverse party or his counsel to attend; and ~.v party;
may, by notice, require a witness to attend from any. part, of
the district: Provided, That in all cases when the judge shall
not decide that the personal attendance of the witness was
necessary, and that his testimony could not properly be taken
by deposition, the party calling the witness shall be liable
for and pay all the mileage or traveling expenses of the witness for the distance beyond thirty miles from the place of
holding the court, without regard to the final determination 
of the suit.
Sec. 351. The deposition may be taken before any judge 
of a court of record, justice of the peace, clerk of a court of, 
record, mayor of a city, or notary public, and shall be written
by the officer taking the same, or by witness, or by some disinterested person, in the presence and under the direction of
such officer. When completed, it shall be careful1y read to, 
or by the witness, corrected if desired, and subscribed by him,
and certified by the officer substantially as follows:
"Territory of Washington, County of . ss, 
I, A. B., (judge, clerk, etc., as the case may be.) do hereby
certify, that the above deposition was taken before me, and
reduced to writing by (myself, or witness, as the case may be,)
at---, in said county, on the --- day of---, 18-,
at -- o'clock, in pursuance of notice hereunto annexed; that
the above named witness, before examintaion, was sworn (or
affirmed) to testify the truth, the whole truth and nothing but
the truth, and that the said deposition was carefully read to
(or by) said witness, and then subscribed by him. 
Dated at ---, the -- day of --, 18-.
A. B. (as the case may be.) 
The deposition shall be enclosed in a sealed envelope, by
the officer taking the same. and directed to the clerk of the
court. arbitrators. referee, or justice of the peace before whom
the action is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and either delivered to the clerk of the
court or other person, or transmitted through the mail or by
some private opportunity. 
Sec . 352. Such deposition may be used by either
party upon the trial or other proceeding against any party 
giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptlons,
to the competency or credibility of the witness, or the manner
of taking the deposition. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall
be made at the trial, unless the same was taken at the time of
the examination. It shall be the duty of the person taking'
the deposition to propound to the witness every question proposed by either party, and to note all objections to the form
of any interrogatory, and when any interrogatory is objected
to on account of form, unless the form is amended and the objection waived, he shall write after the question and before
the answer the words "objected to," and when any witness
declines to answer a question on the ground that it will tend
to criminate himself, that fact shall also be noted after the
question is written down. The deposition may be taken in the
form of a narrative, or by question and answer, or partly in
either form, as either party present at the examination shall require. When taken by question and answer, the officer shall
first write down the question and then the answer, as nearly
as may be in the language of the witness; but when the deposition is read to the witness previous to sign 1 n ~ it, he shall
be permitted to amend his answer to any qu.:: ;. -1 or any part
of his deposition; such amendment, howc. er, unless both 
parties shall otherwise agree, shall not be made by way of 
interlining or erasing, but shall be added to the end of the deposition under the title .. amendment by the witness," and
such amendment shall intelligibly refer to the part so 
amended.
Sec. 353. No deposition shall be used if it appear 
that the reason for taking it no longer exists: Provided, however, That if the party producing the deposition in such case
shall show any sufficient cause then existing for using such 
deposition, it may be admitted.
Sec. 354. When the plaintifff in an action shall 
discontinue it, or when it shall be dismissed for any cause. and
another action shall afterwards be commenced for the same
cause between the same parties, or their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken in the first action may
be used in the other, in the same manner and subject to the
same conditions and objections as if originally taken for such
other action: Provided. That the deposition shall have been
duly fl.led in the court where the first action was pending, and
shall remain in the custody of the court, from the termination
of the first action until the commencement of the other. 
Sec. 355. When any action shall have been appealed from one court to another, all depositions lawfully 
taken to be used in the court below, may be used in the appellate court, in the same manner and subject to such exceptions
for informality or irregularity, and none other, as were taken
in writing to such depositions in the court below. 
Sec. 356. Any witness may upon service of notles be compelled, by any officer authorized to take depositions, to appear
and give his deposition at any place within twenty miles of
the a bode of such witness, in like manner and under the same
penalties as he may be compelled to attend as a witness in
any court. 
CHAPTER XXXVI. 
Depositions of Witnesses Out of the Territory.
Sec. 357. The testimony of a witness out of this TeITi
tory may be taken by deposition, to be read in evidence in any
action, suit or proceeding pending in any court in this Terri
tory.
Sec. 358. The deposition of a witness out of the Territory 
but residing within one hundred miles of the place of holding
court, may be taken under a notice in the same manner and 
before officers of the like character as depositions are taken
in this Territory, and all such depositions shall be governed
by the same rules as if taken in the Territory. 
Sec. 359. In other cases the deposition of a witness out
of the Territory shall be taken upon a commission issued by
the clerk, under the seal of the court, upon an order of the
court, a judge thereof, or any of the judges of the supreme
court, which order may be made on the application of either
party, upon giving to the adverse party or his attorney, ten
days previous notice in writing, together with a copy of the
interrogatories intended to be put to such witness. It shall be
issued to a person or persons not exceeding three in number,' 
agreed upon by the parties or their attorneys; or if they do
not agree, to any judge, justice of the peace, notary public or
other competent person selected by the court or judge granting
the order for the commission. 
Sec. 3UO. Such proper Interrogatories, as well on the part
of the plaintifff as on the part of the defendant, as the respective parties may prepare to be settled, if they disagree as to
form by the court or judge thereof granting the order for the
commtsslon, shall be annexed to the commission; or where
the parties agree to that mode the examination may be without
written interrogatories. 
Sec. 361. 'I'he commission shall authorize the the commissioner or commissioners to administer an oath to the witness and take his-depositton in answer to the several Interrogatories annexed to such commission; or when the examination is to be without interrogatories in respect to the qnestion in dispute, to certify the deposition to the court, and to
direct it to the clerk of the court or such other person designated or agreed upon, and forward it to him by mail or ether
usual channel of conveyance. 
Sec. 362. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except upon
affidavit or other evidence satisfactory to the court that the
testimony of the witness is necessary, and that proper dili
gence has been used to obtain it. 
CHAPTER XXXVII. 
Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.
Sec. 363. When any person shall be desirous to per
petuate the testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth briefly and substantially his
title, claim or interest in, or to the subject concerning w hich
he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the names of all the
persons interested or supposed to be interested therein, and
also the name Of the witness proposed to be examined, which
statement shall be under oath and filed in the district court. 
If the subject of the proposed deposition relate to real estate
within this Territory, the statement shall be filed in the county where the lands, or any part thereof lie, otherwise in the
county where the parties interested, or some of them reside.
Upon such statement an application may be made to such
court or judge thereof, to allow the examination of such wit
ness.
Sec. 364. The court or judge shall appoint a time 
and place for hearing such application, and shall order notice
thereof and of the statement, to be served on all persons iuentioned therein as adversely interested in the matter. The notice shall be served personally on all those living in the 'rP.rri
tory at least twenty days before the time of hearing the application. Upon those who are not residents of the Territory, it
shall be served by publication, or otherwise, in the same manner as a notice is served upon a non-resident. 
Sec. 365. If upon hearing of the parties or of the
applicant alone, should no adverse party appear, the court or
judge shall be satisfied that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, an order shall be made allowing the examination of the witness; and such court or judge shall direct a
commission to issue therefore, in like manner as a commission
to take the testimony of witnesses as in other cases. 
Sec. 366. The deposition of such witness, whether
residing in this Territory or not, shall be taken upon written
interrogatories flied by the applicant, and cross interrogatories flied by any party adversely interested, if he shall think
flt, and it shall be taken and returned substantially in the
same manner as if taken upon commission, to be used in any
cause pending in the same court. 
Sec. 367. The deposition when returned shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the court by whom the commission was issued. and if a. trial be had between the person, 
at whose request the deposition was taken, and the person
named in the statement, or any one of them, or their successors
in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness,
or of his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness,
or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certified copy thereof,
may be used by either party. subject to all Jegal objections.
But if the parties attend at the examination, no objections to
the form of the interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless
the same were taken at the time of examination. 
CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
Records, Documents, Books, Etc. 
Sec. 368. Any court in which an action is pending, or a
judge thereof, may, upon notice, order either party to give
to the other within a specified time, an. inspection and copy,
or permission to take a copy of any book, document or paper
in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the
book, document or paper from being given in evidence, or if 
wanted as evidence by the party applying, may direct the
jury. to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be, and the
court may also punish the party refusing as for a contempt.
This section shall not be construed to prevent a party from
compelling another to provide books, papers or documents
where he is examined as a witness. 
Sec. 369. If either party at any time before trial
allow the other an inspection of any writing, material to the
action, whether mentioned in the pleadings or not, and deliver
to him a copy thereof, with notice that be intends to read the
same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may be so read 
without proof of its genuineness or execution, unless denied
bv affidavit before the commencement of the trial. If such denial b e made of any writing not mentioned in the pleadings
the court may give time to either party to procure evidence,
when necessary for the furtherance of justice. 
~ec." !170. The records and proceedings of any court
of the United Rtates, or of any state or territory, shall be ad
missible in evidence in all cases in this Territory when
authenticated by the attestation of the clerk, prothonotary or
other officer having charge of the records of such court, with
the sea, of such court annexed. 
Rec. :171. Whenever any deed. conveyance, bond,
mortga-re or other writing, shall have been recorded or flied
in pursuance of Jaw. copies of such deed. conveyance, bond or other writing, duly certified by the officer having the Jawful custody thereof. with the seal of the office annexed, if there be such seal. if there be no seal, then with
the offldal certificate of such officor, shall be received in evidence t" alJ intents and purposes as the originals themselves. 
Sec. 372. Copies of all papers on file in the offices of the
surveyor generals of Oregon and Washington. secretary of
Washington Territory, Territorial treasurer, Territorial audi- 
tor and county treasurer, or any matter recorded in either of
said offices, duly certified by the respective officers, with the
respective seals of office annexed, shall be evidence in all the
courts of this Territory. 
Sec. 373. Any certificate of residence and cultivation upon
the public lands, issued by the surveyor general of Oregon or
of Washington Territory, in pursuance of law, shall be evidence in all the courts of this Territory. 
Sec. :374. A seal of court or public office, when required to any writ, process, or proceeding or to authenticate a
copy of any record or document, may be affixed bymaking an
impression directly on the paper which shall be as valid as if
made upon a wafer or on wax. 
Sec. 375. Printed copies of the statute laws of any
state, territory or foreign government. if purporting to have
been published under the authority of the respective government, or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their
courts, shall be admitted in all courts in this Territory, and
on all other occasions as presumptive evidence of such laws. 
CHAPTER XXXIX. 
Writs of Error and Appeals to Supreme Court.
Sec. 376. Every final judgment, order or decision of a dis
trict court, ina civil action, may be re-examined upon a writ
of error in the same court for error in fact, and in the supreme
court for error in law. 
Sec. 377. Every such writ shall be prosecuted at the term
of the supreme court, which shall be held three months or more
next succeeding the term of the district court, at which the
final judgment, order, or decision, of the district court is made
and not afterwards: Provided, That a party by giving the
opposite party twenty days' notice prior to the commencement of the term of the supreme court next succeeding the 
, term of the district court at which such final judgment, order
or decision is made, may have his writ of error heard at such
term, whether the three months have elapsed or not, prior to
the said first day of the supreme court. But, if the party en
.titled to such writ, shall be absent from the Territory, and
shall not have been personally served with process, nor appeared to the action. or if such party be un infant, married
woman. or imprisoned, or insane, then such writ may be prosecuted at the next term of the supreme court after the removal
of such disability, and not afterward. And a writ of error
dismissed, for want of diligence in the prosecution thereof, 
or Iaches of the plaintifff in error, shall be conclusive against
said plaintifff, and entitle the defendant in error to afflrmance
of the judgment below, with costs. 
Sec. 378. The party desirous of taking his writ of error
shall file with the clerk of the court, in which the judgment
was rendered, a precipe, containing a particular description
of the judgment, order, or decision, upon which he wishes to
bring his writ of error and his claim, whether upon error in
fact or error in law; which precipe shall also contain an order
directing the clerk to issue, under the seal of the court, notice
to the adverse party of the filing of such precipe, and of the
court and term at which such writ of error will be prosecuted;
and the writ of error shall be deemed to have issued at the
time of the filing of such precipe. 
Sec. 379. The notice shall be issued and served in the
same manner as other process is served, and shall be returned
to the court in which such writ of error is to be prosecuted,
by the first day of the term at which said writ of error is to be
heard. It may be served on the defendant, or his attorney of
record, m any county m the Territory. And if service of the
notice cannot be had from any cause, the court, at such term,
apon being satisfied that the precipe has been filed and notice
issued, may direct the manner in which such notice may be
given; and after the order for giving notice has been fully
complied with, may proceed as though notice had actually been
given. 
Sec. 380. Upon the filing of such precipe, the plaintifff in
error shall pay to the clerk his fees for the transcript of the
judgment, and the precipe and notice to the defendant in
error; which transcript shall by the clerk be forwarded immediately to the clerk of the supreme court; and he shall
make out a full transcript of the record and send the same to
the clerk of the supreme court by mail or other safe oppor
tunity, (upon the payment of his fees by the plaintifff in error)
at least ten days before the commencement of the term of 
said supreme court.
Sec. 381. 'I'he transcript of the record shall contain a copy 
of the writ and return, the pleadings, the journal entries, judgment, order or decision, bills of exceptions, execution and return, and all matters pertaining to the case. but it shall not
be necessary to send copies of notices to witnesses, motions
or depositions, unless the same, by bill of exceptions, have been
made part of the record. 
Sec. 382. Whenever from any cause the transcript of the
record shall not be received by the clerk of the supreme court,
or shall be lost, the court shall order a new transcript to be 
sent up in such time and manner as they shall see flt: Provided, 'I'hat in all cases where the failure arises from the neglect of file plaintifff in error to comply with the provisions
~f this act, the writ of error or appeal shall be dhtmi~,ecl.
Either party may upon a suggestion of a diminution of the 
record, and upon a proper case made, have an order that a
further record be sent up. 
Sec. 383. If the notice shall have been served ten days Ol" 
more before the term of the court to which the record is returnable, the case shall stand for trial at such term; and it
may stand for trial if the parties appear in court, bringing in
the record, and waive the notice. 
Sec. 384. The court of error may fix the time for assigning errors and filing joinders; if errors in law be assigned, no
joinder shall be necessary. One or more errors in fact may
be assigned, and the defendant may put in the common joinder
as a demurrer thereto, or may traverse or confess, and avoid
the fact assigned for error, and a separate issue shall be made 
on each.
Sec. 385. If at the time of filing the precipe with the clerk 
or at any time thereafter, the plaintifff in error shall file with
the clerk a bond with sureties to the satisfaction of the clerk,
in double the amount of the judgment, if it is for money, and
if the judgment is for the restraining or performing any
other acr, or the determination of any other right, then in
such a sum as a judge of the supreme court shall direct, conditioned that the plaintifff pay all costs and damages, and perform such judgment as the court on the trial of the writ of
error shall adjudge against him, then no further execution
shall be had upon the original judgment until the determination of the writ of error, and any execution previously issued
shall be recalled. 
Rec. ~~G. The judgment or other matter complained of,
may be affirmed or may be reversed or set aside in whole or
in part, or may be modified, or a different order or judgment
may be substituted for that complained of, or the writ of er-or may be dismissed by the plaintifff in error or by the court,
and the cause be remitted to the district court for such further proceedings as the supreme court by mandate shall direct; and execution may issue from the supreme court to satisfy the judgment of the court below, together with all costs
and accruing costs, in the case of dismissal or other order Ol" 
judgment of the supreme court aforesaid; or its judgment
may be executed by the district court on a mandate for that
purpose. 
Sec. 387. In case the judgment in the court below shall 
have been for a sum of money, and shall be affirmed against
the plaintifff in error, or the writ of error dismissed, damages
shall be awarded to the defendant in error. not exceeding ten
per cent. on the amount, exclusive of interest and costs of
such judgment, and in all cases damages, interest and costs
shall be allowed on the original judgment, together with reasonable expenses of the prevailing party in the supreme court. 
Sec. 388. Any person who may be a party or privy to any
judgment, order or decision, may prosecute a writ of error to
reverse the same, and the reversal shall enure to the benefit
of all the parties and privies therein, and no other party or
privy shall afterwards prosecute a writ of error for the same 
cause.
Sec. 389. When it shall appear that any other person 
should be made a party to any proceeding upon a writ of error, the court shall require such person to be made a party, 
and shall direct in what manner notice shall be given.
Sec. 390. The reversal of a judgment, order or decision 
shall not affect the title of property sold upon an execution
issued upon such judgment, order or decision, if such property be purchased at the sale by a stranger, but if purchased by the
judgment creditor the plaintifff in error may bring an action for
the recovery thereof, and the court may award restitution or 
render such other judgment as justice shall require.
Sec. 391. When the supreme court shall be equally divi
ded in opinion, the cause shall stand continued until all the
judges are present. 
Sec. 392. Whenever upon the trial of any civil action in
the district court, it shall be found to turn upon important
questions of law, the court may direct a special verdict to be
found; and in all cases the parties may make an agreed statement of facts, signed by themselves or their attorneys, which
shall be entered of record; and all q nestions of law arising on
special verdicts, agreed statements, motions for new trial,
and others in any manner arising in the district court, may
under the direction of the district court, be taken to the supreme court by way of appeal; and for that purpose the court
shall render a judgment in form only, which shall not be executed until the final decision of the cause; and the supreme
court on bearing the appeal may givP judgment or remand
the cause, or make any order according to the law and justice
of the case. In no other cases except as provided in this section, can any order, judgment or decree of the district court
be reviewed in the supreme court, except upon writ of error. 
Sec. 393. In all cases of writs of error or appeals in the
supreme court, the court shall consider and adjudge upon all
errors and mistakes which shall appear in the entire record by 
which plaintifff in error may have been prejudiced, if the same
were. exceptedto at the time, whether interlocutory or fl.nal,
and whether plaintifff in error had, according to the strict rules
of law waived the same by proceeding with the case under
the order of the court, after such exception: Provided, That
the court shall consider all amendments which could have been 
made, as made, and in such case shall not reverse any [ndg
ment, order, or decision, unless it shall appear that injustice
may have been done, and the plaintifff in error or his attorney
shall make oath that injustice has been done him in the jndgment which is sought to be reversed. 
Sec. 394. All cases, either in .Jaw or equity, which have
heretofore been decided in this Territory, may at any time
within the time limited in this act, be examined upon a writ 
of error, under the provisions of this act, and in adjudging
upon such cases, the court shall be governed in their judgment
on errors by the rules of the law in force at the time such alleged error was committed. 
CHAPTER XL. 
Set-cff. 
Sec. 395. The defendant in a civil action upon a
contract expressed or implied, may set off any demand of a 
like nature against the plaintifff in interest, which existed and
belonged to him at the time of the commencement of the suit.
And in all such actions, other than upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, negotiated in good faith and
without notice before due, which has been assigned to the
plaintifff, he may also set off a demand of a like nature existing against the person to whom he was originally liable, or any
assignee prior to the plaintifff, of such contract, provided l!IUCh 
demand existed at the time of the assignment thereof, and
belonging to the def end ant in good faith, before notice of
such assignment, and was such a demand as might have been
set off against such person to whom he was originally liable,
or such assignee while the contract belonged to him. 
Sec. 396. If the plaintifff be a trustee for any other
or if the action be in a name of the plaintifff who has no real 
interest in the contract U!)On which the action is founded, so
much of a demand existing against those whom the plaintifff
represents or for whose benefit the action is brought, may be
set off as will satisfy the plaintifff's debt. if the same might 
have.been set off in an action brought by those beneficially interested. 
Sec. 397. In actions brought by executors and administrators, demands against their testators and intestates,
and belonging to defendant at the time of their death, may 
be set off by the defendant .in the same manner as if the action
had been brought by and in the name of the deceased. 
Sec. 398. When a set-off shall be established in an
action brought by executors or administrators, and a balance
found due to the defendant, the judgment rendered thereon
against the plaintifff shall have the same effect as if the action
had been originally commenced by the defendant. 
Sec. 399. In actions against executors and administrators and against trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the defendants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestates or those whom they
represent, in the same manner as the person so represented
would have been entitled to set off the same, in an action 
against them.
Sec. 400. To entitle a defendant to a set-off he must set 
the same forth in his answer.
Sec. 401. If the amount of the set-off, duly estab
lished, be equal to the plaintifff's debt or demand, judgment
shall be entered that the plaintifff take nothing by bis action;
if it be less than the plaintifff's debt or demand, the plaintifff
shall have judgment for the residue only. 
See. 402. If there be found a balance due from the
plaintifff in the action to the defendant, judgment shall be
rendered in favor of the defendant for the amount thereof,
but no such judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifff
when the contract, which is the subject of the action, shall
have been assigned before the commencement of such action,
nor for any balance due from any other person than the plaintiff in the action. 
Costs in Civil Actions.
CHAPTER XLI. 
Sec. 403. The measure and mode of compensation
of attorneys and counselors, shall be left to the agreement, 
expressed or implied, of the parties, but there may be allowed to the prevailing party upon the judgment certain sums
by way of indemnity for his expenses in the action, which allowance are termed costs. 
Sec. 404-. Costs shall be allowed the party in whose 
favor the judgment is .rendered, except as is otherwise provided by law. 
Sec. 405. The plaintifff shall not be entitled to costs on
any action within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace,
which shall be commenced in the district court, when the recovery is for a less amount than one hundred dollars. 
Sec. 406. In an action for an assault or for an assault
and battery, or for false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, if the plaintifff
recover less than ten dollars, he shall be entitled to no more
costs o.r disbursements than the damage recovered. 
Sec. 407. When several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
instrument in writing, or in any other case for the same cause
of action against several parties, who might have been joined
as defendants in the same action, no costs or disbursements
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of Emch
actions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded
against in the other actions were, at the commencement of
the previous action, openly within this Territory. 
Sec. 408. In all cases where costs and disbursements are not allowed to the plaintifff, the defendant shall be
entitled to have judgment in his favor for the same. 
Sec. 409. In all actious where there are several defendants not united in Interest. and making separate defenses
by separate answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover [udg
ment against all, the court may award costs to such of de-: 
fendants as have judgments in their favor, or one of them.
Sec. 410. Wlwn allowed to either party, costs shall be as 
follows: 
1. In all actions settled before issue is joined, five dollars. 
2. In all actions where judgment is rendered without a
jury, ten dollars .. 
3. In all- actions where judgment is rendered after impanneling a jury. fifteen dollars. 
4. In all actions removed to the supreme court and settled before argument, ten dollars. 
5. In all actions where judgment is rendered in the supreme court, after argument, fifteen dollars. 
Sec. 411. The prevailing party. in addition to al
Jowance for costs, as provided in the last section. shall also be 
allowed for all necessary disbursements, including. the fees
of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the necessary
expenses of taking- depositions, by commission or otherwise,
and the compensation of referees. The disbursements shall
be stated in detail and verified by affidavit, which shall be 
filed with the clerk of the court, within two days after the
conclusion of the trial. 
Sec. 412. The fees of referees shall be four dollars
to each, for every day spent in the business of the reference,
but the parties may agree in writing upon any rate of compensation, and tliereupon such rate shall be allowed. 
Sec. 413. When an application shall be made to a
court or referees to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the
fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the condition of granting
the postponement. 
Sec. 414. When in an action for the recovery of
money, the defendant alleges in his answer, that, before the
commencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintifff the
full amount to which he is entitled, in such specie as by agree
ment ought to be tendered and thereupon brings into court,
for the plaintifff, if in money, the amount tendered, and the allegation be found true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs,
but shall pay them to the defendant. 
Sec. 415. If the defendant in any action pending,
shall at any time deposit with the clerk of the court, for the
plaintifff, the amount which he admits to be due, together 
with all costs that have accrued, and notify the plaintifff thereof, and such plaintifff shall refuse to accept the same in discharge of the action. and shall not afterwards recover a larger amount than that deposited with the clerk, exclusive of interest and cost, he shall pay all costs that may accrue from
the time such money was so deposited. 
Sec. 416. In all civil actions tried before a justice
of the peace, in which an appeal shall be taken to the dlatrict 
court, and the party appellant shall not recover a more favorable judgment in the district court than before the justice of
the peace, such appellant shall pay all costs accruing after
the appeal. . 
Sec. 417. "Then costs .are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the guardian or person by whom he appeared
in the action shall be responsible therefore, and payment may
be enforced by execution. 
Sec. 418. In action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator. trustee of an express trust, or a per
son expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered
as in an action by or against a person prosecuting in his own
right, but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected
off the estate of the party represented. unless the court shall
direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant personally, for mismanagement or bad faith . in such action or
defense. 
Sec. 419. When the cause of action, after the commencement of the action, by assignment, or in any other man
ner, becomes the property of a person not a party thereto,
and the prosecution or defense is thereafter continued, such
person shall be liable to the costs in the same manner as if he
were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by execution. 
~ec. 420. In all actions prosecuted in the name and
for the use of the Territory, or in the name and for the use of
any county, the Territory or county shall be liable for costs
in the same cases and to the same extent as private parties. 
Sec. 421. When the decision of a court of inferior
jurisdiction, in an action or special proceeding, is brought be
fore the supreme court or a district court for review, such
proceedings shall, for purposes of costs, be demeed an action
at issue upon a question of law, from the time the same is
brought into the supreme court or district court, and costs
thereon may be awarded and collected in such manner as the
court shall direct, according to the nature of the case. 
Sec. 422. In the following cases the costs of an appeal to the supreme court shall be in the discretion of the 
court:
1. When a new trial shall be ordered.
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and re
versed in part. Sec. 423. In all actions and proceedings than 
those mentioned in this chapter, where no provision is made
for the recovery of costs, they may be allowed or not, and if
allowed may be apportioned between the parties, in the discretion of the court. 
Sec. 424. Any party aggrieved by the taxation of
costs by the clerk of the court may, upon application, have
the same retaxed by the court in which the action or proceeding is had. 
Ser. 425. When the plaintifff in an action resides out
of the district or county, or is a foreign corporation, security
for the costs and charges which may be awarded against
such plaintifff may be required by the defendant. When re
quired, all proceedings in the action shall be stayed until a
bond, executed by two or more persons, be filed with the clerk
conditioned that they will pay such costs and charges as
may be awarded against the plaintifff by judgment or in tho
progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of two hundred
dollars. A new or additional bond may be ordered by the
court or judge, upon proof that the original bond is insufficient security. and proceedings in the action stayed until such
new or additional bond be executed and filed. The plaintifff 
CHAPTER XLII.
may deposit with the clerk the sum of two hundred dollars 
}]). lieu Qf a bond, 
Of Oommlsstoners to Convey Real Estate.
Sec. 426. The several district courts may, whenever it is 
necessary, appoint a commissioner t"' ""nvey real estate:
1. When by a judgment "in an action, a party is ordered 
convey real property to another, or any interest therein.
2. When real property, or any interest therein, has been 
sold under a special order of the court and the purchase money
paid therefore. 
Sec. 427. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judgment authorizing the conveyance, that the 
same may be readily found, but need not reclte the record in
the case generally. 
Sec. 428. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment
shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to con
vey the land.
Sec. 429. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale 
ordered by the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all
the parties to the action or proceeding. 
Sec. 430. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass
any right until it has been examined and approved b_y the
court, which approval shall be endorsed on the conveyance
and recorded with it. 
Ser. 4!H. It shall be suffu-lent for the conveyance
to be signed by the commissioner- only without afflxing the
names of the parties whose title is conveyed, but the names of 
the P'lrtiP'' ' 11ri,pvnn1t
Sec. 432. The convevance shall be recorded in the
office in which bv law it 'should have been recorded had it
been made by the parties whose title is conveyed bv it. 
Aec. 433. In case of a judgment to compel a party
to execute a conveyance of real estate, the court may enforce 
the judgment by attachment or sequestration, or appoint a
commissioner to make the eonvevance. 
CHAPTER XLI. 
Actions to Recover and Affecting Real Estate.
Sec. 434. Any person having a valid subsisting in- 
terest in real property and a right to the possession thereof,
may recover the same by action in the district court of the 
prQper <:QUD.ty, to be bi-ought against the tenant in. pos~.sll)iop;
if there is no such tenant, then against the person claiming 
the title or some interest therein.
Sec. 435. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only 
a tenant, the landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice
thereof being given. 
Sec. 436. In an action by a tenant in common, or joint
tenant of real property against his co-tenant, the plaintifff
must show in addition to his evidence of right that the defendant either denied the plaintifff's right, or did some act
amounting to such denial. 
Sec. 437. Action may be brought in the district court for
the partition of real property, held or possessed by joint tenants, or tenants in common, or for the special assignment or
determination of any right or interest therein by any person
interested. 
Sec. 438. The complaint shall conform as far as is practicable to the provisions of law regulating the practice in civil
actions, and the court may require and cause to be made by
order, a partition of the premises or a special assignment of
the interest, or in case the partition or assignment is impracticable, may order a sale of the property, and a division of the
proceeds, and shall in all respects adjudge as the nature of the 
cases may require. 
CHAPTER XLIY.
Of waste. 
Sec. 439. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of
waste, shall be subjects of action as other wrongs in which
there may be judgment for damages, forfeiture of the estate of
the party off ending, and eviction from the premises. .J udgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in fa vor of
the person entitled to the reversion against the tenant in possession, where injury to the estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action to be equal to the value of the tenant's
estate or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice. 
Sec. 440. When any i. wo or more persons are opposing claimants under the laws of the United States tu any
land in this Territory, and one is threatening to commit upon
such land waste which tends materially to lessen the value
of the inheritance and which cannot be compensated by dam
ages and there is imminent danger that unless restrained such
waste will be committed, the party. on fl.ling his complaint
and satisfying the court or judge of the existence of the facts. 
may have an injunction to restrain the adverse party. In all
cases he shall give notice and bond as is provided in other
cases where injunction is granted. and the injunction when
granted shall be set aside or modified as is provided generally
for injunction and restraining orders. 
Nuisance.
CHAPTER XLV. 
Sec. 441. The obstruction of any highway or the
closing of the channel of any stream used for boating or raft
ing logs, lumber or timber. or whatever is injurious to health
or indecent or offensive to the senses. or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as to essentially interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of the life and property, is a nuisance,
and the subject of an action. 
Sec. 442. Such action may be brought by any persoa whose property is injuriously affected or whose personal
enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance. 
Sec. 443. Where a proper case is made, the nuisance may
be enjoined or abated, and damages recovered therefore. 
CHAPTER XLVI. 
Foreclosure of Mortgage.
Sec. 444. when default is made in the performance 
of any condition contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or
his assigns may proceed in the district court of the district or
county where the land, or some part thereof, lies, to foreclose
the equity of redemption contained In the mortgage. 
Sec. 445. When there is no express agreement . in
the mortgage nor any separate instrument given for the payment of the sum secured thereby, the remedy of the mortgagee
shall be confined to the property mortgaged. 
Sec. 446. In rendering judgment of foreclosure the
court shall order the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof 
as may be necessary, to be sold to satisfy the mortgage and
costs of the action. The payment of the mortgage debt, with
interest and costs at any time before sale, shall satisfy the
judgment. 
Sec. 447. When there is an express agreement for
the payment of the sum of money secured contained in the 
mortgage or any separate instrument, the court shall direct
in the order of the sale that the balance due on the mortgage,
and costs which may remain unsatisfied after the sale of the 
mortgaged premises, shall be levied of any property of the 
mortgage debtor. . 
i!;ec. 448. A copy of the order of sale and judgment shall
be issued and . certified by the clerk, under the seal of the
court, to the sheriff, who shall thereupon proceed to sell the
mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary 
to satisfy the judgment, interest and costs, as upon execution;
and if any part of the judgment, interest and cost, remain unsatisfied, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy the residue of the property of the defendant. 
Sec. 449. The plaintifff shall not proceed to foreclose his mortgage while he is prosecuting any other action for
the same debt or matter which is secured by the mortgage, or
while he is seeking to obtain execution of any judgment in
such other action; nor shall he prosecute any other action for
the same matter while he is foreclosing his mortgage or prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure. 
Sec. 450. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest or installment of the principal, and there are other installments not due. if the defendant pay into court the principal
and interest due, with costs, at any time before the final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be enforced upon a subsequent default in the payment of any installment of the principal or interest thereafter becoming due.
In the final judgment, the court shall direct at what time and
upon what default any subsequent execution shall issue. 
Sec. 451. In such cases. after final judgment, the
court shall ascertain whether the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done without injury to the interests of 
the parties, the court shall direct so much only of the premises
to be sold. as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due ob
the mortgage with costs. and the judgment shall remain and
he enforced upon any subsequent default. unless the amount
due shall be paid before execution of the judgment is per
fected.
Sec. 452. If the mortgaged premises cannot be sold 
in parcels. the court shall order the whole to be sold. and the
proceeds of the sale shall be applied first to the payment <'f the
principal due, interest and costs. and then to the residue secured by the mortgage and not due : and if the residue due do 
not bear interest, a deduction shall he made therefrom by discounting the legal interest ; and in all cases where the proceeds of the sale shall be more than sufficient to pay the 
amount due and costs. the surplus shall be paid to the mortgage debtor, his heirs and assigns. 
Sec. 453. Whenever an execution shall issue upon a judgment, recovered for a debt secured by a mortgage of real prop.
erty, the plaintifff shall endorse thereon a brief description of
the mortgaged premises, and a sale of the mortgaged premises,
upon such execution shall foreclose the equity of redemption. 
Sec. 454. When a judgment of foreclosure upon a mortgage of real estate has been rendered, and a further judgment,
that if the mortgaged premises do not satisfy the demand, 
other property of the judgment debtor shall be seized and sold
to satisfy any remaining balance and cost of suit, after the application of the proceeds of the sale of such mortgaged premises to said judgment, has also been rendered, and after the
sale and application of the proceeds of the sale of such mortgaged premises as by law provided, there shall remain a balance due upon such judgment, then in selling other and real
estate of the judgment debtor to satisfy such judgment, it
shall only be necessary to advertise the sale of such other real
estate for the period of two weeks prior to the sale, in a newspaper published in the county, or judicial distrtct where the
same is located, and if there be no newspaper published in the
district or county, then in some newspaper having circulation
in such district or countv, 
Sec. 455. Any person, other than the judgment debtor,
claiming title in real estate and a right to the possession thereof, that has been sold upon order of sale or execution issued
from the supreme or district courts, and which has been entered by the clerk in his docket for confirmation of sale, may,
at any time during the term of court at which confirmation of
sale is asked, and before the same is confirmed, come into court
and file an affidavit of such title and right of possession, and 
it shall thereupon be the duty of the court to order the party
asking the confirmation of sale. to file an answer to the statements and allegations of the said affidavit, verified as pleadings in civil actions are by law required to be; and if the allegations of said affidavit are not denied bv such answer, or if
such party fail or refuse to answer as directed, then it shall
be the duty of the court to refuse the confh-mation of such
sale; but if answer he filed as required, and the statements
and allegations of said affidavit are denied by such answer,
then the issue or issues made, shall he tried as issues of fact 
are tried in civil actions in the district court.
Sec. 456. In case of a judgment of foreclosure having been 
rendered upon a mortgage executed by a married man, upon
real estate, upon which the dwelling house occupied by his
family is situate, and in the execution of which said mortgage
the wife did not join, and the said premises have been sold pur- 
suant to order of sale, she may at any time during the term of
the court, at which such sale has been entered by the clerk
in his docket for confirmation, and before the same has been
confirmed, 'come into court and :file her affidavit, stating that
the dwelling house occupied by her, or her family, is situate 
OB the premises, the sale of which is docketed for confirmation,
and that said premises do not exceed in ,value the 8Um of five
hundred dollars, and that she claims the same to be exempt
from execution and sale, and it shall thereupon be the duty
of the court to order the party asking confirmation of the sale,
to make and file an answer to the statements and allegations
of the said affidavit, and if the same are not denied by such
answer, or if such party shall fail or refuse to answer as directed, then it shall be the duty of the court to refuse the conflrmation of such sale; but if answer be filed as required, and
the allegations of the affidavit of claimant denied, then the
issue or issues thus made, shall be tried as issues of fact are
tried in civil actions in the district court. 
CHAPTER XLVII. 
Ne Exeat, 
Sec. 457. Actions may be commenced upon any
agreement in writing before the time for the performance of
the contract expires, when the plaintifff or his agent shall make
and file an affidavit with the clerk of the proper court, that the
defendant is about to leave the 'ferritory without performing
or making provisions for the performance of the contract, taking with him property, monies, creditsor effects subject to 
execution, with intent to defraud the plaintifff.
Sec.458. Upon such affidavit being :filed, the clerk 
shall issue an order of arrest and bail, directed to the sheriff,
which shall be issued, served and returned, in all respects as
such orders in other cases; before such order shall issue, the
plaintifff shall file in the office of the clerk a bond with suf. 
ftcient surety to be approved by the clerk, conditioned that
the plaintifff will pay the defendant such damages and costs
as he ~:l,all wrongfully sustain by occasion of the suit, which
sureties shall justify as bail upon an arrest. 
Sec. 459. The sheriff shall require the defendant to
enter into a recognizance of special bail, with sufficient sure
ty, personally to appear on the first day of the court at its
next term, and abide the order of the court, and in default
fhereof the defendant shall be committed to prison until discharged in due course of law; such special bail shall be liable 
for the principal and shall have a right to arrest and deliver
him up, as in other cases, and the defendant may give other 
bail.
Sec. 460. Instead of giving special bail,as above 
provided, the defendant shall be entitled to his discharge
from custody if he will secure the performance of the contract
to the satisfaction of, the plaintifff. 
Sec. 461. This proceeding may be had in favor of
any surety or other person jointly bound with the defendant. 
It may also be prosecuted by the person in whose favor the
contract exists, against any one or more of the persons bound
thereby, upon filing such affidavit, when the co-contractors
are non-resident or probably insolvent, or at the request of
any one of them when they are residents and solvent. 
Sec. 462. The defendant may have the same remedy
by writ of habeas corpus as in other cases of arrest and bail. 
Sec. 46:3. The proceedings may be had before justices of
the peace in all cases within their jurisdiction. 
Sec. 464. The affidavit and bond may be filed, and proceedings had in any district where the defendants may be
found. 
CHAPTER XLVIII . 
Actions of Sureties Against Principals.
Sec. 465. Any person bound as surety upon any contract 
in writing for the payment of money or the performance of
any act, when the right of action has accrued, may require by
notice in writing the creditor or obligee forth with to institute
an action upon the contract. 
Sec. 466. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a reasonable time to bring his action upon such
contract, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution,
the surety shall be discharged from all liability thereon. 
Sec. 467. When any action is brought against two
or more defendants upon a contract, any one or more of the
defendants being surety for the others, the surety may, upon
a written complaint to the court, cause the question of se
curityship to be tried and determined upon the issues made
by the parties at the trial of the cause, or at any time before
or after the trial, or at a subsequent term, but such proceed
ings shall not affect the proceedings of the plaintifff.
Sec. 468. _ If the finding upon such issue be in favor 
of the surety, the court shall make an order directing the
sheriff to levy the execution upon, and first exhaust the prop- 
erty of the principal before a levy shall be made upon the
property of the surety, and the clerk shall endorse a memor-:
andum of the order upon the execution. 
Sec. 469. When any defendant, surety in a judgment
or special bail or replevin bail or surety in a delivery bond
or replevin bond, or any person being surety in any bond whatever, has been or shall be compelled to pay any judgment or
any part thereof, or shall make any payment which is applied
upon such judgment by reason of such suretyship, or when
any sheriff or other officer or other surety upon his official
bond shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any part
thereof by reason of any default of such officer, except for failing to pay over money collected. or for wasting property levied
upon, the judgment shall not be discharged by such payment,
but shall remain in force for the use of the bail, surety, officer
or other person making such payment, and after the plaintifff
is paid, so much of the judgment as remains unsatisfied may be
prosecuted to execution for his use. 
Sec. 470. Any one of several judgment defendants
and any one of several replevin bail having paid and satisfied
the plaintifff, shall have the remedy provided in the last sec
tion against the co-defendants or co-sureties to collect of
them the ratable proportion each is equitably bound to pay. 
Sec. 471. No surety or his representative shall confess judgment or suffer judgment by default in any case where
he is notified that there is a valid defense. if the principal will
enter himself defendant to the action and tender to the smety 
or his representatives good security to indemnify him, to be
approved by the court. 
Sec. 472. The foregoing provisions of this act shall extend to heirs, executors, and administrators of deceased persons, but the provisions of the four hundred and sixty-sixth
section shall not operate against persons under legal disabil
ities. 
CHAPTER L. 
Habeas Corpus.
Sec. 473. Every person restrained o~ his liberty un
der any pretense whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas
corpus to inquire into the cause of the restraint, and shatl be
delivered therefrom when illegal. 
Sec. 474. Application for the writ shall be made by
complaint, signed and verified either by the plaintifff or by 
some person in his behalf, and shall specify:
1. By whom the person in whose behalf the writ is ap- 
plied for is restrained of his liberty, and the place w here,
(naming the parties if they are known, or describing them if
they are not known). 
2. The cause or pretense of the restraint according to the
best of the knowledge and belief of the applicant. 
3. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what the
illegality consists. 
Sec. 475. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by
the supreme court or district court, or by any judge of either
court, whether in term or vacation, and upon application thewrit shall be granted without delay. 
Sec. 476. The writ shall be directed to the officer
or party having the person under restraint, commanding him
to have such person before the court or judge at such time and 
place as the court and judge shall direct to do and receive what
shall be ordered concerning him, and have then and there the
writ. 
Sec. 4 77. If the writ be directed to the sheriff, it
shall be delivered by the 'clerk to him without delay. 
Rec. 478. If the writ be dirested to any other person, it shall be delivered to the sheriff and shall be by nim 
served by delivering the same to such person without delay.
Sec. 479. If the person to whom such writ is di
rected cannot be found or shall refuse admittance to the
sheriff, the same may be served by leaving it at the residence of
the person to whom it is directed, or by fixing of the same on
some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling house or where 
the party is confineu 01under rentraint. 
Sec. 480. The sheriff or other person to whom the
writ is directed shall make immediate return thereof, and if.
he refuse after due service to make return, the court shall en
force obedience by attachment.
Sec. 481. The return must be signed and verified by 
the person making it, who shall state:
1. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party in 
his custody.
2. If the authority shall be in writing, he shall return a 
copy and produce the original on the hearing.
3. If he has had the party in his custody or under his 
restraint, and has transferred him to another, he shall state
to whom, the time, place and cause of the transfer. He shall
produce the party at the hearing unless prevented by sickness
or infirmity, which must be shown in the return. 
Sec. 482. The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth
of the allegation of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to de
cide on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned until the
party can bP produced, O!' ~or other good cause. The p!ai:ctif! 
waJ except co the sufficiency of, or controvert the return or
any part thereof, or allege any new matter in evidence. 'rhe
new matter shall be verified, except in cases of commitment on
a criminar charge. The return and pleadings may be amended
without causing delay. 
Sec. 483. 'I'he court or judge shall thereupon proceed in a summary way to hear and determine the cause, and 
if no legal cause be shown for the restraint or for the continuation thereof, shall discharge the party. 
Sec. 484. No court or judge shall inquire into the
legality of any judgment or process whereby the party is in
custody, or discharge him when the term of comuntment has
not expired, in either of the cases following: 
1. Upon any process issued on any final judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction. 
2. For any contempt of any court, officer or body having
authority in the premises to commit; but an order of commitment as for a contempt upon proceedings to enforce the
remedy of a party, is not included in any of the foregoing specifications. 
3. Upon a warrant issued from the district court upon
an indictment or information. - 
Sec. 485. No person shall be discharged from an
order of commitment issued by any judicial or peace officer for
want of bail, or in cases not bailable on account of any defect 
in the charge or process, or for alleged want of probable cause;
but in all cases the court or judge shall summon the prosecuting witnesses. investigate the criminal charge, and discharge
admit to bail or re-commit the prisoner, as may be just and
legal. and recognize witnesses when proper. . 
, 8Pc. 486. The writ may be had for the purpose of
admitting a prisoner to bail in civil and criminal actions. 
When any person has an interest in the detention, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person having such in
terest is notified.
. Rec. 487. The court or judge shall have power to 
require and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to do all
other acts necessary to determine the case. 
Sec. 488. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to
a civil action for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order
of discharge made thereon. 
Sec. 489. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit
that any one is illegally held in custody or restraint. and that 
there is good reason to believe that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction of the court or judge before whom
tbP. application is made, or will suffer some irreparable injury
before compliance with the writ can be enforced, such court 
ot: judge may cause a warrant to be issued reciting the facts,
and directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county,
commanding him to take the person thus held in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him before the court or judge to
be dealt with according to law. . 
Sec. 490. The court or judge may also, if the same
be deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for the 
apprehension of the person charged with causing the illegal
restraint. 
Sec. 491. The officer shall execute the writ by bringing the person therein named before the court or judge, and
the like return of procedings shall be required and had as in
case of writs of habeas corpus. 
Sec. 492. The court or judge may make any temporary orders in the cause or disposition of the party during
the progress of the proceedings that justice may require. The
custody of any party restrained may be changed from one per
son to another, by order of the court or judge.
Sec. 493. Any writ or process authorized by this 
chapter may be issued and served, in case of emergency, on
Sunday. 
Sec. 494. All writs and other process authorized by
this chapter shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and
sealed with the seal of such court, and shall be served and returned forthwith, unless the court or judge shall specify a
particular time for such return. And no writ or other process
shall be disregarded for any defect therein. if enough is shown 
to notify the officer or person of the purport of the process.
Amendments may be allowed and temporary commitments
when necessary. 
Sec. 495. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in
favor of parents, guardians, masters and husbands, and to 'enforce the rights, and for the protection of infants and insane 
personsj and the proceedings shall in all cases conform to the
provisions of this chapter. 
CHAPTER Lii. 
Mandate and Prohibition.
Sec. 496. Writs of mandate and prohibition may 
issue from the supreme and district courts of the Territory,
but such writs shall issue from the supreme court only when
,,,,0ssary for the exercise of its functions and powers. 
Sec. 497. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel 
the performance of any act which the law specially enjoins or
a duty resulting from an office, trust or station. 
Sec. 498. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and
motion, and shall be attested and sealed, and made returnable
as the court shall direct, and the person, body, or tribunal, to
whom the same shall be directed and delivered, shall make re
turn, and for neglect to do so, shall be proceeded against as
for contempt. 
Sec. 4!.W. The first writ shall be in the alternative or
peremptory, as the court shall direct. 
Sec. 500. \YhenevPr a return shall be made to any
such writ, issues of law and fact may be joined, and like
proceedings shall be had for the trial of issues and rendering
judgment as in civil actions. 
Sec. 501. In case a verdict shall be found for plaintiff when the writ is in the alternate, or if judgment be glven
for him, be shall recover damages as in an action for a false 
return, against the party making the return, and a peremptory writ shall be granted without delay. 
Rec. 502. The court shall have the same power to
enlarge the time of making a return and pleading to such writ
and for filing any subsequent pleadings, and to continue such
cause, as ht civil actions. 
Sec. 503. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by attachment and fine and imprisonment, or both. 
Sec. 504. The writ of prohibition shall command the
court and party to whom it shall be directed, to refrain from
any further proceedings in the matter therein specified, until
the return of the writ and the further order of the court there
on, and n!)on the return. to show cause why they shall not be
absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in the 
matter.
Sec. 505. The court shall render judgment either 
that a prohibition absolute. restraining the court and party
proceeding in the matter, do issue, or authorizing the court
and part) to proceed in the matter in question. 
Sec. 506. Costs shall be awarded in these proceedings as 
in civil actions. 
Information.
CHAPTER LUI. 
Sec. 507. An information may be filed against any
person or corporation in the following cases: 
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or exercise. any public office or franchise within the 
'erritory, or any office in any corporation created by the authority of the Territory. 
z; V\"henever any public officer shall have done or suffered any act, which, by the provisions of law, shall work a
forfeiture of his office. 
3. Where any association or number of persons shall act
within this 'ferritory as a corporation, without being legally 
incorporated. 
4. Or where any corporation do, or omit acts which
amount to a surrender or a forfeiture of their rights and priviIeges as a corporation, or where they exercise powers not conferred by law. 
~ec. 508. The information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney of the district court of the proper county,
upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty to
do so, or shall be directed by the court or other competent authority, or by any other person on his own relation, whenever
he claims an interest in the office, franchise or corporation
which is the suject of the information. 
Sec. 509. The information shall consist of a plain 
statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of the
proceedings, addressed to the court. 
Sec. 510. Whenever an information shall be filed
ugalnst a person for usurping an office, by the prosecuting attorney, he shall also set forth therein the name of the person
rightfully entitled to the office, with an averment of his right
thereto; and when filed by any other person he shall show his
interest in the matter, and he may claim the damages he has
sustained. 
Sec. 511. "henever an information is filed. a notice
signed by the relator shall be served and returned, as in other
actions. The defendant shall appear and answer, or suffer default, and subsequent proceeding be had as in other cases. 
Sec. 512. In every case wherein the right to an
office is contested, judgment shall be rendered upon the rights
of the parties, and for the damages the .relator may show himself entitled to, if any, to the time of the judgment. 
Sec. 513. If judgment be rendered in favor of the
relater, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office, 
after he has been qualified as required by law, :.,,d the court
shall order the defendant to deliver over all the books and
papers in his custody or within his power, belonging to the
office from which he shall have been ousted. 
Sec. 514. If the defendant ahall refuse or neglect to
deliver over the books and papers pursuant to the order, the
count or judge thereof shall enforce the order by attachment 
aind imprisonment. 
Sec. 515. ,Yhen judgment is rendered in favor of
the plaintifff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the
information, have his action for the damages at any time within one year after the judgment. 
Sec. 516. When several persons claim to be entitled to
the same office or franchise, one information may be filed 
against any or all such persons in order to try their respective
rights to the office or franchise. 
Sec. 517. Whenever any defendant shall be found
guilty of any usurpation of o; intrusion into, or unlawfully
exercising any office or any franchise within this Territory, or
any office in any corporation created by the authority of this
Territory, or when any public officer thus charged shall be 
found guilty of having done or suffered any act which by the
provisions of the law shall work a forfeiture of his office, or
when any association or number of persons shall be found 
guilty of having acted as a corporation without having been
legally incorporated, the court shall zrve judgment of ouster
against the defendant and exclude him from the office, franchise or corporate rights, and in cases of corporations that the
same shall be dissolved, and the court shall adjudge costs in
favor of the plaintifff. 
Sec. 518. If judgment be rendered against any 'corporation or against any persons claiming to be a corporation, 
the court mav cause the costs to be collected bv executors
against the persons claiming to be a corporation or by attach
ment against the directors or other officers of the corporatiou,
and shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of its
property and effects, take an account and make a distributlon
thereof among the creditors. The prosecuting attorney shall
immediately institute proceedings for that purpose. 
Sec. 519. Whenever any property shall be forfeited
to the 'I'erritory, fOT its use, the legal title shall be
deemed to be in the Territory, from the time ()f the escheat or
forfeih1~P; and an information may be filed by the prosecuting
attorney in the district court, for the recovery of the property,
alleging the ground on which the recovery is claimed, and
like proceedings and judgment shall be had as in a civil action
for the recovery of property. 
Sec. ii20. When an information is filed by the prosecuting attorney, he shall not be liable for the costs, but when
it is fl.led upon the relation of a private person he shall be
iiable for costs unless the same are adjudged against the defendant. 
Sec. 521. An information may be prosecuted for the
purpose of annulling or vacating any letters patent. certifi
cate or deed, granted by the proper authorities of this Terri- 
tory, when there is reason to believe that the same were obtained by fraud or through mistake or ignorance of a material
fact, or when the patentee or those claiming under him have
done or omitted an act in violation of the terms on which the
letters, deeds or certificates were granted, or have by any other
means forfeited the interest acquired under the same. 
8ec. 522. In such cases, the information may be
died by the prosecuting attorney upon his relation, or by any
private person upon his relation showing his interest in the 
subject matter; and the subsequent proceedings, judgment of
the court and awarding of costs, shall conform to the above provislous, and such letters patent, deed or certificate shall
be annulled or sustained. according to the right of the case, 
Miscellaneous Provisions.
CHAPTER LIV. 
Sec. 523. Pleadings sworn to by either party in
any case shall not, on the trial, be deemed proof of the facts 
alleged therein, nor require other or greater proof on the part
of the adverse party. 
Sec. 524. When a new party is introduced into an
action, as a representative or successor of a former party, such
new party is entitled to the same notice, to be given in the
same manner, as required for defendants in the commencement of an action. 
Sec. 525. The time within which an act is to be done, 
as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first
day, and including the last. If the last day be Sunday it shall
be excluded. 
Sec. 526. All process issuing out of the district
court shall be directed to the sheriff of the county in which it
is to be served, and be by him executed according to law. 
Sec. 527. When there is no sheriff of a county, or
he is disqualified from any cause from discharging any particular duty, it shall be lawful for the officer or person commanding or desiring the discharge of that duty to appoint some
suitable person, a citizen of the county, to execute the same:
Provided, That final process shall in no case be executed by
any other person than the legally authorized officer; or in case
be is disqualified, some suitable person appointed by the court,
or judge thereof, out of which the process issues, who shall
.make such appointment in writing; and before such appointment shall take effect, the person so appointed shall give
surety to the party interested for the faithful performance
of his duties, which bond of suretyship shall be in writing, be 
approved by the court or judge appointing him, and be placed
on file with the papers in the case. 
8ec. 528. In all cases where notice is required by
this act it shall be in writing, and must be duly served upon
the party. If served by an officer whose duty it is to serve
process, his return shall be sufficient. It may be served, however, when not otherwise especially provided herein, by any
disinterested person; in which event, proof of service must be
established by the affidavit of the person making such service. 
Sec. 529. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or whoredom, falsely made by any person against a
fem ale; also words falsely spoken of any person charging
such person with incest or the infamous crime against nature,
either with mankind or the brute creation. shall be actionable
in the same manner as in the case of slanderous words charging a crime, the commission of which would subject the offender to death or other degrading p1nalties. 
Sec. 530. Every court and officer authorized to
take any bail or surety, shall have power to examine on oath
the person offering to become such bail or surety, concerning
his property, and sufficiency as such bail or surety. 
Sec. 531. No bond required under the provisions of this
act, and intended as such bond. shall be void for want of fnrm
or substance, or recital or condition; nor shall the principal or
surety on such account be discharged. but all the parties thereto shall be held and bound to the full extent contemplated by
the Jaw requiring the same, to the amount specified in such
bond. In all actions on such defective bond. the plaintifff
may state its legal effect, in the same manner as though it
were a perfect bond. 
Sec. 532. In any action brought for the recovery of the
purchase money against any person holding a contract for the
purchase of lands, the party bound to perform the contract,
if not the plaintifff, may be made a party, and the court. in a
final judgment, may order the interest of the purchaser to be
sold or transferred to the plaintifff, upon such terms as may
be just, and may also order a specific performance of the contract in favor of the complainant, or the purchaser, incase a 
sale be ordered.
Sec. 533. Husband and wife may join in all causes of ac
tion arising from injuries to the person or character of either,
and both of them, or from injuries to the property or either,
and both of them, or arising out of any contract in favos of 
either or both of them.
Sec. fi34. Any person required to give bail, may de
posit with the clerk the amount of money for which he i8 re- 
quired to give bail, and thereupon be discharged from arrest.
Sec. 535. An action against a corporation may be brought 
in any county where the corporation has an office for the transaction of business, or any person resides, upon whom process
may be served against such corporation, unless otherwise provided in this act. 
Sec. 536. No action for a personal injury to any person,
occasioning his death, shall abate, nor shall such right of action determine by reason of such death, if he have a wife or
child living; but such action may be prosecuted, or commenced
and prosecuted, in favor of such wife, or in favor of the wife
and children, or if no wife, in favor of such child or children. 
Sec. 537. The widow, or widow and children, or child or
children, if no widow, of a man killed in a duel, shall have a
right of action against the person killing him, and against the
seconds, and all aiders and abettors, and shall recover such
a sum as to the jury shall seem reasonable. 
Sec. 458. The seduction of an innocent unmarried female,
shall in itself constitute a good cause of action, in the name of
the party injured, and against the party committing the injury, his aiders and abettors: Provided, That in all cases the
damages recovered shall be for the exclusive benefit of the
said injured party . 
Sec. 539. All other forms and rights of action, to recover
damages for seduction, or for the consequences thereof, by any
other person than the party injured, are hereby abolished:
Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent actions for the support of bastards being maintained by the proper authorities. 
Sec. 540. When a defendant in execution owns real
estate subject to execution, jointly or in common with any
other person, the judgment shall be a lien, and the execution 
be levied upon the interest of the defendant only. When he
owns "personal property jointly, or in co-partnership 
with any other person, and the interest cannot be
separately attached the sheriff shall take possession
of the propertr, unless the other person having an interest
therein shall give the sheriff a sufficient bond, with surety, to
hold and manage the property according to law; and the sheriff
shall then proceed to sell the interest of the defendant in such
property, describing such interest in his advertisement as
nearly as may be, and the purchaser shall acquire all the interest of such defendant therein: but nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to deprive the co-partner of any such
defendant or any person interested in any such property subjecting the same to the debts of the co-partnershlp . 
Sec. 541. Any party having a judgment upon any
justice's docket, upon which an execution has been returned
unsatisfied, and no property found, may take a transcript of
such judgment and return it to the clerk of the district court
embracing his county, and upors-making an affidavit that the
defendant has real estate in any county of said district subject
to execution, the clerk shall enter the judgment in the execution docket, in the same manner as judgments of the district
court, and thereafter it shall stand and execution be issued
thereon as upon the judgment of the district court. A trans
crlpt thereof or a copy of the execution issued thereupon
shall, as in other judgments, be recorded by the county auditor and remain a lien upon real estate in the county where 
so recorded. 
Construction.
CHAPTER LV. 
Sec. 542. For all necessary purposes connected
with the district court each district shall 'be considered and
held to be but one county; and whenever in this act the
words district or county occur, the same may be rendered
county or district, as may be necessary to conform the practice
of the courts to the act of Congress, approved August 16, 1856:
Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed 
to confer jurisdiction upon county officers, or extend their
powers beyond the limits of their. counties. 
Sec. 543. Whenever any term indicating an officer
is used it shall be construed, when required, to mean any per
son authorized by law to discharge the duties of such officer.
Rec. 544. Words importing the singular number 
only may also be applied to the plural of persons and things,
and words importing the masculine gender only, may be ex
tended to females also.
Sec. 545. In actions already commenced, the plead
ings to be had to form issues, the manner of procuring testimony, the examination of parties, the trial and rendition of 
judgments and all proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of this act as far as practicable. 
Rec. 546. The provisions of this act shall be liberally construed, and shall not be limited by any rule of strict construction. 
Sec. 547. All acts or parts of acts heretofore enacted upon
any subject matter contained in this act, be and the same are 
hereby repealed: Provided, That rights acquired in actions 
now pending under existing laws shall not be affected by anything herein contained. 
Sec. 548. This act to take effect and be in force from and
after its passage. 
Passed January 28th, 1863. 
AN ACT 
DEFINING THE JURISDICTION AND PRACTICE IN THE PROBATE
COURTS OF WASHINGTON TERRITORY. 
The Probate Court, its Powers and Jurisdiction.
CHAPTER I. 
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory
of Washington: 
Section 1. That there shall be elected at the next general election, and every three years thereafter, in each county
in this Territory, one suitable person, who shall have the
qualifications of an elector, who shall be styled the judge of
the probate court, and the court hereby constituted, shall be
called the probate court, and such judge shall hold his office
for three years, and - until his successor is duly elected and 
qualified: Provided, That the probate judges heretofore
elected in the several counties of this Territory, shall hold
their offices for the terms for which they were elected, and
shall bear the style and have the jurisdietion conferred by
this act. 
Sec. 2. The clerk of the board of county commissioners
of each conn ty shall certify the name of the person elected
under this act, to the Governor of the Territory, who shall
thereupon commission said person judge of the probate court 
of said county. r 
Sec. 3. That said probate courts shall have and possess
the following powers: . 
1. Exclusive original jurisdiction within their respective
counties in all cases relative to the probate of last wills and 
testaments.
2. The granting of letters testamentary and of adminis
tration, and revoking the same.
3. The appointment and displacing guardians of orphans, 
minors and of persons of unsound mind, and the binding of apprentices. 
4. In the settlement and allowance of accounts of executors, administrators and guardians. 
5. To hear and determine all disputes and controversies
between masters and their apprentices. 
6. To allow or reject claims against estates of deceased
persons as hereinafter provided. 
7. To award process and cause to come before said court
all and every person or persons whom they may deem it necessary to examine, whether parties or witnesses, or who, as executors, administrators or guardians or otherwise, shall be.
entrusted with, or in any way be accountable for any lands,
tenements, goods or chattels belonging to any minor, orphan
or person of unsound mind, or estate of any deceased person,
with full power to administer oaths and affirmations and examine any person touching any matter of controversy before 
said court, or in the exercise of its jurisdiction. The probate
court shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with the district
court of the 'I'erritory, in all civil actions when the amount
in controversy shall not exceed five hundred dollars; concurrent jurisdiction with the district courts in all criminal cases
where the punishment of the crime shall be by. flue, by fine
and imprisonment in the county jail, or by imprisonment in
the county jail, and concurrent jurisdiction in all ('3Sl'8 of appeals and writs of certiorari from justices of the peace in
their respective counties. 
Sec. 4. The said court shall provide and keep a suitable
seal. . , 
Sec. 5. That the court established by this act shn 11 be a
court of record, and shall keep just and faithful records of its
proceedings, and shall have power to issue any and a 11 writs
which may be necessary to the exercise of its jurisdiction. 
Sec. 6. A regular term of the probate court shall be held
at the county seat of each county, commencing on the fourth
Monday in January, April, J uly and October, torthe transaction of all business of which said court has jurisdiction: Provided; however, That if the district court of the district embracing any county be in session at such time, the probate
court of the county in which said district court is held, shall
stand adjourned until the first Monday of the ensuing month. 
Sec. 7. The judges of the several probate. courts in the
Territory shall have power to appoint their own clerks, who
shall qualify in the same manner and have the same power,
and be entitled to the same fees as are allowed: to the clerks
of the district courts for similar services. 
Sec-.. 8. The judges of the said courts shall have power to
make such rules for the transaction of business in said courts
as shall not bf> tnconslstent with law. 
Sec. 9. The clerk of the probate court shall kPPJl the 
same number and kind of books of record in civil and criminal
cases, as are now kept by the clerks of the district. courts. 
Sec. 10. That an process issuing out of the probate
court shall be attested by the clerk and sealed with the seat
of the court, and shall be served in the same manner as process issuing out of the district court. 
Sec. 11. That the probate court shall have the same
power and authority under like restrictions and rules of law
to enforce and execute their orders, rules, judgments and decrees, as the district courts of this 'I'erritory. 
Sec. 12. The said court may enforce by attachment
the return of any writ or process, and the payment of any
monies over which it has jurisdiction, and to compel the production or delivery of any papers which are subjects of, or
necessary to its judicial action. 
Sec. 13. That no judge of the probate court shall sit
on the determination of any cause or proceeding in whlch he
is interested, or related within the fourth degree to either
party, or shall have been counsel. 
Sec. 14. That if the judge be disqualified, from any
cause, for sitting on the determination of any cause or proceeding pending before him, the same shall be certified with
the original papers to the district court of the district including the county, which shall proceed thereon to final judgment 
and determination.
Sec. 15. That if said court- shall not be held on the 
first day of the term, such court shall stand adjourned from
day to day until the evening of the third day. If at that time
the judge 'shall not have appeared and opened court, the same
shall stand ajourned until the next regular term. Special adjourned terms may be held in continuation of the regular
term, upon its being so ordered by the court in term time and
entered by the clerk upon the record of the court. 
Sec. 16. That each judge of probate court shall be
a conservator of the peace throughout his county. 
Sec. 17. Letters of administration, or letters of guardianship, may be granted, inventory or account of sale of property
returned during term time or vacation, and entered on record of the same day that such grant or return shallbe made. 
Practice in Civil Cases.
CHAPTER II. 
Sec. 18. The practice of the probate courts in civil cases
shall conform to, and be governed by the laws now regulating 
the practice in the district courts in civil cases, except as is
hereinafter provided. 
Sec. 19. It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff in a 
civil action in the probate oourt, to serve a copy of his oomplaint and notice on the defendant more than ten days prior
to the first day of a regular term of said court. 
Sec. 20. In all civil cases within their jurisdiction, the
probate courts and judges thereof shallhave the same power
to grant all orders, writs and process, which the district courts
or the judges thereof have power to grant within their juris
diction, and to hear' and determine all questions arising within their jurisdiction, as fully and completely as the district
courts or the judges thereof have power to do under the laws
of the Territory. 
Sec. 21. The probate court and the judges thereof shall
have power to grant writs of habeas corpus, mandate and
prohibition, and to determine all questions arising thereon. 
Sec. 22. The laws providing fur appeals, and writs of
certiorari from justices of the peace to the district courts,
shall be applicable to appeals and writs of certiorari from.
[usttces of the peace to probate courts. 
Sec. 23. Juries in all civil actions in the probate courts
shall consist of six persons having the qualifications of elec
tors, who shall not be summoned until the cause is at issue
and set for trial, and a demand is made in writing therefore 
by one or more of the parties, and their legal fees paid into
the hands of the clerk by the party making the demand. 
Sec. 24. The clerk shall issue a venire returnable on the
day upon which the cause is set for trial, and if on the return
day the panel be not full, it may be filled by summoning talesmen. ~ o challenges shall be allowed either party except for
cause. 
Aec. 25. In all civil actions, the jurisdiction of which has
been given by this act to the probate courts, the party plain
tiff' shall, before 'his complaint and notice, writ, record or
papers upon which his action is founded, be filed by the clerk 
cf the court, pay into the hands of said clerk a docket fee of
ten dollars, which shall be paid to the probate judge by the
clerk, and no docket fee shall be allowed attorneys in the
probate courts. 
Practice in Criminal Cases.
CHAPTER III. 
Sec. 26. All laws regulating the practice and proceedings in criminal cases in district courts shall apply to and
govern the proceedings in criminal cases in the probate eourts,
except as is hereinafter provided. 
Sec. 27. Any person having knowledge of the commission of any offense of which the probate court has jurisdiction, may make his affidavit before any person authorized to
administer oaths, setting forth the offense and the person
charged, in plain and ooncise language, and file the same with
the clerk, or deposit it with the prosecuting attorney, at any
time between the first and last day of a regular term. 
Sec. 28. The person making the affidavit shall also set
forth in it the names of all persons whom he knows, of his
personal know ledge, are cognizant of the facts sworn to, and 
. also, the names of all persons whom he is informed have any
knowledge of the facts set forth, and if he knows of no person having such knowledge, and has no information of any
person having such knowledge, these facts must also be set
forth. 
8ec. 29. The prosecuting attorney shall then apply to the
court for leave to file an information against the party charged 
. with the offense, and if, from an examination of the affidavit
or affidavits. the court is satisfied that a crime has been committed of which the court has jurisdiction, i"eave shall be
granted, and the prosecuting attorney shall as soon as practlcu ble file Ms information. 
Rec. 30. The information shall contain:
1st. The title of the action, specifying the name of the 
court and the county in which the information is presented,
and the names of the party or parties. 
2d. ..A statement of the facts constituting the off r-nse in
plain and concise language, without repetition. 
Sec. :n. An information may be amended, in matter of
su bstance and form, at any time before the defendants plead
without leave, and at any time after the defendant pleads
with leave of the court. The information may be amended on
the trial as to all matters of form and variance at the discretion of the court, when the same can be done without prejudice to the rights of the defendants, but no amendment shall
cause any delay of the trial, unless for good cause shown by 
affidavit.
Sec. 32. When information is fl.led the court shall direct 
the clerk to issue a warrant returnable forthwith, and if the 
warrant be returned not served the prosecuting attorney
may, at any time thereafter. order the issuance of alias warrants, 
Sec. 3a. When any person charged with an offense shall
have plead to the information, the court shall fix the time for
the 1 rial, and the clerk shall issue a venire for six persons,
residents of the county, having the qualifications of jurors, to 
attend at the time set for the trial and serve as jurors in the
ease to be tried. 
Sec. 34. The sheriff of the county shall summon said jurors, and if any of them be not present at the time specifted, he
shall complete the number of six by summoning talesman, 
Sec. 35. No challenge shall be allowed, either to the Territory or the prisoner, except for cause. The fees of the jurors in each case shall he paid out of the county treasury, but
the amount of them shall be taxed as costs, and when co1lected
shall immediately be paid over to the county treasurer of the
county by the clerk of the court. 
Sec. 36. All recognizances for offenses of which
the probate court has jurisdiction, together with the
complaint and testimony of witnesses, shall be filed
with the clerk of the probate court immediately after
the examination is had, by the magistrate before
whom the party was examined, and the like proceedings
shall be had as upon affidavits filed in term time. 
Sec. 37; All appeals from justices of the peace in criminal cases, shall be tried do novo in the probate court. 
Sec. 38. In all criminal cases tried in the probate court,
if the jury find the defendant not guilty, they shall also find
whether the prosecution is malicious and without probable
cause, and it shall be the duty of the judge, specially to
charge the jury in relation to such finding. 
Sec. 89. If the jury find the defendant not guilty, and
that the prosecution is malicious and without probable cause,
judgment shall be rendered by the court against the person
making the affidavit or complaint upon which the information 
is filed for all costs of the case.
Sec. 40. In all criminal cases tried in the probate court, 
the sum of ten dollars in each case shall be taxed in the> costs
of the case, if the judgment be against the defendant; and such
sum shall be paid over by the clerk, to the judge of the court, 
when collected on execution; if the judgment be against the
Territory no judge's fees shall be taxed, and if the judgment 
be against the defendant, and he be imprisoned until the judgment and costs be paid by operation of law, said sum shall 
be paid out of the county treasury. 
Sec. 41. The prosecuting attorney shall receive the same
fees in each criminal ease in the pro-bate courts, as is now
provided by Jaw in the district courts for similar services, and
one dollar per day for attendance on the court, to be paid out
of the county treasury; and when the prosecuting attorney
shall not be in attendance, the court shall have power to ap
point some suitable person to act for the term, who shall have
the same powers and be entitled to the same fees as the prosecuting attorney. 
Sec. 42. The practice in the district court shall be applicable to proceedings in the probate court, so far as the same
does not conflict with any enactment specially applicable to
fhe probate court, or is not inconsistent with the provisions of
this act. 
Sec. 43. All writs and process issued from the probate
court, shall be signed by the clerk and under the seal of the
court. 
Practice in Probate Cases.
CHAPTER II. 
Sec. 44. Whenever personal notice is required by this act
to be given to any party to a proceeding in the probate court,
and no other mode of giving notice is prescribed, it shall be
given by citation, issued from the court, signed by the clerk and
under the seal of the court, directed to the sheriff of the proper
county, requiring him to cite such person to appear before
the court or judge, as the case may be, at a time and place to
be named in such citation. In the body of the citation shall be
briefly stated the nature or character of the proceedings. 
Sec. 45. The officer to whom the citation is directed, shall
serve it by delivering a copy to the person named therein, or 
to each of them, if there be more than one, and shall return
the original to the court according to its direction, endorsing
thereon the time and manner of service. 
Sec. 46. In all cases in which citations are issued
from the probate court, they shall be served at least ten days
before the first day of the term, except when issued from the
court in cases where the law requires the judge to issue them
upon his own motion, and he does so issue them, and in such
cases they shall be served in sufficient time to allow the person
served to be in attendance on the court, and may be made returnable on any day of the term. 
SPc. 47. All orders, settlements, trials and other
proceedings entrusted by this act to the probate court, shall 
be had or made in the county in which letters testamentary,
or of administration, were granted. 
Sec. 48. All orders and. edecrees made by the probate court during its term, shall be entered at length on the
records of the court, and also all orders which the judge is
empowered to make out of the term time, and which are by
this act specially required to be so entered, and upon the
close of each term the judge shall sign the minutes of the proceedings. 
Sec. 49. When any issue is pending, proper to be tried by
a jury, the court may order a jury to be summoned by the
sheriff, not to exceed six in number, who shall possess the
qualications and be entitled to the same compensation for
their services as jurors of the district court. 
Sec. 50. Trials by jury in said court shall be governed
in all cases as similar trials in the district court, and writs of
inquiry may in like manner be awarded and executed, the verdicts of juries be set aside, and new trials granted. 
CHAPTER III. 
Wills, and Rules Applicable to and Governing Their Construction. 
Sec. 51. Every person who shall have attained the age
of majortty, of sound mind, may, by last will, devise all his 
estate, rea.l and personal. This section shall not be construed
as depriving a widow of her dowel', nor a husband of his in
terest as tenant by the courtesy.
Sec. 52. A married woman may by will, dispose of any 
real estate held in her own right, subject to any rights which
her husband may have as tenant by courtesy. 
Sec. 53. Every will shall be in writing, signed by the testator or by some other person under his direction in his presence, and shall be attested by two or more competent wit
nesses, subscribing their names to the will in the presence of
the testator. 
Sec. 54. Every person who shall sign the testator's name
to any will by his direction, shall subscribe his own name as
a witness to such will, and state that he subscribed the tes
ta.tor's name at his request.
Sec. 55. No will in writing, except in cases hereinafter 
mentioned, nor any part thereof, shall be revoked except by a
subsequent will in writing, or by burning, canceling, tearing,
or obliterating the same, by the testator, or his presence, or 
by bi's consent and direction. . 
Sec. 56. If, after making any will, the testator shall marry
and the wife shall be living at the death of the testator, such
will shall be deemed revoked, unless provision shall have been
made for by her marriage contract, or unless she be provided
for in the will, or in such way mentioned therein as to show
an intention not to make such provision, and no other evidence to rebut the presumption of revocation, shall be re- 
ceived. Sec. 57. A will made by an unmarried woman shall be 
deemed revoked by her subsequent marriage.
Sec. 58. A bond, covenant or agreement made for 
a valuable consideration by a testator to convey any property
devised or bequeathed in any last will previously made, shall
not be deemed a revocation of such previous devise or bequest,
either in law or equity; but such property shall pass by the
devise or bequest, subject to the same remedies on such bond,
covenant, or agreement; for specific performance, or otherwise against devisees or legatees, as might be had by law
against the heirs of the testator, or his next of kin, if the same
had descended to them. 
Sec. 59. A charge or encumbrance upon any real
or personal estate for the purpose of securing the payment of
money, or the performance of any covenant or agreement, shall
not be deemed a revocation of any will relating to the same
estate, previously executed. The devises and legacies therein
contained shall pass and take effect, subject to such charge
or encumbrance. 
Sec. 60. If any person make his last wil1 and die,
leaving a child or children, or descendants of such child or 
children, in case of their death, not named 01provided for in
such will, although born after the making of such will, or the 
death of the testator, every such testator so far as he shall regard such child or children or their descendants, not provided for, shall be deemed to die intestate, and such child or
children or their descendants, shall be entitled to such proportion of the estate of the testator, real and personal, as if he
had died intestate, and the same shall be assigned to them
and all the other heirs, devisees and legatees shall refund their
proportional part. 
Sec. 61. If such child or children, or their descendants, shall have an equal proportion of the testator's
estate bestowed on them in the testator's lifetime, by way of
advancement, they shall take nothing by virtue of the provisions of the preceding sections. 
Sec. 62. When any estate shall be devised to any
child, grandchild or other relative of the testator, and such 
devisee shall die before the testator, leaving lineal descendants, such descendants shall take the estate, real and personal, as such devisee would have done in case he had survived
the testator. 
Cec. 63. If, after making any will, the testator
shall duly make and execute a secondwill, the destruction,
canceling or revocation of such second will shall not revive
the first will unless it appears by the terms of such revocation that it was his intention to revive and give effect to the
first will, or unless he shall duly republish his first will. 
Sec. 64. No nuneupative will shall be good when the
estate bequeathed exceeds the value of two hundred dollars,
nor unless the same be proved by two witnesses, who were
present at the making thereof, nor unless it be proven that
the testator, at the time of pronouncing the same, did bid some
person present to bear witness that such was his will, or to
that effect; nor unless such nuncupative will was made at the
time of the last sickness, and at the dwelling house of the deceased, or where he had been residing for the space of ten days
or more, except where such person was taken sick away from
home, and died before his return. 
Sec. 65. Any mariner at sea, or soldier in the military
service, may dispose of. his wages, or other personal property,
as he might have done by common law, or by reducing the same
to writing. 
Sec. 66. No proof shallbe received of any nnncupative will, unless it be offered within six months. after
speaking the testamentary words, nor unless the words, or
the substance thereof, be first committed to writing, and a citation issued accompanied with a copy thereof, to call the
widow or next of kin of the deceased that thev ma v contest 
the will if they think proper. ., Sec. 67. All beneficial devises, legacies and gifts 
whatever, made or given in any will to a subscribing witness
thereto, shall be void unless there are two other competent.
witnesses to the same, but a mere charge on the estate of the 
testator for the payment of debts shall not prevent his credl- .
tors from being competent witnesses to his will. 
Sec. 68. But if such witness, to whom a.ny beneficial devise, legacy or gift may have been made or given, would
have been entitled to any share in the testator's estate, in
case the will is not established, then so much of the estate as
would have descended or would have been distributed to such
witness, shall be saved to him, as will not exceed the value
of the devise or bequest made to him in the will; and he may
recover the same from the devisees or legatees named in the 
will in proportion to and out of the parts devised and bequeathed to him. . 
Sec. 69. Every devise of land in any will shall be
construed to convey all the estate of the devisor therein, which
be could lawfully devise, unless it shall clearly appear by the 
11ill that he intended to convey a less estate.
Sec. 70. If any person, by last will, devise, any 
real estate to any person for the term of such person's. life,
such devise vests in the devisee an estate for life, and without
the remainder is specially devised to the heirs of said devisee, 
lt shall revert to the heirs at law of the testator.
Sec. 71. Any estate, right or interest in lands ac
quired by the testator after the making of his or her will, shall 
pass thereby, and in like manner as if it passed at the time of 
making the will, if such shall manifestly appear by the will 
to have been the intention of the testator.
Sec. 72. When any testator in his last will shall 
give any chattel or real estate to any person, and the same 
shall be taken in execution for the payment of the testator's
debts, then all the other legatees, devisees and heirs, shall refund their proportional part of such loss to such person from
whom the bequest shall be taken. 
Sec. 73. When any devisees, legatees or heirs shall
be required to refund any part of the estate received by them,
for the purpose of making up the share, devise or legacy of
any other devisee, legatee or heir, the probate court, upon the
petition of the person entitled to contribution or distributlon
of such estate, may order the same to be made, and enforce
such order with like effect as a judgment of the district court. 
Sec. 7 4. The term "will." as used in this act, shall
be so construed as to include all codicils attached to any will. 
Sec. 75. All courts and others concerned in the
execution of last wills, shall have due regard to the direction
of the will, and the true intent and meaning of the testator in
all matters brought before them. 
Venue.
CHAPTER IV. 
Sec. 76. ":-ms shall be proved and letters testamentary or of administration shall be granted: 
1. In the county of which deceased was a resident or had
his place of abode at the time of his death. 
2. In the county in which he may have died, leaving
estate therein, and not being a resident of the Territory. 
3. In the county in which any part of his estate may be,
he having died out of the Territory, and not having been a
resident thereof at the time of his death. 
Sec. 77. When the estate of the deceased is in
more than one county, he having died out of the Territory, and
not having been a resident thereof at the time of his death, the
probate court of that county in which application is first made
for letters testamentary or of administration, shall have exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate. 
Of the Proof of Wills.
CHAPTER V. 
Sec. 78. Any person , having the custody of any
will shall, within thirty days after he shall have knowledge
of the death of the testator, deliver said will into the probate
court which has jurisdiction of the case, or to the person
named in the said will as executor. 
Sec. 79. Any person named as executor in any will
shall, within thirty days after he has knowledge that he is
executor, present the will, if in his possession, to the probate
court which has jurisdiction. 
Sec. 80. An executor named in the will may decline to act by filing a written renunciation at the time of filing 
said will; but if he intends to accept, he shall present with
the will a petition praying that the wiJI be admitted to probate and that letters testamentary be issued to him. 
Sec. 81. Any person violating the three preceding
, sections of this act without reasonable excuse, shall bP- liable 
to every person interested in the will for damages caused by
such neglect. 
Sec. 82. Any person named as an executor in a
will. not having the same in his possession, may petition the
court of proper jurisdiction for an order to have the same produced, that it may be admitted to probate, and that letters
testamentary may be issued to him. 
Sec. 83. Any person having an interest in the will,
may in like manner present a petition praying that it may be
required to be produced and admitted to probate. 
Sec. 84. The said court may compel by citation
and attachment any person in whose possession any will may
be, to produce it in court at such time as the court may order. 
Sec. 85. Application for the probate of a will, or
for letters testamentary, may be made to the judge of the
probate court in vacation and he may also at any time issue 
all necessary orders and process to enforce the production of
any will. 
Sec. 86. When any will is exhibited to be proven,
the court may immediately receive the proof and grant a certificate of probate, or if such will be rejected, issue a certificate of rejection. 
Sec. 87. If any witness be prevented by sickness
from attending at the time when any will may be produced
for probate, or reside out of the Territory or more than thirty 
miles from the place where the will is to be proven, such court
may issue a commission, annexed to such will, and directed
to any judge, justice of the peace or mayor, or other person,
empowering him to take and certify the attestation of such
witness. 
Sec. 88. If such witness appear before such officer
and make oath or affirmation that the testator signed the writing annexed to such commission, as his last will, or that some
other person signed it by his direction and in his presence,
that he was of sound mind, that the witness subscribed hi!!
name thereto in presence of the testator, the testimony so
taken shall have the same force as if taken before the court. 
Sec. 89. When one of the witnesses to such will
shall be examined and the other witnesses are dead, insane,
or their residence unknown, then such proof shall be taken of
the handwriting of the testator, and of the witnesses dead,
insane, or residence unknown, and of such other circumstances
as would be sufficient to prove such will. 
Se,~. 90. If it shalJ appear to the satisfaction of
the court that all the subscribing witnesses are dead, insane
or their residence unknown, the court shall take and receive
such proof of the handwriting of the testator and subscribing
witnesses to the will, and of such other facts and circumstances
as would he sufficient to prove such will. 
Sec. 91. All the testimony adduced in support of
the wiJI shall be reduced to writing. signed by the witnesses
and certified by the judge of the probate court. 
Sec. 92. .All wills shall bf> recorded in a book kept
for that purpose, within thirty days after probate, and the
originals shall be carefuJly filed. 
Sec. 93. Every will proved according to the provisions of this act, recorded and certified by the judge
of the probate court and attested by the seal of said court, may
be read as evidence without any further proof. 
Sec. 94. The record of any will made, proved and
recorded as aforesaid, and the exemplification of such record
by the judge of probate, in whose custody the same may be, 
shall be received as evidence, and shall be as effectual, in all
cases, as the original would be if produced and proven. 
Sec. 95. In all cases where lands devised by last
will are situated in different counties, a copy of such will 
'shall be recorded in the county auditor's office in each county
within six months after probate. 
Sec. 96. If any person interested in any will shall
appear within one year after the probate or rejection thereof,
and by petition to the probate court having jurisdiction, contest the validity of said will, or pray to have the will proven
which has been rejected, he shall file a statement containing
his objections and exceptions to said will, or to the rejection
thereof. An issue shall be made up in said probate court respecting the competency of the deceased to make last will
and testament, or respecting the execution by the deceased of
such last will and testament under restraint, or undue influence, or fraudulent representations, or for any other cause
affecting the validity of such will. Such issue or Issues shall,
at the request of either of the parties interested, be certified
immediately to the district court of the district which may embrace the county where probate jurisdiction has been exercised, for trial by jury; or may, by the consent of the parties,
be tried by the probate court. Such issue or issues of fact
shall be made up and tried in the same manner as is or may
ne provided by law for the trial of issues of fact in other cases.
'I'he jury trying the same shall render a special verdict thereon, subject, nevertheless, to the like objections and exceptions
to the decisions of the court as in civil actions. After the trial
of such issue, without an appeal or writ of error shall be taken
m said case to the supreme court, as hereinafter allowed, the
district court shall remit the proceedings upon such trial, together with the findings and decision, to the probate court. The
probate court shall render judgment according to the decision
of the district court, or upon appeal to the supreme oourt, then
upon the judgment or decision of said supreme court. 
Ree. H7. Upon the filing of the petition referred to in the
next preceding section, a citation shall be issued to the executors who have taken upon them the execution of the will,
or to the administrators with the will annexed, and to all the
legatees named in the will residing in the Territory, or to their
guardians, if any of them are minors. or their personal repre- 
sentatlves, if any of them are dead, requiring them to appear
before the court on some day of a regular term therein specifled, to show cause why the petition should not be granted. 
Sec. 98. If no person shall appear within the time aforesaid, the probate or rejection of such will shall be binding, 
saving to infants, married women, persons absent from the
United States, or of unsound mind, a period of one year after
their respective disabilities are removed. 
Bee, 99. In all trials respecting the validity of a
will, if any subscribing witness be deceased, or cannot be
f9und, the oath of such witness, examined at the tlme of probate, may be admitted as evidence. 
Sec. 100. If, upon the trial of said issue, it shall be
decided that the will is for any reason invalid, or that it is not
sufficiently proved to have been the last will of the testator,
the will and probate thereof shall be annulled and revoked. 
Sec. 101. Upon the revocation being made, the
powers of the executor or administrator with the will annexed,
shall cease, but such executor or administrator shall not be
liable for any act done in good faith previous to service of
written notice of intention to contest said will. 
Sec. 102. The fees and expenses shall be paid by
the losing party. If the probate be revoked or the will annulled, the party who shall have resisted such revocation shall
pay the cost and expenses of proceedings out of the property
of the deceased. 
Sec. 103. "~henever any will be lost or destroyed,
by accident or design, the probate court shall have power to
take proof of the execution aud validity of the will, and to
establish the same, notice to persons interested having first
been given; such proof shall be reduced to writing and signed
by the witnesses. But no will shall be allowed to be proved
as a lost or destroyed will, unless the same shall be proved
to have been in existence at the time of the death of the testator, or be shown to have been fraudulently destroyed in the
lifetime of the testator, nor unless its provisions shall be
clearly and distinctly proved by at least two credible witnesses. 
Sec. 104. When any will shall be established. the
provisions thereof shall be distinctly stated and certified by
the probate judge, under his hand and the seal of the court;
and the certificate, together with the testimony upon which 
it is founded, shall be recorded as other wills are required to
be recorded. and letters testamentary or of administration, 
with the will annexed shall be issued thereon. in the same
manner as upon wills produced and only proved. 
Sec. 105. If, before or during the pendency of an
application to prove a lost or destroyed will, letters of administration be granted on the estate of the testator, or letters
testamentary of any previous will of the testator be granted,
the court shall have authority to restrain the administrators 
or executors so appointed from any acts or proceedings which
would be injurious to the legatees or devisees claiming under
the lost or destroyed will. 
CHAPTER VI. 
Letters Testamentary and of Administration and Bonds of
Executors and Administrators. 
Sec. 106. After the probate of any will, letters tesunentary shall be granted to the persons therein appointed 
" :ecutors. If a part of the persons thus appointed refuse to
a it, or be disqualified, the letters shall be granted to the other
persons appointed therein. If all such persons refuse to act, 
letters of administration with the will annexed, shall be granted
to the person to whom administration would have been
granted if there had been no will. 
Sec. 107. Any person interested in a will may file
objections in writing to the granting of letters testamentary,
to the persons named as executors, or any of them, and the
objection shall be heard and determined by the court. 
Sec. 108. If the executor be a minor, or absent from
the Territory, letters of administration with the will annexed
shall be granted during the time of such minority or absence, 
to some other person, unless there be another executor, who
shall accept the trust, in which case the estate shall be administered by such other executor, until the disqualification
shall be removed, when such minor, having arrived at full age,
or such absentee shall be admitted as joint executor with the
former. 
Sec. 109. If. after letters of adminlstration are
granted, a will of the deceased be found, and probate thereof
be granted, the letters shall be revoked and letters testamentary or of administration with the will annexed, shall be
granted. 
Sec. 110. If, after a will has been found and letters thereon granted, the will shn 11 afterwards be set aside, the
letters shall be revoked, and letters of administration granted
on the goods unadministered. 
Sec. 111. If any executrix or administratrix marrv,
her husband shall not thereby acquire any interest in the effects of her testator or intestate, nor shall the administration
thereby devolve on him, but the marriage shall extinguish her
powers and the letters be revoked. 
Rec. 112. If an executor or administrator become of unsound mind, or be convicted of felony or other infamous crime 
or become an habitual drunkard, or otherwise incapable of or
unsuitable for executing the trust reposed in him, or fail
to discharge his official duties, or waste or mismanage the
estate, or act so as to endanger any co-executor or co-administrator, the probate court upon complaint in writing made by
any person interested, supported by affidavit, and due notice
given to the person complained of, shall hear the complaint,
and if they find it just, shall revoke the letters granted. 
Sec. 113. No executor of an executor shall, as such
be authorized to administer upon the estate of the first testa
tor, but on the death of the sole or surviving executor of any
last will, letters of administration with the will annexed, of 
the estate of the first testator left unadministered, shall be
issued. 
Sec. 114. When all the executors named shall not be
appointed by the court, such as are appointed shall have the
same authority to perform every act, and discharge every trust
required by the will, and their acts shall be as effectual for
every purpose as if all were appointed and should act together. 
Sec. 115. Administrators with the will annexed shall
have thesame authority as the executor named in the will 
would have had, and their acts shall be as effectual for every
purpose. 
Sec. 116. Letters testamentary and of administration with the will annexed shall be signed by the clerk of probate, and be under the seal of the court, and a copy of the will
shall be attached to the letters. 
SPc. 117. Every administrator with the will annexed, and executor at the time letters are granted him, shall
make an affidavit that he knows of no other and subsequent
will of the deceased. 
Ree. 118. The judge of probate shall cause his clerk to
record in a well-bound book kept for that purpose, all letters testamentary and of administration, before they are delivered to the executors or administrators, and shaJI certifv
on such letters that they have been so recorded. 
Sec. 119. Copies of such letters, or copies of the
records thereof, certified by the probate judge, and under the
seal of the probate court, shall be received as evidence in any
court in this Territory. 
Sec. 120. Letters testamentary to be issued to executors under the provisions of this act, may be in the following form: 
United States of America. Territory of ,vashington.-In the
Probate Court of the County of---. 
Whereas the last will of A. B., deceased, was on the -day of --, A. D. --, duly exhibited, proven and recorded
in our said probate court, a copy of which is hereto annexed;
and whereas it appears in and by said last will that C. D. is appointed executor thereon, now thereforee, know all men by
these presents, that we do hereby authorize the said C. D. to
execute said will according to law. 
In testimony whereof, I, E. F., clerk of the probate court
my of said county, on this --- day of ---, A. D. --, at 
office in said county, have hereunto set my name and uffixed
the seal of said court. 
Sec. 121. Letters of administration with the will
annexed, may be substantially in the following form:
United States of America, Territory of Washington.-In the 
Probate Court of the Countv of---.
The last will of A. B., deceased, a copy of which is here
unto annexed, having been proved and recorded in the said
probate court, and --, (as the case may be) --, C. D. is 
hereby appointed administrator with the will annexed.
In testimony whereof, I,---, clerk of the probate court 
of said county, on this -- day of---, A. D. --, have
hereunto affixed my hand and the seal of said court. 
Sec. 122. Administratlon of the estate of a person dying
intestate, shall be granted to some one or more of the persons
hereinafter mentioned, and they shall be respectively entitled 
in the following order:
1st-Th~ surviving husband, or wife, or such person as he 
or she may request to have appointed.
2d-The children.
3d-The father or mother.
4th-The brothers.
5th-The sisters.
6th-The grand children.
7th-Any other of the next of kin, entitled to share in the 
distribution of the estate: Provided, That nothing herein before mentioned shall be so construed as to prevent the judge
of the probate court from appointing any disinterested and
competent person or persons to administer such estate, when
requested so to do, by petition of any person or persons interested in a just administration thereof. 
Sec. 123. Application for letters , of administration
shall be made by petition in writing, signed by the applicant or.
his attorney, and filed in the probate court, which petition shall
set forth the facts essential to giving the court jurisdiction of
the case, and such applicant. at the time of making such application, shall make an affidavit stating, to the best of his 
knowledge and belief, the names and places of residence of
the heirs of the deceased, and that the deceased died without a
will. 
Sec. 124. A similar affidavit, with such variations
as the case may require, shall be made by administrators of
the goods remaining unadministered, and by administrators
during the time of a contest about a will, or the granting of
letters of administration. 
Sec. 125. Letters of administration shall be signed
by the clerk, and be under the seal of the court, and may be
substantially in the following form:
United States of America, Territory of Waahington-c-ss. 
Whereas, A. B., late of --, on or about the -- day of
--, A. D., --, died intestate, leaving at the time of his
death, property in this 'ferritory subject to administration.
Now, thereforee, know aJI men by these presents, that we do
hereby appoint -- administrator upon said estate, and hereby authorize him to administer the same according to Jaw. 
In testimony whereof, I, E. F., clerk of the probate court
of said county, on this -- day of---, A. D. --, at my
office in said county, have hereunto set my name and affixed
the seal of said court. 
Sec. 126. Every executor or administrator, before entering upon the execution of his trust, sha11 give bond with sufficient sureties, resident in this Territory, in such sum as the
judge of the probate court shall order, payable to the Territory of Washington. The form of the bond shall be joint and 
several, and the penalty shall not be less than twice the value 
of the estate; which value shall be ascertained by the said
judge, by examination, on oath, of the party applying, and of
any other persons he may think proper to examine. The bond
shall be conditioned that the executor or administrator shall
faithfully execute the duties of his trust according to law. In
the discretion of the court, an additional bond may be required whenever any real estate is ordered to be sold by the
eourt ; and also, the court may require additional security for
the annual rents, issues and profits of all real estate in the
charge of said executor or administrator. 
~c. 127. When two or more persons have been appointed
executors or administrators, the probate court may take a separate bond. with securities from each of them, or a joint bond, 
with securities, from all of them.
~ec. 128. No judge of the probate court, no sheriff, clerk 
of.a court or deputy of either, and no attorney at law, shall be
taken as security in any bond required to be taken by this act! 
Sec. 129. The judge of the probate court shall take special 
care to take as securities, men who are solvent and sufficient,
and who are not bound in too many other bonds; and to satisfy
himself, he may take testimony, and examine, on oath, the applicant or persons offered as security. 
Sec. 130. The judge of the probate court shall cause
his clerk to record in a well-bound book kept for that purpose,
all bonds given by executors and administrators, and preserve
the originals in regular files. 
Sec. 131. If any heir, legatee, creditor or other person interested in any estate, file in the probate court an affidavit,
stating that the affiant has sufficient cause to believe that the
security in the executor's or admlnistrator's bond, has, or is
likelv to become insolvent. or has died or removed from the
territory, or that the principal in such bond has, or is likely to
become insolvent, or is wasting the estate, or that the
penalty of such bond is insufficient, or that such bond has
not been taken according to law, and shall have giventhe
principal in such bond at least ten days' notice of the complaint, the court shall examine into the complaint. 
Sec. 132. If any person .bound as security in any executor's or administrator's bond, file in the probate court an affidavit stating that the afflant has sufficient reason to believe
and does believe his co-surety has died, or is likely to become
insolvent, or has removed from the Territory, or the principal
in such bond has or is likely to become insolvent, or is wasting the estate, and shall have given to the principal in such
bond at least ten days' notice of such complaint, the court
shall examine into the same. 
Sec. 133. If fhe probate court find the complaint mentioned in either of the two preceding sections to be just, it
shall order another bond and sufficient surety to be given. 
Sec. 134. Such additional bond when given and approved,
shall discharge the former securities from any liability arising
from the misconduct of the principal after the filing of the
same, and such former securities shall only be liable fo.r such
misconduct as happened prior to the giving such new bond. 
Sec. 135. If such person fail to give such aditional bond
and security for ten days after making such order, or in such
other time as the court may prescribe, his letters from thenceforth shall be deemed to be revoked, and his authority from 
that time cease.
Sec. 136. When it is expressly provided in the will of a 
testator that no bond shall be required of the executor, letters
testamentary may issue wi11,, ' ' bond having been given; 
but an executor to whom IPI rers have been issued without 
bond, may at any tfrne ~ftPrwards, whenever it may be shown 
from any cause to be necessary and proper, be required to appear and file a bond as in other cases. 
Sec. 137. When by reason of a suit concerning the
proof of a will, or from any other cause, there shall be a de
lay in granting letters testamentary or of administration, the
judge of the probate court may. in his discretion, appoint a
special administrator, (other than one of the parties,) to collect and preserve the effects of the deceased; and in case of
an appeal from the decree appointing such special administrator, he shall, nevertheless, proceed in the execution of his
trust, until he shall be otherwise ordered by the district court
to which such appeal is taken. 
Sec. ms. Every such administrator shall, before
entering on the duties of his trust, give bond with sufficient
surety or sureties, in such sum as the judge of the probate court
shall order, payable to the Territory of Washington, with
condition as required of an executor, or in other cases of administratorship, to make and return intothe probate court
within three months, a true inventory of all the goods, chattels, rights and credits of the deceased, which have 01shall
come into his possession or knowledge ; and tha.t he will truly
account for all the goods, chattels. debts and effects of the deceased, that shall be received by him as special administrator,
whenever required by the probate court. and will deliver the
same to the person who shall be appointed executor or administrator of the deceased, or to such other person as shall be
lawfully authorized to receive the same. 
RPe. rnn. 8ud1 special administi'ator shall cullect
all the goods, chattels and debts of the deceased and preserve
the same for the executor or administrator who shall thereafter be appointed; and for that purpose may commence and
maintain suits as an administrator, and may also sell such perishable and other goods as the probate court shall order sold,
and he shall be allowed such compensation for his services as
the said court shall deem reasonable. 
Re<. 140. Upon granting letters testamentary or
of administration. the power of the special administrator shall
cease, and he shall forthwith deliver to the executor or administrator all the goods, chattels, money and effects of the deceased in his hands, and the executor or administrator may be
admitted to prosecute any suit commenced by the special administrator, in like manner as an administrator de bonis non
is authorized to prosecute a suit commenced by a former executor or administrator. 
Rec. 141. Ruch special administrator shall not be
liable to an action by any creditor of the deceased, and the 
time for limitation of all suits against the estate shall begin
to run from the time of granting letters testamentary or of
administration in usual form, in like manner as if such special administration had not been granted. 
Sec. 142. 'I'he special administrator shall also render an account on oath of his proceedings, in like manner 
as other administrators are required to do.
Sec. 143. If any executor or administrator, having 
first settled his accounts, shall publish for six weeks in .some 
newspaper in this Territory in general circulation in the county wherein his letters were granted, a notice of his intention to
apply to the probate court to resign his letters, and the court
on proof of such publication believe that he should be permitted to resign it, shall so order; said publication of notice
in the newspaper, upon application to the probate court for
that purpose, may be dispensed with, and instead thereof, the
probate court may require said executor or administrator to
post ten written or printed handbills containing said notice,
in ten of the most public places in the county where his letters were granted? at least twenty days before the term of the
court at which he makes application to resign his letters. 
Sec. 144. Such person shall then surrender his
letters, his power from that time shall cease, and he shall pay
the expenses of publication and of all the proceedings on such
application. 
Sec. 145. If there be more than one executor or
administrator of an estate, and the letters or part of them be
revoked or surrendered, or a part die or in any way become disqualified, those who remain shall perform all the duties required by law respecting the estate. 
Sec. 146. If the executors or administrators of a.n estate
shall die, resign, or their letters be revoked, in case not otherwise provided for, letters of administration of the goods remaining unadministered, shall be granted those to whom administration would have been granted if the original letters
had not been obtained, or the person obtaining them had renounced administration, and the administrator shall perform
the like duties and incur the like liabilities as the former executors or administrators. 
Sec. 147. If any executor or administrator resign or
his letters be revoked, or he die, he or his legal representatives
shall account for, pay and deliver to his successor, or to the
surviving or remaining executor or administrator, all money
and property of every kind, and all rights, credits, deeds, evidences of debt and papers of every 'kind of the deceased, at 
such time and in such manner as the court shall order, on 
final settlement with such executor or administrator or his
legal representatives. 
Sec. 148. The succeeding administrator, or remaining executor or administrator, may proceed by law against
any delinquent former executor or administrator, or his legal
representatives, or the securities of either, or against any other
person possessed of any part of the estate. . 
Sec. 149. All suits against securities shall be commenced within six years after the revocation or surrender of
letters of administration or death of the principal. 
Sec. 150. If any executor or administrator fail to
make either annual or final settlement as required by law, 
and do not show good cause for such failure,after having been
cited for that purpose, by the probate court it shall order such
executor or administrator to give notice when required, and to
make such settlement, and may enforce obedience to such order by attachment, and may, revoke his letters. 
Sec. 151. If any person who has surrendered his
letters testamentary or of administration, or whose letters
have been revoked, or the legal representatives of any deceased executor or administrator shall fail to make final settlement as required by law, after being cited for that purpose
by the probate court, it shall order such delinquent to make
such settlement, and may enforce obedience to such order by
attachment. 
Sec. 152. In all cases where citations or attachments may be issued against any executor, administrator or
other person for failing to settle his accounts, such delinquent
shall pay all costs incurred thereby. 
Rec. 153. The executor or administrator on the estate of
any deceased member of a co-partnership shall include in the
inventory, which he is required by law to return to the pmbate court. the whole of the partnership property, goods, chattels, rights and credits appraised at their true value as in
other cases, but the appraisers shall carry out in the footing
an amount equal only to the deceased's proportional part of
the co-partnership interest. 
S(le. 154. The co-partnership property thus appraised
shall remain with, or be delivered over, as the case may be, to
the surviving partner or partners, who may be disposed to undertake the management thereof, agreeably to the conditions
of a bond which he or thev shall be required to give to the
T(>rritory of W' ashlugton, in such sum and with finch securlties as are required in other cases of administration. 
Sec. 155. The condition of such bond shall, in substance,
be as fo1lows: 
The condition of the above bond is, that if A. B., or .A. B~
and C. D., survivingpartner or partners of the late firm of 
----, shall use due diligence and fidelity in closing the
affairs of the said co-partnership, apply the proceeds thereof
towards the payment of' the co-partnership debts, render a
true account on oath to the probate court, whenever required
so to do by said court, of all the co-partnership affairs, and
pay over within one year, unless a longer time be allowed by 
the probate court, to the executor or administrator the excess,
if any there be, beyond satisfying the partnership debts, then
this bond shall be void, otherwise remain in full force. 
Hee. 156. It shall be the duty of the surviving partner
undertaking the management of the co-partnership property,
within thirty days after he shall assume the management
thereof. unless longer time is allowed, and whenever ordered
by the court, to return upon oath to the court a full and complete inventory of all property and demands of every kind belonging to. said co-partnership, and a list of all the indebtedness and obligations of said co-partnership, whether due or to
become due. And he shall proceed with dne diligence to dose
up the affairsof such co-partnership by selling the property,
real or personal. collecting the demands and paying the debts
in the same manner as the estates of deceased persons are
closed up; and shall. from time to time, as the court may order,
render to the court an account of his doings in the premises,
and when the co-partnership business is fully settled up, he
shall render his final account in the same .. manner as administrators are required to do. The probate court shall have the
same authority to compel the return of inventories and ac
counts from such surviving partner to order tho sale of real
and personal estate, and direct he mode thereof, to pay copartnership debts, to adjudicate in all matters pertaining to
such co-partnership estate as in case of ordinary administration, and parties interested shall have like remedies upon the
bond or otherwise against such survivor, for his neglect or
misconduct as may be had against administrators: Provided,
That nothing in this act contained shall impair the right of
parties interested to proceed against such survivor as they
might have done. had this act not been passed. and whenever
any notes, obligations. or contracts. upon which any other
person than the deceased may be liable. are one flle in the probate court, the person having a right to prosecute them. his
lawful agent or attornev, may. with the permission of the Mid
court, fakP them from the files, giving a receipt therefore. and
leaving upon file a copy eertifled to be correct by the judge, 
8er. 157. In cafl~ the surviving partner or partners having 
been duly cited for that purpose, shall all neglect or refuse to
give the bond required in this act, the executor or administrator on the estate of such deceased partner, on giving a bond
as provided in the following sections, shall forth with take the
whole partnership estate, goods, chattels, rights and credits
into his own possession, and shall be authorized to use the
name of the survivor or survivors in collecting the debts due
the late firm, if necessary, and shall, with the partnership
property, pay the debts due from the late firm, and return or
pay to the survivors his or their proportion of the excess, if
a.ny. 
Sec. 158. Before proceeding to administer upon such
partnership property, as provided in the preceding section,
such executor or administrator shall be required by the probate court to give further bond to its satisfaction, conditioned
that he will faithfully execute his trust according to law, which
bond may be enforced like other administration bonds. 
Sec. 159. Every surviving partner, on the. demand of any
administrator of a deceased partner, shall exhibit to the alJ
praisers the partnership property belonging to the firm at. the
time of the death of such deceased partner, for appraiseureut ;
and in case of the administration thereof shall devolve upon
such administrator, the said survivor or survivors shall surrender to him, on demand. all the property of such partnership, including their books, papers. and all necessary docnments pertaining to the same, and shall afford him all reasonable information and facilities for the execution of his trust, 
Sec. 160. Every surviving partner who shall neglect or
refuse to comply with the provisions of the preceding section,
may be cited for such neglect or refusal, to appear before the
probate court; and unless he comply with such provision, or
show sufficient cause for his omission, the probate court may
commit him to the jail of the county, there to remain until he
comply or be discharged by due course of law. 
Sec. 161. The provisions of the foregoing sections of this
act, shall not be so construed as to entitle the surviving part
ner of a deceased member of a co-partnership, to retain possession of partnership properety, after the executor or administrator of such deceased partner, or any person having an interest in a just admlnistratlon of his estate, shall make and
file with the probate judge an affidavit that there is good
grounds for believing that the estate of such deceased partner, or the creditors of such partnership, will be damaged 
thereby, unless such surviv' .. ,: partner, shall make, execute,
and file a bond to the Territory of Washington in the said pro
bate court, with securities to be by said court approved, em- 
bodying in substance the provisions of the bond; the form of
which is given in section one hundred and fifty-five of this act. 
Sec. 162. If the affidavit defined in the preceding section
be made and filed as therein specified, it shall thereupon be the
duty of said executor, or administrator, to give and file with
said judge a sufficient bond, that he wiJI forthwith take possession of such partnership property, and apply the same, or
its proceeds, in payment of the debts due from the late firm,
and that he will render to the survivor or survivors, his or
their proportion of what remains after the payment of said
liabilities, unless said surviving partner or partners shall
forthwith comply with the provisions of the preceding section
by giving his bonds as therein provided. 
Sec. 163. After the filing of the affidavit and bond mentioned in the preceding section by the executor or administrator, it shall be his duty forthwith to take possession of said
partnership effects, and if possession thereof be withheld from
him, he may, upon application to the probate court, have process directed to the sheriff, commanding him forthwith to
seize such property and deliver its possession over to said
executor or administrator. 
Sec. 164. Letters testamentary, or of administration,
shall not be granted to a non-resident of this 'I'erritorv ; and
when an executor or administrator shall become non-resident,
the probate court having jurisdiction of the estate of the testator. or intestate of such executor or administrator, shall revoke his letters. 
CIL\P'fER VII. 
Of the Inventory and Effects of Deceased Persons.
Sec. Hi5. Every executor or administrator shall, 
after having qualified, by giving bond as hereinbefore provided, have a right to the immediate possession of all the real
as well as personal estate of the deceased, and may receive
the rents and profits of the real estate until the estate shalJ
be settled or delivered over, by order of the probate court,
to the heirs or deviseea, and shall keep in tenantable repair all
houses, buildings and fixtures thereon, which are under his
control. 
Sec. 166. If such executor or administrator shall make
and file with the probate court, or in vacation, an affldavit that
any person or persons hold and refuse to deliver the possession of any property that is believed by such executor or administrator, or other person, to belong to such estate, it shall
be the duty of the said probate judge forthwith to make, is- 
sue and deliver, attested by the clerk and under the seal of
his court, an order to the sheriff of the county in which such
property may be situated, forth with to seize and take possee
ston of the said property, and deliver the same to the said executor or administrator; unless the person or persons from
whom such possession has been wrested, shall make and file
with said court an affidavit, setting forth facts, showing that
he or they are the owners of said property, or are entitled to
possession thereof, and shall also execute and file a bond with
sufflcient security, conditioned that if upon a trial, as hereinafter provided, it shall be adjudged that the said property
so taken was and does belong to said estate, the same shall be
forthwith delivered, and the expenses of such adjudication, together with the damages sustaiued by such de ... tention, be paid
and satisfied. 
Sec. 167. If any person or persons. from whom property
nas been taken under the provisions of the preceding sectlun,
shall make, execute and file, the affidavit and bond therein
prescribed, he or they shall be entitled to the irmnedinte delivery and possession of the same, and it shall be the duty of
the said court to issue a process, properly authenticated. to
the sheriff, commanding him to summon a jury not exceeding
six in number. and possessing the qualifieations hereinberore
defined, to appear at the next regular term of said court, and
cry and determine the ownership thereof': and after the trial of
such issue by said jury, the probate court shall render judgment according to their finding thereon. 
Sec. 168. Any judgment rendered by any probate court
Llpon the finding of a [nrv, as prescribed in the, preceding section, may be reviewed by the party feeling himself aggrieved, 
on appeal, writ of error, or certiorari, in the same manner as
judgment rendered by a justice of the peace. 
Sec. 169. Everv executor and administrator shall make 
and return, upon oath, into the probate court. within two
months after his appointment. a true inventory of the real and
p-rsonal estate of the deceased, which is by law to be administered, and which shall have come to his possession or knowl
edge.
Sec. 170. The estate and effects comprised in the 
inventory, shall be appraised by three suitable disinterested
persons, who shall be appointed by the probate court. If any
part of the estate shall be in another county than that in
which letters are issued, appraisers thereof may be appointed 
either by the probate court having jurisdiction of the case. or
by flu- probate court of such county, and such appraisers shall
receive as compensation for their services three dollars per 
day, to be pa.id out of the estate. 
Sec. 171. Before proceeding to the discharge of
their duties, the appraisers shall take and subscribe an oath
before any officer authorized to administer oaths, to be atcached to the inventory, that they will honestly and impartially appraise the property which shall be exhibited to them,
according to the best of their knowledge and ability; they
shall proceed to estimate and appraise the property, and set
down each article separately, with the value thereof in dollars and cents, in figures opposite the respective articles. The
inventory shall contain all the estate of the deceased, real and
personal, which is by law to be administered, a statement of
all debts, partnership and other interests, bonds, mortgages,
notes and other securities for the payment of money belonging to the deceased, specifying the name of tbdebtor in each
security, the date, the sum originally payable, the endorsements thereon, if any, and their dates, arid the sum which, ia
the judgment of the appraisers, may be collectable on each
debt. interest or securitv. 
Rec. 172. The in"ventorY shal1 also contain an account of all monies belonging to the deceased, which shall
have come to the possession or knowledge of the executor or
administrator; and if none shall come to his possession or
knowledge, the. fact shall be so stated in the inventory. 
8pf. 173. The naming of any person as executor
in a will, or the appointment of any person as administrator,
shall not operate as a discharge from any just claim which the
testator or intestate had against the executor or adminlstrator, but the claim shall be included in the inventory and the 
executor and administrator shall be liable to the same extent
as he would have been had he not been appointed px1cutor or
administrator. 
Aec. 17 4. The discharge or bequest in a will of any
debt or demand of the testator against' any executor named in
his will, or against any other person, shall not be valid against
the creditors of the deceased, but shall be construed as a speciftc bequest of such debt or demand, and the amount thereof 
. shall be included in the inventory, and shall if necessary, be
applied in payment of his debts; if not aecessary for that pur
pose, i.t: shall be paid in the same manner and proportion as
other specific legacies. 
Sec. 175. The inventory shall be signed by the appraisers,
and the executor or administrator shall take or subscribe an
oath. that the inventory contains a true statement of all the
estate of the deceased, which has come to his possession or
knowledge, and p,articularly of all monies belonging to the 
deceased. and of all just claims of the deceased against the 
executor or administrator, and the oath shall be endorsed upon or annexed to the inventory. 
~ec. 176. If any executor or administrator shall
neglect or refuse to return the inventory within the time
prescribed, or within such further time, not exceeding three
months, as the court shall allow, the court shall revoke the
letters testamentary or of administration; and the executor
or administrator shall be liable on his bond for an injury
sustained by the estate through his neglect. 
Sec. 177. Whenever property, not mentioned in any inventory that shall have been made, shall come to the knowledge or possession of the executor or administrator, he shall
cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed in
this chapter, 'and an inventory to be returned, subscribed and 
;JJworn to, as is provided in this chapter, within two months
after the discovery thereof; and the making of such inventory
may be enforced, after notice, by attachment or removal from
office. 
Sec. 178. The personal estate of the deceased which
shall come into the hands of the executor or administrator, 
shall be first chargeable with the payment of the debts and
expenses; and if the goods, chattels, rights and credits in the
hands of the executor or administrator, shall not be sufficient
to pay the debts of the deceased, the expenses of the adminis
tration and the allowance to the family of the deceased, the
whole, or so much as 'may be necessary of the real estate, may 
be sold for that purpose by the executor or administrator, in
the manner prescribed in this act. 
Sec. 179. If any person before the granting of
letters testamentary or administration, shall embezzle or
alienate ariy of the monies, goods, chattels or effects of any
deceased person, he shall stand chargeable, and be liable to
the action of the executor or administrator of the estate, in
double the value of the property so embezzled or alienated, to
be recovered for the benefit of the estate. 
Sec. 180. If any executor, administrator, heir,
legatee, creditor or other person interested in the estate of any
deceased person shall complain to the probate court, on oath,
that any person is suspected of having concealed, embezzled,
smuggled, conveyed away or disposed of any monies, goods,
or chattels of the deceased, or that he has in his possession or
knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other
writings which contain evidence of, or tend to disclose the
right, title, interest or claim of the deceased to any real or
personal estate, or any claim, demand, or last will of the deceased, the said judge may cite such person to appear before 
the probate couit, and may examine him on oath upon the
matter of such complaint. If such person be not in the county
where letters have been granted, he may be cited and examined, either before the probate court for the county where he
may be found, or before the court issuing the order or citation;
but in the latter case, if he appear and be found Innnocent, his
necessary expenses shall be allowed him out of the estate. 
Sec. 181. If the person so cited refuse to appear and
submit to such examination, or to answer such interrogatories 
as may be put to him, touching the matter of such complaint,
the court may, by warrant for that purpose, commit him to the
county jail, there to remain in close custody until he shall
submit to the order of the court,and all such interrogatories
and answers shall be in writing, and shall be signed by the
party examined and filed in the probate court. 
~ee. 18:!. Thprobate court upon the complaint
on oath of any executor or administrator, may cite any person who shall have been entrusted with any part of the estate 
of the deceased person, to appear before the said court. and
may require such person to give a full account, on oath, of any
monies, goods, chattels, bonds, accounts, or other papers belonging to the estate, which shall have come to his possession
in trnst for such executor or administrator, and of his proceeding thereon; and if the person so cited shall refuse to ap~
pear and answer such account. the court may proceed against
him as provided in the preceding section. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
Provision for the Support of the Family.
See. 183. When a person shall die, leaving a widow and 
urinor child or children, the widow, child or children shall,
until letters have been granted and the inventory be returned,
be entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, and of
all the wearing apparel of the family, and of all the household furniture of the deceased, and shall also be entitled to a
reasonable provision for their support, to he allowed by the
probate court. 
Sec. 184. Upon the return . of the inventory, the
court shall set apart for the use of the widow, minor child or
children. all the property of the estate by law exempt from
execution 
Sec. 185. If the amount thus exempt be insufficient for the
support of the widow and minor child or children, the probate court shall make such further reasonable allowance out 
of the estate as may be necessary for the maintenance of the
family according to their circumstances, during the progress
in the settlement of the estate, but no such allowance shall
be made after one year from the granting letters testamentary or of administration. 
Sec. 186. Any allowance made by the court in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding section, shall
be paid by the executor or administrator in preference to all
other. charges, except funeral charges and expenses of admin
istration.
Sec. 187. When property shall have been set a.part 
for the use of the family, in accordance with the provislons of
this chapter, if the deceased shall have left a widow and no
minor children, such property shall be the property of the
widow; if he shall have left also a minor child or children,
one-half to the widow, and the remainder to such child, or in
equal shares to such children, if there are more than one; if 
there be no widow then the whole shall belong to the minor
child or children. 
Sec. 188. If, on the return of the inventory of any in
restate's estate, who died leaving a widow or minor children, 
it shall appear that the value of the estate does 'not exceed
three- hundred dollars, the probate court shall, by decree for
that purpose, assign for the use and support of the widow
and minor children of the intestate, or for the support of the
minor child or children, if there be no widow. the whole estate, after the payment of the funeral expenses and expenses .
of administration, and there shall be no further proceedings
in the administration, unless further estate be discovered. 
Sec. 189. If intestate leave no widow or minor
children, all his estate shall be assets in the hands of the administrator, after payment of funeral expenses and expenses
of administration, forthepayment of the debts of the deceased,
or distribution according to law. 
CHAPTER .IX. 
Of Claims Against the Estate.
Sec. 190 .. Every . executor or administrator shall 
immediately after his appointment cause to be published in
some newspaper printed in the county, if there be one, if not,
then in .such news;Jlaper as may be designated by the court,
a notice to the creditors of the deceased, requiring all persons
having claims against the deceased to present them, with the
necessary vouchers, within one year after the date of such 
notice, to such executor or administrator, at the place of his
residence or transaction of business, to be specified in the notice. Such notice shall be published as often as the probate
court shall deem necessary, but not less than once in a week 
for four successive weeks.
~ec. 191. After the notice shall have been pub
Iished, a copy thereof, together with the affidavit attached
thereto, of the publisher or printer of the paper in which the
same was published, shall be filed by the executor or administrator in the probate court. 
Sec. 192. If a claim be not presented within one
year after the first publication of the notice, it shall be barred. 
See. H.:3. Every claim presented to the administrator shall be supported by the affidavit of the claimant that the
amount is justly due, that no payments have been made
thereon, and that there are no offsets to the same to the knowledge of the claimant. The oath may be taken before any officer
authorized to administer oaths. The executor or administrator
may also require satisfactory vouchers to be produced in support of the claim. 
Rf'e. 194. When a claim accompanied by the affidavit required in the preceding section has been presented to the
executor or administrator, he shall endorse thereon his allowance or rejection, with the day and date thereof. If he allow
the claim, it shall be presented to the judge of the probate
court, who shall in the same manner indorse on it his allow
anee or rejection.
Sec. 195. Every claim which has been allowed by 
the executor or administrator and the said judge, shall be
filed in the probate court and be ranked among the acknowl
edged debts of the estate, to be paid in thecourse of the administration. 
Sec. 196. Any judge of a probate court may pre
.sent a claim against the estate of any decedent for allowance,
to the executor or administrator, and if the executor or administrator allows such claim, he shall in writing designate
some judge .of the probate court of an adjoining county, and
the said judge. shall have the same power to allow or reject
it as he would have, had letters Issued in his court; and the
claimant shall have, in the event of his claim being rejected,
all the rights incident to any other creditor against the estate. 
Se-c. 197. When a claim is rejected by either the
executor, administrator or the judge of probate court, the
holder must bring suit in the proper court against the ekecu.
tor or administrator within three months after it becomes
due, otherwise the claim shall be forever barred. 
Sec. 198. No claim shall be allowed by the executor, administrator or probate court which is barred by the 
statute of limitations. Sec. 199. No holder of any claim against an estate 
shall maintain an action thereon, unless the claim shall have
been first presented to the executor or administrator. 
Sec. ioo. The time during which there shall be a
vacancy in the administration shall not be included in any
limitations herein prescribed. 
Sec. :!01. If any action be pending against the testator or intestate, at the time of his death, the plaintifff shall,
in like manner present his claim to the executor or administrator for allowance or rejection, authenticated as in other
cases; and norecovery shall be had in the action unless proof
be made of the presentment. 
Sec. 202. Whenever any claim shallhave been
presented to an executor or administrator and the judge. of the
probate court, and a part thereof shall be allowed, the amount
of such allowance shall .be stated in the indorsement. If the
creditor shall refuse to accept the amount so allowed in satisfaction of his claim, he shall recover no costs in any action he
may bring against the executor or administrator, unless he
shall recover a greater amount than that offered to be allowed,
exclusive of interest and costs. . 
Sec. 203. The effect of any judgment rendered
.against any executor or administrator, shall be only to establish the claim, in the same manner as it' it had been allowed L>y 
the executor or admuustrator and the probate court; and the
judgment shall be, that the executor or administrator pay, in
due course of administration, the .amount ascertained to be
.due. A certified transcript of the judgment shall be filed in 
. the probate court, and no execution shall issue upon such judgment, nor shall it create a lien upon the property of. the estate,
or give the judgment creditor any priority of payment. 
8ec. 204. When any judgment has been rendered
against the testator or intestate in his lifetime, no execution
shall issue thereon after his death, but it shall be presented
tothe executor or administrator as any other claim, but need
not be supported by the affidavit of the claimant, and if justly
due and unsatisfied, shall be paid in due course of administra:tion: Provided, however, That if it be a lien upon any prop
erty of the deceased, the same may be sold for the satisfaction
thereof, and the officer making the sale shall account to the
_executor or administrator for any surplus in his hands. 
Sec. 205. If the executor or 'administrator doubt
the correctness of any claim presented to him, he may enter 
into an agreement in writing with the claimant to refer the
matter in controversy to some disinterested person, or persons,
to be approved by the judge of the probate court. Upon tiling
the agreement in the probate court, the court shall enter a 
rule referring the matter in controversy to the persons so
selected. 
' Sec. 206. The referee or referees having been
sworn, shall proceed to hear and determine the case and make 
return thereof; and their award. if not excepted to, shall be
entered as the decision of the probate court. If exceptions in 
. writing are filed, the court shall proceed to determine the case
in like manner as other claims are determined. The compensation of referees shall be the same as allowed to referees in
the district court. 
SPc. 207. If the executor or administrator is himself a creditor of the testator or intestate, his claim, duly authenticated by affidavit, shall be presented for allowance or
rejection to the probate court, and its allowance-by the judge 
shall be sufficient ev idence of its correctness.
Sec. 208. If the executor or administrator shall 
neglect for two months, after his appointment, to give notice
to creditors as prescribed by this article, it shall be the duty of
the court to revoke his letters. 
Sec. 209. At the same time at which the executor
or administrator is required to return his inventory, he shall
also return a statement of all claims against theestate which
shall have been presented to him, when required by the court,
and from time to time thereafter shall present a statement of
claims subsequently presented to him; and in all such statements he shall designate the names of creditors, the na ture ol.
each claim, when it did or will become due, and whether it
was allowed or. rejected by him. 
CHAPTER X. 
Sales of Property by Executors and Administrators.
Sec. 210. No sale of any property shall be valid unless 
made under order of the probate court.
Sec. 211. All applications for orders of sale shall 
be by petition, in writing, in which shall be set forth the facts,
showing the sale to be necessary, and upon the. hearing, any 
person interested in the estate, may file his written objections,
.which shallbe heard and determined, , 
8ec. 212. At the term of the court at which the 
Inventory is returned, the executor or administrator shall 
a~ply for an order to sell the perishable property of the estate,
and so much other property as may be necessary to be sold, to 
pay the allowance made to the family of the deceased.
to,ec. 213. If claims against the : estate have been 
allowed, and a sale of property shall be necessary for 'the payment of the expenses of the administration, he may also apply
for an order to sell so much of the personal estate as shall be 
necessary. ~c. 214. If it appear to the court . that a sale is 
necessary, it shall so order. In making such sale, the court
shall order such articles as are not necessary for the support
and subsistence of the family of the deceased, or not specially
bequeathed, to be first sold. 
~ee. 215. Sales of personal property shall be made
at public auction, and after notice given for at least two weeks,
which notice shall be given by notices posted in the public
places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, if the
judge shall . so order, in which shall be stated the time and
place of sale. 
Sec. 216. If it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the probate court, that it will be for the interest of the
estate to allow the executor or administrator to sell some or
the whole of the personal estate at private sale, the court
may so order. 
Sec. 217. When the personal estate in the hands
of the executor or administrator shall be insufficient to pay
the allowance to the family, and all the debts and charges of
the administration, the executer or administrator may sell the
real estate for that purpose, upon the order of the probate 
.court. To obtain such order he shall present a petition to the
court, setting forth the amount of the personal estate that has 
come to his hands, and how much, if any, remains undisposed
of, a list and the amounts of the debts outstanding against
the deceased, as far as the same can be ascertained, a description of all the real estate of which the testator or intestate died
seized, the condition and value of the respective lots and portions, the names and ages of the devisees, if any, and of' the
heirs of the deceased, which petition shall be verified by the
oath of the party presenting the same. 
Sec. 218. If . it shall appear by such petition that
there is not sufficient personal estate in the hands of the executor or administrator to pay the allowance to the family,
the debts outstanding against the deceased, and the expenses
of administration, and that it is necessary to sell the whole or
some portion of the real estate, for the payment of such debts,
the probate court shall thereupon make an order, directing all 
persons interested to appear at a time and place specified, not
less than four nor more than eight weeks from the time of 
making such order, to show cause why an order shall not be
granted to the executor or administrator to sell the real estate
of the deceased, or so much thereof as shall be necessary, to 
pay such allowances, charges and debts.
Sec. 2rn. A copy of such order to show cause, shall 
be personally served on all persons interested in the estate,
at least ten days before the time appointed for hearing the
petition, or shall be published at least four. successive weeks 
in such newspaper as the court shall order: Provided, ho"'ever, If all persons interested in the estate shall signify, in
writing, their assent to such sale, the notice may be dispensed 
with.
8ec. 220. The probate court at the time a.nd place 
appointed in such order, or at such other time to which the
hearing may be adjourned, upon proof of the due service or
publication of a copy of the order, or upon filing the consent
in writing, to such sale, of all parties interested, shall proceed
to the hearing of such petition; and if auch consent be not
flied, shall hear and examine the allegation and proofs of the
petitioners and of all persons interested in the estate, who may
oppose the application. 
8ec. 221. If any ofthe devisees or heirs of the deceased are minors, and have a general guardian in the county, 
the copy of the order shall be served on the guardian. If they
have no such guardian, the court shall, before proceeding to
act on the petition, appoint some disinterested person their
guardian for the sole purpose of appearing, for them and tak-: 
ing care of their interests in the proceedings.
Rec. 222. The executor or administrator may be 
examined under oath, and witnesses may be examined by
either party. and process may be issue to compel their attendance and 'testimony, by the probate court, in the same
manner and with like effect as in other causes. 
s,~c. 22:J. If it shall appear to the court that i,t is
necessary to sell a part of the real estate, and that by a sale
of such part the residue of the estate or some specific part or
piece thereof would be greatly injured, the court may authorize the sale of the whole estate, or of such part thereof as may
be adjudged necessary, and most for the interest of all concerned. 
Sec. 224. If the probate court shall be satisfied
after a full hearing upon the petition, and on examination of
the proofs and allegations of the parties interested. that a sale
of the whole or some portion of the real estate is necessary 
for the payment of the allowance to the family, and all valid
claims against the estate and charges of administration, or
if such sale be assented to by all the persons interested, he
shall make an order of sale authorizing the executor or admin
istrator to sell the whole or so much and such parts of the
real estate described in . the petition as he shall judge necessary or beneficial. 
Sec. 225. The order shall specify the lands to be
sold and the terms of sale, which may be either for cash or on
credit, and not exceeding six months, as the court may direct.
If it appear that ally part of such real estate has been devised
and not charged in such devise with the payment of debts,
the court shall order that part descended to heirs to be sold,
before that so devised. 
Sec. 226. lf the executor or administrator shall
neglect to apply for an order of sale whenever it may be necessary, any person interested in the estate may make application therefore in the same manner as an executor or administrator, and notice thereof shall be given to the executor or
administrator before the hearing. 
Sec. 227. Upon making such order, the clerk of
the probate court shall deliver 'it to the executor or administrator, who shall thereupon be authorized to sell the real estate
as directed. 
Sec. 228. When a sale is ordered notice of the
time and place of sale shall be posted in ten of the most public places in the county where the land is situated, at least
twenty days before the day of sale, and shall be published in
some newspaper in this Territory, in general circulation in
said county, for three successive weeks next before such. sale,
in which notice the lands and tenements shall be described 
with common certainty.
Sec. 229. Such sale shall be in the countv where 
the lands are situated at public auction, between the hours
of ten o'clock in the morning and the setting of the sun the
same day; but if the executor or administrator shall deem it
for the interest of all concerned that the sale should be postponed, he may adjourn it for any time not exceeding fourteen 
days.
Sec. 230. In case of such adjournment notice 
thereof shall be given by a public proclamation at the.time and
place first appointed for the sale; and il the adjournment shall
be for more than one day, further notice shall be given by posting or publishing as the time and circumstances may admit. 
Sec. 231. The executor or administrator .shall,
when the sale is on credit, take the note or notes of the pur- 
chaser for the purchase money, with surety, and mortgage on
the property to secure their payment. 
15ec. 232. The executor or administrator making
any sale of real estate shall, at the next term of the court
thereafter, make a return of his proceedings to the probate
court, who shall examine the same, and if he shall be of opinion that the proceedings were unfair, or that the sum bidden
is disproportionate to the value, and that a sum exceeding such
bid at least ten per cent., exclusive of expense of a new sale,
may be obtained, be shall vacate such sale and order another
to be had, of which notice shall be given, and the sale shall be
conducted in all respects as if no previous sale had taken
place. 
Sec. 233. When the return of the sale is made any
person interested in the estate may file written objections to
the confirmation of the sale, and may be beard and produce
witnesses in support of his objections. 
Sec. 234. If it appear to the court that the sale
was legally made and fairly conducted, and that the sum bidden was not disproportionate to the value of the property sold,
or if disproportionate, that a greater sum as above specified,
cannot be obtained, the court shall make an order confirming
the sale and directing conveyances to be executed; and such
sale, from that time, shall be confirmed and valid. 
Sec. 235. Such con,veyances shall thereupon be executed
to the purchaser by the; executor or administrator. They shall 
contain and set forth at large the original order authorizing a
sale, and the order confirming the sale and directing the conveyances; and they shall be 'deemed to convey all the estate,
rights and interest of the testator or intestate at the time of
his death. 
Sec. 236. Before any order is entered confirming
the sale, it shall be proven to the satisfaction of the probate
court that notice of the sale was given, as herein prescribed,
and the order of confirmation shall state that such proof was
made. 
Sec. 237. "?hen a testator shall have given any
legacy by will that is effectual to charge real estate, and his
goods, chattels, rights and credits shall be insufficient to pay
such legacy, together with his debts and charges of administration, the executor or administrator, with the will annexed,
may obtain an order to sell his real estate for that purpose in
the same manner and upon the same terms and conditions as
are prescribed in this act, in case of a sale for the payment of
debts. 
Sec. 238. If the testator shall make provision by 
his will, or design-ate the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts, the expenses of administration, or family
expenses, they shall be paid according to the provision of the 
will, and out of the estate thus appropriated, so far as the same
may be sufflcient, 
Sec. 239. When any division has been made, or
any property directed to be sold, the executor or administrator
with the will annexed, may proceed to sell without the order
of the probate court; but he shall be bound as an administrator, to give notice of the sale, and to proceed in making
the sale in all respects as if he were under the order of the
court, unless there are special directions given in the will, in
which case he shall be governed by such directions; but in all
cases he shall make return of the sale to the probate court,
who shall vacate such sale unless the same shall appear in all
respects to be made according to law in like manner as upon
sales made by administrators. 
Sec. 240. If the provisions made by the will or- the
estate appropriated be not sufflclent to pay the debts and expenses of administration and family expenses, such part of
the estate as shall not have been disposed of by the will, if
any, shall be appropriated for that purpose, according to the
provisions of this act. 
Sec. 241. The estate, real and personal, given by 
the will to any legatees or devisees, shall be held liable for the
payment of the debts, the expenses of administration, and of
the family in proportion to the value or amount of the several
devises or legacies, if there shall not be other sqffi9ient estate,
except that specific devises or legacies may be exempted if it
appear to the court necessary to carry into effect the intention 
of the testator if there shall be other sufficient estate.
Rec. 242. When the estate given by any wiil has 
been sold for the payment of debts and expenses, all the devisees and legatees shall be liable to contribute according to
their respective interests, to any devisee or legatee from whom 
the estate devised to him may be taken for the payment of the
debts or expenses; and the probate court when distribution is
made, shall by decree for that purpose, settle the amount of
the several liabilities and decree how much each person shall
contribute. 
Sec. 243. If a deceased person at the time of his
death was possessed of a contract for the purchase of lands, his
interest in such lands under such contract, may be sold on the
application of his executor or administrator, in the same manner as if he had died seized of such lands; and the same proceedings may be had for that purpose as are prescribed in this 
act, in respect to lands of which he died seized, except as hereinafter provided. . 
See. 244. Such sale shall be made subject to all 
payments that may thereafter become due on sueh contract,
and if there be any such payments thereafter to become due,
such sale shall not be confirmed by the probate court until the
purchaser shall have executed a bond to the executor or- administrator for his benefit and indemnity, and for the benefit
and indemnity of the persons entitled' to the interest of the
deceased in lands so contracted for, in double the whole amount
of the payments thereafter to become due on such contract,
with such securities as the probate court shall approve. 
Sec. 245. Such bond shall be conditioned that tbe
purchaser will make all payments for such land as shall become due, after the date of such sale, and will fully indemnify
the executor or administrator and the person so entitled,
against all demands, costs and charges and expenses by reason
of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract; but
if there be no payments thereafter to become due on such
contract, no bond shall be required of the purchaser, 
Rec. 246. Upon the confirmation of such sale, the
executor or administrator shall execute to the purchaser an
assignment of the contract, which assignment shall vest in the
purchaser, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title and interest
of the persons entitled to the interest of the deceased in the
land sold at the time of the sale: and such purchaser shall have the same rights and remedies against the vendor of such
lands as the deceased would have had if living. 
8ec. 247. If any person die, having mortga~ed
any real or personal estate, and shall not have devised the
same or provided for the redemption thereof by will, the probate court, upon the applicationof any person interested, may 
order the executor or administrator to redeem the estate out of
the personal assets, if it should appear to the satisfaction of
the court that such redemption would be beneficial to the
estate and not injurious to creditors. 
Sec. 248. If such redemption be not deemed expedient, the court shall order such property to be sold at public
sale, which sale shall be with the same notice, and conducted
in the same manner as is required in other cases of real estate
provided for in this act, and the executor or administrator
shall execute a conveyance thereof to the purchaser; which conveyance shall be effectual to convey to the
purchaser all the right, title and interest which the deceased
would have had in the property had not the same been mortgaged by him, and the purchase money, after paying the ex- 
penses of the sale, shall first be applied to the payment and
discharge of such mortgage, and the residue in due course of
administration. 
Sec. 249 .. If there shall be any neglect or misconduct in the proceedings of the executor or administrator in
relation to any sale, by which any person interested in the
estate shall suffer damages, the party aggrieved may recover
the same in a suit upon the bond of the executor or administrator, or otherwise, as the case may require. 
Sec. 250. Any executor or administrator who shall
fraudulently sell any real estate of his testator or intestate,
contrary to the provisions of this act, shall be liable in double
the value of the land sold, as damages, to be recovered in an
action by the person or persons having an estate of inheritance
therein. 
Sec. 251. No action for the recovery of any estate, sold
oy any executor under the provisions of this act, shall be
maintained by any person claiming under the deceased testator or intestate, .unless it be commenced within three years 
next after the sale.
Sec. 252. The preceding section shall not apply to min
"rs, or others under any legal disability to sue at the time
when the right of action shall first accrue, but all such- per
sons may commence such action at any time within three
years after the removal of the disability. 
Sec. 253. "Whenever a sale shall have been made by an
~.xecutor or administrator, of any property of the estate, real 
or personal, it shall be his duty to return to theprobate court,
at its next term thereafter, an account of sales, verified by his 
affidavit.
Sec. 254. No executor or administrator shall, directly or 
indirectly, purchase any property of the estate. 
CHAPTER Xl 
Of the Powers and Duties of the Executor and Administrator,
and of the Management of the Estate. 
Sec. 255. The executor or administrator shall take
into his possession all the estate of the deceased, real and personal, and collect all debts due to the deceased. 
Sec. 256. Actions for the recovery of any property,
real or personal, or for the possession thereof, and all actions
founded upon contracts, may be maintained by and against
executors and administrators in all cases in which the same 
might have been maintained by or against their respective 
testators or intestates. 
Sec. 257. Executors and administrators may main ..
tain actions against any person who shall have wasted, destroyed, taken, carried away- or converted to his. own usethe
goods of their testator or intestate in his lifetime, also may
maintain actions for trespass committed on the estate of the
deceased during his lifetime. 
Sec. 258. Any person, or his personal representatives, shall have an action against the executor or administrator of any testator or intestate who in his lifetime shall have
wasted, destroyed, taken or carried a way, or converted to his
own use the goods and chattels of any such person, or committed any trespass on the real estate of such person. 
Sec. 259. Any administrator may in his own name,
for the use and befient of all parties interested in the estate,
maintain actions on the bond of an executor or of any former
administrator of the same estate. 
Sec. 260. Whenever a debtor of a deceased person
shall be unable to pay all his debts, the executor or administrator may, with the approbation of the probate court, compound with him and give him a discharge upon receiving a
fair and just dividend of his effects. 
Sec. 261. "rhen there shall be a deficiency of assets in the hands of an executor or administrator, and when
the deceased shall in his lifetime have conveyed any real estate
or any right or interest therein, with intent to defraud his
creditors or to avoid any right, duty or debt of any person, or
shall have so conveyed such estate, that by law the deeds or
conveyances are void as against creditors, the executor or administrator may, and it shall be his duty to, commence and
prosecute to final judgment any proper action for the recovery
of the same, and may recover for the benefit of the creditors
all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed, and may also for
the benefit of the creditors, - sue and recover all goods, chattels,
rights and credits which may have been so fraudulently conveyed by the deceased in his lifetime, whatever may have been
the manner of such fraudulent conveyance. 
~~c. 262. No executor or administrator shall be
bound to sue for such estate as mentioned in the preceding section, for the benefit of the creditors, unless on application of
the creditors of the deceased; and the creditors making such
application shall pay such part of the costs and expenses, or
give such security to the executor or administrator thereof, 
as the probate court shall direct. 
~~c. 263. The real estate so recovered shall be sold
for the payment of debts in the same manner as if the deceased
had died seized thereof, upon obtaining an order therefore
from the probate court, and the proceeds of all goods, chattels,
rights and credits so recovered, shall be appropriated in payment of debts of the deceased, in the same manner as other
property in the hands of the executor or administrator. 
CHAPTER XII. 
Of the Conveyance of Real Estate by Executors and Administrators in Certain Cases. 
t3ec. 264. When any person who is bound by contract, in
writing, to convey any real estate, shall die before making the
conveyance, the probate court may make a decree authorizing
and directing the executor or administrator to convey such real
estate to the person e.ntitled thereto, in all cases where such
deceased person, if living, might be compelled to make such
conveyance. 
. Sec. 265. On presentation of a petition of any person
claiming to be entitled to such conveyance from any executor
or administrator, setting forth the facts upon which such
claim is predicated, the probate court shall appoirit a time and
place for hearing such petition, which shall be a.regular term
of the court, and shall order notice of the pending thereof, and
the time and place of hearing, to be published at least four
successive weeks next before such hearing, in such newspaper
in this Territory as the court shall designate. 
$~c. 266. At the time and place appointed for such hearIng or at such other time as the same may be adjourned to,
upon proof by affidavit of the publication of the notice, the
'Court shall proceed to a bearing, and all persons interested in
the estate may appear and defend such petition, by filing their
objections in writing and the court may examine on oath the
petitioner and all who may be produced before him for that 
purpose.
~ec. 267. After a full hearing upon such petition and ob
jections, and examination of the facts and circumstances of the
claim, if the probate court is satisfied that the petitioner is
entitled to a conveyance of the real estate described in the
petition, the court shall make a decree authorizing and directIng the executor or administrator to execute a conveyance 
thereof to the petitioner.
Sec. 268 Any person interested may appeal from such 
decree to the district court of the district embracing the 
county in which jurisdiction is exercised; but if no appeal be
taken from such decree within the time limited therefore, by
law, or if such decree be confirmed on appeal, it shall be
the duty of the executor or administrator to execute the conveyance according to the directions contained in the decree;
and a certified copy thereof shal be recorded with the deed in
the office of the recorder of the county where the lands lie, and
shall be evidence of the correctness of the proceedings and of
the authority of the executor or administrator to make such
conveyance. 
Sec. 269. If, upon a hearing in the probate court as hereinbefore provided, the said court shall doubt the right of the
petitioner to have a specific performance of the contract, the
petition shall be dismissed without prejudice to the rights of
the petitioner who may at tany time within six months thereafter, proceed in the district court to enforce a specific per- 
formance. Sec. 270. Every conveyance made in pursuance of a de
cree of the probate court as provided in this act, shall be effectual to pass the estate contracted for as fully as if the contracting party himself were still living and then executed the
conveyance. 
. Sec. 271.. A copy of the decree for the conveyance made
by the probate court and duly certified and recorded in the
office of the recorder where the lands lie, shall give to theperson entitled to the conveyance a right to the posaessiou
of the lands contracted for and of holding the same according
to the terms of the intended conveyance, in like manner as
if they had been conveyed in pursuance of the decree. 
Sec. 272. The recording of any decree, as provided in the
preceding section, shall not prevent the court making such decree from enforcing the same by other process. 
Sec. 273. If the person to whom the conveyance was to be
made shall <lie before the commencement of the proceedings
according to the provisions of this act, or before the completion of the conveyance, any person who would have been en
titled to the conveyance under him -as heir, devisee, or otherwise, in case the conveyance had been made according to the 
terms of the contract, or the executor or administrator of such
deceased person, for the benefit of the person entitled. may
commence such proceedings or prosecute the same if already
commenced; and the conveyance shall be so made as to vest
the estate in the same persons who would have been entitled
to it. or in the executor or administrator for their benefit. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
Of Accounts to be Rendered by Executors or Administrators,
. and of the Payment of Debts. . 
Sec. 274. No executor or administrator shall be
chargeable upon any special promise to answer damages or to
pay the debts of the testator or intestate out of his own estate,
unless the agreement for that purpose or some memorandum
or note thereof is m writing, and signed by such executor or
administrator, or by some other person by him thereunto
specially authorized. 
Sec. 275. Every executor or administrator shall
be chargeable in his accounts with the whole estate of the deceased which may come into his possession, at the value of the
appraisement contained in the inventory, except as provided in
the following sections, and with the interest, profit and income of the estate. 
Sec. 276. He shall not make profit by the increase nor suffer loss by the decrease or destruction, without
his fault, of any part of the estate. He shall account for the
excess when he shall have sold any part of the estate for more
than the appraisement, and if any has been sold for less than
the appraisement he shall not be responsible for the loss if the
sale has been justly made. 
Sec. 277. No executor or administrator shall be accountable for any debts due the estate if it shall appear that
they remain .uncollected without his fault. 
Sec. 278. He shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care, management and settlement of the estate,
and for his services such fees as the law provides, but when
the deceased, by will, shall have made some other provision
for the compensation of his executor. that shall be deemed a
full compensation for his services, unless he shall by a written
instrument. filed in the probate court, renounce all claim for
compensation provided by the will. 
Sec. 279; No administrator or executor shall purchase any claim against the estate he represents, and if he
shall have paid any claim for less than its nominal value, he
shall only be entitled to charge in his account so much as he
shall have actually paid. 
~c. 280. When no compensation shall have been
provided by will, or the executor shall renounce his claim 
thereto, he shall be allowed commission on the whole estate
accounted for by him as follows: For the first one thousand
dollars, at the rate of seven per cent.; for all above that sum 
and not exceeding two thousand dollars, at the rate of five
per cent.; for all above that sum, at the rate of four per cent,
and the same commission shall be allowed to administrators.
In all cases such further allowance may be made as the probate court shall deem just and reasonable for any extraordinary services not required of an executor or administrator in
the common course of his duty: Provided, That the total
amount of such allowance shall not exceed the amount of
commission allowed in this section. 
Sec. 281. Within six months afterhis appointment, and thereafter at any time when required by the court,
either upon its own motion or the application of any person interested in the estate, the executor or administrator shall render for the information of the court an exhibit under oath,
showing the amount of money received and expended by him,
the amount of all claims presented against the estate, and
the names of the claimants, and all other matters necessary to
show the condition of its affairs. 
Sec. 282. If the executor or administrator fa.U to
render an exhibit within six months, as required in the la.st
preceding section, it shall be the duty of the probate court to
issue a citation requiring him to appear and render it. 
Sec. 283. Any person interested in the estate may
at any time before the final settlement of accounts, present
his petition to the probate court praying that the executor or
administrator be required to appear and render such exhibit,
setting forth the facts showing that it is necessary and proper
that such an exhibit shall be made. 
Sec. 284. If the probate court be satisfied, either
from the oath of the applicant or from any other testimony that
may be offered, that the facts alleged are true, arid shall consider the showing of the applicant sufficient, a citation shall
be issued to the executor or administrator requiring him to
appear on some day named in the citation, which shall be during the term of a court, and render an exhibit as prayed for. 
See. 285. Whf'n an exhibit is rendered by anexecutor or administrator, any person interested may appear,
and by objections in writing, contest any account or statement therein contained. The court may examine the executor 
or administrator, and if he have been guilty of negligence, or
wasted, embezzled or mismanaged the estate, his letters shall 
be revoked.
Sec. 286. If any executor or, administrator neglect 
or refuse to appear and render an exhibit after having been
duly cited, an attachment may be issued against him, or his
letters may be revoked, in the discretion of the court. 
Sec. 287. Every executor or administrator shall
render a full account of his administration at the expiration of
one year from the time of his .appointment. If he fail to present his account, it shall be the duty of the court to compel
the rendering of such accouut by attachment, and any person
interested inthe estate may apply for and obtain an attachment, but no attachment shall issue unless a citation shall have
been first issued and returned, requiring the executor or administrator to appear and show cause why an attachment
should not issue. 
Sec. 288. Whenever the authority of an executor
or administrator shall cease, or be revoked for any reason, he
may .be cited to account before the probate court, at the instance of the person succeeding to the administration of the
estate, in like manner as he might have been cited by any person interested In the estate, during the time he was administrator or executor. 
See. 289. If the executor or administrator resides without the county, absconds or conceals himself so that 
citation cannot be personally served, and shall neglect to render an account within thirty days after having been com
mitted when the attachment has been executed, his letters
shall be revoked. 
Sec. 290. In rendering his account the executor
or administrator shall produce vouchers foiexpenses and
charges which he shall have paid, which vouchers shall be
filed and remain in court: and he may be examined on oath
touching such payments, and also touching any property and
effects of the deceased, and the disposition thereof. 
Sec. 291. On the settlement of his account, he may
be allowed any item of expenditure not exceeding twenty dollars for which no voucher is produced, if such item be supported by his own oath, positive to the fact of payment, specifying when, where, and to whom payment was made, if such
oath be uncontradicted; but such allowances, in the whole,
shall not exceed five hundred dollars for payment in behalf
of any one estate. -, 
Sec. 292. When the account is rendered for settlement,
.uotice thereof shall be given by the probate court, by causing
notices to be posted in three of the most public places in the
eountv. The notice shall set forth the name of the estate. of
the eiecutor or administrator, and the day appointed for the
eettlement of account, which shall be on some day of a reguJar term of court. 
Sec. 293. On the day appointed, or on any subsequent day to which the hearing may have been adjourned by 
the court, any person interested in the estate may ?,ppear and
file his exceptious in writing to the account, and contest the
same. 
Sec. 294. If there be any minor interested in the
estate, who has no legally appointed guardian, the court shall 
appoint some disinterested person to represent him, who, on
behalf of the minor, may contest the account, as any other
person interested might contest it, and who shall be allowed by
the court a reasonable compensation fQr his services. 
Sec. 295. The hearing and allegations of the respecti ve parties may be adjourned from time to time as shall
be necessary. 
Sec. 296. The settlement of the account and the
allowance thereof by the court, or upon appeal, shall be con
clusive against all persons in any way interested in the estate,
saving, however, to all persons laboring under any legal disability, the right to proceed against the executor or administrator, either Individually or upon his bond, within two years
after their respective disabilities shall have ceased, and in
any action brought by any such person, the allowance and settlement of the account shall be deemed presumptive evidence
of its correctness. 
Sec. 297. The account shall not be allowed bv the
court until it be first proven that notice has been given as re
quired by this act, and the decree shall show that such proof
was made to the satisfaction of the court, and shall be conclusive evidence of the fact. 
Sec. 298. The debts of the estate shall be paid in
the f ollowing order: 1. Funeral expenses. 2. Expenses of the
last sickness. 3. Debts having preference by the laws of the
United States. 4. Taxes or any dues to the Territory. 5. Judgments rendered against the deceased in his lifetime on which
execution might have issued at the time of his death, and mortgages in the order of their date. 6. All other demands against 
the estate.
Sec. 299. The preference given in the preceding 
section to a mortgage, shall only extend to the proceeds of
the property mortgaged; if the proceeds of such property be.
Insufficient to pay the mortgage, the part remaining unsatisfied shall be classed with other demands against the estate. 
Sec. 300. If the estate be insufficient to pay the
debts of any one class, each creditor shall be paid a dividend
in proportion to his claim, and no creditor of any one class
shall receive any payment until all those of the preceding class
shall have been fully paid. 
Sec. 301. It shall the duty of the executor or 
administrator, as soon as he may have sufficient funds in hia
hands, to pay the funeral expenses, and expenses of the last
sickness, and the allowance made to the family of the deceased, and he may retain in his hands the necessary expenses
of administratlon, but he shall not be obliged to pay any other
debt or any legacy, until as prescribed by this act, the payment 
has been ordered by the court. Sec. 302. Upon the settlement; of the accounts of 
the executor or administrator at the end of the year, as required in this act, the court shall make an order for the payment of the debts, as the circumstances of the estate shall require. If there be not sufficient funds in the hands of the executor or administrator, the court shall specify in the decree
the sum to be paid each creditor. ' 
Sec. 30:3. If there be any claim not due, or any.
contingent or disputed claim against the estate, the amount
thereof, or such part thereof as the holder would be entitled
to if the claim were due, established, or absolute, shall be paid
into the court, where it shall remain to be paid over to the
party when he shall become entitled thereto; or if he fail to
establish his claim, to be paid over or distributed, as the circumstances of the case may require: Provided, That if any
creditor whose claim has been allowed, but i~ not yet due,
shall appear and assent to a reduction therefrom of the legal
interest for the time the claim has yet to run he shall be en-titled to be paid accordingly. 
Sec. 304. Whenever a decree shall have been made
by the probate court for the payment of creditors, the executor or administrator shall be personally liable to each creditor
for his claim, or the dividend thereon; and the execution
may be issued on such decree, as upon a judgment in the district court in favor of each creditor; and the same proceedings
may be had under such execution, as if it had been issued from
the district court. The executor or administrator shall be
liable on his bond to each creditor. 
Rec. 305. When the accounts of the executor or
administrator have been settled, and an order made for the 
payment of the debts and distribution of the estate, no creditor whose name was not included in the order of payment,
shall have any right to rail upon the creditors who have been
paid, or upon the heirs, legatees or devisees to contribute for
the payment of his claim; but if the executor or administrator
shall have failed to give the notice to creditors as prescribed
in this act, such creditor may recover on the bond of the executor or administrator, the amount of his claim, or such part 
thereof as he would have been entitled to, had it been allowed:
Provided, That this section shall not apply to any creditor
whose claim was not due one year before the day of settlement, or whose claim was contingent and did not become absolute, one year before such day. . 
Sec. 306. If all the debts shall have been paid by
the first distribution, the court shall proceed to direct the payment of legacies, and the distribution of the estate among the
heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled; but if there be debts
remaining unpaid, the court shall give such extension of time
as may be reasonable, for the final settlement of the estate. 
Sec. 307. At the time designated, or sooner, if
within that time all property of the estate shall have been sold,
or there shall be sufficient funds in his hands to pay all the
debts due by the estate, the executor or administrator shall
render a final account and pray a settlement of the estate. 
Sec. 308. If he neglect to render his account the
same proceedings may be had as are prescribed in this act, in
regard to the first account to be rendered by him, and all provisions of this act relative to the last mentioned account, and
the notice and settlement thereof, shall apply to his account
presented for final settlement. 
Of the Partition and Distribution of the Estate.
CHAPTER XIV. 
Sec. 309. At any time subsequent to the second
term of the probate court, after the issuing letters testamentary or of administration, any heir, legatee, or devisee, may
present his petition to the court, that the legacy or share of
the estate, to which he is entitled, may be given to him upon
his giving bonds with security for the payment of his proportion of the debts of the estate. 
Sec. 310. Notice of the application shall be given
to the executor or administrator, and to all persons interested
in the estate, in the same manner that notice is required to be
given of the settlement of the account of the executor or administrator. 
Sec. 311. The executor. administrator, or any person interested in the estate, may appear and resist the appli
cation; or any other heir, legatee, or devisee, may make a similar application for himself. 
Sec. 312. If, on the hearing, it appear to the court that the
estate is but little in debt. and that the share of the party or
parties applying, may be allowed without injury to the credi- 
tors of the estate, the court shall make a decree in conformity
with the prayer of the applicant or applicants: Provided,
Each one of them shall first execute and deliver to the executor or administrator, a bond in such sum asshall be designated by the probate court, and with sureties to be approved
by the judge thereof, to the executor or administrator, conditioned for the payment by the devisee or legatee, whenever required, of his proportion of the debts due from the estate. 
Sec. .313. Such decree may order the executor or
administrator to deliver to the heir, devisee or legatee, the
whole portion of the estate to which he may be entitled, or
only a part thereof. 
Sec. 314. If, in the execution of such decree, any
partition be necessary between two or more of the parties, interested, it shall be made in the manner hereinafter prescribed. 
Sec. 315. The costs of the proceedings authorized
by the preceding section, shall be paid by the applicant, or if
there be more than one, shall be equally apportioned among
them. 
Sec. 316. Whenever any bond has been executed 
'and delivered under the provisions of the preceding sections,
and the executor or administrator shall ascertain that it is
necessary for the settlement of the estate, to require the payment of any part of the money thereby secured, he, shall petition the court for an order requiring the payment, and shall
have a citation issued and served on the party bound, requiring him to appear and show cause why the order shall not be
made. At the hearing, the court, if satisfied of the necessityof the payment, shall make an order accerdingly, designating
the amount and giving the time within which it shall be paid;
and if the money be not paid within the time allowed, an action may be maintained by the executor or administrator on
the bond. 
APe. :317, Upon the setttlement of the accounts of the
executor or administrator or at any subsequent time, upon
the application of the executor or administrator, or any heir,
devisee or legatee, the court shall proceed to distribute the
residue of the estate if any among the persons who are by 
, Jaw entitled.
~ec. 318. In the decree the court shall name the person 
and the portion or parts to which each shall be entitled;
and such persons shall have the right to demand and recover 
their respective shares from the executor or administrator, or
any person having the same in possession. 
Set. :119. The decree may be made- on the applica- 
tion of the executor or administrator, or of any person interestedin the estate, and shall only bemade after notice has
been given in the manner required. in regard to an application
for the sale of land bv an executor or administrator. 'I'he court
may order such further notice to begiven. as it may deem
proper. 
S,ec. 320. When the estate, . real and personal, assigned to two or more heirs, devisees or legatees, shall be in 
common and undivided, andthe respective shares- shall not be
separated and distinguished, partition and distribution may
bemade by three dlsinterested persons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by the probate com-t,. who shalf
be duly sworn to the faithful dscharge of their duties, and the
court shall issue a warrant to them for that purpose." 
~ec. 321. If the real estate be in different counties,
the probate court may, if it shall judge proper, appoint dif
ferent commissioners for each county; and in such cases the
estate in each county shall be divided separately, as if there
were no other estate to be divided, but the eommimssioners
first appointed shall, unless otherwise directed by the probate
court, make division of such real estate wherever situated
within the Territory. 
Sec. 322. Such partition and distribution may be
ordered on the petition of any of the persons interested in the 
estate; but before any partition shall be ordered, as directed
in this act, notice shall be given to all persons interested who
shall reside in this Territory, or to their guardians and to
agents, attorneys or guardians, if there be any in this Territory, of such as reside out of the Territory, either. persenally
or by public notice, as the probate court may direct. 
Sec. 323. Partition of the real estate may be made
as provided in this act, although some of the original heirs
or devisees may have conveyed their shares to other persons, 
and such shares shall 'be assigned to the person holding the
same, in the same manner as they otherwise would have been
to such heirs or devisees. 
Rec. 324. The several shares in the real and personal estate shall be set out to each-Individual in proportion
to his right, by such metes, boundsand descriptions, that the
same may be easily distinguished, unless two or more of the
parties shall consent to have their shares set out so as to be
held by them in common and undivided. 
Sec. 325. When any such real estate cannot be
divided without prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, the
probate court may assign the whole to one or more of the par- 
ties entitled to share therein, who will accept it, always preferring the males to the females, and among children, pref erring the elder to the younger,providing the party so accepting the whole shall pay to the other parties interested,
their just proportion of the true value thereof, or secure the
same to their satisfaction, and the true value of the estate
shall be ascertained by commissioners appointed by the probate court, and sworn for that purpose. 
Sec. 326. When any tract of land or tenement
shall beof greater value than either party's share of the
estate to be divided; and cannot be divided without injury to
the same, it may be set off by the commissioners appointed to
make partition, to either of the parties who will accept it, giving preference as prescribed in the preceding sections; provid- 
-Ing the party so accepting shall pay or secure to one or raore of
the others such sums as the commissioners shall award to
make the partition equal, andthe commissioners shall make
their award accordingly; but such partition shall not be established by the court until the sums so awarded shall be paid
to the parties entitled to the same, or secured to their satisfaction. 
See. a27. When it cannot be otherwise Iah-Iy divided. the whole or any part of the estate. real or personal.
may be recommended by the commissioners to be sold; and if
the report be confirmed, the court may order a sale by the
executor or administrator, and distribute the proceeds.
Sec. 328. When partition of real estate among
heirs or devisees shall be required, and such real estate shall
be undivided and in common with the real estate of any other
person, the commissioners shall first divide and sever the
estate of the deceased from the estate with which it lies in
common; and such division so made and established by the
probate court, shall be binding upon all the persons interested. 
Sec. 329. Before any partition shall bemade, or
any estate divided, as provided in this act, guardians shall be
appointed for all minors and insane persons interested in the
estate to be divided; and some discreet person shall be appointed to act as agent for such parties as reside out of the
Territory, and notice of the appointment of such agent shall
be given to the commissioners in their warrant; arid notice
shall be given to all persons interested in the partition, their
guardians or agents, by the commissioners, of the time when
they shall proceed to make partition. 
Sec. 330. The commissioners shall make a report
of their proceedings in writing, and the court may, for suffl- 
cient reasons, set aside such report and remit the same to the 
same commissioners or appoint others; and the report, when 
finally accepted and established, shall be recorded in .. the
records of the probate court, and a copy thereof attested by
the judge, under the seal of the court, shall be recorded in
the office of the county auditor in the county where the land 
lies. Sec. 331. When the probate court shall make a 
decree assigning the residue of any estate to one or more persons entitled to the same, it shall not be necessary to appoint
commissioners to make partition or .distribution of such
estate, unless the parties to whom the assignments shall have
been decreed, or some of them, shall request that such partition be made. . . . . .. . ; ,. . 
Sec. 33:!, All questions .aa to a(\\ancPments made,
or alleged to ha ve. .been made . by the deceased to any heirs. 
may be heard and determined, by the probate court. and shall
be specified in the decree assigning the. estate; and in the warrant to the commissioners. and the final decree of the probate 
. court, or in case of.appeal, of the district or supreme courts,
shall be binding on all parties interested. in the estate. 
Sec. 3:13. When any estate shall have been assigned by decree of the court, or distributed by commissioners,
as provided in this act, to any person residing out of this Territory, and having no agentvtherein, and it shall be necessary
that some person should be authorized to take possession
and charge of the same for the benefit of sueh absent person,
the court may appoint an agent for that purpose, and- author- 
. ize .him to take charge of such. estate, as well as to act for
such absentee in the partition and distributlon. 
Sec. 334. Such agent shall give a bond to the oounty in. -which such estate shall be situated, to be approved by 
the court, conditioned faithfully to manage and account for.
such estate, before he shall be authorized to receive the same,
and the court appointing such agent may allow a reasonable
sum out of the profits of theestate for his services and ex
penses. : i 
Sec. 335. ".,.hen the estate shall have remained in
the hands of the agent unclaimed for one year, it shall be sold
under order of the court, and the proceeds, deducting the expenses of the sale, to be allowed by the court, shall be paid in- 
. to the county treasury. When the payment is made the agent
shall take triplicate receipts, one of which he shall file with 
'the county auditor, and another with the probate court.
Sec. 336. The agent shall be liable on his bond for 
the care and preservation of the estate while in his hands, 
and for the payment of the proceeds of sale as required by the
preceding section, and may be sued thereon by any person interested. 
Sec. 337. When any person shall appear and claim
the money paid into the treasury, the probate court making
the distribution, being first satisfied of his right, shall grant
him a certificate under its seal, and upon the presentation of
the certificate to the county auditor, he shall draw his warrant
on the county treasurer for the amount . 
.Sec. a!:J8. When the estate has been fully administered, and it shall have been shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory vouchers. that
he has paid all sums of money due from him, and delivered up,
under order of the court, all property of the estate to the persons entitled, the eourt shall make a decree discharging him,
from all liability to be incurred thereafter. 
Sec. il39. The final settlement of the estate shall
not prevent a subsequent issuance of letters of administration. should other property of the estate be discovered, or it 
should become necessary and proper from any cause that letters should be again issued. 
Descent of Real Estate.
CHAPTER XV. 
-See, 340. When any person shall die seized of any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments, or any right thereto, _.r entitled
to any interest therein, in fee simple, or for the life of another,
not having lawfully devised the same, they shall descend,
subject to his debts, as follows: 
Ist, In equal shares to his children, and to the issue
of any deceased child, by right o! representation, and if 
there be no child. of the intestate Jiving at . the time of his
death, his estate shall descend to all his other lineal descendants; and if all te same descendants are in the same degree
of kindred to the intestate, they shall have the estate equally,
otheewise they shall .take according to representation. 
2d. If he shall leave no issue, his estate shall descend 
to his father.
3d. If he shall leave no issue norfather, bis estate shall 
descend, in equal shares to his brothers and ststers, and to
the children of any deceased brother or sister. by right of
representation: Provided, Th~t . if he shall leave a mother 
also, she shall take an. equal share with the brothers and sisters. 
4th. If the intestate shall leave no issue nor father, and
no brother nor sister living at bi's death, his estate shall descend to his mother, to the exclnslon of the issue of his deceased brothers or sisters. 
5th. If the intestate shall leave no issue, father, mother,
brother or sister, his estate shall descend to his next of kin,
in equal degree, excepting that when there are two 01more
collateral kindred in equal degree, but claiming through different ancestors, those who claim through the nearest an
cestor shall be preferred to those claiming through an ancestor more remote. 
6th. If any person shall die leaving several children, or
leaving one chiJd, and the issue of one or more others, and
any such surviving child shall die under age, and not having
been married. all the estate that came to the deceased child
,by inheritance from such deceased parent, shall descend in
equal shares to the other children of the same parent, and to
the issue of any such other children who shall have died, by
right of representation. 
7th. If, at the death of such child who shall die under
age, not having been married, all the other children of said
parent shall also be dead, and any of them shall have left issue, the estate that came to such child by inheritatnce from
his said parent, shal! descend to al1 the issue of the other
children of the same parent ; and if all the said issue are in the
same degree of kindred t<i the said child, they shall share
the estate equally, otherwise they shall take according to the
right of representation. 
8th. If the intestate shall leave nokindred, his estate
'sha ll escheat to the county in which such estate may be sit
uate.
Sec. !l41. Every illegitimatP child shall be considered as 
an heir of the person who shall in writing, signed in the presence of a competent witness, have acknowledged himself to 
be the father of such child, and shall in all cases be considered as heir of his mother, and shall inherit his. or her estate,
in whole or hi part. as the case may he, in the same manner
as if he had been born in Iawfulwedlock ; but he shall not be
allowed to claim, as representing his father or mother, any
part of the estate of his or her kindred, either Iineal or collateral, unless before his death his parents shall have intermarried, and his father after such marriage, shall have acknowledged him as aforesaid and adopted him into his famiJy, in which case such child and all the legitimate children
shall be considered as brothers and sisters, and on the death
of either of them intestate and without Issue, the others shall 
inherit his estate and he theirs as hereinbefore provided, in
like manner as if all the children had been legitimate, saving
to the father and mother respectively their rights in the estate
of all the said children as provided hereinbefore, in like manner as if all had been legitimate. The issue of all marriages
deemed null in law or dissolved by divorce. shall be Iegitimate. 
Sec. 342. If any illegitimate child shall die intestate,
without lawful issue, his estate shall descend to his mother,
or in case of her decease to her heirs at law. 
Sec. 343. The degrees (If kindred shall be computed according to the. rules of the civil law, and the kindred of the
half blood shall inherit equally with those of the whole blood
in the same degree. , 
~ec. 344. AnJestate, real or personal, that w~iy have
been given by the intestate in his lifetime, as an advancement
to any child, or other lineal descendant, shall be considered
a part of the intestate's estate, so far as regards the dlvislon
and distribution thereof among his issue, and shall be taken
by such child, or other descendant, toward his share of the
lntestate's estate. . 
Sec. :145. If the amount of such advancement shall exceed the share of the heir so advanced, he sha ll be excluded
from any further portion in the division and distribution of
the estate, but he shall not be required to refund any part
of such advancement; and if the amount so received shall be
less than his share, he shall be entitled to. so much more as
will give him his full share of the estate of the deceased .. 
Sec. 346. If any such advancement shall have been made
in real estate, the value thereof shall, for the purposes of the
preceding section, be considered as part of the real estate to
be divided; and' if it be in personal estate, and if In either
case it shall exceed the share of real or personal estate, respectively, that would have come to the heir, so advanced, he
shall not refund any part of it, but shall receive so much less
out of the other part of the estate, as will make the whole
share equal to those of the other heirs, who are in. the same
degree with him. 
Sec. 347. All gifts and grants shall be deemed to have
been made in advancement, if expressed in the gift or grant
, . be so made, or. if charged in writing by the intestate as an
advancement, or acknowledged in writing as such by the
child. or other descendant. 
Sec. 348. If the value of the estate so advanced, shall be
expressed in the conveyance, .or in the charge thereof, made
by the intestate, or -in the acknowledgment by the party reeelving it, it shall be considered of that value in the division 
an l distribution of the estate, otherwise it shall be estimated
at its value when given. 
Sec. 349. If any child or lineal descendant, so advanced,
shall die before the intestate, leaving issue, the advancement
shall be taken into consideration in the division and distribution of the estate, and the amount thereof shall be allowed
accordingly by the representatives of the heir so advanced, as 
so much received towards their share of the estate, in like
manner as if the advancement had been made directly to 
t hem.
8ec. 350. The word "is-sue," as used in this act, includes 
all the lawful lineal descendants of the ancestor; and the
'words "real estate" include all lands, tenements and heredi
taments, and all rights thereto, and all interests therein possessed, and claimed in fee simple, or for the life of a thirdper
son.
Sec. 351. "Inheritance, or succession by right of repre
sentation," takes place when the descendants of any deceased
heir take the same share or right in the estate of another person, that their parent would have taken if living. Posthumous children are considered as Iiving at the death of their 
parent. Aec. 352. The provisions of this chapter shall in no way 
affect the title of a husband as tenant by the courtesy; nor
that of a widow as tenant in dower. 
Sec. 353. When any person shall die possessed of any
personal estate, or of any light or interest therein, not lawfully disposed of by his last will, the same shall be applied
and distributed as follows: 
1st-The widow, if any, shall be allowed all articles of
her apparel or ornament, according to the degree and estate
of her husband, and such provisions and other necessaries
for the use of herself and family under her care, as shall be
allowed and ordered in pursuance of the provisions of this act,
and this allowance shall be made as well when the widow
waives the provision made for her in the will of the husband,
as when he dies Intestate. 
2d-The personal estate remaining after such allowance,
shall be applied to the payment of the debts of the deceased,
with the charges for his funeral, and the settling of the es
tate. 
Distribution of Personal Estate.
CHAPTER XVI. 
3d-The residue, if any, of the personal estate shall be
distributed among the same persons as would be .entitled to 
the real estate by this act. and in the same proportion as pro. vided, excepting as herein further provided. 
4th-If the intestate were a married woman, her husband
shall be entitled to the whole of the said residue of the personal estate. 
5th-If the intestate leave a widow and issue . the widow
shall be entitled to one-half of said residue. 
6th-If there be no issue, the widow shall be entitled to
the whole of said residue. 
7th-If there be no husband, widow, or kindred of the intestate, the said personal estate shall escheat to the county
in which the administration is had, and a receipt by the county treasurer of the county to whom the said personal property
shall be conveved bv the administrator, shall be a full discharge of all r;spon;ibility to the said administrator. 
Sec. 854. If the intestate leave a widow and issur-, and
any of the issue have received an advancement from the intestate in his lifetime, the value of such advancement shall
not be taken into consideration in computing the one-half
part to be assigned to the widow, but she shall be entitled to
the one-half only of the said residue, after deducting the value 
of the advancement, 
CHAPTER CIX. 
The Appointment and Duties of Guardians.
Sec. 355. The probate court of each county, when it shall 
appear necessary or convenient, may appoint guardtans to
. minors resident in said county, who have no guardian ap
pointed by will; or who may reside out of the Territory, hav. ing estate within the conn ty. 
Sec. 356. If the minor is under fourteen years of
age, the judge may nominate and appoint his guardian; if
said minor be over fourteen years of age, he or she may nominate the guardian, who, if approved by .the probate court,
shall be appointed accordingly. 
Sec. :357. If the guardian nominated by the minor
be not approved by the judge, or if the minor shall reside out
of the Territory, or if, after being duly cited by the court, he
shall neglect for ten days to nominate a suitable person, thecourt may appoint the zuurdlan in the same manner as if the
minor were under ti ... , age of fourteen years. 
Sec. 358. when a guardian has been appointed
for any minor under the age of fourteen, such guardian shall 
not be removed when such minor arrives at the age of fourteen, except for good cause shown. 
Sec. 359. The father of the minor if living, and. in cast
of his decease, the mother, while she remains unmarried, being themselves, respectively, competent to transact their own
business, shall be entitled to the guardlauship of a minor. 
~ec. 3HO. If the minor have no father or mother
living, and competent to have the custody and care of the education of such minor, the guardian so appointed shall have
the custody and tuition of his ward. 
Sec. 361. Every guardian appointed as aforesaid
shall have the custody and tuition of the minor, and the care 
and management of the estate of such minor, until he or she
ahu ll have attained the age of majority; and males shall be
deemed of full and legal age when they shall be twenty-one
years old, and females shall be deemed of full and legal age
when they shall be eighteen years old, or at any age under
eighteen, when, with the consent of the parent. or guardian, 
01other person under whose tare or government they may be,
'they shall have been lawfully married. 
~ee. 362. Guardtans, by virtue of their office as
such, shall be allowed; in all cases to prosecute and defend for 
their wards.
See. 363. The probate court shall take of each 
guardian appointed under this act, bond with approved security, payable to the Territory of Washington, in a sum double
the amount of the minor's estate, real and personal, conditioned as follows: 
The condition of this obligation is such. that if the above
bound A; B., who has been appointed guardian for C. D., shall
faithfully discharge the office and trust of such guardian according to law, and shall render a fair and just account of his
said guardianship to the probate court for the county of--.,
from time to time, as' he shall thereto be required by said
court, and comply with all orders of said court, lawfully made,
relative to the goods, chattels, and monies of such minor, and
render and pay to such minor all monies, goods and fhattels,
title papers and effects which may come into the hands or possession of such guardian belonging to such minor, whensuch
minor shall thereto be entitled. or to any subsequent guardian,
should such court so direct. this obligation shall be void, or
otherwise to remain in full force and virtue, which bond shall
be for the use of such minor andshall not become void upon
the first recovery, but may be putin suit from time to time 
against all, or any one or more of the obligors. in the name 
and to the use and benefit of any person entitled by a breach
thereof, until the whole penalty shall be recovered thereon. 
Hee. 364. Probate courts shall have power in their
respective counties, with or without previous complaint, by
an order duly made and served, to oblige. all guardians of
minors, from time to time, to render their respective accounts,
upon oath, touching their guardianship, to said courts for adjustment and shall have power to compel such guardian to
give supplementary security, whenever it shall judge proper,
and in default thereof to remove such guardian. 
Sec. 365. It shall be the duty of every guardian of any
minor 
1. To make out and file, within three months after his
appointment, a full inventory, verified by oath, of the real
and personal estate of his ward, with the value of the same;
and failing so to do, it shall be the duty of the court to remove
him and appoint a successor. 
2. To manage the estate for the best interest of his
ward. 
3. To render, on oath, tu the proper court, an account of
his receipts and expenditures as such guardian, verified by
such vouchers or proof, at least once in every two years. or
whenever cited so to do; and failing so to do, he shall receive
no allowance for services, and be liable to his said ward on his
bond, for ten per cent. in damages on the whole amount of
estate, both real and personal, in his hands belonging to such 
ward.
4. At the expiration of his trust, fully to account for and 
pay over to the proper person, all the estate of said ward remaining in his hands. 
5. To pay all just debts due from such ward out of the
estate in his hands, and collect all debts due such ward, and
in case of doubtful debts, to compound the same, and appear
for and defend or cause to be defended, all suits against such 
ward. 6. When any ward has no father or mother, or such 
father or mother is unable, or fails to educate such ward, it
shall be the duty of his guardian to provide for him such
education as the amount of his estate may justify. 
Sec. 366. The probate court, may, on the application of a guardian or any other person, said guardian having
due written notice thereof, order and decree any change to
be made in the investment of the estate of any ward that may 
to such court seem advantageous to such estate.
s~c. 367. The probate court in all cases, shall have 
yower to remove guardians for good and sufficient reasons, 
which shall be entered of record, and to appoint others in their
place or in the place of those who may die, who shall give bond
and security for the faithful discharge of their duties as
heretofore prescribed in this act; and when any guardian shall
be removed, or die, and a successor be appointed, the court
shall have power to compel such guardian to deliver up to
such successor all goods, chattels.. monies, title papers, or
other effects belonging to such minor which may be in the
possession of such guardian so removed, or of the executors or
administrators of a deceased guardian, or of. any other person
or persons who may have the same, and upon failure; to commit the party offending to prison, until he, she or. they comply
with the order of the court. . 
t,;ec\ aH8. All the provisions of this ad relative to bonds
given by executors and administrators, shall apply to bonds
taken of guardians. . 
Se<'. HH9. The father of every legithnate child, who
is a minor, may, by his last will in wi-itng, appoint a guardian 
or guardians for his minor children, whether born at the time
of making such will or afterwards, to cont inue during the
minority of such child, or for any less time. and every such
testamentary guardian shall give bond . in like manner and
with like conditionas hereinbefore required, and he shall
have the same powers and perform the same duties with regard to the person and estate of the ward, as a guardian appointed as aforesaid. 
8ee. 370. Nothing contained in this act shall affect
or impair the power of any' court to appoint .a guardian to de
fend the interests of anv minor interested in anv snit or matter pending therein, or ,to appoint or allow any per~on as the
next friend of a minor 1 o commence and prosecute any suit in
his behalf. 
~P.c. 371. Whenever necessary for the education, support
or payment of the just debts of any minor, orfor the discharge of any liens on the 'real estate of such minor, or whenever the real estate of such minor is suffering Unavoidable
waste, or a better investment of the value thereof can be made, 
the probate court may, on the application of such guardian,
order the same or a part thereof to be sold. 
Sec. 372. Such application shall be by petition,
verified by the oath of the guardian, and shall substantially
set forth: 
1. The value and character of all personal estate belonging to such ward that has come to the knowledge or possession of such guardian. . 
2. The disposition made of such personal estate. 
3. The amount and condition of the ward's personal 
.estate, if any, dependent upon the settlement of any estate,
or the execution of any trust. 
4. The annual value of the real estate of the ward.
5. The amount of rent received and the application 
thereof.
6. The proposed manner tr re-investing the proceeds of 
the sale, if asked for that purpose.
7. Each item of indebtedness, or the amount and char
acter of the lien, if the sale is prayed for the liquidation
thereof. 
8. The age of the ward, where and with whom residing.
9. All other facts connected with the estate and condi
tion of the ward necessary to enable the court fully to understand the same. If there is no personal estate belonging to
such ward, in possession or expectancy, and none has come 
into the hands of such guardian, and no rents have been received, the fact shall be .stated in the application. 
Sec. 373. If it shall appear to the court from such
petition and from the hearing thereon, that it is necessary, or
would be beneficial to the ward that such real estate or some
'part of it should be sold, the court may authorize the said
'guardian to sell the same at public sale, on the same terms
and riotice required for sales of real estate by executors and
administrators; or if the court be satised that a sale at private
sale will conduce to the advantage of said minor's estate, it
may so order. 
Sec. 374. All the provisrons of the act regulating sales by executors and administrators shall be appli
cable to sales made by guardians.
Sec .. 375. At the term of the court next after such 
sale, such guardian shall make report thereof to such court, 
and produce the proceeds of such sale, and the notes or obligations or other securities taken to secure the payment of the 
purchase money.
Sec. 376. Whenever such real estate is ordered by the 
court to be sold at private sale, the. same shall not be sold
for less than its appraised value ; and when ordered to be sold 
at public auction, at not less than two-thirds of its appraised
value. 
Sec. 377. The court in confirming such sale and
directing a conveyance, shall be governed by the law regulating the confirming of sales of real estate made by executors
or administrators, and the making pf conveyances on such 
sales.
Sec. 378. The guardian of any minor may join in 
and assent to the partition of the real estate of such minor,
under the direction of the court, upon a petition for partition. 
Sec. am. Every guardian shall be allowed by the
court, on settling his accounts, the amount of all reasonable
expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and also such
-vnnpenaation for his services as the court shall deem reasonable. 
See. aso. Sureties in the bond of any guardian 
may be discharged from liability therein, under the same rule
and regulation prescribed for the discharge of the sureties in
the qond of executors and administrators, and the provisions
of this act regulating the same shall apply to guardians and
guardians' bonds aud sureties. 
~ec. !181. Appeals shall be allowed in all cases,
from any order or judgment of the probate court to the district
court, embracing the county exercising jurisdiction. in the
same manner as provided in this act regarding executors and
adminlstrators and the settlement of estates. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
Relating to Idiots and Insane.
Sec. 382. The Governor and Territorial auditor, his as
. sociate, are hereby authorized and appointed to make contracts with any private or publie insane institution, for the
safe keeping, care and medical treatment in their insane asylums of all insane persons in this Territory: Provided, Such
contract can be made on such terms as to them may seem
reasonable and just. 
Sec. 383. The several probate courts in the-ir respective counties in this Territory, shall have power to appoint guardians to take the care, custody and management of
all idibts, insane persons, and all who are incapable of conducting their own affairs; and of their estates, real and personal; the maintenance of themselves and families, and the
edircation of their- children. 
Sec. a84. 'l'he probate court of any county in this Territory, upon application of any person under oath. setting forth
that any person by reason of-insanity is unsafe to be at large,
.or is suffering under mental derangement, shall cause such
person- to be brought before said court at such time andplace 
as the judge may direct; and the 'judge shall cause to appear 
before himat said time and place, one or more respectable
physicians; who 'shall 'state under oath in writing, their opinion
of the case, which opinion shall be care-fully preserved by the 
said judge with the other papers of the caseand if the said
physician 'shall certify to the insanity or idi~cv (as the case
may be) of said person, he shall cause them to" be taken and
placed in charge of such asylum as directed by said Governor.
and his associate. The said judge shall also cause inquiry to
be made into the abilitv or ina bilitv of such iusane or idiotic
person to bear the rha1:ge or expense for the thm- he mar remain under treament. and he shall eertlfv the result to the
Governor and his associate: and in those cases where the
person possesses the ability to pay the expense, the said judge
shall cause to be placed in the hands of the. Governor the
amount of two months' expenses in said asylum in advance,
and regularly every two months. thereafter, 80 long as said
person shall continue in said asylum; but the indigent insane
shall, in all cases be maintained at the expense of the Terri- 
tory. Ser. 385. The Terrttorv shall: in ali cases where the per
son is indigent. bl' at the expense of such convevance and
keeping.and in the event of the death of such person, be
chargeable with the funeral expenses, 
Ser. 386. Paying patients, whose friends or whose propertv can pay their expenses shall do so in accordance with 
the contract made bv the Governor and his associate with
the proprietors of the' institution, the charge in all cases shall
be reasonable and in proportion to the amount of care and
accommodation required by their friends or guardians. 
Ser. 387. The TPrritorinl treasurer is herebv authorized
and required to pay all properly audited orders cfra:wn by the
Governor for the support of indigent. insane or. idiotic persons, for whose support and safe keeping, he and his associate may have contracted: Provided always, That before
such orders are paid, a copy of such' contract shall be furnished said treasurer. 
Sc--c. 388. If it be found by the court that the person so brought before the court, is of unsound mind and incapable of managing his own affairs, the court shall appoint a
guardian for the estate of such insane person. 
Ser. 389. When any person shall be found to be
insane, or coming within the provisions of this act, the cost of
the proceeding shall be paid out of his estate, or, if that be
insufficient, by the Territory. 
Ser. 390. If the person alleged to be .insane shall
be discharged and it shall be thought by the court that there
were no grounds for such impression of insanity, then the
oost shall be paid by the person at whose instance the proceeding was had, and execution may issue for the same. 
Sec. :191. Every such guardian so appointed, shall,
before entering upon the duties assigned him, enter into bond
to the board of county commissloners In such sum, and with
such security as the court shall approve, conditioned that he
will take proper care of such insane person, and manage and
minister his effects to the best advantage, according to law;
and that he will faithfully discharge all duties as such guardian which may by law, or by the order, sentence or decree of
any court of competent jurisdiction, devolve upon him; which
bond shall be filed in the office of the probate court; a. copy
thereof, duly certified, shall be evidence in all respects as the
original. 
~ec. 392. It shall the duty of every such guardian,
within twenty days after his appointment, to cause notice
thereof to be published in some newspaper printed in this Territory, or otherwise publish such notice at such time and
place, and in such manner as the court shall direct .. 
~ee. :m3. It shall be the duty of such guardian to
collect and take into his possession the goods, chattels, mone ys, effects and other evidences of debt, and all writings touching the estate, real and personal, of the person under his
guardianship. 
Se(. HH4. Within forty days after his appointment,
such guardian shall make out and file in the office of the probate court, by which he was appointed, a just and true inventory of the real and personal estate of his ward, stating the 
-income and profits thereof, and the debts, credits and effects,
us the same shall have come to his view. 
Sec. 395. And if, after having flied such inventory, it
shall be found that there is other property belonging tosaid
estate, it shall be the duty of such guardian to make out and
file an additional inventory, containing a just and full amount
of the same, from time to time, as the same may be discovered. 
8ec. 396. All such inventories shall be made . . in
the presence of, and attested by two credible witnesses in. the
neighborhood, and shall be verified by the oath of the guardian. _ . , . , . 
~ec. 397. It shall be the duty of every such guar. 
dian to prosecute all actions commenced at the time of. his
appointment, or thereafter, to be commenced by.: or on account of his ward, and to defend all actions .or which may -be 
brought against such ward.
Re<'. 398. Every such guardian is authortzed and 
required to collect all debts due to his ward, and give acquitranees and discharges thereof, and adjust, settle and pay all 
demands due and becoming due from his ward, so far as his
estate arid efl'ects will extend. 
Sec. 399. Every probate court shall have power
to make order for the restraint, support and safe keeping
of such person, for the management or his estate, and the support and maintenance of his family, and education of his children, out of the proceeds of his estate; to set apart and reserve, for the use of such family, and property, real or personal, not necessary to be sold for the payment of debts: and
to let, sell or mortgage any part of such estate, real or personal, when necessary for the payment of debts, the maintenance of such insane person or his family, or the education of his children. 
~ec. 400. \Yhenen~r the personal estate of such
person shall be found to be insufficient to meet the foregoing
requisitions, it shall be the duty of such guardian to lay the
same before the probate court by whom he was appointed,
setting forth the particulars relative to the estate, real and
personal, of such person, and the debts by him owing, .accompanied by a correct and true account of his doings. therewith; whereupon. it shall be the duty of such court to make
an order directing the mortgage, lease, or sale at his discretion, of the whole or such part of the real estate as may be
necessary. 
Sec. 401. The court making such order shall direct the time and terms of such sale, mortgage, or lease - of 
such estate, and the manner in which the proceeds shall be
applied; and shall give due notice thereof together with a full
description of the property to be thus disposed of, at which
time and .place it shall be the duty of the guardian to execute
the order of said court, and to make a full report of his doings therein, which report shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the guardian verifying the report, and stating that such
guardian did not directly or indirectly become the purchaser
thereof; or if otherwise disposed of, that he is not directly or 
indirectly interestedpersonally in the agreement.
Aec. 402. When any such sale, mortgage or lease, 
is approved by the court ordering the same, ashaving been
performed according to law, and not under such circumstances
as to operate prejudicial to the interests of such ward, it shall
be the duty of the guardian to execute a deed, mortgage or
other instrument of writing, which shall be as valid and effective in law as if executed by such ward when ofsound mind
and discretion. , 
Sec. 403. If such report be disapproved of by said court,
as not doing justice to said ward. the court may set aside the 
proceedings, and proceed in like manner as if no sale had
been made. 
Sec. 404. Every such guardian as often as required
by the court appointing him, shall render a true and perfect
account of his guardianship. 
8ec. 405. ~ o such ward shall be held to bail, or
his body be taken in execution, in any civil action; and in all
actions commenced against him the process shall be served
upon his guardian, and in all judgments against such ward
( or his guardlan as such) the execution shall be against the
property of the ward only, .and in no case against his body, nor
against that of his guardian, nor the property of said guardian, unless he shall have rendered himself liable thereunto,
by false pleading or otherwise. 
8ec. 406. Whenever the court shall receive infermation that such ward has recovered his reason, he shall immediately inquire into the facts, and if he finds that such ward
is of sound mind, he shall forthwith discharge such person
from care and custody; and the guardian shall _immediately
settle his accounts and restore to such person all things remainlng in his hands belonging or appertaining to such ward. 
Sec. 407. All the expenses of taking care of such
insane person and the management of his estate, shall be paid
out of his estate if it be sufficient, if not, out of the Territorial treasury. 
Sec. 408. In all cases of appropriation out of the
Territorial treasury for the support and maintenance, treatment, or confinement of any insane person, the amount thereof may be recovered by the Territory from any person, who
by law is bound to provide for the support and maintenance
of such insane person, if there be any such ability to pay thr
same. 
Sec. 409. The father or mother of such insane
person shall maintain them at their own charge, if of sufflcient ability, and if not. then the children, grand children, or
grand parents, shall. if of sufficient ability, maintain them
at their own charge. 
Sec. 410. In ease of the death of any such ward,
while uuden guardianship, the power of the guardian shall
cease, and the estate descend and be disposed of in the same
manner as if said ward had been of sound mind; the guardian
shall immediately settle Ms accounts and deliver the estate 
and the effects of his ward to his legal representatives. 
At><'.. 411. 'I'he several probate courts shall have
the power to remove any such guardian at any time, for neglect of duty, mismanagement or of disobedience to any law
ful order, and appoint another in his place, whereupon such
guardian shall immediately settle his account and render to 
his successor the estate and effects of his ward. 
, Sec. 412. Issues of fact joined in the probate court shall
be certified by the probate court to the district court of the
district embracing his county, for trial on the application of
any person interested in or to be affected by the decision 
thereof, in the cases following:
1st-On granting or revoking letters testamentary or of 
administration.
2d-On admitting wills to probate. 
3d-On revoking the probate or determining the validity
of a will. 
4th-On setting apart property, or making allowance for
a widow or child. 
5th-On application for the sale or conveyance of real
property. 
6th-On the settlement of an executor or administrator.
7th-On declaring, allowing or directing the payment of 
..., debt, legacy, claim or distributive share of the estate.
Sth=-Orders and decrees in the matter of sales of prop
erty by guardians, and in the settlement of guardian's accounts-and in the removal of guardians. 
Sec. 413. An appeal to the supreme court must be taken
within sixtv davs after the rendition of the decision in the
dlstrict court. 
0ln
all other matters the law regulating ap
peals in civil actions in the district court shall, so far as the
Mame may be applicable, govern appeals allowed by this act. 
Sec. 414. When an issue is certified for trial, the clerk
of the probate court shall transmit all papers and records
necessary for the trial of the issue to the district court. After
such trial, the clerk of the district court shall return the same
with the proceedings of the court, to the probate court. 
Sec. 415. An appeal shall be allowed from,the decision
of the probate court to the dh~tr!H court in the cases follow
ing:
1st-On granting or revoking letters testamentary, or of 
administration or guardianship.
2d-On admitting a will to probate.
3d-On revoking the probate, or determining the validity 
of a will. 
Miscellaneous Provisions.
CHAPTER XXIX. 
4th-On setting apart property, or making an allowance
for a widow or child. 
5th-On determination of the application for the sale or
conveyance of real property. 
6th-On the settlement of an executor, administrator or
guardian. - 
7th-On declaring, allowing. <T rejecting the payment of
a debt, legacy or distributive sha -e of the estate. 
8th--On all other final orders and decrees.
Sec. 416. All appeals shall be taken within three months 
after the order or decree is rendered.
Sec. 417. The party desiring to take an appeal shall, 
within sixty days," file with the probate court, a bond in such
an amount, and with such security, as the probate court, or
the judge of the district court shall. determine, which bond
shall be approved by the judge of the probate court, or the
judge of the district court, and when so approved and filed, it
shall operate as a stay of all further proceedings in the case 
before the probate court, and in case any order has issued
upon the matter appealed from, it shall be recalled, and the 
case, with the original papers, shall be sent by the probate
clerk up to the next term of the district court to be filed and
disposed of in the same. manner, so far as is practicable, as
appeals from justices of the peace: Provided, That all things
Jawfully 'done under any such order before the appeal bond
shall be filed, shall be asvalid and binding as if no appeal 
had been taken.
Sec. 41s. Writs of certiorart may, at any time within 
one year after the rendition of the decision in the probate
court, issue out of the district court to .examlne and determineupon any alleged errors occurring in the final decision
or order of the probate court, which shall be heard and determined in the same manner as are like writs to justices of the
peace: Provided. That. upon hearing, the court shall proceed
to render such a judgment as the nature of the case may re
quire.
Hee. 419. X o case shall be dismissed for want of a proper 
bond, or for any irregularity in the bond, or in taking the"
appeal, writ of error, or filing the papers: Provided, The
party will. under the order of the court, file a proper bond,
and will correct such irregularities as may exist: And provided further, The court shall be satisfied that the party
making the application to correct, is not in fault, and that no
injustice is done to the opposite 'party. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
Appeals in Certain Cases.
t:,ec~ 420. Any person considering himself aggrieved by 
any final order or judgment of a probate court, in a civil action or criminal case, may appeal therefrom! to the district
court at its. next term, holden twenty days or more after the
term of the probate court, at which the order or judgment
complained, of was made or rendered, but such appeal shall
only be allowed upon questions of law. 
Sec. 421. The party desirous of taking an appeal, shall
give notice in open court, to the opposite party or his attorney at the time judgment is- rendered, that he will appeal to
the district court, and of the term to which be will. appeal,
which notice shall be entered on the minutes of the court
and, be shall within ten davs after the close of the term at
which the order was made; or judgment rendered, file with
the clerk of the distrtct court, his bond. with sureties to the
satisfaction of. said clerk, if the judgment is for a, sum of money, that he' will pay the judgment, costs, and -eosts that may
accrue ifthe judgment is rendered against him in the district
court, if for the restraining or performing of any act, or the
determination of any right, that he will pay all costs and perform the judgment of the district court. and- abide its order 
therein. Upon giving the notice and filing the bond aforesaid,
and depositing with the clerk of the district court the fees
for making out the transcript in the probate court. the clerk
ofthe district court shall issue a writ directed to the clerk
of. the probate court, commanding him to send up a complete
transcript of. the proceedings in the case in the probate court,
which writ shall be served on said clerk bv the sheriff of the
countv. 
8.ee. 422. Upon the service of said writ upon him, the
clerk of the probate court shall immediately make out and 
transmit to the clerk of the district court. a complete transcript of the proceedings in the probate court. which tran'script shall be flied in the district court, and the cause proceed 
to judgment in like manner as writs of error are heard and
determined in the supreme court. 
Rec. 423. All laws and parts of laws heretofore enacted
upon any subject matter provided for by this act, are hereby 
repealed.
8ec. 424. And be it further enacted. That.so much of this 
act as confers civil and criminal jurisdiction on the probate
courts concurrent with the district courts, shall not be in 
force nor have any effect whatever in the counties of Pierce
and Lewis. 
See. 425. This act shall take effect and be in force from 
and after its passage; 
