VI. The time of filing pleadings.
VH. General ruhs of pleadings. .
~ VIII. Of mistakes in pleadings and amendments;
IX. Of arrests.
X.‘ Of the claim and delivery of personal property.
» XI. Of injzmction a/nd restraining orders.
XII. Of attachments. ‘
XIII. Of receives and deposits in courts.
XIV. Of the trial and judgment in civil actions, issues and the
" _ mode of trial.
XV. Of trials by jury.
XVI. Of the verdict.
XVII. Of trial by the court.
XVIII. Of trial by referee.
XIX. Of exceptions.
XX. Of new trial.
XXI. Of judgment in general.
XXII. Of  upon failure to answer.
XXIII. Of judgment by confession.
XXIV. Of themanner of taking and entering judgment.
XXV. Of judgment liens.
XXVI. Of execution.
XXVII. Of exemption.‘
XXVIII. Of adverse claims to property levied upon.
XXIX. Of the sale of property taken in execution.
XXX. Proceedings supplementary to the execution.
 Of evidence and thecompetency of witnesses.
XXXII. Of the manner of compelling the attendance of witnesses.
XXXIII. Of the ezca/mination of 
XXXIV. Of depositions.
XXXV. Of depositions taken out of the territory.
XXXVI. Of proceedings to perpetuate testimony.
XXXVII. Of provisions relating to records, docwments, amd’ other
writings. .
XXXVIII- Of writs of error and appeal.
XXXIX. Of set qfs. I
 Of costs in civil actions;
XLI. Of  to sell real estate. XLII.. To recover the possession of real property, and to determine‘
conflicting claims thereto. . XLIII.. Partition of real estate. ’
. -X-LIV» Ofwaste. _ '

XLVI. Of (limited la/nd claims.
XLVI. Of moisa/nee.
XLVII. Of the .foreclosare of mortgages.
XLVHI. Of no exact.
XLIX. Remedies of so/ratios against their principals.
I L. Of [taboos corpus.
LI. Of mandate and prohibition.
LII. Of information.
LHI. Miscellaneous provisons.
LIV, Of construction. '\

I. on THE rmrms ro crvn. muons.

Sec. 1. Common law forms abolished, and all distinction between law and equity.
‘2. Name of parties to a suit.
3. All suits to be brought in the name of the real party in interest, except in
actions on notes.

Exception to the preceding section.

The husband may be joined in suit with the wife.

Infants must appear by guardian.

When and how a guardian may be appointed.

All persons interested in the suit must be joined as parties to the suit.

Proviso.
9. When one or more parties may sue or defend for a number.

10. Persons severally liable to be sued at the option of the plaintifff.

11. N 0 action shall abate when the cause survives.

12. When an order of substitution may issue.

9°.“.°’?"."

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembky of the Territory
°f Washington, That all common law forms of action, and all distinctions between law and equity are hereby abolished, and hereafter
there shall bein this territory but one form of action, to establish and enforce private rights, which shall be called a civil action.

SE0. 2. The party commencing the action, shall be known as the plaintih’, and the opposite party, the defendant. ,

. Sec. 3. Every action shall be presented in the name of the real party
111 interest, except as is otherwise provided by law, but in all cases where
the action is brought by an assignee, the same defense may be set up as
could be done, were the suit brought in the name of the original party for
the use of the assignee, except in cases where the action is upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith, and
“W” 80011 consideration before due. _
‘.i SW 4- -An executor or administrator, or guardian of a minor or lunae
W3, 8» trustee of an express trust, or a person authorized by statute, may
‘"9 Wilihfillt joining the person for whose benefit the suit is prosecuted.
Sec. 5. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined

with her except where the action is between her husband and herself, when
she may sue and be sued alone.

SE0. 6. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian, and
if he has no guardian, or in the opinionof the court, the guardian is an

, improper person, the court shall appoint one to act.

Sac. 7. The guardian shall be appointed as follows : _ lst. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if

he be of the age of fourteen years;‘or if under that age, upon the applica- ,

tioniof a relative or friend of the infant.

2d. When the infant is dependant, upon an application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply on the nrst day of the return term of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect

to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of
a relative or friend of the infant.

SEC. 8. All persons interested in the cause of action, or necessary to
the complete determination of the questions involved, shall, unless otherwise provided by law, be joined as plaintifffs, when their interest is in common with the party making the complaint; and as defendants, when their
interest is adverse to the plaintifff‘: Provided, That where good cause exists,
which shall be made to appear in the complaint, why a party who should
be a plaintiff cannot, from a want of consent on his part or otherwise, be
made such complainant, he shall be made a defendant.

SEC. 9. When the question is one of common or general interest to
many persons, or where the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable

to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of the whole.

Sec. 10. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may
all or any of them, be included in the same action, at the option of the
plaintiff. v I , i

SEC. 11. No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of
action survive or continue, ‘but the court may, on motion, allow the action

to be continued by or against his representatives or successor in interest.

Snc.- 12. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract, or for specific, real or personal property, may, at any time before
answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action, and without
collusion with him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or
property, upon due notice to such person, and the adverse party applyto
the court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge
him from liability to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of

the debt, or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as" the
court may direct; and the court may, in its discretion, make the order.

II. or VENUE.

SEC. 13. What actions must be commencedin the county where the subject of the action

is situated.
14. What actions must be tried in the county where the cause of action arose.

15. All other cases to be tried where summons is served ; proviso.

SEC. 13. Actions for the following causes shall be commenced in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated.

1st. For the recovery of, for the possession of, for the partition of, for
the foreclosure of a mortgage, on or for the determination of all questions
affecting the title, or for any injuries to real property.

2d. All questions involving the rights to the possession or title to any
specific article of personal property ; in which last mentioned class of cases,
damages may also be awarded for the detention and for injury to such
personal property. .

SEC. 14, Actions for the following causes, shall be tried in the county
where the cause, or some part thereof, arose :

lst. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute ;
except that when it is imposed for an offense committed on a lake, river or
other body of water, situate in two or more counties, the action may be
brought in any county bordering on such lake, river or stream, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed.

2d. Against a public oiiicer or person specially appointed to execute
his duties for an act done him _in virtue of his oiiice ; or against a person,
who by his command, or in his aid, shall do any thing touching the duties
of such oliicer.

SEC. 15. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the county in
which the defendant may be served with process: Provided, That in
cases where there are two or more persons jointly liable, action may be
commenced in the county where one or more of the defendants may be
found, and process may issue for the other defendants to any other county
in the territory: "Provided, also, that nothing contained in any of the
foregoing sections shall be so construed as to prevent a change in the place
of trial as may be provided by law.

III. or CHANGE or VENUE.

SEO. 16. When a change of venue may be had.
17. Change of venue may be granted in vacation.
Neither party entitled to a second change of venue.
Escape in certain cases.

Sac. 18. When change of venue is ordered, in vacation, affidavit and order forchange.

to be filed. . g
’ 19. When change of venue is made duties of the clerk in relation thereto. ‘

20. The costs of a change of veneue to be paid by the party applying, before papers

are transferred; proviso. .
21. When an order for a change of venue may be annulled.
22. When a transcript has been filed, the case to he proceeded with asif it originated in that court.

SEO. 16. A change of venue, or the place of trial, may be had on the

application of either of the parties in the following cases :

1st. When the county in which the action is pending shall be a party
thereto, or interested therein ;

2d. When the judge shall be interested in the action, or connected by
blood or aifmity with any person so interested, nearer than in the fourth
-degree ;

~3d. When the party applying for such change shall make and file an
affidavit, stating that the judge or the inhabitants of the county are so
prejudiced against him, that he cannot expect an impartial trial, and also,
that the application for the change of venue is not made for the purpose of
delay ; .

4th. When the county designated in the complaint is not the proper
county, and the defendant appears and moves for the change to the proper
county.

SEO. 1'1. An application for the change of venue may be made either
to the court, in term time, or to a judge thereof, ~ in vacation, and the
change shall be to the most convenient county, to which there shall be no
exception of the character of those above enumerated ; but neither party
shall be entitled to more than one. change of venue, except for causes not
in existence, or not known to the party, when the first change may have
been taken : Provided, That where an application for a change of venue
is made in vacation, reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party,
‘)1’ his attorney » Of the time and place, when and where such application
shall be made. t

See. 18. If the change of venue be ordered by the judge in vacation,

he shallimmediately transmit to the clerk of the court where thecause is
Pending, the aiiidavit, if any, and the order for the change, who shall file
the same in his oiiice. ‘

Size. 19. In such cases, as well as where the order shall be made in
0P9“ °°“1‘t. the clerk shall forthwith transmit to the clerk of the proper
°°}“'_t’ 9‘ tmnscript 01' the record and proceedings in such cause, with all the
91'18“1°~1 papers ‘riled therein, having first made out and filed in his own
office, authenticated copies of all such O1‘igina,1Pa,pgrg_

SEO. 20, The costs of such change of venue 311311 be paid by the applicant therefore, and not taxed as part of the costs of ‘the case; and the
clerk shall require payment of such costs before the transcript and papers
shall be transmitted as aforesaid. When the application fora change of
venue is made at the term of court at which the cause stands for trial, the
fees and cost of such witnesses as are in attendance upon a subpoena, shall
be taxed and paid as a part of the costs of the change of venue : Provided,
That where a change is allowed at a term after an unsuccessful trial of said
cause, or where the party, ten days or more, prior to said term, or before
the issuing or service of any subpoena of the opposite party, has given to
the said party notice of his intention to apply for such change, it shall be
discretionary with said court or judge to order what portion if any, of such
costs and fees shall be taxed as a part of the costs of changing the venue.

Sec. 21. If such transcript of the record and proceedings be not transmitted to the clerk of the proper court, within twenty days after the order
for the change of venue shall be filed, (unless a longer time be allowed by
the judge,) such order may, on motion of the opposite party, be annulled
by the court or judge who made the same, and in such case, no other
change of venue shall be allowed to such applicant.

Sec. 22. Upon filing such transcript and papers in the oliice of the
clerk of the court to which the same were certified, the cause shall be
docketed, and the same proceedings- had as though it had‘ originated in
that court. ~

IV. was MANNER or comsnncme cmn ACTIONS.

See. How civil actions may be commenced.

Clerk’s duty when complaint is filed.

When summons returnable.

What the summons shall be.

Summons, by whom served, and return thereof. ,
How a summons may be served.

When a service of a summons may be made by publication.
How service ofa summons may be made by publication.

Rights of defendant when service is made by publication.

When summons may be re-issued.
When one of the parties to a suit cannot be served, the others may he proceeded

against.
What shall be proof of the service of a summons.
The court to control proceedings after service of summons.

Sec. 23. Civil actions, in the several district courts of this territory,
shall be commenced by the filing the complaint with the clerk of the court,
and the issuing of a summons thereon, except as _hereinafter provided.

Sec. 24. The clerk shall file the complaint in his oiiice, endorsing
thereon the day, month, and year when it is filed, and shall forthwith issue,
under the seal of the court, summons against all the defendants named, in

C1309-€5OJO30-3 53
I U 0_o I to I Q 0 O 0 u

the complaint : Provided, That if the defendants reside in several counties,
a summons shall issue to each county in which any of the defendants reside
or may be found.

See. 25. The summons shall be made returnable on the first day of the
next term of the court, which shall commence twenty days or more after it
is issued.

SEC. 26. The summons shall require the defendant, if served within
the county, to appear and file his answer with the clerk within fifteen days
after he is served with process, and if served in any other county, within
twenty days after such service, or that -judgment by default will be taken
against him: Provided, That where, for good and sullicient cause, the
defendant has been unable tofile his answer within the time above specified,
the court, in its discretion, may allow the answer to be filed at any subsequent time.

SEC. 27. In all cases, except where the service is made by publication,
as is hereinafter provided for, the summons shall be served by the sheriff
of the county where the defendant is found, ‘or by his deputy, or by a person other than the plaintifff, specially appointed by him, or by a person
appointed by the judge of the court where the action is brought. Such
appointments shall, prior to the service, be made in writing, endorsed upon
the summons, and signed by the party making them. The summons shall
be returned to the oilice of the clerk from which it issued, with the return

‘ of the sheriff, or his deputy endorsed thereon, or if served by a person

specially appointed, his affidavit. And when issued to, or served in a
county other than that in which the action is pending, it may be sent and
returned by mail.
See. 28. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof,
together with a copy of the complaint, certified by the clerk as follows:
lst. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or other
head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof ;
2d. If against any county in this territory, to the county auditor ;
3d. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian ; or if there be
none within this territory, then to any person having the care or control of
such minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is employed ;
4th. If against a person for whom a guardian has been appointed for
any cause, 170 such guardian and to the defendant personally ;
toil!!!-18 In.t;1l other cases to the defendant personally, orif he be not found,
the dwe 11:1 :18 person of the family, above the age of fourteen years, at
8 misc or usual place of abode of the defendant.

 .29t.h ?Vhen service of ‘the summons cannot be made as pre;
Scn 1” ° “st Preceding section, and the defendant, after due diligence,

‘<5

cannot be found within the territory, and when that fact appears by ai‘ndavit to the satisfaction of the court, or judge thereof, and it in like manner
appears that a cause of action exists against the defendant, where actual
personal notice is not required by law, or that he is a proper party to an
action relating to real property in such territory, such court or judge, may
grant an order that the service be made by publication.

Sac. 30. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper published in the county where the action is brought, and if there be
no newspaper published in the county, then in a newspaper or newspapers,
to be designated as most likely to give notice to the person to be served,
and for such length of time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than
once a‘ week for six weeks ; or, in case the defendant be absent «from, or
residing out of this territory, not less than once a week for three months.
In case of publication, the court or judge shall also direct a copy of the
summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the defendant at his place of residence, unless it shall appear that
such residence is not known to, and cannot be ascertained with reasonable
diligence, by the party making the application. When publication is
ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of
the territory, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post
oliice. In either case, the service of the summons shall be deemed complete
at the expiration of the time prescribed in the order for publication.

Sec. 31. The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his ,
representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time
before judgment, shall be allowed to defend the action ; and except in an _
action for divorce, the defendant against whom publication is ordered, or
his representatives may in like manner upon good cause shown, be allowed
to defend after judgment, and within one year after the rendition of such
judgment, on such terms as may be just, and if the defense be successful,
and the judgment, or any part thereof, have been collected or otherwise
enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall
direct: Provided, That in all cases before the defendant shall be allowed
to defend, he shall make an affidavit that he has, as he believes, a good
defense to the action, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 32.‘ Whenever it shall appear by the return of the sheriff, or his
fleP‘1l3Y. or the person appointed to serve a summons, that he has not served
ll‘ “P011 the defendants as prescribed in the twenty-eighth section, the clerk
Shall, at the request of the plaintifffs, issue another summons, and so on till
Service be had ; or the plaintifff may proceed, by publication in the manner
before stated, at his election.

_ ‘SEC. 33. When the action is against two or more defendants upon a
J0mt contract or liability, and one or more cannot be served with summons,

the plaintiff, unless for good cause the court shall otherwise direct, may
proceed to judgment against the defendant served, and at any time thereafter, while such judgment remains unsatisfied, the clerk, on written
application of the party interested, or his attorney, shall issue a summons
against the defendant not served, and upon the service thereof, with a copy
of the complaint, upon such defendant, the same proceedings shall be had
as though he had been originally served with the summons. Where the
action is against the defendants severally and jointly, or severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served, in the same manner as though
they were the only defendants.

SEC. 34. Proof of the service of the summons and complaint shall be as
follows:

lst. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the return of such sheriff or
deputy; or, 2d. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof ; or,

3d. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman
or principal clerk, showing the same ; and an affidavit of a deposit of a
copy of the summons and complaint in the post office, if the same shall
have been deposited ; or, ’

4th. The written admission of the defendant. In case of service, otherwise than by publication, the certificate, affidavit, or admission, must state
the time, place, and manner of service.

SEC. 35. From the time of the service of the summons and complaint
in a civil action, the court shall be deemed, to have acquired jurisdiction,

. and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall be equivalent to personal service of the
 summons upon him.

V. OF PLEADINGS—-THE COMPLAINT, ANSWER, DEMURRER, AND REPLY.

Sec. 36. All forms of pleadings, except those prescribed by statute, abolished.
37. Plaintili"s pleadings. Defenda.nt’s pleadings.

38. First pleading must be the complaint.

39. What the complaint shall contain.

40. When the defendant may demur.

41. What the demurrer shall specify.

42. When objections may be taken by answer.

43. When defendant may be deemed to have waived all objections.
44. What the answer shall contain.

4-5. The defendant may set forth as many answers as he may have.
46. Defendant may demur and answer,

47. Sham pleadings may be stricken out.

48. When the plaintifff may reply, and how.

 When judgment and a writ of damages may issue.
- Vhen defendant may demur to a reply.

8150- 36- All the forms of pleading, heretofore existing in civil actions,

inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are abolished; and hereafter
the forms of pleading, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined, shall be those prescribed by statute.

SEC. 37. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff, shall be:

1st, the complaint; 2d, the demurrer; or 3d, the reply.

And, on the part of the defendant:

lst, the demurrer, or 2d, the answer.
. SEC. 38. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff, shall be the
complaint.

SEO. 39. The complaint shall contain:

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court, and the
name of the county in which the action is brought, and the names of the
parties to the action, plaintifff and defendant.

2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition.

3. A demand for the relief which the plaintiff claims; if the recovery
of money, or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.

SEC. 40. The defendant may demur to the complaint, when it shall appear upon the face thereof, either,
1 1. That the court has no jurisdiction; or

2. That the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue; or

3. That there is another action pending between the sa.1ne parties, for
the same cause; or

4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or

5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or

6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.

SEC. 41. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection
to the complaint; unless it does so, it may be disregarded; it may be taken
to the whole complaint, or to any of the alleged causes of action stated
therein. ‘

SEO. 42. When any of the matters enumerated in section forty, do
not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by
answer.

SEC. 43. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the
defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the
Objection to the jurisdiction'of the court, and the objection that the comPlaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 44. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
1- A specific denial of each material allegation of the complaint, cont1‘0Verted by the defendant, according to his knowledge, information, or

belief, or of any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief. .

2. A plain, concise statement of any new matterfconstituting a defense
or set-oif, without unnecessary repetition.

SEC. 45. Thedefendant may set forth, by answer, as many defenses as
he may have. _ They shall each be separately stated, and refer to the canses of action which they are intended to answer, in any manner by which
they may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 4 6. The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of
actions, stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.

SEC. 47. Sham and irrelevant pleadings may be stricken out, on motion, and upon such terms as the court may in its discretion impose.

SEC. 48. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a defense
or set-off, the plaintifff may reply to such new matter, denying specifically
each allegation, tcontroverted by him according to his knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to form a belief; and he may allege, in a plain
and concise manner, without unnecessary repetition, any new matter, not
inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense to such new matter,
in the answer; or, he may demur to the same for insufficiency, stating in
his demurrer the grounds thereof, and the plaintifff may demur to one or
more of several defenses or set-offs in the answer, and reply to the residue.

SEC. 49. If the answer contain a statement of new matter, constituting
a defense, and the plaintifff fails to reply or demur thereto within the time
prescribed by law, the defendant may move in court for such judgment as
he shall be entitled to, upon such statement, and, if the case require it, a
writ of damages may be issued. a SEC. 50. If a reply of the plaintifff, to any defense set up by the answer of the defendant, be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto,
and shall state the grounds thereof.

VI. TIME or FILING PLEADINGS.

SEC. 51. The answer or demurrer to be filed, when. In cases where notice is given by
publication, when. The reply or demurrer, when.
52. The court may allow pleadings to be filed at any time.

SEC. 51. The answer or demurrer of defendant shall be filed within the
time prescribed in the summons, in all cases where personal service is
made.

i In cases where notice is given by publication, within fifteen days after
the publication is completed.

The reply or demurrer of the plaintifff to the answer, within fifteen days
after the time for filing the answer has transpired, if the answer has been
filed within the rule.

The demurrer to the reply, on or before the second day of the term at
which the cause stands for trial.

In every case where the time herein allowed for filing the reply to the
answer, shall have elapsed, prior to the commencement of any term, the
cause, if the plaintiff shall demand a trial, shall stand for trial at that term,
subject to the right of either party to a continuance, as in other cases.

Sac. 52. In all cases the court, for good cause shown, shall allow pleadings to be filed at any time before the trial, upon such terms as the court
shall judge proper.

VII. GENERAL RULES or PLEADING.

Sec. 53. Pleadings must be signed and verilied.
54. Verilication of pleadings, how made, and by whom. ,
55. A copy of the instrument, which is the cause of action, to be furnished.The court may order a bill of particulars.

56. The construction of statutes.

57. Irrelevant pleadings.

58. The facts conferring jurisdiction not necessary to be stated, when judgment"

is referred to in a pleading.

59. Facts not necessary to be stated in pleadings.

60. Reference to statutes in pleadings.

61. Facts to’ be stated in an action for libel.

62.34 Defendant may pleadgin actions for libel.

63. Pleadings in an action to recover property.

64. When several causes of action may be united in the same complaint.

65. A material allegation. '

SEC. 53. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party, or his attorney, and, except a demurrer, shall also be verified by affidavit, as set forth
in the next section. ,

SEC. 54. The verification shall be to the effect that the same is true,
except as to matters stated on “information, and as to those matters, that
hebelieves them to be true. The aiiidavit shall be made by the party, or
if there be several parties united in interest, and pleading jointly, by one of
such parties, if he be within the county in which the action is brought, and
capable of making the aliidavit; if he be not within the county, or from
any cause be unable to verify the same, it may be made by the agent, attors
ney, or any other person having a knowledge of the facts; and when the
aliidavit shall be made by another than the party, he shall set forth in it
his knowledge of the grounds of his belief, and the reason why it is not

made by the party- When a corporation is a party, veriiication may be ,

made by any officer thereof; andewhen the territory, or anyrolficer thereof,
in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts. ' No pleading shall be used, in a criminal prosecuv

‘i011. against the party, as proof of a fact alleged in such pleading.

Size. 55. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in apleading,
:a copy of the instrument of writing, or the items of an account therein alleged; but unless he file a verified copy thereof, with such pleading, and
serve the same on theadverse party, he shall, within ten days after .a demand thereof, in writing, deliver to the adverse party a copy of such instrument of writing, or the items of an account, verified by his own oath, or
that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true,
or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof,

. may order a further account, when the one delivered is defective, and the

court may, in all cases, order a bill of particulars, of the claim of either
party, to be furnished.

SEC. 56. In theconstruction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantiate justice between the parties.

SEC. 57. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out on motion of any person aggrieved thereby; and when
the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain, that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require
the pleading to be made definite and certain, by amendment, or may dismiss the same.

Sac. 58. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or
oiiice of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be stated to
have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading— shall be bound to establish, on ,the trial, the facts conferring jurisdiction. Q , ’

SEC. 59. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance,
but it may be stated generally, that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. .

SEC. 60. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it
shall be suilicient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day of its
passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 61. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the complaint any intrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the

‘ application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matter out of which the cause

of action.a.rose; but it shall be sufficient to state, generally, that the same
was pubhshed or spoken, concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation be

controverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish, on trial, that it was
.80 pubhshed or . spoken,

SEC. 62. In the actions mentioned in the last ‘section, the defendant
may in his answer allege both the truth of the matter, charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to redipe the amount of damages;
and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evidence the
mitigating circumstances. '

SEC. 63. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained,
doing damage, an answer that the defendant, or person by whose command
he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the time doing
the damage thereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title to such
real property. . ,

SEC. 64. The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same
complaint, when they shall arise out of

1st. Contract, express or implied; or

2d. Injuries, with or without force, to the person; or

3d. Injuries, with or without force, to property; or

4th. Injuries to character; or

5th. Claims to recover real property, or a.ny interest therein, with or
without damages for withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the

0
same; or

6th. Claims to recover personal property, or any interest therein, with
or without damages for the withholding thereof; or .

7th. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation
of law. '

But the causes of action, so united, must all belong to one only of these
classes, and must effect all the parties to the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

SEC. 65. A material allegation in a pleading, is one essential to the
claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insuiiicient.

VIII. rnsraxns IN PLEADINGS AND AMENDMENTS.

SEC. 66. Variance in pleading and proof, how corrected.

6?. When an immediate amendment may be ordered.

68. A failure of proof.

69. How amendments may be made, and when.

70. A When the name of the defendant is not known, the pleading may be amended.
71. Errors and defects in pleadings.

72. Supplemental pleadings. 6

SEC. 66. No variance between the allegation in a pleading‘ and the

proof shall be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the adverse
party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits.
Whenever it shall be alleggd that a party has been so misled, that fact
shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has
been misled; and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended,
upon such terms as shall be just.

SEC. 67. When the variance is not material, as provided in the last
section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence,
or may order an immediate amendment, without costs. ,

SEC. 68. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defense, to which the proof is directed, is not proved, not in some particular
or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be
deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure of
proof. 7

SEC. 69. At any- time before judgment, the court, on motion, may authorize any of the pleadings to be amended, on such terms as shall be
deemed reasonable, and at any time before the close of the next term of
the court, after the term in which any judgment, order, or other proceeding is had, the court, on motion, and upon good cause shown, after reasonable notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, may relieve a party from
such judgment, order, proceeding, taken against him, through his mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and supply an omission in any
proceedings.

Sac. 7 0. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the name of the defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding
by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or
proceeding may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 71. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not effect the substantial rights of the adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or
effected by reason of such error or defect. ' ,

SEC. 7 2. The court may, on motion, allow supplemental pleadings,
showing facts which occurred after the former pleadings were filed.

’ IX. or ARRESTS.

Sec. 73. N o arrest to be made in civil action, except on an order of court.
74. When, and for what causes, a defendant may bearrested.
75. Proof must be given before warrant issues.
76. The amount must be specified in the wan°ant.
77. What the clerk shall require before issuing a warrant for arrest.
78: An order for arrest may be vacated. Proceedings when vacated.
79. Complaint must be filed and served as in cases of a summons.
80. Defendant must have a_ copy of the warrant.
81. Execution of a warrant. Custody of prisoner.

Sec. 82. Bond of defendant, how and when given, &c.

83. What the warrant shall state.

84. How and when a defendant may be surrendered.
85. The bail may arrest the defendant.

86. The bail may be proceeded against by action.
87. How the bail may be exhonerated.

88. The return of an order for arrest.

'89. Proceedings when bail is insuliicient.

90. The qualification of bail.

91. J ustitication of bail.

92. When bail is found suilicient duty of the justice.
93. Defendant may deposit for bail. ,

94. The sheriff required to pay over the deposit.

95. When money deposited may be refunded.

96. Disposition of fund deposited for bail.

97. Sheriff to be liable; may give bail.

98. Proceedings against a sheriff liable.

99. Bail liable to the sheriff.

3?
Sac.‘ ‘K3. No person shall be arrested orheld to bail in any civil action
except upon the order of the court where the action is brought, or a judge

of the supreme court.

Sec. 74. The defendant may be arrested as is hereinafter provided in p

the following cases and for the following causes only:
1st. When the action is upon a contract to recover damages, and the

defendant has money or property and is about to abscond from the terri- .

tory with, or conceal or dispose of the same, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

2. Where the action is to recover possession of specific articles of personal
property, or any instrument of Writing, and the defendant conceals, or is
about to conceal, destroy or dispose of the subject matter of the suit with
intent to defraud the plaintifff.

3. Where the action is to prevent threatened injury to, or destruction
Of property in which the party bringing the action has some right, interest
or title which will be impaired or destroyed by such injury or destruction,
and the danger is imminent that such property Will be destroyed, or its
value impaired to the injury of the plaintifff. " V

4. On the final judgment or order of any court in this territory while
the same remains in force, when the defendant, having no propertysrbject
to execution, or not sufficient to satisfy such judgment, has money which
he Ought to apply in payment upon such judgment, and which he refuses to
apply with intent to defraud the plaintifff, or Where he refuses to comply
with a legal order of the court, with intent to defraud the plaintifff, or
ivhere any one or more of the causes exist for which an arrest is allowed
in the first class of cases mentioned in this section. SEC. '75. The court or judge making the order, shall first be Satisfied

by the aliidavit of the party, and other proof, or by other proof that the
case is one in which an arrest is provided for in section seventy-four, and
that one or more of the prescribed causes exist, which proof shall be in«
writing, and, together with the order, be filed with the clerk before he
shall issue any Warrant for the arrest.

SEC. 76. The court or judge making the order, shall, in- all cases, specify therein the amount in Which the defendant shall be held to bail, which
shall, in no case exceed the demand of the plaintifff, and one hundred dollars in addition thereto, which amount the clerk shall endorse upon the
Writ, and the court shall also in the order, fix the amount of the bond to
be given by the plaintifff as provided in the next succeeding section, which
amount shall, in no case, be less than one hundred dollars.

SEC. '17. Before any clerk shall issue a Warrant for the arrest of the
defendant, he shall require the plaintifff to place on file in his oiiice a copy
of the order granting the Warrant, unless the same was made in open court,
and appears in the minutes, the original aliidavit and proofs upon which
the order was made, and a bond on behalf of the plaintifff, in such an’
amount as the court or judge shall have fixed in the order, with sureties
to the satisfaction of the clerk, conditioned to pay to the defendant all
damages which he shall suffer, and all expenses he shall incur by reason of
such arrest or imprisonment, if the order shall be vacated in the manner
provided for in the next succeeding section, or if the plaintifff , fail to re»
cover‘ in» his action.

SEC. 18. The defendant may, on motion, apply to the court to vacate»
the order of arrest, on the ground of the insufliciency of the proof, or he
may show that the facts alleged, upon which the order issued, are untrue,
or he may apply to have the amount of bail reduced. If the court, upon
any such motion, shall vacate the order, the defendant shall be discharged.
from the arrest, and any bond he may have given shall be cancelled, but
the action, unless dismissed for other cause, shall be conducted in the same
manner as in cases Where a summons issues.

SEC. 79. When an order of arrest is granted prior to the filing of the
complaint, the Warrant shlll not issue until the complaint is filed with the
clerk. And a copy of said complaint shall be served on the defendant, with.
the warrant, as in case of\ a summons; but an order of arrest may be
granted at any time after the action is commenced, and before judgment is‘

satisfied, when the party seeking the order shall comply with the preceding.
pl‘OV1SlOI1S in regard to arrests.

Sec. 80. The warrant must be delivered to- the sheriff, Who, upon ar~
resting the defendant, must deliver to him a copy thereof.

Sec. 81. ‘Tue sheriff shall execute the warrant by arresting the defendant and k°°P11§3him in custody until discharged by law. And the plaintifff,

in first instance, shall be liable for the sheriii"s fees, for the food and maintenance of any person under arrest, which, if required by the sheriff, shall
be paid weekly in advance. ‘ And such fees, so paid, shall be added to the
costs taxed or acm'uing\in the case, and be collected as other costs. And
if the plaintifff shall negiect to pay such fees, for three days after a demand
in writing, upon the plaintiff or his attorney, for payment, the sheriff may
discharge the defendant out of custody.

SEC. 82. The defendant may give bail by causing a bond to be executed by two or more sufficient bails, stating their places of residence and
occupations, conditioned that the defendant shall at all times render himself
amenable to the proce of the court during the pendency of the action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment rendered therein, or
if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the second subdivision of section seventy-four, it shall be further conditioned, that the specific article of
property or instrument of writing which is the subject matter of the writ,
shall be forthcoming to abide any order which shall be made therein, or if
he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of said section, it shall be farther conditioned that he will not commit the injury or
destruction alleged to be threatened in the affidavit or proofs on which the
arrest is ordered.

Snc. 83. The warrant shall, in all cases, contain a short statement of
the alleged cause for which the order was granted, and also the amount
for which bail is required.

SEO. 84. At any time before a failure to comply with their bond, the
bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender

himself to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested in the following
manner:

1st. A certified copy of the bail bond shall be delivered to the ‘ sheriff,

' who shall retain the defendant in his custody, thereon, as upon an order of

arrest, and by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender.

2. Upon the production of a copy of the bail bond and .sheriff’s certificate, a judge of the district court may, upon a notice to the plaintifff of
eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated,
and on filing the order and the papers used on such application, they shall
be exonerated accordingly; but this section does not apply to an arrest for
the cause mentioned in the third subdivison of section seventy-four.

SEC. 85. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at
any time or place before they are finally discharged, may themselves arrest
him, 01' by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of the bond,
may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do ‘so.

SEC. 86. In case .-of failure to comply with the condition of the bond,
the bail can be proceeded against by action only.

- SEC. 87. The bail may be exonerated either by the death of the defendant, or hisimprisonment in a penitentiary, or by his legal discharge, from
the obligation t_o render himself amenable to the process, or by his surren-_

der to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in execution thereof,‘

within twenty days after the commencement of the action against the bail,
or within such further time as may he granted by the court. SEC. 88. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff must deliver the order of arrest to the clerk, with his return indorsed thereon, and
the bond of the bail, or a copy thereof; the plaintifff, within ten days
thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the
bail, or he must be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be.
exonerated from liability.

SEC. 89. On the receipt of the notice, the sheriff or defendant may,
within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff or his attorney notice of
the justification of the same or other bail, (specifying the places of residence and occupations of the latter) before a judge of the court, or justice
of the peace at a specified time and place, the time to be not less than five,

nor more than ten days thereafter; in case other bail be given, there must
be a new bond in the form prescribed in section eighty-two.

SEC. 90. The qualincations of bail shall be as follows:

1st. Each of them sha]l'be a resident of the territory; but no counsellor
or attorney at law, sheriff, clerk of the district court, or other officer of such
court, shall be permitted to become bail in any action.

2d. Each of the bail shall be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, or the amount to which the order may be reduced as provided
in this act, over and above all debts and liabilities, and exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the judge or justice, on justification,
may allow more than two sureties to justify severally in amounts less than
that expressed in the order, if the ‘whole justification be equivalent to that
of two suliicient bail.

Sac. 91. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must attend
before the judge or justice of the peace, at the time and place mentioned
in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,»
touching his sufficiency in such manner as the judge or justice of the peace
in his discretion may think proper; the examination must be reduced to
writing, and subscribed by the bail if required by the plaintifff.

SEC. 92. If the judge or justice find the bail sufficient, he shall annex
the examination to the bond, indorse his allowancethereon, and cause

‘them to be filed with the clerk; and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonee
rated from liability.

SEC. 93. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving
bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order; the sheriii‘

must thereupon give the defendent a certificate of deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 94. The sheriff shall, within ten days after the deposit, pay the
same into court, and take from the officer receiving the same, two certificates of such payment, the one of which he must deliver to the plaintifff and
the other to the defendant; for any default in making such payment, the
same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff, to collect
the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 9% If money be deposited as provided in the last two sections,
bail may be given and justihed, upon notice as herein before provided, at
any time before judgment, and thereupon, the judge, before whom the justification is had, shall direct in the order of allowance, that the money deposited, be refunded by the sheriff or clerk to the defendant, and it shall be
refunded accordingly.

SEC. 96. When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money to
the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply the
same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the judgment, refund the
surplus, if any, to the defendant; if the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied. '

Sec. 97. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be rescued, or
bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead thereof, the
sheriff shall himself be liable as bail, but he may discharge himself from
such liability, by the giving and justification of bail, as is herein before provided, may be. done by the defendant, at any time before process against the
person of the defendant, to enforce an order or judgment in the action.

SEC. 98. If a ’ judgment be recovered against the sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff, to
collect the dehciency, as in other cases of delinquency. ,

SEC. 99. The bail taken on the arrest, shall, unless they justify, or other
bail be given, or justified, be liable to the sheriff by action for the damages
which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

X. CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 100. Plaintiff may claim the delivery of personal property.

101. When delivery is claimed, what affidavit must be made.

102. When delivery may be made, and proceedings thereafter.

103. When exceptions may be had to sureties on a bond to be taken.
104. Defendant may retain property on giving bond.

105. Defendant’s sureties to justify.

106. The qualification of sureties.

.S1-:c. 107. How property concealed may be taken.
108. Duty of sheriff when property is taken.
109. The claim of a third party—how established.

110. Sheriff to make return, &c.

“Sec. 100. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time
before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as herein
provided. , ‘SEC. 101. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
rthe plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing : _'

Zlst. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed (particular‘ly describing it) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue
-of a.-special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set forth.

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.

36. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or line
pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against
the ,pnoperty of the plaintifff, or if so seized that it is by law exempt from
such seizure ; and

4th. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 102. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and a bond to the defend-ant, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff,
to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, as
stated in the aliidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
property, as stated in the allidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the
"return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property”
described in the affidavit, if it be in possession of the defendant or his agent,
and retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the
defendant a copy of the aiiidavit and bond, by delivering the same to him
-personally, if he can be found, or his agent, from whose possession the
-property is taken; or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
aisual place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discretion ; or, if neither have any known place of abode, by putting them in

-the post office, directed to the defendant, at the post office nearest his place
of residence.

, Sec. 103. The defendant may, within three days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit and bond, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to
‘the sulliciency of the sureties, If he fail to do so, he shall be deemed to
lhaVe‘wa1,ved all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the
Surelles “311311 J-Kstify on notice in like manner as bail on arrest. And the
sheruf shall be responsible for the suiiiciency of the sureties, until the objection to them is either waived, as above provided, or until they shall‘
justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as provided in the
next section.

SEC. 104. At any time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a bond, executed
by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff
for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, he recovered
against the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required
within three days after the taking and service of notice to the defendant,
it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one
hundred and nine.

SEC. 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintifff or his
attorney of not less than two or more than six days, shall justify in the
same manner as upon bail upon arrest ; upon such justification, the sheriff
shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible
for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or until justification is completed, or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that time ;
but if they or others in their place, fail to justify at the time and place
appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

SEC. 106. The qualification of sureties and their justification, shall be
as prescribed in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.

Sac. 107. If the property or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the sheriji’ shall publicly demand its delivery. If it be not
delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his possession ; and, if necessary, he may call to his
aid the power of his county.

SEC. 108. When the sheriff shall have taken property as is herein provided, he shall keep it in a secure place and deliver it to the party entitled
thereto, upon receiving his lawfiil fees for taking, and his necessary expenses
for keeping the same.

Size. 109. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
there“, 01' his right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such
title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff before the delivery of the
P1'0perty to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property,
01‘ deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of him or his
agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim by a bond, executed
by two suliicient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each

"worth double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution and freeholders or householders of the county, and
no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the sheriff unless made as aforesaid ; and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a‘

reasonable time to demand such indemnity. ’

Sec. 110. The sheriff shall file the affidavit with his proceedings thereon,
with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending, within twenty
days after taking the property mentioned therein ; or, if the clerk reside in
another county, shall mail or forward the same within that time.

 OF INJUNCTION AND RESTRAINING ORDERS.
Sec. 111.
112.

113.

114.
,115.
116.

117.

118.

Injunction and restraining orders, by whom granted.
When an injunction may be granted.

At what time an injunction may be granted.

Both parties to be heard, except in certain cases.
Parties may read aliidavits on hearing. '
Terms may be imposed with an injunction.

Bond to be given before injunction is granted.

When an injunction is granted after a restraining order, a second bond not
necessary.

A writ of injunction not necessary. The plaintifff required to endorse a release upon application to stay proceedings. »
Who an injunction shall bind.
When it is necessary to serve an order of injunction.

Money collected on a judgment after injunction, subject to the order of the
court.

An attachment for contempt ; when granted; by whom issued and served.

119.
120.

121.
122.
‘I23.

124.

125.
126.
127.
128.
129.

Proceedings on an attachment for contempt.

Person arrested for contempt to give bond.

Motions to dissolve or modify may be made.

When and what damages a court may award after an injunction is dissolved.
When an injunction is dissolved, what the damages shall include. —

130. Injunction being dissolved the court may reinstate the same.

SEC. 111. Restraining orders and injunction may be granted by the
district court in term time, or by any judge of the supreme court in vacation. '

Sec. 112. Where it appears by the complaint, that the plaintifff is
entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief’, or any part thereof, consists
in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission
or continuance of which, during the litigation would produce great injury
to the plaintifff, or when during the litigation it appears that the defendant
IS doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring, or is suffering
some act to be done in violation of the plaiutiii"s rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment inedectual, or where

such relief,‘ or any part thereof, consists in restraining proceedings upon any
iinalorder or judgment, an injunction may be granted to restrain such act
or proceedings until the further order of the court, which may afterwards
be dissolved or modified upon motion. And where it appears in the.complaint at the commencement of the action, or during the pendency thereof,
by aiiidavit, that the defendant threatens, or is about to remove or dispose
of his property, with intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction
may be granted to restrain the removal or disposition of his property.

See. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing
the action, or at any time afterwards, before judgment in that proceeding.

Sec. 114. No injunction shall be granted until it shall appear to the
court or judge granting it, that some one or more of the opposite party
concerned, has had reasonable notice of the time and place of making the
application, except that in cases of emergency, to be shown in the complaint,
the court may grant a. restraining order, until notice can be given, and
hearing thereon. h .

Sec. 115. On the hearing of an application for an injunction, eac
party may read aiiidavits.

SEC. 116. Upon the granting or continuing an injunction, such terms
and conditions may be imposed upon the party obtaining it, as may be
deemed equitable. '

SEC. 117. No injunction or restraining order shall be granted until the
party asking it shall enter into bond, in such a sum as shall be fixed by the
court or judge granting the order, with surety to the satisfaction of the
clerk of the district court, to the adverse party affected thereby, conditioned
to pay all damages and costs which may accrue by reason of the injunction
or restraining order. The sureties shall, if required by the clerk, justify in
like manner as bail upon an arrest, and until they so justify, the clerk shall
be responsible for their sufficiency.

SEC. 118. When an injunction is granted upon the hearing, after a
temporary restraining order, the plaintifff shall not be required to enter into
a second bond, unless the former shall be deemed insuiiicient, but the plaintifff and his surety, shall remain liable upon his original bond.

SEC. 119. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of injunction, but
the clerk shall issue a copy of the order of injunction duly certified by him,
which shall be forthwith served by delivering the same to the adverse
party. Sec. 120. ‘In application to stay proceedings after judgment, the plaintifff shall indorse upon his complaint, a release of errors in the judgment ’

Whenever required to do so by the judge or court.
Sec. 121. An order of injunction shall bind every person and oilicer

restrained from the time he is informed thereof.

.~ Sue. 131. In an action for the recovery. of money, the plaintifff, at the
time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may havethe property of the defendant attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as 9.
security for the satisfaction of such judgment as he may recover.

SEC. 132. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, whenever the plaintifff, his agent or
attorney, shall make affidavit that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of such claim, over and above all legal setoifs, and the nature thereof, and that, as the affiant verily believes, the defendant is either

lst. - A foreign corporation; or

2d. A non-resident of this territory; or .

3d. Is secretly leaving, or has left the territory, with intent to hinder,
defraud, or delay his creditors; or ‘ ’

4th. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his property, with «

like intent; or ,

5th. Is removing, or about to remove, his property, subject to execution, or a material part thereof, out of ‘this territory, not leaving enough
therein to" satisfy the claim of the plaintifff; or

6th. Has concealed, or is attempting to conceal himself, so that the ordinary process of law cannot be served upon him.

SEC. 133. No attachment, for the causes mentioned in the second and
third clauses of the preceding section, shall issue against any debtor While
his family remains settled Within the county where he usually resided, prior

to his absence, if he shall not continue absent from the territory-more thanone year after he shall have absented himself, unless an attempt be made
to conceal his absence. I

SEC. 134. If thewife or family of the debtor shall refuse or be unable
to give an account of the cause of his absence, or the place where he may
be found, or shall give a false account of either, such refusal, inability, or
false account, shall be deemed an attempt to conceal his absence.

SEC. 135. The plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall, before the writ

issues, execute a bond, with sufficient surety, to. be approved by the clerk,

payable to the defendant, to the effect that the plaintifff‘ will duly prosecute
his proceeding in attachment, and will pay all damages which may be sustamed by the defendant, if the proceedings of the plaintifff shall be Wrongful and oppressive.

Sec. 136. The writ shall be directed and delivered to the sheriff. It

shall require him to seize and take into his possession, the property of the ‘

defenllant, in his county, not exempt gem execution, or sufficient thereof
to satisfy the amount of the plaintifff ’s claim and costs.

SF-‘L 137» Writs of attachment may be issued to the sheriff of any

other county; and several of them may, at the option of the plaintih’, be
issued- at the same time, or in succession; but the costs only of such as
have been executed, in whole or in part, shall be recovered against the defendant, unless otherwise directed by the court. The plaintifff shall not

' have judgment in any such action, exceptin some one of the following

cases, viz:

lst. When the defendant, shall have been personally served with process; or

2d. When property of the defendant shall have heen attached in the

county where the action is brought; or

3d. When a garnishee shall have been summoned in the county where

the action is brought, who shall be found to be indebted to the defendant,
or to have property or assets in his hands, subject to the attachment.

SEc.,138. A writ of attachment may be issued and executed on Sunday, if the plaintifff will show in his affidavit "that the defendant is about
to abscond on that day, to the injury of the plaintifff. ' '

SEC. 139. The sheriff shall proceed, with the assistance of a disinterested and credible householder of the county, to attach the lands and tenements, goods and chattels, of the defendant, subject to execution, and
shall, with the assistance of such householder, make an inventory and appraisement thereof, and return the same with the Writ. *

SEC. 140. A writ of attachment binds the defendant’s property from
the time it is served, in the same manner as an execution. .

Sec. 141. The defendant’s personal property shall be first taken under
an attachment; if enough thereof is not found to satisfy the plaintiff’s
claim, and costs of the action, then his real estate. If, after a writ of
attachment is placed in the hands of the sheriff, any property of the defendant is removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and attach the
same in any county, within three days after the removal thereof.

. S130. 142. The estate, property, and interest, descended to non-resident
heirs or devisees, or vested in non-resident executors or administrators of
decedents, shall be liable to an attachment for ‘debt, or other demands,
against the decedent’s estate.

Sac. 143. The ‘defendant, or other person, having possession of property
attached, may have the same, or any part thereof, delivered to him, by executing and delivering to the sheriff a bond, with surety approved by the

sheriff, payable to the plaintifff, to the effect that such property shall be‘

P1‘°P9I'1y kept and taken care of, and shall be delivered to the sheriff on
demand, or so much thereof as may be required to be sold on execution,
to satisfy any judgment which may be recovered against him in the action,
or that he will pay the appraised value of the property, not exceeding the

amount of the judgment and costs. W

-property taken in execution.
‘tachment, shall be bound

SEC. 144. Whenever any person, other than the defendant, shall claim
any property attached, the right of property may be tried, as in cases of

to prosecute his claim, as in such cases, or be

barred of his right against the oiiicer or person serving the writ.

SEC. 145. The defendant, or claimant of any attached property, may

‘be required by the court to attend before it, and give information, on oath,

respecting the property.
Sac. 146. An attachment shall only bind the interest of the defendant,
subject to the rights existing at the time of the attachment, of any other

person to the property.
SEC. 147. If the defendant, at any time before judgment, shall appear and answer to the complaint of the plaintifff, and shall satisfy the court
that the cause alleged in the affidavit did not exist at the time the writ
issued, the attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the plaintifff, who
shall also be liable to the defendant; and the attachment shall also be dismissed at any time after answer, before judgment, when the defendant shall
satisfy the court that the alleged causes, upon which the writ issued, have
ceased to exist; in this case, the costs to abide the issue of the action, and
in case the attachment shall be dismissed as above, the action may be further prosecutml to final judgment, as in cases where a summons.has been

served.
Sac. 148. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf, at any time

before judgment, shall execute a bond to the plaintifff, and to each plaintifff
who has ‘riled his complaint under the attachment, with sufficient surety, to
be approved by the court, clerk, or sheriff, to the effect that the defendant
will appear to the action, and will perform the judgment of the court, the
attachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of any property taken
under it, or the proceeds thereof.

SEC. 149. When personal property attached is of a perishable nature,
or its keeping expensive, the court may direct the sheriff to sell it at public
auction, on reasonable notice. If the property is liable to immediate damages, the sheriff, in vacation, may sell it, by giving ten day's notice, without anorder of court, and the proceeds of all sales shall be deposited with

the clerk. .
Sac. 150. The sheriii‘ shall be allowed his reasonable and necessary

expenses for keeping attached property, to be paid by the plaintifff, and
taxed in the billof costs; and if the plaintifff shall fail to pay such expensee, as they accrue, or advance them to the sheriff, the sheriff may give the
plaintifff written notice, that unless so paid or advanced, he will release the
property, and after the expiration of forty-eight hours from the service of
89011 notice, upon the plaintin‘ or his attorney, the sherid‘ may, if such expeuses are not paidor advanced, return, at the cost of the plaintid’, said
property to the person from whom, or to the place where it was taken;
and if all the property, so attached, shall be so returned, the action shall
be dismissed at the cost of the plaintiff.

Sac. 151. If at the time a writ of attachment issues, or at any time
afterwards, the plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, shall file with the
clerk an affidavit that he has good reason to believe that any person (naming him) has property of the defendant, of any description, in his possession, .or under his control, which the sherid‘ cannot attach by virtue of such
writ; or that such person is indebted to the defendant, or has the control
or agency of any property, monies, credits, or effects; or that the defend- ant has any shares or interest in the stock of any association or corporation; the clerk shall issue a summons, notifying such“ person, corporation

or association, to appear at the ensuing term of the court, and answer as
garuishee in the action. The summons shall be directed to the sheriff, and
served and returned by him in the same mariner as a summons is served
and returned in other cases.

Sec. 152. From the day of the service of the summons, as provided in

section 151, the garnishee shall be accountable to the plaintifff in the action, for the amount of money, property, or credits in his hands, or due
and owing from him to the defendant.
' SEC. 153. It shall be the duty of any oiiicer or agent of an associatiom
or corporation, and of every other person summoned as a gamishee, when»
served, or within fifteen days afterwards, to furnish the sheriff‘ with a cer-tilicate of the number of shares, or rights of the defendants in the stock of‘.
such corporation or association, or a decription of the property held by
suchcorporation, association, or person, belonging to or for the benefit of
the -defendant, or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant by such
association, corporation, or person, whether due. or not; which certificate
shall be returned by the sheriff with the summons. If such officer, agent,
01' person refuse so to do, he may be  by the court" to attend beforeit, and be examined, on oath, concerning the «same, and obedience to» the
orders may be enforced by attachment, as for contempt..

Sac. 154. Whenever any gamishee, being duly summoned, fail to appear
and make discovery, as required by law, or fails to answer or demur to the
matters set forth against him in the aliidavit, or additional complaint or
interrogatories, such matters may be taken for confessed, or judgment eutered by default, as the case may require, or he may be examined under
oath touching all the matters charged in the affidavit, or additional comP19-int; and all such proceedings, pleadings, and process, shall be had according to the practice in other cases, as shall be necessary to determine the
rights of the parties, and render a final judgment, . A

SEC. 155. If any plaintifff, or other person in his behalf, shall satisfy
the court or judge, in the manner required in this act, of the existence of
any of the causes authorizing an arrest, in a civil action, against any
garnishee, he may have an order for a warrant of arrest, which shall heissued, and the same proceedings had thereon as in ordinary cases of arrests
in civil actions.

Sec. 156. Final judgment shall not be rendered against a garnishee,
until the action against the defendant in attachment is determined; and if
the plaintifff fails to recover judgment, either against the defendant or the
garnishee, the garnishee shall be discharged, and recover his costs.

SEC. 157. The return of “ no property found,” upon the writ of attachment, shall not affect the proceedings against the garnishee. ‘

SEC. 158. If the plaintifff recover judgment against the defendant, and
the garnishee deliver up to the sheriff, before judgment against him, all
the defendant’s goods and. chattels, or other effects in his possession, subject to execution, or a sufficient amount thereof to satisfy the plaintifff’s
judgment, or an inventory thereof, and pay to the sheriff, or into court, all
monies due from him, or belonging to the defendant, or a sufficient amount
thereof to satisfy the p1aintilf’s judgment, the costs in the proceeding
against the garnishee shall be paid by the defendant; but if the garnishee
shall not appear, or if appearing, shall refuse truly to confess the matter
alleged, and on the trial the plaintifff shall recover judgment against him,
or if he admit that he has monies, credits, or effects belonging to the defendant, in his hands, and shall refuse to pay or deliver the same as above
provided, he shall pay costs.

SEC. 159. A garnishee, in attachment, shall not be compelled, in any
case, to pay or perform any contract in any other manner, or at any other
time, than he would be bound to do for the defendant in attachment.

SEC. 160. A garnishee may pay the monies owing to the defendant by
him, to the sheriff, or into court, and shall be discharged from liability to
the defendant, for money so paid, not exceeding the plaintifff’s claim; and
not be liable for costs if paid at or before the first term after the Writ or
notice is served upon the garnishee, or as soon as the same shall be due.

Sec. 161. A garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee, at any time after fifteen days from the service of the summons, may
be examined in open court on oath, and if it be discovered on such examination that at the time, or after the service of the summons upon him, he
or the corporation was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was
indebted 130 him, the court mayorder the delivery of such property, and
the payment of any such indebtedness into court, or the execution of a
bond by the garnishee, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court,

, or the property forthcoming, as the court shall direct.

payable to the plaintifff, to the effect that the indebtedness shall be paid, Sec. 162. Any creditor of the defendant, upon filing his affidavit and
bond, as hereinbefore required of the attaching creditor, may, at any time
before the final adjournment of the suit, become a party to the action, file
his complaint and prove his claim or demand against the defendant, and
may have any person summoned as garnishee, or held to bail, who has not
before been summoned or held to bail, and propound interrogatories to the
garnishee, and enforce answers thereto, in like manner as the creditor who
is plaintifff.

Sac. 163. A dismissal of his action, or proceedings in attachment by
the first attaching creditor, shall not operate as a dismissal of the action or
proceedings of any subsequent attaching creditor.

Sec. 164. Any defendant, against whom a writ of attachment has been
issued, may, after appearing to the action, move to have the attachment
discharged, and restitution awarded, of any property taken under it; but
an appearance to the action shall not operate to discharge the attachment,

. unless a bond be filed as required in section 148. If the defendant appear,

and judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and any part thereof
remain unsatisfied, after exhausting the property attached, such judgment
shall be deemed a judgment against the defendant personally, and shall
have the same effect as other judgments, and execution shall issue thereon
accordingly, for the collection of such residue. If the plaintifff’s bond be
insuiiicient, he shall have a reasonable time to file an additional one.

SEC. 165. If the judgment in the action is rendered for the defendant,
the attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or its proceeds returned to him.

SEC. 166. If judgment in the action be rendered for the plaintifff, or
one or more of several plaintifffs, and suiiicient proof be made of the goods,
chattels, rights, credits, monies and effects, in the ‘possession of the garnishee, the court shall also give judgment in favor of the plaintifff or cred“OPS; against the garnishee, or the property of the defendant, or both, as
the case may require, which may be enforced by execution.

Sec. 167. After judgment for the plaintifff, or one or more of several
Plahlwfs, property attached and remainiig unsold, may be sold on execu50". as in other cases. ‘

Sac. 168. The money realized from the attachment and garnishee, shall,

under the direction of the court, after paying all costs and expenses, and
the debt of the creditor who commenced the attachment, provided suincient shall have been attached on writs issued by him, be paid to the sev- e
eral creditors, in ‘proportion to the amount of their several claims as adj“3l"3d, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the defendant.

SEC. 169‘. Every defendant shall be entitled to an action on the bond

of the plaintiff or creditor, by whose proceedings in attachment he shall .

have been aggrieved, if it shall appear that the proceedings were wrongful

and oppressive, and he shall recover damages at the discretion of a jury.
SEC. 17 0. When an order of attachment is fully executed or discharged,

the sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings thereon, to the court.

XIII. RECEIVERS AND DEPOSITS IN counrs.

SEC. 171. In what cases a receiver may be appointed by the court.
172. No party interested shall be appointed receiver.
173. Receiver must take oath and givebond.

174. Court to control certain fund.
175. Court may order sheriff to compel obedience to its orders.
176. Money deposited by order of the court must not be loaned out.

177. Powers of the receiver.
178. When a partof a claim is admitted, judgment therefore may be entered and

execution issued.

SE0. 1'11. A receiver may be appointed by the court in the following

cases: ,
1st. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of property or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim.

2. In actions between partners or other persons jointly interested in
any property or fund.

3. In all actions where it is shown that the property, fund or rent, and
profits in controversy is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially
injured. ‘

4. In actions by a mortgage for the foreclosure of a mortgage and the
sale of the mortgaged property, When it appears that such property is in
danger of beinglost, removed, or materially injured, or when such property
is insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt, to secure the application of
the rents and profits accruing before a sale can be had.

5. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or is in iminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.

6. And in such other cases as may be provided for by law, or When, in
the discretion of the court, it may be necessary to secure ample justice to
the parties. a

SEC. 1'12. No party, or attorney, or other person interested in. an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.

SEC. 1"! 3. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn
to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties, approved by

the court, execute a bond to such person as the court may direct, conditioned that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the action,
and obey the orders of the court therein.

Snc.-r174. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or
-other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs, or is due to
-another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party with or without security, subject to the further
direction of the court.

SEC. 17 5. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall
have ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the
order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as for
contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or
thing and deposit or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court.

SEC. 176. Money deposited or paid into court in an action, shall not

‘ be loaned out, unless with the consent of all the parties having an interest

in, or making claim to the same.

SEC. 177. The receiver shall have power, under the control of the
-court, to bring and defend actions—to take and keep possession of the
p1_'operty—to receive rents——collect debts, and generally to do such acts
respecting the property, as the court may authorize.

SEC. 17 8. When the answer of the defendant admits part of the plaintifff’s claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order the defendant to
satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order by execution or
attachment. I

XIV. or THE TRIAL AND JUDGMENT IN crvn. muons, ISSUES AND ms
MODE or TRIAL.

SEO. 179. Issues of two kinds.
180- An issue of law.
181. An issue of fact.
182. When issues of law and fact may arise, and how to be tried.

183. Issues of law tried by the court; issues of fact by a jury.
184. Aliidavit required to grant a continuance. When evidence is admitted, or

overruled, trial not to be continued.

SEC. 17 9. Issues ‘arise upon the pleadings when a fact or conclusion of
law is maintained by‘ the one party, and controverted by the other, and

are of two kinds.

1st. Of law ; and
_ 2nd. Of fact.

SEC. 180. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.

. SEO. 181. An issue of fact arises:
” lst. ‘ Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the
answer; or, '

2d.‘ Upon new matter, -or a set-off, controverted by» the reply; or
3d. Upon new matter in the reply.
2 SEC. 182. . Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon diiferent parts
of thepleadingsin the same action. In such cases the issues of law shall
be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct. '

SEC. ‘I83. » An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless referred‘

upon consent, as provided in this act. An issue of fact shall be tried by a
jury, unless a jury trial be waived, or a reference beordered as provided
in this act.

SEC. 184. A notice to continue a trial on the ground of the absence of

evidence, shall only be made upon aliidavit, showing the materiality of the’

evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to
procure it.- The court may also require’ the moving party to take upon
aliidavit, the evidence which he expects to obtain, and if the adverse party
admit that such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or odered and overruled as improper, the trial
shall not be continued. ~

XV. TRIALS BY JURY.

Sac. 185. Mode of empanneling a jury.

186. Challenges of jurors allowed to each party. .
187. On what ground challenges for cause may be taken.
188. How challenges for cause to be tried.

189. Oath of jurors. .

190. Ballots to be returned to the jury box.

191. How the jury is to be kept.

192. Proceedings when a juror is taken sick.

193. Address of counsel, charge of court, exceptions, &c.
194. Deliberations of the jury, how made.

195. Jury may take the pleadings in the case, papers, record, and other papers.
196. Jury may ask information after retiring.

197. The court always open with respect to the cause before it. Adjournment
of the court discharges the jury.

~ Sec. 185. When the action is called for trial, the clerk shall prepare
separate ballots, containing the names of the jurors summoned, who have
appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall
then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are
drawn, shall constitute the  If the ballots become exhausted before
the jury is complete, or if, from any cause, a juror or jurors be excused or
discharged, the sheriff, under the direction of the court, shall summon from
the bystanders, or citizens of the county, so many qualified. persons as may

be necessary to complete the jury. The jury shall consist of twelve per- '

90118» unless the parties consent to a less number. _The parties may consent

to any number, not less than three, and such consent shall be entered:=by
the clerk on the minutes of the trial. a
Size. 186. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are

several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can be

made. The challenge shall be to‘ individual jurors, and shall be peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges. '

Sec. 18?. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the

-following grounds:

1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by law to render a
person competent as a juror. ‘

2. Consanguinity, or amnity within the third degree to either party .

3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party; or being a
member of the family of either party; or a partner in business with either
party; or being security on any bond for either party. .
r 4. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in
the main question involved in the action.

5. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as to
the merits of the action.

6. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity against
either party. _

. Site. 188. Challenges for cause, shall be tried by the court. The juror
challenged, and any other person as a witness, may be examined on the
trial of the challenge.

Sec. 189. As soon as the jury is full, an oath or ailirmation shall be
administered to the jurors in substance, that they will well and truly try
the matter in issue between the plaintifff and the defendant, and a true
verdict give, according to the evidence.

SEC. 190. When the jury is full and sworn, the ballots containing the
names of the jurors sworn shall be laid aside till the jury so sworn, is discharged, and then they shall be returned to the box; and every ballot
drawn containing the name of a juror not’so sworn, shall be returned to the

. box as soon as the jury is completed.

‘SEC. 191. The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper oili‘391’, 01' may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before the submission of the case to the jury, be permitted to separate; in either case they
may be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with

any person, or allow any other person to converse with them, or among _

themselves on any subject connected with the trial, or to express any opin'ion thereon, until the case is finally submitted to them.

SE0. 192. If, after the empanneling of the jury, and before a verdict,

  
 

’ or become sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court may
r him to be discharged. In that case, unless the parties agree to pro  with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn, and the trial began

anew, or the jury may be discharged, and a new jury then or afterwards
empanneled.

SEC. 193. When the evidence is completed, the plaintifff or party having the burden of proof may, by himself or counsel, address the court and
jury upon the law and the facts of the case, after which the other party
may address the court and jury in like manner, and be followed by the
party first addressing the court, by himself or one counsel. The court
shall then proceed to charge the jury upon the law in the case, when either
party may ask, in writing, such instructions to the jury as he may deem
proper; and if the court refuse to give such instructions, the party asking
the same may except. Either party shall have the right to except to the
charge of the court or any part thereof; but no exception shall be regarded
which does not point out the particular points excepted to. .

SEC. 194. The jury may either decide in the court room, or retire for
deliberation. If they retire, they shall be kept together in a, room provided for them, or some other convenient place, under the charge of one or
more officers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged. The
officer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury together, separate
from other persons; he shall not suffer any communication to be made to
them, or make any himself, unless by order of the court, except to ask
them if they have agreed upon their verdict; and he shall not, before the

' verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 195. Upon retiringfor deliberation, the jury may take with them
the pleadings in the cause, and all papers which have been received as evidence on the trial, or copies of such parts of public records or private documents given in evidence as ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be
taken from the person having them in possession.

SEC. 196. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the cause, they may
require the officer to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought
into court, the information required shall be given in the presence of, or
after notice to the parties or counsel. 1

Sac. 197. While the jury are absent, the court may adjourn from time
130 tlme» in respect into other business; but it is nevertheless to be deemed
open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the jury

until a verdict is rendered or the jury is discharged. ' A final adjournment
pf the court discharges the jury.

XVII. or THE vsnn1c'r..

SEC. 193. A verdict, general or special; general verdict defined; special verdict defined. 

199. When and how a jury may assess damages.
200. When a verdict may be general or special at the discretion of the jury, and
when at the discretion of the court.
Verdict to be filed and entered.
201. A special shall control a general verdict.
202. When jury may assess amount of verdict.

203. Verdict may be corrected, and must be entered.

SEC. 198. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general
verdict is that by which the jury pronounces generally upon all or any of
the issues, either in favor of the plaintili’ or defendant. A special verdict
is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. .

\ SEC. 199. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant by
his answer claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the
property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if they find in favor
of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof ; and may at
the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or
answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of the detention, or taking and Withholding such property.

Sac. 200. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or speciat
verdict. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to find a special
verdict in Writing upon all‘ or any of the issues ; and in all cases may in.struct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular

'questions of fact, to be stated in Writing, and may direct a Written finding

thereon. The special verdict or findingshall -be filed with the clerk and
entered upon the minutes.

SEC. 201. When a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give
judgment accordingly. I

SEC. 202. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for the

recovery of money or for the defendant when a setoff for the recovery of
money is established beyond the amount of the plaintifff ’s claim established,

the jury shall also assess the amount of the recovery when the court givejlldgment for the plaintiff on the answer.

SEC. 203. If the verdict be informal, it may be correctd by the jury

under the advice of the court, or the jury may be again sent out. When.
rendered, the verdict shall be entered by the clerk on his minutes.

XVII. or TRIAL BY THE» counr.

Sec. 204. When trial by jury may be waived.
205. Decision of colu-t to be filed; how given.
Judgment to be entered thereon.

Ssc.'204. Trial by jury may, with the assent of the court, be waived
by the several parties, in the manner following :

lst. By failing to appear at the trial; .

2d. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with the clerk;

3d. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

Sec. 205. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision
shall be given in writing,- and filed with the clerk. In giving the decision,
the facts found, and the conclusions of law shall be separately stated.
Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.

XVIII- or TRIAL BY nnrsnsss.

Sec. 206. Issues may be referred by consent of parties.
207. When a reference may be directed without consent.
208. To whom reference may be made.
209. Qualification of a referee. ‘
210. How trial by referees shall be conducted.

Sec. 206. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact ‘or
law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties.
Sec. 207. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases :
lst. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
a long account on either side ;, in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and decide the‘whole issue, or to report any specific question of fact
involved therein ; or,
2d. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the information of the court, before judgment upon an issue at law, or for carrying a
judgment or order into ed"ect ; or,
3d. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action ; or,
4th. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding.
Sec. 208. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree.
the court or judge may appoint one or more, not exceeding three, who

reside in the county in which the action is brought, or the proceeding is
triable.

Sec. 209. When the appointment of referees is made by the court or
judge, each referee shall be : 1 '

1st. Qualified as a juror, as provided by statute ; A

2d. Competent as a juror between the parties.

SEC. 210. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same manner
as a trial by the court. They shall first be sworn well and faithfully to
discharge their duties as such referees, and shall have the same power to
administer-oaths to Witnesses, and to grant continuances as the court upon
such trial. They shal! state the facts found, and the conclusions of law,
separately, and their decision shall be given, and may be excepted to and
reviewed; in like manner. The report of the referees upon the whole issue
shall stand ‘as the decision of the court, and judgment may be entered
thereon, at the next term of the court after the decision is made, in the
same manner as if the action had been tried by the court. Whenthe reference to report the fact, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.

XIX. or EXCEPTIONS.

Size. 211. Exception defined.
What exceptions shall be disregarded.
212. Exceptions must be in writing, and may be signed by the judge and filed by
the clerk.
213. N 0 form of exceptions required.
214. When notice of exception is not necessary.

SEC. 211. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision.
upon matter of law, whether such trial be by jury, court or referees, and
whether the decision be made during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence, or in the charge to the jury, or at any other time from
the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict or decision.
But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for a new trial, or on an
appeal, unless the exception be material, and effect the substantial rights
of the parties. ' '

_SEc. 212. The point of exception shall be taken at the time when the
decision is made, be particularly stated in writing, and may be signed by
the judge and filed with the clerk, or may, by the order of the court, be entered at large upon the journal. T

SEC. 213. No particular form of exception shall be required. The objection shall be stated, with so much of the evidence or other matter as is
necessary to explain it, but no more. ,

SEC. 214. When a cause has been tried by the court, or by referees,
and the decision or report is not made immediately after the closing of the
testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed accepted, on a motion

for a new trial or on appeal, without any’ special notice that an exception
18 taken thereto. — 1

XX. or NEW TRIAL.

850. 215. A new trial delined.

- 216. For what causes a new trial may be granted.

217. When facts on application for a new trial shall be stated by affidavit; when
on, a written statement.

218. When motions for a new trial shall be made.
219. When counter affidavits may be filed.

SEC. 215. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue, in the same court
"after a trial and decision by a jury, court or referees.

SEC. 216. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a
new trial granted on the application of the party aggrieved for any of the
following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such party :

1st. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party,
or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which such party was
prevented from having a fair trial ;

2d. Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party ;

3d. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against.

4th. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
and produced at the trial ;

5th. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the induence of passion or prejudice ;

6th. Insudiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision,
or that it is against law.

SEC. 217. When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the
first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of the last preceding section, the
facts upon which it is based shall be made to appear by allidavit. For
any other cause it shall be made upon a written statement.

SEC. 218. Notice of an intended motion for new trial, shall be given on
the day when the verdict is rendered, or within two days thereafter ; and
all motions shall be made during the term at which a cause is tried, unless
for good cause the court allow further time. ‘ ‘

SEC. 219'. If the application be made upon affidavits filed, the adverse

party may use counter affidavits on the hearing ; but such counter alii‘davits shall be filled with the clerk previous to the hearing.

XXI. JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.

330,- 720- A judgment detined.

221- A89-inst whom a judgment may be given, and the extent thereof.

222. In actions against several defendants the court may seperate the judgment.
223. When an action may be dismissed, or a non-suit entered.

224. In all other cases judgment to be rendered on its merits.

SEC. 220. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in the action. '

SEC. 221. Judgment 'may be given for one or more of several plaintifffs,
and for or against one or more of several defendants ; and it may, when
the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.

SEC. 222. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion render judgment against one or more of them, whenever a
several judgment is proper, leaving the action to proceed against the



others. -5:-'~‘~'”

SEC. 223. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of non-suit
entered in the following cases:

1st. By the plaintifff himself, at any time, either in term time or in vacation, before the jury retire to consider of their verdict, unless set-oif be
interposed as a defense, or unless the defendant sets up a counterclaim to
the specific property or thing which is the subject matter of the action ;

2d. By either party, upon the written consent of the other;

3d. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on the trial, and
the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal ;

4th. By the court, when upon the trial and before the final submission
of the case, the plaintifff abandons it ; ~

5th. By the court, on the refusal or neglect of the plaintifff to mak
the necessary parties, after having been ordered by the court ;

6th. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, where
there are others, whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.

7th. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintiff, of an order concerning the proceedings in the action. '

8th. By the court, upon notice of the defendant, when upon the trial
the plaintifff fails to prove a sufiicient cause for the jury. ‘

SEC. 224. In every case, other than those mentioned in the last section,
the judgment shall be rendered on the merits. .

XXII. JUDGMENT UPON A FAILURE ro ANSWER.

SEC. 225. When judgment may be had on failure to answer.

SEC. 225. Judgment may be had on proof ‘of the service of the summons and complaint, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint, as follows:

lst. In an action arising upon a contract for the recovery of money
‘"1157, if no answer be filed with the clerk of the court, within the time pre-scribed by law, or such further time as may have been granted, the court,

at its next term, upon the application of the plaintifff, may direct the clerk

to enter the default of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter
judgment for the amount mentioned in the summons, including the costs,
against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the
cases provided for in section forty-three of this act.

2d. In other actions, if no answer be filed with the clerk of the court
within the time prescribed by law, or such further time as may have been
granted, the court shall, in like manner, direct the clerk to enter the default
of the defendant; and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at that, or any
subsequent term of the court, for the relief demanded in the comp1aint.—~
If the taking of an account, or other proof of any fact, be necessary to

, enable the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect,

the court may take the account, or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion,
order a reference for that purpose. And when the action is for the recovery of damages only, or of specific, real, or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the court may order the damages to be
assessed by a jury, or, if to determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference, as above provided.

3d. In actions where the service of the summons shall be by publication, the plaintifff may in like manner apply for judgment, and the court
shall thereupon require proof to be made of the demand mentioned in the
complaint, and if the defendant be not a resident of the territory, shall require the plaintid or his agent to be examined, on oath, respecting any
payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any one for his use,
on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount
which he is entitled to. recover. Before rendering judgment, the court may,
in its discretion, require the plaintifff to cause to be filed satisfactory secu‘rity to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any property, collected or‘ received under the judgment, in case the defendant or
his representatives shall be admitted to defend the action, and succeed in
the defense. ,

4th. The court may, in its discretion, before final judgment, set aside.

any default upon atiidavit, showing good and sufficient cause, and upon
such terms as may be deemed reasonable.

XXIII. or JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.

SEC. 226. How judgment by confession may be had. '
227. Plaintiff shall make oath that the amount confessed is actually due.
1228. Judgments by confession shall have the same effect as other judgments.

i Sec. 226. Any defendant may appear in court, in person or by attorHey, duly authorized, in writing, and confess judgment for any amount due
or Owmg by him, and such confession shall be a waiver of all errors for

want of service or complaint. When made upon a -written power of attorney, the execution thereof shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court,
and the power of attorney filed with the clerk.

SEC. 227. In all cases, the plaintifff or his attorney shall make oath
that the amount for which the judgment ‘is taken is actually dlie, and that
the confession is not made by collusion with the defendant, or, for the purpose of hindering, defeating, or defrauding "any creditors of ~ the defendant. 2

SE0. 228. Judgments by confession shall have the effect of ordinary
judgments, from the day on which they are rendered.

XXIV. on THE MANNER or TAKING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

SEC. 229. Judgments shall be in conformity to the verdict.
230. When the case is reserved, either party may bring it before the court.
231. Judgments for excess may be given. ‘
232. Judgment for possession. Judgment for return.
233. Papers to be kept after judgment.
234. Each clerk to keep an execution docket.
235. What shall be entered in the execution docket.
236 & 237. Further entries in the execution docket.
238. Clerk to make an alphabetical index to the execution docket.
239. Clerk to keep a book of levies; how kept, &c.

SEC. 229. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be entered in conformity to the verdict, at the term during which it is rendered,
unless an affidavit or statement of grounds for a new trial shall be filed,
orunless the court order the case to be reserved for argument or further

, consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings. ~

SEC. 230. When the case is reserved for argument or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either party
before the court for argument, at the first term thereafter.

SEC. 231. If a set-oil‘, established at the trial, exceed the plaintill"s de«'»
mand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative
relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.

232. In an action to recover the possession of personal property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession, or the value thereof, in
case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention. If the
property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim 9.
return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of. the
property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damaw
ges for taking and withholding the same._

SEC. 233. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk. shall attach together all -the papers in the case, and carefully keep «them in his

office. ~- « ' . - SE0. 234. Every clerk shallkeep in his olhce a well bound book. 17.0 b6

called the execution docket, which shall be a. public record, and open during-usual business hours, to all persons desirous of inspecting it. .

SEC. 235. Within thirty days after the close of any term of the court,
the clerk shall enter in said execution docket a statement of each final

judgment, rendered at such term, containing

21st. The names, at length, of all the parties.

2d. The date of the judgment, and against whom rendered.

3d. The amount or nature of the judgment, and costs.

4th. An abstract of the costs of each party, and to whom belonging.
SEC. 236. The clerk shall also enter in his execution docket a minute,

. in like manner, of any transcript of a judgment from the supreme court,

or from the district court of any other county, or from a justice of the
peace, when the same are presented to him for that purpose, as shall be
provided for by law.
SEC. 237. He shall leave space, on the same page if practicable, with
each case, in which he shall enter, in the order in which they occur, all the
proceedings subsequent to the judgment in said case, until its final satisfaction, including the time when, and to what county, the execution is issued,
and when returned, and the return, or substance thereof. When the execution is levied on personal property, which is ‘returned unsold, the entry
shall be, “levied ( noting the date,) on personal property, not sold.”——
When any sheriff shall furnish the clerk with a copy of any levy upon real
estate, on any judgment, the minutes of which are entered in his execution
docket, the entry shall be, “levied upon real estate,” noting the date, and
shall refer to the page upon the book of levies where the same is entered,
as is hereinafter provided. When any execution, issued to any other county,
is returned, levied upon real estate in such county, the entry in the execution docket shall be, “levied on real estate of , in —— county,”
noting the date, county, and defendant, whose estate is levied upon; and
when the money is made, or any part thereof, the amount and time when
made shall be entered; also, when a writ of error has been taken, or the
judgment is appealed, reversed, modified, discharged, or in any manner satisfied, the facts in respect thereto, shall be entered. The parties indebted
may also assign or discharge such judgment, on such execution docket;
when the judgnmnt is fully satisfied, in any way, the clerk shall write the
Word “ satisfied, ” in large letters, across the face of the entry of such
judgment. _ ‘
Ssc. 238. The clerk shall preiix to the execution docket, a full and
correct alphabetical index, containing the names of all persons, parties to

illdgments, plaintifffs and defendants, in separate columns.
Sec. 239. The clerk shall also keep in his office a well bound book, to
be called the book of levies, which shall be a public record; and open du 

ringusual -business hours, to all persons desirous of‘ inspecting the same, in
which he shall enter all levies upon real estate in his county, when delivered to him by the sheriff, as is provided by law. An alphabetical index
shall be prefixed to the book of levies, containing the names of all persons
upon whose real estate such levies have been made, and when such levies
are discharged, in any manner, an entry thereof shall be made in the margin of the book of levies, where the levy is recorded. ‘

XXV. JUDGMENT LIENS.

B30. 240. Judgment to be a lien on real estate, when. Appeals or stay of execution

not to affect any lien.
241. Personal property to be held from date of levy.

SEC. 240. The real estate of any judgment debtor, and such as he may
acquire, shall be held and bound to satisfy any judgment of the district or
supreme court, or any judgment of a justice of the peace, authorized by
law to be levied upon real estate, for the period of live years from the day
on which said judgment was rendered, said lien to commence as follows :On judgments of the district court of the county Where the land is situated, from the date of the rendition of the judgment. In all other cases,
from the date on which the levy is made, provided the levy shall be lodged
with the clerk, to be recorded in the book of levies, in the manner and at
the time prescribed by law. If not so lodged with the clerk, Within such
time, then from the time when it shall be so lodged. An appeal to the
supreme court, vvrit of error, or stay of execution, shall not aifect any existing lien, and in all cases of an appeal or writ of error, the time from
which the five years shall commence to run, shall be from the date of the
final judgment in the supreme court.

SEC. 241. Personal property shall only be held from the time it is actually levied upon. ’

XXVI. EXECUTION.

Sec. 242. Execution may issue within five years.

243. When and how execution may issue after live years.

244. How judgments may be enforced.

245. Four kinds of executions. In all cases, costs to‘ be collected.
246. How, and in what manner, each execution shall be issued.
247. To whom executions shall issue.

248. Sher-i1f’s return on an execution.

249. Execution for an arrest may be served in any county-.

250. How persons arrested on execution to be kept.

251. All property not exempt liable to execution.

SEC. 242. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any
time within live years thereafter, issue a writ of execution for its enforcemen‘; 38 prescribed— by law.

Snc. 243. After the lapse of five years from the date of the judgment,
an execution can be issued only by leave. of the court, upon motion, with
personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be absent or non-resident,
or cannot be found, in which case it may be given by publication, or in
such other manner as the court shall direct; such leave shall not be given,
unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory
proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and
due. '

SEC. 244. When a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in those
respects by execution, as provided in this act. When it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served
on the party against Whom it is given, or the person or officer who is re./quired thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and a Writ shall be issued

commanding him to obey or enforce the same. If he refuse, he may be
punished by the court as for a contempt. '

SEC. 245. There shall be four kinds of executions: one against the
property of the judgment debtor; another against his person; the third for
the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such delivery
with damages, for Withholding the same; and the fourth commanding the
enforcement of or obedience to any special order of the court. And in all
cases there shall be an order to collect the costs.

SEC. 246. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
United States, sealed With the seal of the court, and subscribed by the
clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff, or coroner, when the sheriff is a
party or interested, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the
court, the county where the judgment was rendered, the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sheriff substantially, as follows:

lst. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal
property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
out of his real property, upon which the judgment is a lien.

2d. If it be against real or personal property, in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property or trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out

. 0f such property.

3d. if it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require

the sheriff to arrest such debtor, and commit him to the jail of the county,

Igltlizlwlrle shall pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according

. 4th. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may at the same
time require the sheriff to satisfy any charges, damages, or rents and profits,
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal. property of the party
against whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which the
judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out
of his real property.

Where it is to enforce obedience to any special order, it shall particularly
command what is required to be done or to be omitted. Where the nature
of the case shall require it, the execution may embrace one or more of the
requirements above mentioned. And in all cases, the execution shall require the collection of all interest, costs, and increased costs thereon.

Size. 247. When the execution is against the property of the judgment
debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in this territory, but
it shall not be issued, in the first instance, to the sheriff of any other county
than that in which the judgment is rendered, unless the plaintifff or his attorney shall first make and file with the clerk an allidavit, that the defendant has not, subject to execution, sufficient property, real or personal, 
said county, to satisfy the judgment, but that he has property subject to
execution in some other county or counties. But after an execution has
been returned “no property found,” in the county in which judgment was
rendered, an execution may be issued to any other county, upon the plaintiE or his attorney making oath that the defendant has property subject to
execution in some other county or counties. When it requires the delivery
of real or personal property, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the county
where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.

SEC. 248. The sheriff shall endorse upon a writ of execution, the time
whenxhe received the same, and such execution shall be returnable Within
ninety days after its date, to the clerk who issued the same.

SEC. 249. If the action be one in which the defendant may be arrested,
as provided by law, an execution against the person of the judgment debtor,
may be issued to any county in the territory: Provided, That the sheriff
shall not arrest the defendant, if he shall deliver to him property subject to
levy, sufficient to satisfy said judgment.

SEC. 250. A person arrested on execution shall be imprisoned Within
the jail, or the liberties thereof, and kept at his own expense, until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal discharge, but the plaintifff shall be liable to the sheriff, in the first instance, for such expense, as in other cases
°f3»1T1‘est, in the same manner, and to the same extent, as herein prescribed.

SEC. 251. All property, real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not

excmptby law, shall be liable to execution.

XXVII. EXEMPTION.

SEC. 252. Property of wife exempt. Proviso.
253. What property shall ‘be exempt from execution.
254. The defendant to select property exempt.
255. How it is to be ascertained what property is exempt.

SEC. 252. All real and personal estate to which any married Woman
shall hereafter become entitled to in her own right, and all which may at
the time of her marriage belong to her, and all the issues, rents and profits
of such real estate shall not beliable to attachment for, or execution upon,
any liability of a judgment against the husband so long as she, or any
minor heir of her body shall be living: Provided, That her separate property shall not be exempt from attachment or execution where the debts
were owing by the wife, previous to marriage, or may have been contracted
forher benefit. T

SEC. 253. The following, property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise specially provided:

1st. Dwellings and other buildings, to the value of hve hundred dollars;
all private libraries, all articles of clothing of married women and children
under twenty-one years of age; and to each family, kitchen and cupboard
ware to the amount of one hundred and fifty dollars; one bed for every
two persons in the family; two cows; two horses or two yoke of oxen; one
wagon; two hogs; farming utensils actually used by the family; produce

raised upon the farm or garden sufficient for six months consumption, and .

all tools of mechanics used to carry on their trade. But no article of property mentioned in this section, shall be exempt from an execution issued
on a judgment recovered for its price, or upon a mortgage thereon, or for
any tax levied thereon. .

SEC. 254. In all cases the defendant himself may select the property
which is exempt. V ’ 2 _

SEC. 255.. When a sheriff’ or other officer has levied upon or attached,.
or is about to levy upon or attach, personal property which is claimed to
be by law exempt from execution or attachment, the sheriff or other oiiicer
shall, if required by the person claiming, forthwith summon three discreet
and disinterested men, having the qualihcations of jurors, being householders and resident in the vicinity‘ where the property is found, and administer
to them an oath impartially to examine and determine how much, if any,

of said property is so exempt. Such persons shall have full power to summon witnesses, administer the necessary oaths, and adjourn from time to

time not longer than three days in all. They shall also have power to ap- ‘

Praise the P1'0perty claimed, and the other property of the claimant, so far
3'5 me)’ be necessary to determine what portion, if any, is so exempt.
They Shall deliver their decision to the sheriff in writing, and he shall

forthwith deliver to the person claiming, such property, as is by them decided exempt from execution; but nothing in this section contained, shall
prevent the person claiming the property, from giving a bond, and trying
his right before the district court, as is provided in cases for trying the
right of property claimed by other persons than the judgment debtor.

XXVIII. ADVERSE CLAIMS TO PROPERTY LEVIED UPON.

SEC. 256. How adverse claim may be made.
25 7. Said claim to be placed on docket and tried in court.
258. Plaintiff and defendants in said case.
259. Trial of the case, and judgment.

SEC. 25 6. When any other person than the judgment debtor, shall

claim property levied upon or attached, he may have the right to demand T

and receive the same from the sheriff or other officer making the attachmentor levy, upon his making an affidavit that the property is his, or that
he has a right to the immediate possession thereof, stating on oath the
value thereof, and giving to the sheriii‘ or officer, a bond with sureties in
double the value~of such property, conditioned that he will appear at the
next term of the district court of the county in which the property Was
seized, which shall commence ten days or more after the bond is accepted
by the sheriff or officer, and make good his title to the same, or that he
will return the property, or pay its value to the said sheriff or other officer.
If the sheriff or other officer require it, the sureties shall justify as in other

cases, and in case they do not so justify when required, the sheriff or oiiicer «

shall retain the property, if the sheriff or officer do not require the bail to
justify he shall stand good for their sufdciency. He shall date and endorse
his acceptance upon the bond.

SEC. 25 7. The officer shall return the affidavit, bond and justification,
if any, to the office of the clerk of the district court of the county in
which the property was seized, and the clerk shall place the same upon his
trial docket at the first term, which shall commence ten days or more after
it was accepted by the sheriff or officer as above provided for, and it shall
stand for trial at. that term. SEC. 258. The person claiming the property shall be plaintiff, and the
sheriff and plaintifff in the execution defendants.

SEC. 25 9. If the claimant makes good his title to the property, the
bond shall be cancelled, if to a portion thereof, a like proportion of the
bond shall be cancelled, but if he shall not maintain his title, judgment
shall be rendered against him and his sureties for the value of the property,
or for such a less amount as shall not exceed the amount due. on the orig-inal execution or attachment. Where the judgment is in favor of the
sheriff for the entire property, the claimant shall pay the costs, where the

claimant recovers all the property, judgment shall be given in favor of the
claimant for costs, where the claimant recovers a portion of the property
only, the costs shall be apportioned. When the plaintifff prevails, the costs
maybe taxed against the defendant who was plaintifff in the execution or
attachment, or the court may, if they shall be of opinion that the sheriff
attached or levied upon said property without the exercise of due caution,
adjudge him to pay the costs or any portion thereof.

XXIX. SALE OE PROPERTY TAKEN IN EXECUTION.

SEC. 260. Notice shall be given of sale.

261. When, where, and how, sales under execution shall be made.
.262. The form and manner of the sale of real estate.

263. How land sold shall be divided.

264. Land sold by the parcel not to be divided.

265. Land to go to the highest bidder; money to be returned, 820.
266. Proceedings on the return of real estate.

267. Perfection of title to real estate sold under execution.

268. Personal property levied on, may be retained by the defendant on giving
bond for its return.

269. Sales under execution may be postponed.

270. Delivery of personal property by the sheriff.

271. Sale of real estate to be absolute.

272. Where execution is against several parties and one satisfies it, how he
may compel contribution and repayment.

SEC. 260. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall
be given as follows:

1st. In case of personal property, by posting Written or printed notice
of the time and place of sale, in three public places of the county where
the sale is to take place, not less than fifteen days before the day of sale.

2d. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly
describing the property, in three public places of the county where the property is situated, one of which shall be where the property is to be sold,’ for
four weeks prior to the day of sale, and publishing a copy thereof once a
week for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if there be one,
or if there be none, then in a newspaper of the territory, published nearest
the place of sale.

SEC. 261. All sales of property under execution, shall be made by
auction, between nine o’clock in the morning, and four o’clock in the afternoon, after sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution, no
more shall be sold, neither the officer holding the execution, nor hisdeputy,
shall become a purchaser, or be interested in any purchase at such sale,
when the sale is of personal property, capable of manual delivery, it 811311
be within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels
as are likely to bring the highest price, and when the sale is of real p1‘0perty, and consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall be sold
separately, or when a portion of such real property is claimed by a. third
person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be thus
sold. Sales of real property shall be made on the premises, if occupied
by the defendant, or any person, holding under him, otherwise such sales
shall be made at the court house door‘. '

SEC. 262. The form and manner of sale of real estate by execution,
shall be as follows :

The sheriff shall proclaim aloud, at the place of sale, inthe hearing of
all the bystanders-—“I am about to sell the following tracts of real estate,
(here reading the description) upon the following execution: (here reading the execution.) He shall also state the amount which he is required
to make upon the execution, which shall include damages, interests, and
costs, up to the day of sale and increased costs. .

If town property, and divided into two or more known lots, he shall ask,

1st. Who will pay this debt for a seven years’ lease of all these lots?
If there is a bidder, he shall then inquire:

2d. Who will pay the debt for a seven years’ lease of any less number
of lots than the whole? If there is a bidder, he shall inquire in respect
to the smallest number of lots, for a lease of which, any bidder is willing
to pay the debt.

3d. Who will pay‘ this debt, for the lease for the least period of time?

If other lands, and divided into known tracts or parcels, he shall make
similar inquiries concerning the whole, and the several parcels, and the
separate_acres in each parcel. If a single tract of land, he shall make

similar inquiries concerning the whole, and the number of acres. If there“ r

is no bidder who is willing to pay the debt for such lease of the whole, or
of any part known as separate lots, parcels or acres, he shall then inquire
who Will pay the debt for the whole, or any known part, in lots, parcels
or acres, as the case may require. If he shall have a bidder, he shall then
offer for sale to the highest bidder above the debt, the lowest number of
lots, or parcels, or acres, for which any one is willing to pay the debt. If
he has no bid for the whole, or any portion equal to the amount of the
debt, he shall then offer the land for sale, the lots and parcels separately
or together, as he shall deem most advantageous. All land, except town

lots, shall be sold by the acre.
SEC. 263. Where the land is sold by the acre, and any less number of

acres than the whole tract or parcel is sold, it shall be measured off to the
purchaser in a square form, from the north-east corner of the tract or par061, unless some person having an interest in the land, shall, at the sale, or
prior thereto, and before the bidding is made, request that the land sold,
shall be taken from some other part, or in some other form; in such case,

if such request is reasonable, the officer making the sale, shall sell accordingly. - ' '
SEC. 264. When any entire tract or parcel is sold by the acre, it shall
not be measured, but shall be deemed and taken to contain the number of
acres named in the description, and be paid for accordingly, and where the
number of acres is not contained in the description, the officer shall declare
according to his judgment, how many acres are contained therein, which

shall be deemed and taken to be the true number of acres. .

. SEC. 265. The officer shall strike off the land to the best bidder,
who shall forthwith pay the money bid to the oiiicer, ‘who shall return the
money with his execution, and his doings thereon to the clerk of the court

from which the execution issued, according to the order thereof.
SEC. 266. Upon the return of any sale of real estate as aforesaid, the

clerk shall enter the cause on which the execution issued by its title in
thedocket of the term next after such return, and mark opposite the same,
“sale of land for conhrmation,” and if no objection is made, the court, at
such term, shall confirm such sale, and order the officer to make out and
deliver to the purchaser a deed or release of the land sold as the case may
require. If the court shall be satisfied that by any irregularity of the offi_ cer, or from any cause, injustice has been done, the court shall set aside

the sale or lease, and order a new execution. When the sale is confirmed,
the money shall be paid to those entitled thereto. When the sale is set
aside, the money shall be repaid to the purchaser. _

SEC. 267. The party to Whom such lease or deed is given, shall, upon
the receipt thereof, take the same to the clerk of the district court of the
county where the land lies, or to which said county is attached for judicial‘
purposes, who shall enter in his book of levies, where the levy is recorded,
what disposition has been made of such portion of the real estate; and
shall endorse the fact upon the deed or lease, with the date when presented
to him, and when made. And no recorder shall record any such deed or
lease Without such endorsement.

SEC. 268. When the sheriii‘ shall levy upon personal property, by
»-virtue of an execution, he may permit the defendant to retain the same,
.or any part thereof, in his possession until the day of sale, upon the defendant executing a bond to the sheriff, with suiiicient surety, in double the

value of such property, to the effect that it shall be delivered to the sheriff
at the time and place of sale, and for non-delivery thereof, an action may
1:6 maintained upon such bond by the sheriff or the plaintifff in the execuion. .

Sec. 269. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff should be
prevented from attending at the place appointed, or being present, should

deem -it for the advantage of all concerned, to postpone the sale for want of.

purchasers, orother sullicient cause, he may postpone the sale, not exceeding one Week, next after the _day appointed, and so from time to time for
like cause, giving notice of every adjournment by public proclamation,
made at the same time, not exceeding the life of the execution.

SE0. 27 0. When the purchaser of any personal property, capable of
manual delivery, shall pay the purchase money, the sheriff shall deliver to

him the property, and shall give him a receipted bill of sale. When such
personal property shall not be capable of manual delivery, the sheriff shall
execute and deliver to the purchaser a receipted bill of sale.

SEC. 271. The lease and sale of real estate under execution, after the
same is confirmed, shall be absolute. .

SEC. 272. Where property liable to an execution against several persons is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment is
levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays without a
sale more than his proportion, he may compel contributions from the others;
and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an obligation or contract of one of them _as security for another, and the surety pays the
amount, or any part thereof, either by sale of his property or before sale,
he may compel repayment from the principal. In such cases, the person
80 paying or contributing, shall be entitled to the benefit of the judgment
to enforce contribution or repayment, if within thirty days after his payment, he file with the clerk of the court Where the judgment was rendered,
notice of his payment, and claim to contribution or repayment; upon filingsuch notice, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the margin of «the
docket where the judgment is entered.

XXX. PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

~ SE0. 273. Proceedings when judgment debtor refuses to satisfy the judgment.

274. Examination of judgment debtor.

275. Debtors of the judgment debtor may satisfy execution.

276. Examination of persons indebted to the judgment debtor.

277. On examination garnishee to answer on oath. '

278. Garnishee required to make answer.

279. Judgment by default may be proceeded as in other cases.

280. Exceptions may be taken to answer of garnishee. When body of garni-E

.' shee may be attached.
281. Issues between judgment creditor and debtor to be tried as other issues.
When garnishees answer shall be deemed sufficient.

282. Proceedings when answer of garnishee is not excepted to.

283. Garnishee may be discharged by delivering property to the sheriff.

284. Persons may be examined on oath concerning property in the hands of a

gamishee.
285. In issues betweenjudgment creditors and garnishees costs may be ad judged’
as in other cases. _

286. - Executions to issue as in other cases.

287. Earnings of a judgmentdebtor not liable.

288. Public officers not» liable to answer as garnisllees.

SEC. 273. After the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the district court, or any judge thereof, that the judgment debtor has property
or effects liable to execution which he unjustly refuses to apply towards
the satisfaction of the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order,
require the judgment debtor to appear and answer under oath concerning
the same before such court or judge, or before a referee appointed by such
court or judge, at the time and place specified in the order, the place to be
within the county in which the judgment debtor resides, and disobedience
to such order may be punished as for a contempt.

SEC. 2'14. The judgment debtor, on his appearance, may be examined
on oath concerning his property, and his answers reduced to writing, and
filed with the clerk of the court by whom the execution was issued.
Either party may also examine Witnesses in his behalf, and if, during such
examination, any property, rights or credits of such judgment debtor, not
exempt by law, be discovered, they may be levied upon by execution.

SEC. .27 5. After the issuing of an execution against property, any
personjindebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff ’s receipt shall be a sufhcient discharge for the amount
so paid.

SEC. 276. After the issuing or return of an execution against property
of a judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment, and upon an aliidavit that any person or corporation, has property
of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding
twenty-five dollars, the district court, or any judge thereof, may, by an
order, require such person or corporation, or any oiiicer or member thereof,
to appear at a specified time and place before such court or judge, and
answer concerning the same. If, before a referee, the examination shall
be taken by the referee and certified to the court or judge. The court or
judge may also, in their discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be
given to any party to the action, in such manner as may seem to him
proper.

SEC. 277. At any time after the making of such order, the judgment
creditor may exhibit written allegations and interrogatories touching the
property, stock or credits of the judgment debtor, in the possession of, or
held by such person or corporation as ‘garnishee, or debts owing to the
judgment debtor by him or it, and such garnishee shall be required to make
full, direct and true answers to the same on oath.

Sac. 2'18. On the day when the garnishee shall be required to attend

before the court, judge or referee, he shall exhibit on oath his answer to
the allegations and interrogatories of the judgment creditor, unless for

cause shown, a further time shall be allowed; in default of such answer, the judgment creditor may take judgment by default against him at
the next term thereafter, or the court or judge may punish him as for a
contempt.

Sac. 27 9. Such judgment by default may he proceeded on to final
judgment in like manner, as action against defendants, but no final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee for a greater amount than
that specified in the execution.

SEC. 280. The judgment creditor may except to the answer of any
garnishee forinsuliiciency, and if the same shall be judged insufficient, the
court or judge may allow the garnishee to amend his answer in such time,
and upon such terms as shall be just, or the judgment creditor may take
judgment by default, or move the court or judge to attach the body of the
garnishee, tocompel a suiiicient answer. SEC. 281. The judgment creditor mayvdeny the answer of the garnishee
in whole or in part, and the issue shall be tried as ordinary issues between
plaintifff and_ defendant. If the answer of the garnishee be not excepted
to, or denied in such time as the court or judge may deem proper, it shall
‘be taken to be true and suiiicient.

’ SEC. 282. If by the answer not excepted to or denied, or if upon
trial it shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of property or effects
of the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him the value _of such property
or effects, or of the debt, being ascertained, judgment may be rendered
against the garnishee for the proper amount in money, but if such debt be
not yet due, execution shall not be awarded against the garnishee until it
becomes due; and in such cases the court may make him a reasonable
allowance for his trouble in answering, to be paid out of the fund in his
hand. I

SEC. 283. Whenever any property, effects, money or debts belonging
or owing to the judgment debtor, shall be confessed or found by the court,
judge or referee or jury, to be in possession of the garnishee, he may, at any
time before final judgment, discharge himself by delivering the same to
the sheriff.

Sec. 284. The judgment debtor or claimant may be required to attend
before the court, judge or jury, for the purpose of giving any necessary
information respecting property or eifects alleged to be in the possession of
the garnishee, and may be thereupon examined on oath concerning the
same.

SEC. 285. In all cases of controversy between the judgment creditor
and garnishee, the parties may be adjudged to pay or recover costs, as in
ordinary cases between plaintifff and defendant.

' Sec. 286. Execution may be issued to collect any judgment rendered
against a garnishee, as in ordinary cases of judgment against defendants.

SEC. 287 . The earnings of a judgment debtor for personal services, at
any time within sixty days next preceding the judgment against a garnishee, shall not be included in such judgment.

Sec. 288. No territorial or county treasurer, sheriff, constable or other
public officer, shall be liable to answer as garnishee for monies in his possession as such public oiiicer, belonging to or claimed by any judgment
debtor.

 EVIDENCE—--COMPETENCY OF WITNESSES.

830. 289. All sane persons may be witnesses.
290. Interested witnesses may give evidence. ,g
291. To whom the preceding section shall apply.
Adverse party may be a witness against an asslgnor.
Assignor not to be a witness. ,
292. Person convicted of a crime not to be excluded from giving evidence except
the crime be perjury.
293. Who shall not be competent witnesses.
294. Persons who shall not be examined as wittnesses to encourage confidence.

Sec. 289. Every person of sound mind, suitable age and discretion, except as hereinafter provided, may be a witness inany action or proceeding.

SEC. 290. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving
evidence by reason of his interest in the event of the action, but such interest may be shown to effect his credibility.

Sec. 291. The last section shall not apply to a party to the action,
nor to any person for whose immediate benefit it is prosecuted or defended.
When any assignor of a thing in action or contract is examined as a witness
on behalf of any person deriving title through or from him, the adverse
party may oifer himself as a witness to the same matter in his own behalf,
and he shall be so received. But such assignor shall not be admitted to
be examined in behalf of any person deriving title through or from him,
against any executor or administrator.

SEC. 292. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving
evidence, by reason of conviction for crime, but such conviction may be
shown to effect his credibility : Provided, That no person who shall have
been convicted of the crime of perjury, shall be a competent witness in any
case, unless such conviction shall have been reversed or unless he shall have
received a pardon_

Sec. 293. The following persons shall not be competent to testify :

1st. ‘Those who are of unsound mind, or intoxicated at the time of their
production for exa,min3,ti0n_

2d. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving

just impressions of the facts, respecting which they are examined, or of
relating -them truly. ‘ ' ,

3d. Indians, or persons having more than one half Indian blood, in an
action or proceeding to which a white person is a party.

Sec. 294. In order to encourage confidence, and to preserve it inviolate, the following personsshall not be examined as witnesses :

let. A husband shall not be examined for or against his wife, nor a
wife for or against her husband ; nor can either, during marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication made by one to the other during marriage. But this exception
shall not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other ;
nor to a criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed by one against
the other; .

2d. An attorney or counsellor shall not, without the consent of his
client, be examined as to any communication made by the client to him or
his advice given thereon in the course of professional employment;

3d. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the person
making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in
his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church
to which he belongs ;

4th. A regular physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent of
his patient, be examined in a civil action, as to any information acquired in
attending such patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or
act for the patient.

XXXII. MANNER or COMPELLING THE ATTENDANCE or wrrxsssss.

SEC. 295. No person to be compelled to attend as a witness out of his county. or unless
his fees are paid for one days attendance.

296. What a subpoena may require besides personal attendance.

297 How a subpaena shall be issued.

298. Service of a subpoena.

Proof of service.

299. Person present in court may be required to testify.

300. Witnesses subpoenaed, liable for damages for non-attendance.

301. Witnesses subpoenaed failing to attend may be punished.

302. Court may issue an attachment for witnesses.

303. Provision for examining a prisoner.
304. When an order for such examination may issue.

SEC. 295. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness before any
court of record, judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee or other
odicer, in any civil action out of the county in which he resides, -unless his
residence be within twenty miles of such court, judge, justice of the peiwe.
commissioner, referee or other officer. And no person shall be compelled
to attend as a witness in any civil action or proceeding, unless the fees be

paid or‘ tendered to him, which are allowed by law for one day’s attendance
as a witness, and for travelling to and returning from the place where thehe is required to attend, provided such fees be demanded by him at the
time of service of the subpoena. '

Sec. 296. The subpoena may require not only the personal attendance
of the person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and place to
testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring with him any books,
documents, or things under his control ; but.no public officer or person
having the possession or control of public records or papers, which by law
are required to be kept in any particular oilice or place, shall be compelled
to produce the same in any court.

SEC. 297. The subpoena shall be issued as follows :

1st. To require attendance before a court of record, or at the trial of
an issue therein, it shall be issued in the name of the United States, and
be under the seal of the court before which the attendanceis required, or
in which the issue is pending ;

2d. To require attendance out of such a court, before a judge, justice of
the peace, commissioner, referee or other officer authorized to administer
oaths, or to take testimony in any matter under the laws of this territory,
it shall be issued by such judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee
or other officer before whom the attendance is required ;

3d. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take
testimony by a court of any other state, territory or county, it may be
issued by any judge or justice of the peace, in places Within their respective
jurisdictions.

SEC. 298. Such subpoena may be served by any white person over
eighteen years of age, by exhibiting and reading it to the Witness, or ‘by
giving him a copy thereof, or by leaving such copy at the place of his

abode. When service is made by any other person than an officer author-,

ized to serve process, proof of service shall be made by affidavit.

SEC. 299. A person present in court or before a judicial officer, may be
required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon a
subpoena issued by such court or oiiicer, ,

SEC. 300. If any person duly served with a subpoena, and obliged to
attend as a witness, shall fail so to do, without any reasonable excuse, he
shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such
failure, to be recovered in a civil action. ~

Sec. 801. Such failure to attend, as required by the subpoena, sh
also be considered a contempt, and upon due proof, the witness may be
punished by a fine not exceeding fifty dollars, and stand committed until.
said fine and costsare paid or -until discharged by due course of law. '

' Sec. 302. The court, judge, justice of the peace or other oiiicer, in such

case, may issue an attachment to bring such witness before them to answer

for contempt, and also to testify as witness in the cause in which he was
subpmnaed. ‘ '

SEC. 303. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison
within this territory, an order for his examination in prison, upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a court or oihcer,
for the purpose of being orally examined, may be issued.

Size. 304. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness,
and its materiality.

XXXIII. EXAMINATION or PARTIES.

Sec. 305. A party to an action mny be examined as a witness.
306. Interrogatories may be filed instead of an examination on trial.
307. Interrogatories to be answered within twenty days.
308. Filing interrogatories not to preclude examination on trial.

‘ 309. Testimony of a party may be rebutted. ,
310. Proceedings when a party refuses to give evidence.
311. When a party may testify against an adverse party.
312. A person interested may be examined under the same rules as a party to the
action.

Size. 305. A party to an action or proceeding may be ‘examined as a
witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of one of several adverse
parties, and for that purpose may be compelled in the same manner, and
subject to the same rules of examination as any other witness to testify at
the trial, or he may be examined on a commission.

SEC. 306. Instead of the examination being had at the trial, as provided by the last section, the plaintifff, at the time of filing his complaint or
afterwards, and the defendant, at the time of filing his answer or afterwards, may file in the clerk’s office, interrogatories for the discovery of
facts and documents material to the support or defense of the action, to be
answered on oath by the adverse party.

Sac. 307 . Such interrogatories shall be answered, and such answers
Eled in the clerk’s office within twenty days after the same are served on
the party interrogated, unless for cause shown, a further time be allowed
by the court or judge thereof. ,

Sec. 308. A party to an action having filed interrogatories to be 8.11;’
swered by the adverse party, as prescribed by the last two sections, shall
not therebybe precluded from examining such adverse party as a witness.
at the trial. _ . Sac. 309, The testimonyof a, party, either upon an examination at the
trial, or. upon interrogatories filed, may be rebutted by adverse testimony:

SEC. 310. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to be
examined upon a commission, or to answer any interrogatories filed, his
complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out, and judgment taken against

him, and he may also, in the discretion of the court, be proceeded against as in other cases for a contempt : Provitied, That the preceding sections
shall not be construed so as to compel any person to answer any question,
where such answer may tend to criminate himself.

SEC. 311. A party examined by an adverse party, as in this act provided, may be examined on his own behalf in respect to any matter pertinent
to the issue. But if he testify to any new matter not responsive to the
inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or qualify

this answer thereto, or to discharge, when his answer would charge himself,

such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own behalf, in
respect to such new matter, and shall be received.

SEC. 312. A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may be examined as a
witness in the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination,
as if he were named as a party.

XXXIV. or nsrosrrrons.

o

Sec. 313. When depositions in this territory may be taken.

314. Before whom, and on what notice such depositions may be taken.
415. Manner of taldng depositions.

316. To whom the deposition shall be delivered.

317." Deposition may be used by either party.

~ Objections may be made.
How the deposition shall be taken.

318. When deposition shall not be used.

319. Depositions may be used in two different actions.

320. Depositions may be used in an appellate court.

321. Witnesses may be compelled to give deposition in the same manner as other

evidence.

SEC. 313. The testimony of a witness in this territory may be taken by
deposition, to be read in evidence in any action, suit, or proceeding commenced and pending in any court in this territory, in the following cases:

1st. When the witness resides out of the county, and more than twenty
miles from the place of trial ; ,

2d. When the witness is about to leave the county, and go more than
twenty miles from the place of trial, and there is a probability. that he will
continue absent when the testimony is required ; r

3d. When the witness is sick, inhrm, or aged, as to make it probable
that he will not be ablento attend at the trial.

_SE°- 314- Either party may have the deposition of a witness taken in
this territory, before any judge, of the district court, justice of the peace,

clerk of the supreme or district courts, mayor of a city, or notary public,
on serving on the adverse party or his attorney previous notice of the time
and place of examinationf Such notice shall be at least three days, and in
addition one day,. Sundays excepted, for ‘every ten miles of the distance of
the place of examination from the residence of the person to whom notice
is given. SEC. 315. The deposition shall be Written by the oihcer taking the
same, or by the witness, or by some disinterested person in the presence
and under the direction of such officer. When completed, it shall be carefully read to or by the witness, corrected if desired, and subscribed by him,
and certified by the oihcer substantially as follows : ' '

Territory of Washington, } SS
County of———-————. '

I, A. B., justice of the peace, in, and for said county (or judge, clerk,
&c., as the case may be) do hereby certify that the above deposition was
taken before me, and reduced to Writing by myself (or witness, as the case
may be,) at in said county, on the day of 18—- at
————- o’clock, in pursuance of notice hereto annexed that the above named
Witness, before examination, was sworn (or affirmed) to testify the truth,
the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and that the said deposition
was carefully read to (or by) said witness, and then subscribed by him.

Dated at ——- the day of 18 .

i A. B. justice of the peace.

     

   

SEC; 316. The deposition shall be enclosed in a sealed envelope by the
oiiicer taking the same, and directed to the clerk of the court, arbitrators,
referee or justice of the peace, before whom the action is pending, or to
such person as the parties in Writing may agree upon, and either delivered
to the clerk of the court, or other person, or transmitted through the mail
or by some private opportunity. .

SEC. 317 . Such deposition may be used by either party, upon the trial
or other proceeding against any party giving or receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions, to the competency or credibility of the Witness, or
the manner of taking the deposition. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be made at
the trial, . unless the same was taken at the time of the examination. It
shall be the duty of the person taking the deposition to propound to the
witness -every question proposed by either party, and to note all objections
to the form of any interrogatory, and when any interrogatory is objected to
on account of form, unless the form is amended and the objection waived‘, he
shall write after the question, and before the answer, the Words “objected
to,” and when any witness declines to answer a question on the ground
that it will tend to criminate himself, that fact shall also be noted after the

question is written down. The deposition may be taken in the form of a
narative, or by question and answer, or partly in either form, as either
party present at the examination shall require. When taken by question
and answer, the officer shall first write down the question, and then the
answer as nearly as may be in the language of the witness ; but when the
deposition is read to the witness previous to signing it, he shall be permitted to amend his answer to any question, or any part of his deposition ;
such amendment however, unless both parties shall otherwise agree, shall
not be made by way of interlining or erasing, but shall be added at the
end of the deposition, under the title “amendment by the witness,” and
such amendment shall intelligibly refer to the part so amended.

SEC. 318. No deposition shall be used if it appear that the -reason for
taking it no longer exists : Pmmlded, however, that if the party producing
the deposition in such case, shall show any suliicient cause then existing
for using such deposition, it may be admitted.

SEC. 319. When the plaintifff in any action shall discontinue it, or when
it shall be dismissed for any cause, and another action shall afterwards be
commenced for the same cause between the same parties, or their respec~
tive representatives, all depositions lawfully taken in the first action may
be used in the other in the same manner, and subject to the same conditions and objections as if originally taken for such other action : Provided}
That the deposition shall have been duly filed in the court where the llI‘Sl3
action was pending, and shall remain in the custody of the court, from the
termination of the first action until the commencement of the other.

SEC. 320. When any action shall have been appealed from one court
to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court below, may
be used in the appellate court in the same manner, and subject to such exemptions for informality or irregularity and none other, as were taken to
such depositions in writing in the court below.

See. 321. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled, by any Officer
authorized to take depositions, ’ to appear and give his deposition at any
place within twenty miles of the abode of such witness, in like manner and
under the same penalties as he may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend
as a witness in any court."

XXXV. on DEPOSITIONS TAKEN our on THE TERRITORY.

Sec. 322. Depositions may be taken out of the territory.
323. ‘ Commission to take deposition. To whom issued.
3'24. Intcrrogatories to be annexed to the commission, or may be dispensed With325. Authority granted by the commission.
3'26. Trial not to be postponed because the commission is not returned. 83031“?

on affidavit.

SEC. 322. The testimony of a witness out of this territory, may be
taken by deposition, to be read in evidence in any action, suit, or proceeding, pending in any court in this territory.

SEC. 323. The deposition of a witness out of the territory, shall be taken
upon a commission issued by the clerk, under the seal of the court, upon
an order of the court, or a judge thereof, which‘ order may be made on the
application of either party, upon givingto the adverse party, or his attora
ney, ten days previous notice, in writing, together-with a copy of the interrogatories intended to be put to such witness. It shall be issued to a per-.
son. or persons, not exceeding three in number, agreed upon by the parties,
or their attornies, or if they do not agree, to any judge, justice of the peace,
notary public, or other competent person, selected‘ by the court or judge
granting the order for the commission. '

SEC. 324. Such proper interrogatories, as Well on part of the plaintifff
as on part of the defendant, as the respective parties may prepare to be
settled, if they disagree as to form, by the court or judge thereof, granting

"the order for the commission, shall be annexed to.the commission; or where

the parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without , written
interrogatories. . ’ 2

SEC. 325. The commission shall authorize the commissioner or commissioners to administer an oath to the Witness, and to take his deposition in
answer to the several interrogatories annexed to such commission; or when
the examination is to be Without interrogatories, in respect to the question
in dispute, to certify the deposition to the court, and to direct it to the
clerk of the court, or such other person designated or agreed upon, and
forward it to him by mail or other usual channel of conveyance.

SEC. 326. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except -upon affidavit or other evidence,
satisfactory to the court, that the testimony of the witness is necessary,
and that proper diligence has been used to obtain it.

XXXVI. on PROCEEDINGS T0 PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

SEC. 327. Steps to be taken by a person wishing to perpetuate testimony.
328. Preparation for taking such testimony by hearing parties.
329. After hearing of parties, a commission may issue as in other cases.

330. How such depositions shall be taken.
331. Deposition may be used, subject to legal objections.

SEC. 327. “Then any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the testimony of any Witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth
briefly and substantially, his title, claim, or interest, in or to the subject
concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the names of
all persons “interested, or supposed to be interested therein, and also the

name of the witness proposed to be examined, which statement shall be under oath, and filed in the district court. If the subject of the proposed
deposition relate to real estate within this territory, the statement shall be
filed in the county where the lands, or any part thereof, lie, otherwise in
the county where the parties interested, or some of them, reside. Upon
such statement, an application may be made to such court, or a judge thereof, to allow the examination of such witness. .

SEC. 328. The court or judge shall appoint a time and place for hearing such application, and shall order notice thereof, and of the statement,
to be served on all persons mentioned therein as adversely interested in the
matter. The notice shall be served personally on all those living in the territory, at least twenty days before the time of hearing the application.-—
Upon those who are not residents of the territory, it shall be served by
publication or otherwise, in the same manner as a summons is served upon
a non-resident.

SEC. 329. If upon such hearing of the parties, or of the applicant alone,
should no adverse party appear, the court or judge shall be satisfied that
there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, an order shall be made
allowing the examination of the witness; and such court or judge shall direct a commission to issue therefore, in like manner as a commission to take
the testimony of witnesses in other cases. '

SEC. 330. The deposition of such witness, whether residing in this territory or not, shall be taken upon written interrogatories liled by the applicant, and cross interrogatories ‘dled by any party adversely interested, if he‘

shall think fit, and it shall be taken and returned substantially in the same
manner as if taken upon commission, to be used in any cause pending in
the same court. .

SEC. 331. The deposition, when returned, shall be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court by whom the commission was issued, and if a trial be
had between the person at whose request the deposition was taken, and the
persons named in the statement, or any of them, or their successors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of his inability
to attend the trial, by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition, or a certilied copy thereof, may be used by either party, subject to
all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examination, no objections to the form of the interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless
the same were taken at the time of the examination.

XXXVII. PROVISIONS RELATING TO RECORDS, DOCUMENTS, AND OTHER
WRITINGS.

BBC‘  E9-‘>11 Party may have access to all papers in the case.
- When an instrument may be read without proof of its gcnuineness.

81:0. 334. Records of other courts to be admissible.
335. Copies of instruments of writing, when admissible.
336. Certified copies of official papers admissible.
337. Surveyor general’s certificate admissible.
‘338. How a seal may be alfixed to be valid.
339. Printed copies of laws, printed by authority, admissible.

‘SEC. "332. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge thereof,
may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other, within a specilied time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any book,
document, or paper in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, docu- _

ment, or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by
the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he alleges it to be, and the court may also punish the party refusing, as for a
contempt. This section shall not be construed to preventa party from
compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, where he is
examined as a witness.

SEC. 333. If either party, at any time before trial, allow the other an
inspection of any writing, material to the action, whether mentioned in the
pleadings or not, and deliver to him a copy thereof, with notice that he intends to read the same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may be so
read without proof of its genuineness or execution, unless denied by affidavit before the commencement of the trial. If such denial be made of any
writing, not mentioned in the pleadings, the court may give time to either
party to procure evidence, when necessary for the furtherance of justice.

SEC. 334. The records and proceedings of any court of the United
States, or of any state or territory, shall be admissible in evidence, in all
cases in this territory,’ when authenticated by the attestation of the clerk,
prothonotary, or other officer having charge of the records of such court,
with the seal of such court annexed.

SEC. 335. Whenever any deed, conveyance, mortgage, bond, or other
writing shall have been recorded or filed, in pursuance of law, copies of
such deed, conveyance, bond, or other writing, duly certified by the oiiicer
having the lawful custody thereof, with the seal of office annexed, if
there be such seal, if no seal, then with the official certificate of such odicer, shall be received in evidence, to all intents and purposes, as the originals themselves.

SEC. 336. Copies of all papers, on file in the oiiices of the surveyor generals of Oregon and Washington territories, secretary of Washington territory, territorial treasurer, territorial auditor, and any county treasurer, or
3")’ matter recorded in either of said offices, duly certified by the respective

oiiicers, with the respective seals of office annexed, shall be evidence in all _

the courts of this territory. ,
SEC. 337. Any certificate of residence and cultivation upon the public

‘lands, issued by the surveyor general of Oregon or of Washington territories,

in pursuance of law, shall be evidence in all courts in this territory.

SEC. 338. A seal of a court or public office, when required to any Writ,
process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a copy of any record or document, may be affixed by making an impression directly on the paper, Which
shall be as valid as if made upon a Wafer or on wax.

SEC. 339. Printed cdpies of the statute laws of any state, territory, or
foreign government, if purporting to have been published under the authority of the respective governments, or if commonly admitted and read as
evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts in this territory,
and on all other occasions as presumptive evidence of such laws.

XXXVIII. or WRITS or ERROR AND APPEALS.

Sac. 340. Every judgment, decision, or order, may be re-examined on a writ of error.
341. Limitation of time for prosecution of writs of error.
342. Proceedings of the party to obtain a Writ of error.
343. Notice of the prosecution of a writ of error to be served on the adverseparty; how.
344. Duty of the clerk upon the filing of the precipe.
345. What shall be a. transcript of the record.
346. Provisions when transcript is not received.
347. When the case shall stand for trial.
348. Manner of proceeding with the trial.
349. Bond may be given to stay execution.
350. Judgment of the supreme court; execution thereof.
351. When judgment is affirmed, damages, interest, and costs to be allowed
thereon, ' 352. Who may prosecute a writ of error and receive the benefit thereof.
353. When order shall be made for another person to’ be made a. party to a Writ
of error.
854. Reversal of a judgment not to eifect a title.
355. When all the judges of the supreme court to be present‘.
356. District court may direct an appeal. Judgment in such cases not to be EX?
ecuted until final decision.
357. Supreme court may adjudge and decide all cases of appeal, and 811811 11°‘ 1'9‘
verse any case, unless injustice has been done the plaintiff in error358. All cases heretofore decided, may be appealed un_der the proyisipns Pf this
. statute. ‘

Sac. 340. Every final judgment, order, or decision of a district court,
in a civil action, may be re-examined upon a Writ of error, in the same
court for error in fact, and in the supreme court for error in law. ’

SEC. 341. Every such Writ shall be prosecuted within two years, and
not after. But if the party entitled to have such writ shall be absent from
the territory, and shall not have been personally served with process, I101?

appeared to the action, or if such party he an infant, married woman, or
imprisoned, or insane, then such writ may be prosecuted within two years
from the removal of such disability, and not after: Provided, That absence from the territory shall not entitle the party to a longer time than
five years; the time limited shall include the day on which the judgment is
rendered, or the order of decision is made, or on which the disability ceases.

SEC. 342. The party desirous of taking his writ of error, shall lile with

-the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered, a precipe, containing a particular description of the judgment, order, or decision, upon
which he wishes to bring his Writ of error and his claim, Whether upon error in fact or error in law; which precipe shall also contain an order directing the clerk to issue, under the seal of the court, notice to the adverse
party of the filing of such precipe, and of the court and term at which such
writs of error will be prosecuted; and the writ of error shall be deemed to
have issued at the time of the filing of such precipe.

SEC. 343. The notice shall be issued and served in the same manner

that a summons is served, and shall be returned to the court in which such
writ of error is to be prosecuted, by the first day of the term at which said
writ of error is to be heard. It may be served on the defendant, or his
attorney of record, in any county in the territory. And if service of the
notice cannot be had from any cause, the court, at such term, upon being
satisfied that the precipe has been filed and notice issued, may direct the
manner in which such notice shall be given; and after the order for giving
notice has been fully complied with, may proceed as though notice had actually been given.
. SEC. 344. Upon the filing of such precipe, and the payment of his fees,
the clerk shall issue the notice to the defendant in error; and if the precipe direct the return of ‘the writ of error to the supreme court, he shall
make out a full transcript of the record, and send the same to the clerk of
the supreme court, by mail or‘ other safe opportunity.

SEC. 345. The transcript of the record shall contain a copy of the writ
and return, the pleadings, the journal entries, judgment, order or decision,
bills of exception, execution and return, and all matters pertaining to the
case, but it shall not be necessary to .send copies of subpoenas,‘ motions, or
depositions, unless the same, by bill of exceptions, have been made part of
the record.

SEC. 346. Whenever from any cause the transcript of the record shall
not be received by the clerk of the supreme court, or shall be lost, -the
C0I1rt shall order a new transcript to -be sent up, in such time and manner
as they shall see ht: Provided,’ That in all cases where the failure arises

’ from-the neglect of the plaintifff in error, to comply with the provisions of

this act, the writ of error or appeal shall be dismissed. Either party may,

upon a suggestion of a diminution of the record, and upon a proper case
made, have an order that a further record be sent up.

SEC. 347. If the notice shall have been served ten days or more before
the term of the court to which the record is returnable, the case shall
stand for trial at such term; and it may stand for trial, if the parties appear in court, bring in the record, and waive the notice.

SEC. 348. The court of error may fix the time for assigning errors and
iiling joinders. If errors in law be assigned, no joinder shall be necessary.
One or more errors in fact may be assigned, and the defendant may put in
the common joinder as a demurrer thereto, or may traverse or confess, and
avoid the facts assigned for error, and a separate issue shall be made on
each. _

SEC. 349. If at the time of filing the precipe with the clerk, or at any
time thereafter, the plaintifff in error shall "file with the clerk a bond, with
sureties to the satisfaction of the clerk, in double the amount of the judgment, if it is for money, and if the judgment is for the restraining or performing any other act, or the determination of any other right, then in
such a sum as a judge of the supreme court shall direct, conditioned that
the plaintid pay all costs and damages, and perform such judgment, as the
court on the trial of the Writ of error shall adjudge against him, then no
further execution shall be had upon the original judgment, until the determination of the writ of error, and any execution previously issued shall be
recalled.

SEC. 350. The judgment, or other matter complained of, may be affirmed, or may be reversed or set aside, in Whole or in part, _or may be
modified, or a different judgment or order may be substituted for that complained of, and the cause may be remitted to the district court for such

further proceedings as the supreme court by ma ‘tedshall direct. Execution may issue from the supreme court, or its ju ‘, ents may be executed

«by the district court, on a mandate for that purpose.

SEC. 351. In case the judgment of the court below shall have been for
a sum of money, and shall be affirmed against the plaintifff in error, damages may be awarded to the defendant in error, not exceeding ten per cent

on the amount, exclusive of interest, and costs of such judgment. And in.

all cases, interest and costs shall be allowed on the original judgment.
SEC. 352. Any person Who may be a party, or privy to any judgment,

order, or decision, may prosecute a writ of error to reverse the same, and

the reversal shall inure to the benefit of all parties and privies therein, and

D0 Other party or privy shall afterwards prosecute a writ of error for the
same cause. ‘

SEC. 353. When it shall appear that any other person should be made

3 Party to any proceeding upon a writ of error, the court shall require such

person to be made a party, and shall direct in what manner notice shall be
given. '

SEC. 354. The reversal of a judgment, order, or decision, shall not affect
the title of property sold upon an execution, issued upon such ‘ judgment,
order, or decision, if such property be purchased at the sale by a stranger,
but if purchased by the judgment creditor, the plaintiffi" in error may bring
an action for the recovery thereof, and the court may award restitution, or
render such other judgment as justice shall require.

\ SEC. 355. When the supreme court shall be equally divided in opinion,
the cause shall stand continued until all the judges are present.

SEC. 356. Whenever upon the trial of any civil action, in the district
court, it shall be found to turn upon important questions of law, the court
may direct a special verdict to be found; and in all cases the parties may
make an agreed. statement of facts, signed by themselves or their attorneys,
which shall be entered of record; and all questions of law, arising on special verdicts, agreed statements, motions for new trial, and others, in any
manner arising in the district court, may, under the direction of the district
court, be taken to the supreme court, by way of appeal; and for that purpose, the court shall render a judgment in form only, which shall not be
executed until the iinal decision of the cause, and the supreme court, on
hearing the appeal, may give judgment, or remand the cause, or make any
order, according to the law and justice of the case.

SEC. 357. In all cases of writs of error or appeals, in the supreme
court, the court shall consider and adjudge upon all errors and mistakes
which shall appear in the entire record by which plaintifff ill-r§I‘I‘OI‘ may
have been prejudiced, if the same were excepted to at the time, Whether
interlocutory or final, and whether ‘the plaintiii" in error had, according to
the strict rules of law, Waived the same by proceeding with the case, under
the order of the court, after such exception taken: Provided, That the
court shall consider all amendments which could have been made, as made,
and in such case shall not reverse any judgment, order, or decision, unless
it shal1‘appear that injustice may have been done, and the plaintifff in error, or his attorney, shall make oath that injustice has been done him in
the judgment which is sought to be reversed. ,

SEC. 358. All cases, either in law or equity, which have heretofore
been decided in this territory, may at any time within the time limited in
this act, be examined upon a writ of error, under the provisions of this act,
and in adjudging upon such cases, the court shall be governed in their
judgment on errors by the rules of the commom law.

XXXIX. SET-OFF.

‘SEC. 359. Against whom set-oii‘ may be made.
360. Set-oii‘ when plaintifff is trustee, or nominal.
361. Set-off against executors and administrators.

362. Judgment for excess of set-off.
363. Representative5&ay set-off as if the action were against them.

364. Set-off must be set-oii‘ in the answer.
‘365. When set~oii' isceqvual to the demand, judgment to be for nothing; and when

not equal, for the residue.
366.’ Judgment against plaintiii‘ for excess.

SEC. 359. The‘ defendant in a civil action, upon a contract expressed
or implied, may set off any demand of a like nature against the plaintifff in
interest, which existed and belonged to him at the? time of the commencement of the suit. And in all such actions, other than upon a negotiable
promissory note, or bill of exchange, negotiated in good faith, and Without
notice before due, which has been assigned to the plaintifff, he may also
set on‘ a demand, of a like nature, existing against the person to whom he
was originally liable, or any subsequent assignee prior to the plaintifff, of
such contract: Provided, Such demand existed at the time of the assignment thereof, and belonged to the defendant in good faith before notice of
such assignment, and was such a demand as might have set off against
such person to whom he was originally liable, or such assignee While the
contract belonged to him.
SEC. 360. If the plaintiff be a trustee for any other, or if the action be

‘in the name of a plaintifff who has no real interest in the contract upon

which the action is founded, so much of a demand existing against those
Whom the plaintifff represents, or for Whose benefit the action is brought,
may be set off, as Will satisfy‘ the plaintifff’s debt, if the same might have

F been set off in an action brought by those beneficially interested.

SEC. 361. In actions brought by executors and administrators, demands
against their testators and intestates, and belonging to defendant at the
time of their death, may be set off by the defendant in the same manner as
if the action had been brought by and in the name of the deceased.

SEC. 362. When a set elf shall be established in an action brought by
executors or administrators, and a balance found due to the defendant, the
judgment rendered thereto against the plaintifff’s,' shall have the same effect as if the action had been originally commenced by the defendant.

SEC- 363. In actions against executors and administrators, and against
trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the defendants
may Set 011' demands belonging to their testators or intestates, or those
Whom they represent, in the same manner as the persons so represented
would have been entitled to set oil" the same in an action against them.

Ste. 364. To entitle a defendant to a set off, he must set the same
forth in his answer.

Sac. 365. If the amotmt of the set off, duly established, be equal to
the plaintiff’s debt or demand, judgment -shall be entered that the plaintifff
take nothing by his action; if it be less .than the plaintifff’s debt or demand, the plaintifff shall have judgment for the residue only.

SEC. 366. If there be found a balance due from the plaintifff in the action to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the amount thereof, but no such judgment shall be rendered against

_the plaintifff, when the contract, which is the subject of the action, shall

have been assigned before the commencement of such action, nor for any
balance due from any other person than the plaintifff in the action.

XL. cosrs IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec. 367. Compensation of attorneys left to the parties; costs.

368. To whom costs shall be allowed.

369. Plaintiff in certain cases not entitled to costs.

370. In certain cases the plaintifff entitled to no more costs than damages.

371. When several actions are joined in one, costs to be recovered in any one.

372. Where costs are not allowed to plaintifff, must be to defendant.

373. Costs to be awarded to such defendants as have judgment in their favor.

374. Amount of costs in each kind of action.

375. Costs allowed to the prevailing party.

376. Fees and rate of compensation of referees.

377. When application is made to postpone, the adverse party to be paid ten dollars

and witnesses fees.
378. When a tender has been made the plaintifff must pay costs.
379. ‘If a defendant deposit the amount claimed with the clerk and the plaintifff refuse it, he shalll be liable for costs.

380. In cases of appeal the failing party to pay costs.

381. The person who appears for an infant to pay costs.

382. Executor, administrator or trustee to pay costs from the estate or property in

trust.

383. Assignee of an action to be liable for costs.

384. County or territory liable for costs as other parties.

385. When costs to be awarded and collected as the court may direct.

386. When the costs of an appeal to be in the discretion of the court.

387. In all actions not provided for, costs left to the discretion of the court. \
388. Relief of party aggrieved.

389. When and what security for costs may be demanded.

Sac. 367. The ‘measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counsellors shall be left to. the agreement express or implied of the parties,
but there may be allowed to the prevailing party upon the judgment, certain sums by way of indemnity for his expenses in the action, which
allowances are termed costs. .

Sac. 368. Costs shall be allowed the party in whose favor the judgment is rendered, except as is otherwise provided by law.

‘SEC. 369-. The plaintifff shall not be entitled to costs in any action
within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, which shall be commencedin the district court, where the I recovery is for a less amount‘ than one
hundred dollars. I

SEC. 370. In an action for an assult or an assault and battery, ‘or for
false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversa-»
tion or seduction, if the plaintifff recover less than ten dollars, he shall be
entitled to no more costs or disbursements than the damages recovered.

SEC. 3'11. When several actions are brought on one bond, undertaking,
promissory note, bill of exchange or other instrument in writing, or in any
other case for the same cause of action against several parties, who might
have been. joined as defendants in the same action, no costs or disbursements
shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such actions which
may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in the other actions
were, at the commencement of the previous action, openly within this
territory. t

See. 372. In all cases where costs and disbursements are not allowed
to the plaintifff, the defendant shall be entitled to have judgment in his favor
for the same. _»

SEC. 373'. In all actions where there are several defendants, not united
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the
plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award costs to
such of defendants: as have judgment in their favor, or any of them.

SE0. 37.4. When» allowed to either party, costs shall be as follows:

1st. In all actions settled befere issue is joined, five dollars ;

2d. In all actions where judgment is rendered without a jury, ten
dollars; '

3d. In all actions where judgment isrendered afterjaimpanneling a jury.
hfteen dollars ; ' V

&th. In all actions removed to the supreme court and settled before
argument, ten dollars ;,

5th.. In all actions when judgment is rendered in the supreme court
after’ argument, iifteen dollars.

SEG- 375- The prevailing party, in addition to the allowance for costs
as provided in the last section, shall also be allowed for all necessary disbursements, including‘ the fees of officers allowed by‘ law, the fees of
witnesses, the necessary expenses of taking depositions, by commission or
otherwise, and the compensation of referees. The disbursements shall be
stated in detail and verified by affidavit, which shall be filed with the clerk
of the court. . ,

Sec. 37 6. The fees of referees shall be four dollars to each, for every
day “Pent in the business of the, reference, but the parties may agreelin

writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate shall
be allowed.

' Sec. 377. When an application shall be made to a court or referees to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding
ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the condition
of granting the postponement. '

Sue. 378. When in an action for the recovery of money only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the commencement of the action he
tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he was entitled, in such
specie as by agreement -ought to be tendered, and thereupon brings into
court, for the-plaintifff, if in money, the amount so tendered, and the allegation be found true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but shall pay them
to the defendant.

Size. 379. If the defendant in any action pending shall at any time
deposit with the clerk of the court, for the plaintifff, the amount which he
admits to be due, together with all costs that have‘ accrued, and notify the
plaintifff thereof, and such plaintifff shall refuse to accept the same in discharge of the action, and shall not afterwards recover a larger amount
than that deposited with the clerk, exclusive of interest and cost, he shall
pay all costs that may accrue from the time such money was so deposited.

SEC. 380. In all civil actions tried before a justice of the peace, in
which an appeal shall be taken to the district court, and the party appellant shall not recover a more favorable judgment in the district court than
before the justice of the peace, such appellant shall pay all costs accruing
after the appeal.

See. 381. When costs are adjudged against‘ an infant plaintifff, the
guardian or person by whom he appeared in the action, shall be responsible
therefore, and payment may be enforced by execution.

Sec. 382. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
Statute, costs shall be recovered as in an action by or against a person
prosecuting or defending in his own right,‘ but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected off the estate of the party represented, unless
the court shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant
personally, for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defense.

SEC. 383. When the cause of action after the commencement of the
action by assignment, or in any other manner becomes the property of a
person not a party thereto, and the prosecution or defense is thereafter
continued, such person shall be liable to the costs in the same manner as if
he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

Sec. 384. In all actions prosecuted in the name. and for the use of the

territory, or in the name and for the use of any county, the territory or

V 9
county shall be liable for costs in the same cases and to the same extent as
private parties. .

Sec. 385. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction in an
action or special proceeding is brought before the supremecourt, or a district court, for review, such proceedings shall for purposes of costs be
deemed an action at issue upon a question of law from the time the same
is brought into the supreme court, or district court, and costs thereonmay
be awarded and collected in such manner as the court shall direct, according to the nature of the case.

SEC. 386. In the following cases the costs of an appeal to the supreme
court shall be in the discretion of the court:

lst. When a new trial shall be ordered ; r

2d. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part.

SEO. 38’?-. In all actions and proceedings than those mentioned in this
chapter, where no provision is made for the recovery of costs, they may be
allowed or not, and if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties in
the discretion of the court.

SEC. 388. Any party aggrieved by the taxation of costs by the clerk
of the court, may upon application have the same re-taxed by the court in
which the action or proceedings is had.

SEC. 389. When the plaintifff in an action resides out of the county, or .

is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges which may be
awarded against such plaintifff may be required by the defendant. When

' required, all proceedings in the action shall he stayed until a bond executed by two or more persons be filed with the clerk, conditioned that they
will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded against the plaintifff by
judgment, or in the progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of two
hundred dollars. A new or additional bond may be ordered by the court,
or judge, upon proof that the original bond is insufiicient security, and proceedings inthe action stayed until such new or additional bond be executed

and filed. The plaintifff may deposit with the clerk, the sum of two hundred
dollars in lieu of a bond.

XLI. commssronnn TO SELL REAL ESTATE.

390. District courts may appoint a. commissioner.
391. What shall be the deed of the commissioner.

392. A sale in pursuance of a judgment, conveys the title of the parties ordered to
sell. . .

393. Sale of the commissioner conveys the title of the parties to the action.

394. A conveyance of a court must be approved by the court.

395. Such conveyance to be signed by the court only.

396. Such conveyance to be recorded.

397. HOW judgment to ‘compel a party to execute a conveyancershall be enforced.

SEC. 390. The several district courts may whenever it is necessary,
appoint a commissioner to convey real estate.

lst. When by a judgment in an action a party is ordered to convey
real property to— anotheror any interest therein.

2d. When real property or any interest therein has been sold under a
special order of court and the purchase money paid therefore.

SEC. 391. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judgment
authorizing the conveyance that the same may be readily found, but need
not recite the record in the case generally.

SEC. 392. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment, shall pass
to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land.

SEC. 393. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the
court shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action or
proceeding.

SEC. 394. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass any right
until it has been examined and approved by the court, which approval
shall be endorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it.

SEC. 395. It shall be suliicient for the conveyance to be signed by the
commissioner only, without affixing the names of the parties whose title is
conveyed, but the names of the parties shall be recited in the body of the
conveyance. i .

SEC. 396. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in which by
law it should have been recorded, had it been made by the parties whose
title is conveyed by it. ’

SEC. 397. In case of a judgment to compel a party to execute a conveyance of real estate, the court may enforce the judgment by attachment
or sequestration, or appoint a commissioner to make the conveyance.

XLII. ro RECOVER THE POSSESSION or REAL PROPERTY AND TO
DETERMINE CONFLICTING cmms THERETO.

SEO. 398. Right to real property to be recovered by action in the district court.

399. Landlord to be substituted for tenant.
400. Proof required in an action by a. tenant against a tenant.

SEC. 398. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in real property
and a right to the possession thereof, may recover the same by action in
the district court of the proper county, to be brought against the tenant in
P0ssession ; if there is no such tenant then against the person claiming the

title or some interest therein. _

‘ SEC. 399. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only a tenant,

the landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice thereof being given.
SEC. 400. In an action by a tenant in common or joint tenant of real

P1',9P9l'ty against his co-tenant, the plaintifff must‘ show in addition to his

evidence of right that the defendant either denied the p1ainti&"s right or
did some act amounting to such denial. '

XLIII. ranrrrrou or REAL ESTATE.

Sec. 401. Actions for the partition of real estate may he brought in the district court.

402. The court may order a division or sale of the property and a division of the
proceeds.

SEC. 401. Action may be brought in the district court of the proper
county for the partition of real property, held or possessed by joint tenants
or tenants in common, or for the special assignment or determination of any
right or interest therein by any person interested.

Sec. 402. The complaint shall conform as far as is practicable to the
provisions of law regulating the practice in civil actions, and the court may
require and cause to be made by order, a partition of the premises or a
special assignment of the interest, or in case the partition or assignment is
impracticable may order a sale of the property and a division of the pro.ceeds, and shall in all respects adjudge as the nature of cases may require.

XLIV. ron was-rn.

SEC. 403. Actions of waste to be subjects of actions as other wrongs.
Judgment of forfeiture and eviction.

Sac. 403. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of waste shall be
subjects of action as other wrongs in which there may be judgment f01‘
damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party offending, and eviction from
the premises. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in
favor of the person entitled to the reversion against the tenant in posse88i0I1
where injury to to the estate in reversion shall be adjudged in the action

to be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to
have been done in malice. XLV. msrurnn LAND cums.

SEC. 404. Injunctions may be granted in certain cases.

Sac. 404. When any two or more persons are opposing claimants under the laws of the United States to any land in this territory, and one is

threatening to commit upon such land waste which tends materially to
lessen the value of the inheritance and which cannot be compensated by
d3m9:8°3.' and there is imminent danger that unless restrained such waste
will be -°°mmitt9d» the party, on filing his complaint and satisfying the
*°°“_1't -°1.' 3-lldge of the existence of the facts may have an injunction to 1'69’
mm the adverse party. In all cases he shall give notice and ‘bond as is

provided in other cases where injunction is granted, and the injunction
when granted, shall be set aside or modified as is provided generally for
injunctions and restraining orders. ‘

XLVI. roe NUISANCE.

Sec. 404. What is a nuisance subject to action.
406. Who may bring an action for nuisance.
407. Nuisances may be enjoined or abated.

Sec. 405. The obstruction of any highway, or the closing of the channel of any stream used for boating or rafting logs, lumber or timber, or
whatever is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property so as to essentially interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject
of an action.

See. 406. Such action may be brought by any person whose property

is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the
nuisance.

Sec. 407. Where a proper case is made, the nuisance may be enjoined 0

or abated, and damages recovered therefore.

XLVII. FORECLOSURE or MORTGAGES.

Sec. 408. Mortgages may be foreclosed in the district court where default is made.
409. No agreement in the mortgage, the remedy is confined to the property mort410. The comt may order the mortgaged property sold.
A Payment of the mortgage to satisfy the judgment.

411. ‘When the property of the mortgage debtor may be levied on.
412. Proceedings when mortgage is foreclosed.

. 413. Mortgage shall not be foreclosed when another action is pending, nor judgment

rendered when mortgage is about to be foreclosed.
414. Complaint for foreclosure, on which one installment is due and paid, to‘ be
‘ dismissed or stayed.

415. When the court may order a sale of a portion of the property mortgaged.
416. When property cannot be sold in parcels, proceedings to be had.
417. Judgment on a mortgaged debt forecloses the mortgage.

Sec. 408. When default is made in the performance of any conmtion
Contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or his assigns may proceed‘ in the
district court of the county where the land, or some part thereof, lies to
foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the mortgage.

SEC. 409‘. .When there is no express agreement in the mortgage, nor
any seperate instrument given for the payment of the sum secured’ thereby,the remedy of the mortgage shall be confined to the property mortgaged.

->Ssc. 410 In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the court shall order
the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be

sold to satisfy the mortgage and costs of the action. The payment of the
mortgage debt, with interest and costs at any time before sale, shall satisfy
the judgment. , ' '
SEC. 411. When there is an express written agreement for the payment
of the sum of money secured, contained in the mortgage, or any separate
instrument, the court shall direct, in the order of the sale, that the balance
due on the mortgage, and costs which may remain unsatisfied after the sale

of the mortgaged premises, shall be levied of any property of the mortgage debtor.

Sec. 412.. A copy of the order of sale and judgment shall be issued and
certified by the clerk, under the seal of the court, to the sheriff, who shall
thereupon proceed to sell the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as
may benecessary to satisfy the judgment, interest and costs, as upon execution ; and if any part of the judgment, interests and cost remain
unsatisfied, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy the residue of the
other property of the defendant. i i

Sec. 413. The plaintifff shall not proceed to foreclose his mortgage
while he is prosecuting any other action for the same debt or matter which
is secured by the mortgage, or while he is seeking to obtain execution of any
judgment in such other action ; nor shall he prosecute any other action for
the same matter while he is foreclosing his mortgage or prosecuting a
judgment of foreclosure.

SEC. 414. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest or installment of the
principal, and there are other installments not due, if ,the defendant pay into
court the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time before final
judgment, the complaint shall be dismissed. If such payment be made
after final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be
enforced upon a subsequent default in the payment of any installment of
the principal or interest thereafter becoming due. In the final judgment,
the court shall direct at what time, and upon what default any subsequent
execution shall issue. ,

Sec. 415. In such cases, after final judgment, the court shall ascertain
whether the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done without
injury to the interests of the parties, the court shall direct so much only of
the premises to be sold as will be suhicient to pay the amount then due on
the mortgage with costs, and the judgment shall remain and be enforced
upon any subsequent default, unless the amount due shall be paid before
execution of the judgment is perfected. .

Sec. 416. If the mortgaged premises cannot be sold in parcels, the
court shall order the whole to be sold and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied first to the payment of the principal due, interest and costs, and

then to the residue secured by the mortgage and not due ; and if the residue do not bear interest, a deduction shallbe made therefrom by discounting
the legal interest ; and in all cases Where the proceeds of sale shall be
more than sufficient to pay the amount due and costs, the surplus shall be

° paid to the mortgaged debtor, his heirs and assigns.

SEC. 417. Whenever an execution shall issue upon a judgment recovered
for a debt secured by a mortgage of real property, the plaintifff shall endorse
thereon a brief description of the mortgaged premises, and a sale of the
mortgaged premises upon such execution shall foreclose the equity of
redemption.

XLVIII. NE EXEAT.

Sec. 418. When an action may be commenced on a contract, before the time for
performance expires.
419. Order of arrest to issue on aiiidavit, and service thereof; bond to be given
and filed.
420. Defendant may enter into special bail; bail to be liable. 421. Defendant may be discharged by securing the performance of the contract.
422. By whom this proceeding may be had.
423. Defendant entitled to the benefit of habeas corpus.
424. Proceedings may be had before justice of the peace.
425. Proceedings may be had in county where defendant is.

' SEC. 418. Actions may be commenced upon any agreement in writing before the time for the performance of the contract expires, When the
plaintifff or his agent shall make and file an aliidavit with the clerk of the
proper court, that the defendant is about to leave the territory Without
performing or making provisions for the performance of the contract,
taking with him property, monies, credits or eifects, subject to execution,
with intent to defraud the plaintifff. ‘

SEC. 419. Upon such affidavit being filed, the clerk shall issue an order
of arrest and hail, directed to the sheriff, which shall be issued, served, and
returned, in all respects as such orders in other cases; before such order
shall issue, the plaintifff shall file in the office of the clerk, a bond with
sufficient surety, to be approved by the clerk—-—conditioned, that the plaintifff will pay the defendant such damages and costs as he shall wrongfully
sustain by occasion of the suit, which sureties shall justify as bail upon an
arrest. ~

SEC. 420. The sheriff shall require the I defendant to ‘enter into a reCognizance of ‘special bail with sufficient surety, personally to appear on the '

first day of the court, at its next term, and abide the order of the court,
and in default thereof, the defendant shall be committed to prison until
discharged in due course of law; such special bail shall be liable for the

principal, and shall have a right to arrest and deliver him up, as in other
cases, and the defendant may give other bail.

SEC. 421. Instead of giving special bail as above provided, the defendant
shall be entitled to his discharge from custody if he will secure the performance of the contract, to‘ the satisfaction of the plaintifff.

SEC. 422. This proceeding may be had in favor of any surety, or other
person, jointly bound with the defendant. It may also be prosecuted by
the person in whose favor the contract exists, against any one or more of
the persons bound thereby, upon filing such aiiidavit, when the co-contractors are non resident, or probably insolvent, or at the request of any one
of them, when they are residents .and solvent.

SEC. 423. The defendant may have the same remedy by writ of habeas
corpus, as in other cases of arrest. and bai1.. .

SEC. 424. The proceedings may be had before justices of the peace,

, in all cases‘ Within their jurisdiction.

SEC. 425. The affidavit and bond may be filed, and proceedings had
in any county where the defendants may be found.

XLIX. REMEDIES or SURETIES AGAINST THEIR PRINCIPALS.

SEO. 426. Surety may require the obligee to bring an action.
427. Failure of obligee to comply releases surety.

428. Question of securityship may be tried as in other 
429. Property of the principal to be exhausted.

430. Judgment against sureties does not release the principal.
. 431. One surety may have an action against another.

432. No surety shall confess judgment when principal is ready for trial.
433. The provisions of this act extended‘ to heirs, executors, &c.

SEC. 426. Any person, botmd as surety upon any contract in writing,
for the payment of money or the performance of any act when the right
of action has accrued, may require by notice in Writing, the creditor or
obligee forthwith to institute an action upon the contract.

SEC. 427. If the creditor, or obligee, shall not proceed‘ within a reasonable time to bring his action upon such contract, and prosecute thesame
to judgment and execution, the surety shall be discharged from all liability
thereon.

SEC. 428. When any action is brought against two or more defendants
upon a contract, any one or "more of the defendants being surety for the
Others, the Surety may, upon a Written complaint to the court, cause the
question of securityship to be tried, and determined upon the issues made
by the parties at the trial of the cause, or at any time before or after the

trial. 01‘.at a subsequent term, but such proceedings» shall not adect the
proceedings of the plaintifff.

Sec. 429. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the surety, the
court shall make an order directing the sheriff to levy the execution upon,
and first exhaust the property of the principal before a levy shall be made
upon the property of the surety, and the clerk shall endorse a memorandum of the order upon the execution.

SEC. 430. When any defendant, surety in a judgment or special bail or
replevin bail,» or surety in a delivery bond or replevin bond, or any person
being surety in any bond Whatever, has been, or shall be compelled to pay
any judgment, or any part thereof‘, or shall make any payment which is
applied upon such judgment by reason of such suretyship, or when any
sheriff or other oiiicer or other surety upon his oiiicial bond, shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any part thereof, by reason of any default
of such oliicer, except for failing to pay over money collected, or for Wasting property levied upon, the judgment shall not be discharged by such
payment, but shall remain in force for the use of the bail, surety, oiiicer or
other person making such payment, and after the plaintifff is paid, so much
of the judgment as remains unsatisfied may be prosecuted to execution for
his use. ’

SEC. 431. Any one of several judgment defendants, and any one of
several replevin bail having paid and satisfied the plaintifff, shall have the
remedy provided in the last section against the co-defendants, zor co-sureties
to collect of them the rateable proportion each is equitably bound to pay.

Size. 432. N o-surety, or his representative, shall confess judgment, or
suffer judgment by default in any case where he is notified that there is a
valid defense, if the principal will enter himself defendant to the action, and

tender to the surety or his representatives good security to indemnify him,

to be approved by the court.
SEC. 433. The foregoing provisions of this act shall extend to heirs,

executors, and administrators of deceased persons, but the provisions of the
-427th section, shall not operate against persons under legal disabilities.

L. mums coarus.

Sue. 434. Every person shall have the benelit of habeas corpus.
435. By whom application fpr a writ of habeas comm: shall be made, and what
it shall specify.
‘ 436. By whom writs of habeas corpus shall be 813111505437. What is a writ of habeas comm.

438. To be delivered without delay to the sheriff.

439. To be delivered to the person who is to serve without delay.
440. Of the service of the writ.

441. Of return of a writ of habeas corpus.

442. What shall be a return.

443. Of the trial of the return.

444. The cause to be heard and decided summarily.
3 ~ I

SEC. 445. When the court shall not discharge the party, or inquire into the legality
of the imprisonment. _ .
446. Authority of the court on trial of habeas cmjpus.
447. When the writ may be had; plaintifff thereto.
448. Court to have power to compel attendance of witnesses, &c.
449. Officer not to be liable for obeying a writ of habeas corpus.
450. Warrant may be issued to bring a prisoner forthwith before the court to
be tried. 451. Person causing the imprisonment may be arrested also.
452. Same proceedings as in case of habeas corpus.

453. Court may make temporary orders, and change the person.
454. Writs authorized by this act may be served on Sunday.
455. Of writs authorized under this act.

456. In Whose favor writs of habeas corpus ‘may be granted.

SEC. 434. Every person restrained ‘of his liberty under any pretense
whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause
of the restraint, and shall be delivered therefrom when illegal.

. SEC. 435. Application for the Writ shall be made by complaint, signed
and verified either by the plaintifff or by some person in his behalf, and
shall specify

First. By whom the person, in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is
restrained of his liberty, and the place where, (naming all the parties, if
they are known, or describing them if they are not known.)

Second. The cause or pretense of the restraint according to the best
of the knowledge and belief of the applicant. '

Third. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what the illegality
consists. ' '

SEC. 436. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by the supreme
court or district court, or by any judge of either court, whether in term or
vacation, and upon application, the writ shall be granted without delay.

SEC. 437. The writ shall be directed to the officer or party having‘ the
person under restraint, commanding him to have such person before the
court or judge at such time and place as the court and judge shall direct,
to do and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and have then and
there the writ. '

SEC. 438. If the writ be directed to the sheriff, it shall be delivered by
the clerk to him without delay.

SEC. 439. If the writ be directed to any other person it shall be delivered to the sherifl‘,.and shall be by him served by delivering the same to
such person without delay.

SE0. 44-O. If the person to whom such writ is directed cannot be found,
or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff, the same may be served by leaving
it at the residence of the person to whom it is directed, or by Iixing of the

Same on some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling house, or where the _

party is confined or under restraint.

O

Sec. 441. The sheriff or other person to whom the writ is directed,
shall make immediate return thereof, and if he refuse after due service to
make return, the court shall enforce obedience by attachment. ',

SEC. 442. The return must be signed and verified by the person making
it, who shall state

First. The authority. or cause of the restraint of the party in his custody.

Second. If the authority shall be in writing, he shall return a copy
and produce the original on the hearing. '

. Third. ‘If he has had the party in his custody or under his restraint,

‘and has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the time, place

and cause of the transfer. He shall produce the party in the hearing,
unless prevented by sickness or infirmity, which must be shown in the
return. ' i

SEC. 443. The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth of the allegation
of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to’ decide on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned until the party can be produced, or for other good
cause. The plaintifff may except to_ the sufliciency of, or controvert the
return or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in evidence. The
new matter shall be verified, except in cases of commitment on a criminal
charge. The return and pleadings may be amended without causing any
delay. ‘ ‘

SEC. .444. The court or judge shall thereupon -proceed in a summary
Way to hear and determine the cause, and if no legal cause be shown for
the restraint, or for the continuation thereof, shall discharge the party. ‘

SEC. 445. , N o court or judge shall inquire into the legality of any
judgment or process whereby the party is in custody, or discharge him
when the term of commitment has not expired in either of the cases fol4
lowing: ‘ '

First, Upon any process issued on any linal judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction. '

Second. For any contempt of any court, officer, or body having au-.
thority in the premises to commit, but an order of commitment as for a
contempt upon proceedings to force the remedy of a party is not included
in any of the foregoing specifications. ’

Third. Upon a warrant issued from the district court upon an indictz’
ment or information. ‘
‘ SEC. 446. N 0 person shall be discharged from an order of commitment
issued by any judicial or peace officer, for want of bail, or in cases not
bailable on account of any defect in the charge or process, or‘ for alleged

‘Want of probable cause; but in all cases the court or judge shall summon

the Prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal charge, and discharge,

let to bail, or. recommit the prisoner as may be just and legal, and recognise witnesses when proper.
SEC. 44 7. The writ may be had for the purpose of letting a prisoner to

' bail in civil and criminal actions. When any person has an interest in the

-detention, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person having such
interest is notified. '

SEC. 448. -The court or judge shall have power to require and compel
‘the attendance of witnesses, and to do all other acts necessary to determine
the.case. r

SEC. 449. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a civil action

for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order of discharge made thereon. .

SEC. 450. Whenever it shall appear by aliidavit, that any one is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is good reason to believe
that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction of the court, or
judge before whom the application is made, or will suffer some irreparable
injury before compliance with the writ can be enforced, such court or judge
may cause a warrant to be issued reciting the facts, and directed to the
sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to take the person
thus held in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him before the court
or judge to be dealt with according to law. '

SEC. 451. The court or judge may also, if the same be deemed necessary, insert in the warrant’, a command for the apprehension of the
person charged with causing the illegal restraint.

SEC. 452. The oilicer shall execute the writ by bringing the person
therein named before the court or judge, and the like return or proceedings
shall be required and had as in case of writs of habeas corpus.

SEC. 453. The court or judge may make any temporary orders in the
cause or disposition of the party during the progress of the proceedings
that justice may require. The custody of any party restrained, may he
changed from one person to another, by order of the court or judge.

SEC. 454. Any writ or process authorized by this act may be issued
and served in cases of emergency, on Sunday.

SEC. 455. All writs and other process authorized by the provisions of
this act shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and sealed with the seal
of such court, and shall be served and returned forthwith, unless the court
or judge shall specify a particular time for any such return. And no writ
or other process shall be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is
shown to notify the oliicer or person of the purport of the process.
Amendments may be allowed, and temporary commitments when necessarySize. 456. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in favor of-‘pa1'en1'v.5.
guardians, masters and husbands, and to enforce the rights, and for the
protection of infants and insane persons; and the proceeding shall in all
cases‘ conform to the provisions of this statute. '

LI. MANDATE AND PROHIBITION.

Sec. 457. When and from what courts writs may issue.
458. To whom, and for what, they may issue.
459. How issued and made returnable.
460. First writ to be in the alternative or directory, as court shall direct.
461. Proceedings upon return of saidawrits. '
462. Proceedings in case of judgment for plaintifff.
463. Power of court in reference to proceedings on such writ.
464. How obedience’ to such writs may be enforced.
465. What writ of prohibition shall command.
466. Judgment of the court, what. ,
467. Costs, how awarded.

SEC. 457. Writs of mandate and prohibition may issue from the supreme and district courts of the territory, but such writs shall issue from
the supreme court only when necessary for the exercise of its functions and
powers. T ,

SEC. 458. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the performance of any act which the

law specially enjoins, or a duty resulting from an office, trust or station. .
SEO. 45 9‘. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and motion, and shall

be attested and sealed, and made returnable as the court shall direct, and

the person, body, or tribunal, to whom the same shall be directed and de- ~_

livered, shall make return, and for neglect to do so, shall be proceeded
against as for a contempt. I 4

SEC. 460. The first writ shall be in the alternative or peremptory, as the
court shall direct.

SEC. 461. Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ, issues of
law and fact may be joinedfand like proceedings shall be had for the trial
of issues. and rendering judgment, as incivil actions.

SEC. 462. In case a verdict shall be found for the plaintih‘, where the
Writ is in the alternative, or if judgment be given for him, he shall recover
damages, as inan action for a false return, against the party making the
return, and a peremptory writ shall be granted without delay.

SEC. 463. The court shall have the same power to enlarge the time of
making a return and pleading to such writ, and for filing any subsequent
Pleadings, and to continue such cause, as in civil actions. .

’ SEC. 464. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by attachment, and
me 9«116_1 imprisonment, or both. '

SEc..465._ The writ of prohibition shall command the court and party
130 Whom it shall be directed, to refrain from any further proceedings in the
matter therein specified, until the return of the writ, and the further order
of the court thereon, and upon the return, to show cause why they shall

not be absolutely restrained from any further proceedings in the matter.

‘SEC. 466-. The court shall render judgment either that a prohibition absolute, restraining the court a11d party proceeding in the matter, do issue,
or authorizing the court and party to proceed in the matter in question.

SEC. 467. Costs shall be awarded in these proceedings as in civil actions.

LII. INFORMATION.

SEC. 468. Against whom, and when an information may be filed.

469. When and by whom filed.

470. What to consist of.

471. What it shall set forth.

472. When filed, summons to issue. ~

473. Judgment when right to an office is contested.

474. Proceedings in case of judgment in favor of relator.

475. Order of court, how enforced.

476. Limitation of p1ainti1f’s action for damages. . 477. Several persons claiming same oliice, one information may be filed.
478. Defendant found guilty in certain cases, what judgment shall be rendered.
479. Proceedings for costs in case of judgment against a corporation.

480. Proceedings in case of property escheated or forfeited to the territory.
481. Who liable for costs upon an information.

482. When an information may be prosecuted to annul any letters patent, cer- tificates, deeds, &.c.
483. Proceedings in such cases.

SEC. 468. An informationmay be filed against any person or corporar
tion in the following cases:

1st. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or
exercise any public office, or any franchise within the territory, or any oliice
in any corporation, created by the authority of the territory.

2d. Whenever any public oliicer shall have done, or suffered any act,
which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office.

3d. Where any association or number of persons shall act within this
territory as a corporation, without. being legally incorporated.

4th. Or, where any corporation do, or omit acts, which amount to a
surrender or a forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or
where they exercise powers not conferred by law.

SEC. 469. The information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney of
the district, in the district court of theproper county, upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty to do so, or shall be directed by
the court, or other competent authority, or by any other person on his own

rf319»ti°11;.Whenever he claims an interest in the oiiice, franchise, or corporation. Which is the subject of the information.

SEQ 470- The information shall consist of, a plain statement of the facts

which constitute the grounds of the proceedings, addressed to the court.
SEC. 471. Whenever an information shall be filed against a person for

usurping an office, by the prosecuting attorney, he shall also set forth therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to the oiiice, With an averment
of his right thereto; and when filed by any other person, he shall show his
interest in the matter, and he may claim the damages he has sustained.

SEC. 472. Whenever an information is filed, a summons shall issue
thereon, which shall be served and returned as in other actions. The defendant shall appear and answer, or suffer default, and subsequent proceedings be had as in other cases.

SEC. 473. In every case wherein the rightto an office is contested,
judgment shall be rendered upon the rights of the parties, and for the damages the relator may show himself entitled to, if any, to the time of the
judgment. ‘ '

SEO. 474. If judgment berendered in favor of the relator, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office, after he has been qualiiied, as
required by law, and the court shall order the defendant to deliver over all
the books and papers in his custody, or within his power, belonging to the
office from which he shall have been ousted. '

SEC. 475. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over the
books and papers, pursuant to the order, the court, or judge thereof, shall
enforce the order by attachment and imprisonment. _

SEC. 476. When the judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff, he
may, if he has not claimed his damages in the information, have his action
for the damages at any time within one year after the judgment;

SEC. 477. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office
or franchise, one information may be filed against any or all such persons,
in order to try their respective rights to the oliice or franchise.

SEC. 478. Whenever any defendant shall be found guilty of any usurpation of, oriintrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any office, or any franchise within this territory, or any office in any corporation, created by the
authority of this territory, or when any public officer, thus charged, shall
be found guilty of having done, or suffered any act, which by the provisions of the law shall work a forfeiture of his office, or when any association or number of persons shall be found guilty of having acted as a corporation, without having been legally incorporated, the court shall give
judgment of ouster against the defendant, and exclude him from the oliiee,
franchise, or corporate rights; and,'in cases of corporations, that the same
shall be dissolved, and the court shall adjudge costs in favor of the plaintifff.

SEC. 479. If judgment be rendered against any corporation, or against
any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs to
be collected by execution, against the persons claiming to be a corporation,
or by attachment against the directors, or other othcers of the corporation,
and shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property and

effects, take an account, and make a distribution thereof among the creditors’: the prosecuting attorney shall immediately institute proceedings for
that purpose. 8

SEC. 480. Whenever any property shall escheat or be forfeited to the
territory, for its use, the legal title shall be deemed to be in the territory,
from the time of the escheat or forfeiture; and an information may befiled
by the prosecuting attorney in the district court, for the recovery of the
property, alleging the ground on which the recovery is claimed, and like
proceedings and judgment shall be had as in a civil action for the recovery
of property.

SEC. 481. When an information is filed by the prosecuting attorney, he
shall not be liable for the costs; but when it is filed upon the relation of a
private person, he shall be liable for costs, unless the same are adjudged
against the defendant.

SEC. 482. An information may be prosecuted for the purpose of annulling or vacating any letters patent, certificate or deed, granted by the proper authorities of this territory, when there is reason to believe that the
same were obtained by fraud, or through mistake, or ignorance of a material fact, or when the patentee, or those claiming under him, have done or
omitted an act, in violation of the terms on which the letters, deeds, or
certificates, were granted, have, by any other means, forfeited the interest
acquired under the same.

SEC. 483. In such cases, the information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney upon his relation, or by any private person, upon his relation,
showing his interest in the subject matter, and the subsequent proceedings,
judgment of the court, and awarding of cost, shall conform to- the above

provisions, and such letters patent, deed, or certificate, shall be annulled 01’
sustained, according to the right of the case.

LIII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. SEC. 484. Effect of pleading sworn to by either party.

485. New party introduced into an action, to what notice entitled.

486. In computing time, what days included and excluded.

487. Certain charges, to what extent, actionable as slanderous.

488. Court or officer authorized to take _bail;. to have power to examine, on Oath:

as to sutliciency. . .
489. Bonds under this act not void for want of form.

490. Of actions for recovery of purchase money for sale of lands.

491. Notice required to be in writing.

492. Husband and wife, in what actions they may join.

493. Person required to give bail may deposit the amount with the clerk.

494- In what county action against a corporation may be brought.
495. Action for personal injury not abated by death.

496° Right of action of widow and children of a man killed in a duel.
497- Right of action 11 Case of seduction.

Sec. 498. All other forms and rights of action for seduction abolished.
499. How execution levied upon real estate, owned jointly or in common. How ‘
upon personal property, owned jointly or in co-partnership.
500. Unsatisfied judgment on justices docket may be transferred to clerk of dis‘ trict court, and execution issued thereon.

SEC. 484. Bleadiugs sworn to by either party, in any case, shall not on
the trial be deemed proof of the facts alleged therein, nor require other or
greater proof on the part of the adverse party. ’

SEC. 485. When a new party is introduced into an action, as a representative or successor of a former party, such new party is entitled to the
same notice to be given, in the same manner, as required for defendants, in
the commencement of an action. ‘

SEC. 486. ‘ The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provi-‘
ded, -shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including the last.
If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.

SEC. 487. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or whoredom,
falsely made by any person against a female; also, Words falsely spoken ‘of
any person, charging such person with incest, or the infamous crime against
nature, either with mankind or the brute creation, shall be actionable in
the same manner as in the case of slanderous words, charging a crime, the
commission of which would subject the offender to death, or other degrading penalties.

Sec. 488. Every court and oiiicer authorized to take any bail or surety,
shall have power to examine, on oath, the person offering to become such
bail or surety, concerning his property, and sufficiency as such bail or surety.

SEC. 489. No bond, required under the provisions of this act, and intended as such bond, shall be void for want of form, or substance, or recital, or condition; norshall the principal or surety on such account be discharged; but all the parties thereto shall be held and bound to the full extent contemplated by the law requiring the same, to the amount speciiied
in such bond. In all actions on such defective bond, the plaintifff may state
its legal effect, in the same manner as though it were a perfect bond.

SEC. 490. In any action brought for the recovery of the purchase
money against any person, holding a contract for the‘ purchase of lands,
the party bound to perform the contract, if not plaintifff, may be made ,a
party, and the court, in a final judgment, may order the interest of the
purchaser to be sold or transferred to the plaintifff, upon such terms as may
be just, and may also order a specific performance of the contract in -favor
of the complainant, or the purchaser, in case a sale be ordered.

SEC. 491. In all cases where notice is required by this act, it must be
in writing, and may be served by the proper officer, or any -other -person.

SEC. 492. Husband and wife may join in all causes «of action arising”

from injuries to the person or character of either, and both of the m, or
from injuries to the property of either, and both of them, or arising out of
any contract in favor of either, and both of them.

SEC. 493. Any person required to give bail, may deposit with the clerk
the amount of money for which he is required to give bail, and thereupon
be discharged from arrest. ,

SEC. 494. Any action against a corporation may be brought in any
county where the corporation ha.s an ofrice for the transaction of business,

or any person resides, upon whom process may be served against such ,corporation, unless otherwise provided in this act. ‘

SEC. 495. No action for a personal injury to any person, occasioning
his death, shall abate, nor shall such right of action determine by reason
of such death, if he have a wife and child living; but such action may be
prosecuted, or commenced and prosecuted, in favor of such wife, or in favor
of the wife and children, or if no wife, in favor of such child or children.

SEC. 496. The widow, or widow and children, or child or children, if '

no widow, of a man killed in a duel, shall have a right of action against

the person killing him, and against the seconds, and all aiders and abettors,
and shall recover such a sum as to the jury shall seem reasonable.

SEC. 497. The seduction of an innocent unmarried female, shall in itself constitute a good cause of action, in the name of the party injured,
and against the party committing the injury, his aiders and abettors:——

Provided, That in all cases the damages recovered shall be for the exclusive beneht of the said -injured party.

SEC. 498. All other forms and rights of action, to recover damages for
seduction, or for the consequences thereof, by any -other person than the
party injured, are hereby abolished: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent actions for the support of bastards,
being maintained by the proper authorities.

SEC. 499. When a defendant in execution owns real estate, subject to
execution, jointly or in common with any other person, the judgment shall
be a lien, and the execution be levied upon the interest of the defendant
only. When he owns personal property, jointly, or in co-partnership With
any other person, and the interest cannot be separately attached, the sheriii‘ shall take possession of the property, unless the other person having an
interest therein, shall give the sheriff a suiiicient bond, with surety, to hold
and manage the property according to law; and the sheriff shall then proceed to sell the interest of the defendant in such property, describing such

interest in his advertisement, as nearly as may be, and the purchaser shall
acquire all the interest of such defendant therein; but nothing contained

shall be so construed as to deprive the co-partner of any such defendant,

or any person interested in such property, subjecting the same to the payment of the debts of the co-partnership.
SE0. 500. Any party having a judgment upon any justice’s docket, upon which an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and no property found,
may take a transcript of such judgment and return to the clerk of the district court of the county, and upon making an affidavit that the defendant
has real estate in said county, subject to execution, the clerk shall enter the
judgment in the execution docket, in the same manner as judgments of the
district court, and thereafter it shall stand, and execution be issued thereon,
as upon the judgment of the district court.

LIV. CONSTRUCTION.

Sec. 501. Term indicating an officer, how construed.
502. Construction of words importing singular number or masculine gender.
503. Actions already commenced to conform to provisions of this act, as far as
practicable.
. 504. Act to be liberally construed.
_' _ 505. N 0 part of act to be retroactive, unless so declared.
506. Repealing clause.

SEC. 501. Whenever any term indicating an officer, is used, it shall be
construed, when required, to mean any person authorized by law to discharge the duties of such oiiicer. SEC. 502. Words importing the singular number only, may also be ap
plied to the plural of persons and things, and Words importing the masculine gender only, may be extended to females also.

SEC. 603. In actions already commenced, the pleadings to be had to
form issues, the manner of proving testimony, the examination of parties,
the trial and rendition of judgment, and all other proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of this act, as far as practicable. ‘

SEC. 504. The provisions of this act shall be liberally construed, and
shall not be limited by any rule of strict construction.

SEC. 505. N 0 part of this act shall be retroactive, unless expressly so
declared.

SEC. 506. All laws inconsistent with the provisions of this act are
hereby repealed, but the repeal shall not operate to revive any former act,
All rights of action, secured by existing laws, may be prosecuted in the
manner provided in this act.

Passed April 28, 1854.

I

AN ACT RELATING TO JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND CONSTABLES, AND
THE PRACTICE BEFORE J USTICES OF THE PEACE.

I. Of justices.
II. Of constables. ,
III. Jurisdiction of justices of the peace.
IV. Comme-ncement of action ; service and return of process.
V. Pleadings a/nd adjournments.
VI. Of witnesses and depositions.
\. VII. Title to land.
VIII. Trial by jury.
IX. Of judgment.
X. Stay of erecutionand filing of transcripts.
XI. Setting of judgments. ‘
XII. Of execution and proceedings thereon.
. XIII. Of replevin.
XIV. Forcible entry and detainer.
XV. Action to recover possession of a mining claim.
XVI. Of proceedings for contempt before justices of the peace.
XVII. Certiorari and proceedings thereon.
XVIII. Of appeals to the district court. ,
XIX. Form in civil actions in justices court.
XX. Criminal jurisdiction.
XXI. Forms of proceedings in criminal cases.

I. or JUSTICES.

Sec. 1. ‘Justices, when and where elected.

2. Each precinct entitled to one.

County commissioners may appoint.
3. Qualifications for office of justice.
_ 4. Election of justice, how conducted.

5. Justice to give bond; form of.
Bond to be filed ; action upon.
Term of office.
Vacancies how filled.
Jurisdiction of justices.
Provision in case of a division of a precinct.
. - In case of death, resignation &c., of justice, all his books, papers, 850., to be delivered to the nearest justice in the precinct.
Proviso, in case there is no other justice.

12. Penalty for neglect to deliver books, &c.

l--‘D-4 \
"“.°S°.°°.“.°’

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
W“9hi”§ton, That the qualified _voters of each election precinct, in the
several organized counties of this territory, shall at the time and place of
holding the annual election, elect one or-more justices of the peace.

SEC. 2. Each precinct shall be entitled to one justiceof the peace, but
the board of county commissioners, at the time of organizing such precinct,
or at any time afterwards, may, if they deem proper, authorize a.n additional

’ justice of the peace to be elected therein. SEC. 3. N 0 person shall be eligible to the office of justice of the peace,
who is not a qualified voter, and who has not been a resident of the county
in which he is elected, six months next preceding his election ; nor shall
any sheriff, coroner, or clerk of the district court, be eligible to, or hold
such office.

SEC. 4. The election of justice of the peace shall be conducted, and return of such election made in the same manner, as other elections ; and
every person duly elected, shall be entitled to a certificate of election, and
shall take an oath of office ; which oath shall be endorsed on the back of
the certificate of election, and together with the certificate, filed in the
oliice of the clerk of the district court for the proper county.

SEC. 5. Every person elected a justice of the peace, shall at the time
of filing his oath of oliice in the office of the county auditor, enter into a
bond with the board of commissioners of the proper county, with two or

' more sureties, residents of the county, to be‘ approved by the said auditor,
in the sum of five hundred dollars, conditioned that he will faithfully pay
over, according to law, all monies which shall come into his hands by
virtue of his office as justice of the peace: said bond may be in the following form: —

Know all men bythese presents, that we, J. P., A. B., and C. D. are
held and firmly bound, unto the board of commissioners of the county of

in the territory of Washington, in the sum of five hundred

dollars, for the payment of which, We jointly and severally bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors, and administrators.

Sealed with our seals. Dated this —— day of A. D. 18 .

Whereas, the said J. P. has been duly elected a justice of the peace, in
and for the precinct of in the county of A.. D. 18 . Now
the condition of the above obligation is such, that, if the said J. P.. shall
faithfully pay over, according to law, all monies which shall come into his
hands by virtue of his office as justice of thepeace, then this obligation
shall be void, otherwise, in full force.

 

 

 
 

J. P., [L. s.]
A. B., [L. s.],
C. D., [L. s.]
SEC. 6. Such bond shall be filed in the oliice of the county auditor ;
and every person aggrieved by a breach of the condition thereof, may,
by an action upon the bond, have judgment against the justice, and his
srueties, for such sum as he may show himself entitled to, with costs, and

interest at the rate of twenty-live per cent. per annum ; and upon any such
judgment, stay of execution shall not be allowed.

SEC. 7. Every justice of the peace shall hold his office for the term of
two years, and until his successor is elected and qualified ; and every justice
heretofore elected and qualified, shall continue to act as such until his term
of oiiice expires, and until his successor is elected and qualified.

SEC. 8. All vacancies existing in the office of justice of the peace, whether
happening by death, resignation, or otherwise, may be filled by appointment
by the board of commissioners of the proper county. Every person so appointed shall hold his office until the next election ; and is required to
qualify in the same manner, as if he had been duly elected to the oiiice of
justice of the peace, under the provisions of this act.

SEC. 9. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace, elected in pursuance of
the provisions of this act, shall be co-extensive with the limits of the county
in which they are elected, or appointed; and no other or greater, whether said
county be attached to any other county for judicial purposes, or not. But
every justice of the peace shall continue to reside in the precinct for which
he was elected, or appointed, during his continuance in oifice.

' SEC. 10. Whell aprecinct shall be divided, and any justice of the peace
of the original precinct shall fall into the new one, he shall continue to discharge the duties of justice of the peace, until his term of office expires,’
and his successor is elected and qualified.

SEC. 11. If any justice of the peace shall die, resign, or remove out of
the precinct for which he may be elected, or his term of oiiice be in any
other manner terminated, thedocket, books, records, and papers, appertaining to his office, or relating to any suit, matter or controversy,
committed to him in his official capacity, shall be delivered to the nearest
justice in the precinct, who may thereupon proceed to hear, try, and determine such matter, suit, or controversy, or issue execution thereon, in the
same manner as it would have been lawful for the justice before whom such
matter or suit was commenced, to have done : Provided, That if there be
no other justice of the peace in said precinct, such docket, books, records
and papers, shall be delivered to the ‘county auditor, who on demand shall
deliver the same to a justice of said precinct, when there shall be one
qualified therein, who shall exercise the same powers as though they had
been originally delivered to him.

SEC. 12. Every person whose duty it is to deliver over the docket,
b°0kS, records and papers, as prescribed in the last section, shall forfeit
and Pay for the use of the county, fifteen dollars for every three months

neglect to perform such duty, which sum may be recovered at the suit of
any person. .

II. or co.\‘sr.\nm:s.

Sec. 13. Constables, when and where elected.
14. Vacancies how tilled.
15. Election of, how conducted.
16. Constable to take an oath. ’
17. Shall give bond.
18. Jurisdiction of.

Sec. 13. At each general election, there shall be elected by the quali—
lied electors of each precinct in the several organized counties of this
territory, as many constables as there are justices of the peace elected, or
authorized to be elected, in such precinct.

SEC. 14. All vacancies existing in the offices of constable, whether-happening by death, resignation or failure to elect, or otherwise, may be filled
by appointment by the board of commissioners of the proper county ; and
every person so appointed shall hold his office until the next election:

SEC. 15. The election of constables shall be conducted, and the return
of such election made, and certificates of election issued in the same [manner]
as in elections of justices of the peace.

Sec. 16. Every person elected or appointed a constable, shall within
twenty days after receiving his certificate of election, take an oath before
any person authorized to administer oaths, that -he will support the constitution of the United States, and the laws of this territory, and faithfully
discharge and perform the duties of his office as constable, according to the
best of his ability. Such oath shall be endorsed on the /back of the certificate of election, or appointment, and filed, together with the eertilicate, in
the oiiice of the auditor of the proper county.

SEC. 17. Every person elected or appointed to the office of constable,
shall within the time prescribed for filing his oath of oliice, enter into a bond
to the proper county, with two or more sureties, residents of the county, to
be approved by the county auditor, in the sum of one thousand dollars,
conditioned that he will execute all process to him directed and delivered,
and pay over all monies received by him by virtue of his office ; and in
every respect discharge all the duties of constable according to law. The
auditor shall endorse thereon his approval of the sureties therein named,

and shall file the same in his office.

SEC. 18. Any constable may within his county serve any writ, process,
or order, lawfully directed to him by any justice of the peace, ,judge of
probate, or coroner, and generally do and perform all acts, by law required
of constables.

III. JURISDICTION or JUSTICES or THE PEACE.

SEC. 19. Jurisdiction to extend to county for which elected.
20. Oilice to be in the precinct for which elected.
21» Not to hold his office with an attorney, unless &c.
22. Authority of justice, and powers of justices court.
23. Justice to have juristifction and cognizance of certain actions &c..
24. Jurisdiction conferred‘. by last section not to extend  certain actions.

SEC. 129: The jurisdiction of all justices of the peace shall be co—exteIrsite with the‘ limits of the countyin which they are elected, and no other or
greater, unless otherwise expressly provided by statute. ‘

SEC. 20. Every justice of the peace shall keep his oiiice in the precinct‘
for which he may be elected, and not elsewhere, but he may’ issue process
in anyplace in; the county-. '

SEC. 21'-. ‘ No‘ justice of the peace sha1l’hold his office in the same room
with a practicing attorney, unless such attorney shall be his law partner;
and in that case, such partner shall not be permitted to appear or practice
as an attorney, in- any case tried before such justice of the peace.

SEC. 22. Every justice of the peace, elected in any precinct in this
territory, is hereby authorized to hold a court for the trial of all actionsinr
the next section enumerated,‘ and to hear, try, and determine the same according to law ; and for that’ purpose, where no special? provision is
otherwise made by law, such court shall be vested with all the necessary
powers which : are possessed by courts of record in this territory ;; and all‘.
laws of a general nature shall apply to such justices court, as far as thesame may be applicable, and not inconsistent with» the provisions of this
chapter.

SEC. 23.. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction over, and
cognizance of, the following: actions and proceedings :'

1st. Of an action arising on contract for the recovery of . money‘ only,
ii.”'the sum:claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars- ‘

2d- Of an action fori‘damages,.fcr aninjury to the person or to thereal: _

property, or for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property,. if the
damages claimed do not exceed one-hundred dollars,

3d. Of action for a penalty, not exceeding one hundred dollars..

4th. Of an action upon a bond, cenditionedfor the payment of money,.
not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum,
the judgment to be given: for the sum actually due. When the payments

are tovbe made by insta1lments,. an action may be brought for each install11191113. as it shall; become due. 5th. Of an action on an undertaking or surety bond, taken" by‘ him, if’

the amount claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.
6th. Of an action ‘for the foreclosure of any mortgage,’ or the enforcev

ment of any lien on personal property, when the debt secured does not exceed
one hundred dollars.

7th. Of an action for damages, for fraud in the sale, purchase, or ex-‘

change of personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed one

hundred dollars.
8th. Of an action for a forcible or unlawful detention of lands,

tenements, or other possessions. ,

9th. Of an action to try the right of occupancy or possession to a mining
claim.

10. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, when
the amount does not exceed one hundred dollars.

SEC. 24. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section, shall not however extend to the civil actions,

1st. In which the title to real property shall come in question.

2d. Nor to an action for the‘forec1osur'e of a mortgage, or the enforcement of a lien on real estate.

3d. Nor to an action for false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction.

4th. Nor to any action against an executor or administrator, as such.

IV. COMMENCEMENT or ACTIONS-—SERVICE AND RETURN or PROCESS.

SEC. 25. Justice to keep a docket; what to be entered therein.

26. How actions may be instituted before justice.

27. Plaintiff a non-resident, may be required to give security for costs.
28. Process, how issued and directed.

29. First process to be a summons.

30. Summons, how served.

31. Constable or sheriff to make netum thereon.

32. Warrant of an°est, when it may be issued.

33. Before issuing warrant, plaintifff to give bond.

34. Warrant, how served.

35. Officer making the arrest to give notice to the plaintifff.

36. How long defendant in want may be detained.

37. On what conditions defendant may waive a continuance.

38. When justice may appoint a. special officer to execute a process.
39. Penalty for failing or neglecting to execute process,

40. How infant plaintifff may sue.

41. Parties entitled to one hour to make their appearance.

Sec. 25. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket, in a well bound
book, in which he shall énter:—-—1st. The titles of all actions commenced before him.

2d. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum of money be

claimed, the amount of the demand.
3d. The date of the summons, and the time of its return; and if an

order to arrest the defendant be made, the statement of the facts on which
the order issued:
4th. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their
non-appearance, if default be made.
5th. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintifff’s demand, and
the amount claimed; and if any set-oh’ he pleaded, 3, similar statement of
the set-off, and the amount estimated. A
6th. Every continuance, stating at whose request, and for what time.
7th. The demand of a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by
whom made; the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial,
and return of the jury. ,
8th. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the names of
all witnesses sworn, and at whose request.
9th. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the jury disagree
and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.
10th. The judgment of the court, and the time when rendered.
11th. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to
whom delivered, and an account of the debt and costs, and the fees due to
each person separately.
12th. The fact of an appeal having been made and allowed, and the,
' time When.

13th. Satisfaction of the judgment, or any money paid thereon, and the
time when.

14th. And such other entries as may be material.

SEC. 26. Actions may be instituted before a justice of the peace, either
by the voluntary appearance and agreement of the parties, or by the usual
process.

SEC. 27. Wheneve1' the plaintifff is a non-resident of the county, the
justice may require of him security for the costs before the commencement
of the action.

SEC. 28. All process issued by justices of the peace, shall run in the
name of the United States, be dated the day issued, and shall be signed
by the justice granting the same, and shall be directed to the sheriff or
any constable of the proper county. I

See. 29. In all cases, not otherwise specially provided for, the first
process shall be a summons, directed to the she1'if‘f or constable, and commanding him to summon the defendant to appear before such justice, at a
time and place to be named in the summons, not less than six nor more
than twenty days after the date thereof, to answer the complaint of the
plaintifff.

. Size. 30. The summons shall be served at least five days before the
t1me.0f appearance therein mentioned, by delivering a copy thereof, as
provided for the service of process in the act regulating civil actions.

SEC. 31. Every constable or sheriff serving any process, shall return
thereon, in writing, the time and manner of service, and shall sign his
name to such return.

SEC. 32. A justice of the peace shall issue .a warrant of arrest in such
cases within his jurisdiction, and for such causes, and upon such proof, as is
provided for an order for a Warrant in the act regulating civil actions.

SEC. 33. Before issuing the warrant of arrest, the justice shall require
a bond on part of the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, to the ef1“ect that
if the defendant recover judgment,.the plaintifff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which may be sustained by
reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specihed in the bond, which
shall be at least one hundred dollars. '

Sec. 34-. The warrant will be served by arresting the defendant, and
taking him before the justice of the peace who issued the same; but if such
justice, at the return thereof be absent,.or unable to try the action, the
officer shall immediately take the defendant to the nearest justice of the
same county, who shall take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon
as if the warrant had been issued by himself.

SEC. 35. The officer making the arrest, shall immediately give notice
thereof to the plaintifff, his agent, or attorney, and endorse on the warrant
the time of the arrest, and the time of serving notice on the plaintifff.

SEC. 36. When a defendant is brought before a justice on a warrant,
he shall be detained -in the custody of the officer, until he shall be discharged according to law; but in no case shall the defendant be ‘detained

longer than twenty-four hours from the time he shall be brought before
the justice, unless within that time. the trial of the action shall be commenced, or unless it has been delayed at the instance of the defendant.

SEO. 37. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand a continuance,
the same may be granted, on condition that he remain in custody, execute
and file with the justice, ,a bond with one or more sullicient sureties, to be
approved by the justice, to the effect that he will render himself amenable
to the process of the court; or that the sureties will pay to the plaintifff
the amount of any judgment, which he may recover in the action. On
filing such bond, the justice shall order the defendant to be discharged
from custody.

SEC. 38. Every justice, issuing any process authorized by this chapter,
upon being satisfied that such process will not be executed for want of an
officer, to be had in time to execute the same, may, by an indorsement upon
the process, empower any suitable person, not being a party to the action,
to execute the same; and the person so empowered, shall thereupon possess
all the authority of a constable, in relation to the execution of such process,

and shall be subject to the same obligations, and shall receive the same
fees for his services.

Sec. 39. If any officer, without showing good cause therefore, fail to

execute any process to him delivered, and make due return thereof, or

/ make a false return, such officer, for every such offense, shall pay to the
_party injured, ten dollars, and all damage such party may have sustained,

by reason thereof, to be recovered in a civil action founded upon this

statute.

SEC. 40. No action shall be commenced by an infant plaintifff, except
by ‘his guardian, or until a next friend for such infant shall have been appointed. Whenever requested, the justice shall appoint some suitable
person, who shall consent thereto in writing, to be named by such‘ plaintifff,

to act as his next friend in such action, and who shall be responsible for

the costs therein. ,
SEC. 41. After the service and return process against an infant defendant, the action shall not be further prosecuted, _until a guardian for such

infant shall have been appointed. Upon the request of such defendant,
the justice ‘shall appoint some person, who shall consent thereto in writing,
to be guardian of the defendant in .defense of the action; and if the de-fendant shall not appear on the return day of the process, or if he neglect

-or refuse to nominate such guardian, the justice may, at the request of the
plaintiff, appoint any discreet person as such guardian. ‘The consent of
the guardian or next friend shall be filed with the justice; and such guardian for the defendant shall not be liable for any costs in the action.

SEC. 42. The parties shall be entitled to one hour in which to make
their appearance, after the time mentioned in the summons for appearance,
but shall not be required to remain longer than that time, unless both
parties appear; and the justice, being present, is actually engaged in the
trial of another action or proceeding; in such case, he may postpone the
time of appearance, until the close of such trial.

V. PLEADINGS AND ADJOURNMENTS.

Sec. 43. Pleadings to take place on appearance of parties, unless. &c.

44. What the pleadings shall be. 45. When the pleadings shall be in writing.

.46. When the pleadings are real, substance to be entered on the docket; when
in writing to be filed. No particular form required.

47. Statement of want of suiiicient knowledge, equivalent to denial.

48. In cause of action accruing out of an account or instrument for the payment
of money, sufficient to deliver the account or instrument to the court;
adverse party entitled to inspection of the original.

49. Pleadings to be verified by oath of the party.

50. All material allegations not denied to be taken to be true; exceptions.

51- Either party may object to the pleading of the other.

52. Variance between proof and allegation to be disregarded, unless adverse
Party has been misled. '

53. Amendments to the pleadings.

Sec. 54. Set oil’ to be alleged in the answer; defendant may have judgment for the
' amount due.
55. When amount due defendant‘ exceeds jurisdiction of justice, court to allow
suiiicient to cancel p1aintilf’s claim, and defendant to have judgment for
costs.

56. Continuance, when and for how long justice may grant.

SEC. 43. The pleadings in justices’ court shall take place upon the appearance of the parties," unless they shall have [been] previously filed, or
unless the justice shall, for good cause shown, allow a longer time than the
time of appearance. ’

SEC. 44. The pleadings in justices’ court shall be:

1st'. The complaint of the plaintifff, which shall state in a plain and
direct manner the facts constituting the cause of action.

2d. The answer of the defendant, which may contain a denial of the
complaint, or any part thereof; and also a statement, in a plain and direct
manner, of any facts constituting a defense.

3d. When the answer sets up a set-off by way of defense, the reply of
the plaintifff. ' ’

Sec. 45. The pleadings shall be in writing, when the action is for one
of the following causes:

1st. For the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforcement of any
lien on personal property.

2d. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful: detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions.

3d. To recover the occupancy or possession of a mining claim. In: all
other cases, the pleadings may be oral or in writing. '

SEC. 46. When: the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall‘ be
entered by the justice in his docket. When in writing, they shall be filed
in his oilice, and a reference made to them in his docket. Pleadings shall
not be required to be in any particular form, but shall be such as to enable
a person of common understanding to know what is intended.

SEC. 47. A statement in an answer or reply, that the party has not
suiiicient knowledge or information, in respect to a particular allegation in
the previous pleadings of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be
deemed equivalent to a denial.

Sec. 48. When the cause of action, or set-oh‘, arises upon an account
or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be suliicient for the
party to deliver the account or instrument, or a copy thereof, to the court,
and to state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a
specified sum, which he claims to recover or set—oif. The court may, at the
time of pleading, require that the original account, or instrument, be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, with liberty to copy the
same; or if it be not so exhibited, may prohibit its being given in evidence..

SEC, 49. Every complaint, answer, or reply, shall be verified by the
oath of the party pleading; or if he be not present, by the oath of his

attorney or agent, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The verification shall be oral, or in writing, in conformity with the pleading verified.

SEC. 50. Every material allegation in a complaint, or relating to a
set-off in an answer, not denied by the pleading of the adverse party,
shall, on the trial, be taken to be true, except that when a defendant, who
has not been served with a copy of the complaint, fails to appear and answer, the plaintifff cannot recover Without proving his case. _

Sec. 51. Either party may object to a pleading by his adversary, or
to any part thereof, that it is not suiiiciently explicit to enable him to
understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense, although
it be taken as true. If the eourt deem the objection well founded, it shall
order the pleading to _be amended; and if the party refuse to amend, the
defective pleading shall be disregarded.

SEC. 52. A variance between the proof on the trial, and the allegations
in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court he satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

SEC. 53. The pleadings may be amended at any time before _the trial,
or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deficiency or omission in
the allegations or denials, necessary to support the action _or defense, when
by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction
of the court that a continuance is necessary to the adverse party, in consequence of such amendment, a continuance shall be granted. The court
may, also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amendment, the
payment of costs to the adverse party.

Sec. 54. To entitle a defendant to any set-off he may have against the
plaintifff, he must allege the same in his answer; and the statute regulating
set-offs in the district court, shall in all respects, be applicable to a set—ol‘1"
in a justice’s court, if the amount claimed to be set-oif after deducting the
amount found due the plaintifff, be within the jurisdiction of a justice of
the peace; and judgment may, in like manner, be rendered by the justice
in favor of the defendant, for the balance found due from the plaintifff.

SEC. 55. When the set-off of the defendant proved shall exceed the
claim of the plaintifff, and such excess in amount exceed the jurisdiction of
a justice of the peace, the court shall allow such amount as is necessary to
cancel the plaintiff’s claim, andgive the defendant a judgment for costs;

-but in such case, the court shall not render judgment for any further sum
in favor of the defendant.

.  56. When the pleadings of the parties shall have taken place, the
Justlce 3113", upon the application of either party, if the dckndant be not

under arrest, and sudicient cause be ‘shown on oath,‘ continue the ease for
any time not exceeding sixty days. If the continuance be on account of
absence of testimony, it shall be for such reasonable time as will enable the
party to procure such testimony, and shall be at the cost of the party
applying therefore, unless otherwise ordered by the justice; and in all other
respects, shall be governed by the law as applicable to continuance in the

district court.

VI. or WITNESSES AND DEPOSITIONS.

SEC. 57. Subpoena valid to compel attendance of witnesses, if within twenty miles.

58. How subpoena may be served.
59. Witness failing to appear, justice may issue an attachment.

60. Attachment, to whom directed.

61. Person subpoenaed neglecting to appear liable for damages.

62. Party to action may be examined as a Witness.

63. Testimony of party may be rebutted.

64. Party refusing to testify, judgment may be taken against him.

65. Party examined by adverse party, may be examined in his own behalf.
66. When depositions may be taken.

67. Notice of, how served.
68. When depositions may be read on trial.

SEC. 57. A subpoena issued by a justice of the peace, shall be valid to
compel the attendancebf a Witness in a justice’s court, if such Witness be
within twenty miles of the place of trial.

SEC. 58. A subpoena may be served by any White person above the age
of eighteen years, by reading it to the Witness, or by delivering to him a
Copy thereof, if he require it, or by leaving a copy at his- usual place of
abode.

SEC. 59. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the justice, by
proof made before him, that anylperson, duly subpoenaed to appear before
him in an action, shall have failed, Without a just cause, to attend as a Witness, in conformity to such subpoena, and the party in whose behalf such
subpoena was issued, or his agent, shall make oath that the testimony of
such Witness is material, the justice shall have power to issue an attachmentito compel the attendance of such witness: Provided, Tha/6,110 attachment shall issue against a Witness in any civil action, unless his fees for
mileage, and one day’s attendance, have been tendered or paid in advance,
if previously demanded by such witness, from the person serving the subpoena.

SEC. 60. Everysuch attachment may be directed to any sheriff or constable of the county in which the justice resides, and shall be executed in
the same manner as a tvarrant; and the fees of the officer for issuing and
serving the same, shall be paid by the person against Whom the same was
issued, unless he show reasonable cause, to the satisfaction of the justice,

for his omission to attend; in which case, the party requiring such attachment, shall pay all such costs.

SEC. 61. Every person subpoenaed as aforesaid; and neglecting to appear, shall also be liable to the party in whose behalf he may have been
subpoenaed, for all damages which such party may have sustained by reason
of his non-appearance: Provided, That such witness had the fees allowed
for mileage, and one day’s attendance paid, or tendered him, in advance.

SEC. 62. A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the
instance of the adverse party, and for that purpose may be compelled in the
same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any other’
witness, to testify at the trial, or appear and have his deposition taken.

SEC. 63. The examination of a party, thus taken, may be rebutted by’
adverse testimony.

SEC. 64. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or give his‘

deposition before trial, when required, his complaint, answer, or reply, may’
be stricken out, and judgment taken against him.

SEC. 65. A party examined by an adverse party, may be examined onhis own behalf, in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But" if he
testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the
adverse party, or necessary to qualify or explain his answer thereto, or to
discharge, when his answer would chaige himself, such adverse party may
offer himself as a witness, and he shall be so received.

SEC. 66. Either party, in an action depending before a justice of the
peace, may cause the deposition of a witness therein to be taken, when
such witness resides, or is about to go, more than twenty miles from the
place of trial, or is so sick, infirm, or aged, as to make it probable that he
will not be able to attend at the trial.

SEC. 67. The notice shall be served, and the deposition taken, certified,
and returned, according to the law regulating the taking of depositions, to‘
be read in the district court..

SEC. 68.. The justice shall allow every deposition taken, certified, andreturned, according to law, to be read on the trial of the cause in which it
is taken, in all cases where the same testimony, if given verbally before him,
could have been received ;: but no such deposition shall be read on the tria-L

unless it appears» to the justice that the witness,. whose deposition is so of-‘
fered,

lst.. Is dead, or resides more than twenty miles from the place of trial;
or,.

2d. Is unable, or cannot safely attend before the justice, on account of
sickness,. age, or other bodily infirmity;

.3d. That he has gone more than twenty miles from the place of trial.without the consent or collusion of the party offering the deposition.

VII. TITLE T0 LAND.

Sec. 69. Title to land appearing to be in dispute, in the trial of any cause, jiusticeito
cease proceedings, and certify the cause to the district court, in the
same manner as on an appeal.

See. 69. If it appear on the trial of any cause before a justice of the
peace, from the evidence of either party, that the title to lands is in question, which title shall be disputed by the other party, the justice shall immediately make an entry thereof in his docket, and cease all further proceedings in the cause, and shall certify and return to the district court of
the county, a transcript of all the entries made in his docket, relating to
the cause, together with all the process and other papers relating to the
action, in the same manner, and within the same time, as upon an appeal;
and thereupon the parties shall file their pleadings, and the district court
shall proceed in the cause to final judgment and execution, in the same
manner as if the said action had been originally commenced therein; and

the costs shall abide the event of. the suit.

VIII.‘ TRIAL BY JURY.

Sec. 70. Either party may demand a jury.

71. How many the jury shall consist of.

72. Justice shall issue a venire.

73. Sheriff or constable to execute the venire.

74. Either party may challenge the jury.

75. Challenges for cause. '

76. Justice to administer oath to juror.

77. Verdict to be delivered to justice, and entered on docket.
78. Jury unable to ageee, justice may discharge them, and issue a new venire,

unless, &c.
79. Penalty for not appearing when summoned as juror.

‘ SEC. 70. Before the justice shall commence an investigation of the merits of the cause, by an examination of the witnesses, or the hearing of any ‘

other testimony, either of the parties may demand of the justice that the
cause be tried by a jury. A

See. 71. The jury shall consist of six persons, unless the parties agree
upon any number of jurors less than six, to try the cause; in which case,
the jury shall consist of such number, not exceeding six, as the parties may
agree upon. . I

See. 7 2. The justice shall issue a venire, directed to the sheriff, or any
constable of the countylwhere the cause is to be tried, commanding him to
summon six (or such number as the parties may have agreed a upon,) good
and lawful men of the county, qualified to serve as jurors in the district
court of the same county, who shall be no wise. of kin to either party, nor
interested in the action, to appear before said justice, at a time and place

to be named therein, to make a jury for the trial of the cause between the
parties therein named.

SEC. 7 3. The sheriff or constable shall execute such venire fairly and
impartially, and shall not summon any person whom he has reason to be
lieve is biased or prejudiced for or against either of the parties. He shall
summon the jurors personally, and shall make a list of the persons, which
he shall certify and annex to the venire, and return to the justice. If a
suiiicient number of competent jurors cannot be obtained from the panel returned, the sheriff or constable shall immediately summon others to serve
in their place. .

SEO. 74. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can be
made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall be peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to two peremptory challenges. _

SEC. 75. Challenges for cause may be taken on any ground that would
be a good cause of challenge, on the trial of an action in the district court.
Challenges for cause shall be tried by the justice. .

Sec. '7 6. When the jury is selected, the justice shall administer to them
an oath or affirmation, well and truly to try the cause.

SEC. 77. Vllhen the jury have agreed on their verdict, they shall deliver
the same to the justice, publicly, who shall enter it on his docket.

SE0. 7 8. Wlienever a justice shall be satisiied that a jury, sworn in any
civil cause before him, having been out a reasonable time, cannot agree on
their verdict, he may discharge them, and issue a new venire, unless the
parties consent that the justice may render judgment, on the evidence before him, or upon such other evidence as they may produce.

SEC. 79. Every person who shall be duly summoned as a juror, and
shall not appear, nor render a reasonable excuse for his default, shall be
subject to a fine, not exceeding ten dollars.

XI. or JUDGMENT.

Size, 80. When judgment dismissing the action, without prejudice, may be entered.

81. When judgment shall be given upon failure of defendant to appear.

82. If a jury be not demanded, justice to hear and determine the cause.

83. When judgment shall be entered.

84. Effect of defendant’s offering, before trial, to allow judgment for a. specified

sum to be taken against him. .
85. Costs, disposition of.

Sec. 80. Judgment that the action be dismissed, without prejudice to
a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the following cases:

1st. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is
finally submitted,':.’»d. When he fails to appear at the time spcciliedin the summons, upon
continuance, or within one hour thereafter.

3d. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence that
the action is brought in the wrong county; but if the objection be taken
and overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal or appeal; if not taken at
the trial it shall be deemed Waived, and shall not be cause of reversal.

SEC. 81. When the defendant fails to appear and answer at the time
specified in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, judgment shall be

, given as‘ follows:

1st. VVl1en the defendant has been served with a copy of the complaint,
judgment shall be given Without further evidence for the sum specined in
the summons. c .

2d. In other cases, the justice shall bear the evidence of the plaintifff,
and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the evidence to
be just, but in no case exceeding the amount specified in the summons.

SEC. 82. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial he not demanded, the justice
shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions of law and fact, and rene der judgment accordingly.

SEO. 83. Upon the verdict of a jury, the justice shall immediately render judgment thereon. When the trial is by the justice, judgment shall be
entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant has been
arrested and is still in custody; in other cases, it shall be entered Within
three days after the close of the trial. 8

SEC. 84. If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer, in writing,
to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff
may immediately have judgment therefore, with the costs then accrued; but
if he do not accept such offer, before trial, and fail to recover in the action
a sum greater than the offer, such plaintifff shall not recover any costs that
may accrue, after he shall have been notified of the offer of the defendant,
but such costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover, deducted
from‘ his recovery. But the olfer and failure to accept it, shall not be given
in evidence to affect the recovery, ‘otherwise than as to costs, as above provided. ,

SEC. 85. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs, by this act,
the justice shall add their amount to the judgment; .or, in case of the failure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case of a dismissal of the action, he

shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for the amount of such
costs.» ‘

 STAY or EXECUTION AND FILING on TR.iNscRI1f'rs. ~

Sad. 86. Execution, how long it may be stayed,
87. In- what manner it may he stayed. Bond to be given.

88. Form of bond.
89. At the expiration of the stay, how execution to be satisfied.

90. Bail may have judgment against defendant, when.
91. If a judgment be stayed, justice to revoke execution, in same manner as on

an appeal.

SEC. 86. The execution upon a judgment by a justice of the peace, may
be stayed in the manner hereinafter provided, upon reasonable notice to
the opposite party, and for the following periods of time, to be calculated

from the date of the judgments:
lst. If the judgment be for any sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars,

exclusive of costs, one month.
2d. If it be for more than twenty-five dollars, two months.

SEC. 87. To entitle any person to such stay of execution, some responsible person, to be approved by the justice, and not being a party to the
judgment, must, within live days after ‘the rendering of the judgment, enter
into a bond before the justice, to the adverse party, in a sum suliicient to
secure the payment of the judgment and costs, conditioned to be void upon
such payment, at the expiration of the stay. .

SEC. 88. Such bond shall be signed by the person entering into the
same, and may be in the following form: .

Whereas, A. B. has obtained a judgment before J. P., one of the justices of the peace in and for county, on the —— day of , 18——,,
against 0. D., for —— dollars. Now, thereforee, I, E. F., acknowledge myself bound to A. B., in the sum of —— dollars; this bond to be void, if
such judgment shall be paid at the expiration of month after the

   

 

time it was rendered.

Dated the ——- day of 18-.

 

' SEC. 89. If at the expiration of such stay the judgment be not paid,
the execution shall. issue against both the principal and bail. If the principal do not satisfy the execution, and~the oiiicer cannot find sufficient property belonging to him upon which to levy, he shall levy upon the property
of the bail, and in his return shall state What amount of money, collected
by him on the execution, was collected from the bail, and the time when
the same was received.

SEC. 90. After the return of such execution, the bail shall be entitled,
on application to the justice, to have the judgment, or so much thereof as
may have been collected from him in satisfaction of the execution, transferred to his use; and he may collect the same from the defendant by exeCution» together with interest at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum.

SEC. 91. If a judgment he stayed, in the manner above provided, paftel‘

an execution has been issued thereon, the justice shall revoke such execu-'

tion, in the same manner, and with like effect, as he is hereinafter directed _

to revoke an execution, after an appeal has been allowed; and if the dcfendant have been committed, shall order him to be discharged from custody.

XI. snrrrne orr JUDGMENTS.

Size. 92. When mutual judgments may be set-011‘ against each other.

93. Method of proceeding where the judgment proposed as a set-off was rendered
before another justice.
94. Action of justice where judments are setroif against each other.

SEC. 92. If there be mutual justice’s judgments between the same parties, upon which the time for appealing has elapsed on judgment, on
the application of either party, and reasonable notice given to the adverse
party, one may be set—o1i' against the other, by the justice before whom
the judgment, against which the set-off is proposed, may be.

SEC. 93. If the judgment proposed as a set-05 was rendered before
another justice, the party proposing such set-oil’, _shall produce before the
justice a transcript of such judgment, upon which there is a certificate of

the justice before whom such may be,. that it is unsatisfied, in whole or in.part; and that there is no appeal ; and that such transcript was obtained
for the purpose of being set—olf against the judgment to which it is offered
as a setoif. The justice granting such transcript, shall make "an. entry
thereof, on his docket, and all further proceedings on. such judgment shall

be stayed, unless such transcript be returned with the proper justice’s certificate thereon, that it has not been allowed in set-oil’.

SEC. 94. If any justice shall set—oif one : judgment against another, he
shall make an entry thereof in his docket, and execution shall issue only
for the balance which may be due after such set—oif. If a justice shall
allow a transcript of a judgment rendered by another justice, to be set-off,
he shall file such transcript among the papers relating to the judgment in
which it is allowed in set-oil‘. If he shall refuse such transcript asa set—off,.
he shall so certify on the transcript, and return the same to the party whooifered it.

 OF EXECU'llIONS AND-i PROCEEDINGS '!lHEREON.S30. 95. Execution issued on the application of the party, entitled to the same ; exception. .
96. Judgment rendered by a justice not satisned during his continuance in odice,

his successor to issue execution.— _ .
97. Execution unsatisfied in one county, transcript to be sent to justloe of another

county, who shall issue execution.
98. Execution, to whom directed, when dated. and when returnable.

' To be against goods and chattels.

Sec. 99. Before delivery of execution, certain entries to be made in docket and on exccution.
100. Proceeding in case execution is not satislied.
101. Action of officer in case of levy upon goods and chattels.
102. Goods and chattels to be sold at public sale to highest bidder.

103. Officer not to be a purchaser at such sale.
104. When execution may be issued against the person of the defendant.

105. When certain persons may be summoned as gamishees.
106. Justice may issue execution against prevailing party for fees and costs; when.

107. _ Method of proceeding upon adverse claim to property levied on.
108. Construction of the last two sections.

SEC. 95. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a 'justice’s
’court,may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto, in the
manner hereinafter prescribed ; but after the lapse of five years from the
date of the judgment, no execution shall issue except by leave of the justice
before whom such judgment may be, upon reasonable notice to the
defendant. SEC. 96. When any judgment shall have been rendered by any justice
of the peace, and the same shall not be satisfied, during his continuance in
office, and the docket of such justice shall have been transferred to another
justice, or to the successor of the justice rendering such judgment, the justice
to Whom the docket shall be delivered, shall issue execution upon such unsatisfied judgment in the same manner, and With like effect, as if he himself

. had rendered the judgment.

SEC. 970. If the defendant have not goods and chattels in the county in
which judgment was rendered, suihcient to satisfy the execution, the
justice before Whomsuch judgment may be, shall, at the request of the
party entitled, make out a certificate transcript of the same, which may be
delivered to a justice in any other county, who shall make an entry thereof
in his docket, and issue execution thereon, for the amount of the judgment,
or such part as shall be imsatislied, with costs as in other cases.

SEC. 98. The execution shall be directed (except when it is otherwise
specially provided,) to the sheriff or any constable of the county where the
justice resides ; shall be dated on the day it is issued, and made returnable
Within thirty days from the date ; and it shall be against the goods and
chattels of the person against whom the same is issued.

Sac. 99. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice shall state
in his docket, and also on the back of the execution, the amount of the
debt, or damages and costs, and of the fees due to each person separately,
and the oiiicer receiving such execution shall endorse thereon, the time of
the reception of the same. ,

Some. 100. If an execution be not satisfied, it may, at the request of the
plaintifff, be renewed from time to time by the justice who issues the same,
01' the .l‘1StlCc to whom his (locket is transferred, by an endorsement thereon

to that effect, signed by him, and dated when the same shall be made._ If

any part of such execution has been satisfied, the endorsement of renewal '

shall express the sum due on the execution. Every such endorsement shall
renew the execution in full force in all respects for thirty days, and no
longer; and an entry of such renewal shall be made in the docket of the
justice. _

Sec. 101. The officer, after taking goods and chattels into his custody, by virtue of an execution, shall, without delay, give public notice by
at least three advertisements, put up at three public places in the county,
of the time and place, when and where they will be exposed for sale. Such

notice shall describe the goods and chattels taken, and shall be put up at

least ten days before the day of sale. 7
SEC. 102. At the time and place so appointed, if the goods and chattels be present for inspection of bidders, the officer shall expose them to
sale at public vendue to the highest bidder, he shall return the execution
and have the money before the justice at the time of making such return,
ready to be paid over to the persons respectively entitled thereto. .
SEC. 103. N o officer shall directly, or indirectly, purchase any goods.

or chattels ‘at any sale made by him upon execution, and every such

purchase shall be absolutely void. _

SEC. 104. If the action be one in which the defendant might have been
arrested upon a warrant, an execution against the person of such defendant
may be issued after the return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. An execution against the person may likewise
be issued after such return, where the defendant has been arrested upon a
warrant and not discharged according to law. ,

SEC. 105. If there be no property found, or if the goods and chattels
levied on be not sufficient to satisfy such execution, the officer shall on demand of the plaintifff, summon in writing as garnishees, such persons as may
be named to him by the plaintifff or his agent, to appear before the justice
on the return day of the execution, to answer such interrogatories as may
be put to them, touching their liabilities as garnishees, and the like proceeding shall he had thereon, before the justice to final judgment, as in
proceedings by attachment.

S130. . 106. Any justice of the peace may issue an execution against the
prevailing party to collect fees and costs for which such party may be
liable, after an execution ‘has been first issued against the other party, and
returned “no property found.” "

SEC. 107. If any property levied on, be claimed by any person other
than the defendant in the execution, the sheriff or constable shall summon

from his county, six persons, qualified as jurors between the parties to try
the validity of the claim; such officer shall also give reasonable notice of the

claim, and of the time of trial to the plaintifff, who may appear and contest
the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses of the parties shall
be sworn by the officer, and if their verdict be in favor of the claimant, the,
officer may relinquish the levy unless the plaintifff give him a sufficient
indemnity for proceeding thereon. The_ fees of the jury, the sheriff or constable and the witnesses shall be the same as for similar services in a justice’s
court, and shall be paid by the claimant if the verdict be against him,
otherwise by the plaintifff. On the trial, the defendant and the claimant
may be examined as witnesses by the plaintifff.

SEC. 108. Nothing contained in the last two sections shall be so construed, as to prevent the claimant of property levied on by execution from
resorting to any legal remedy he may choose to pursue, instead of
proceeding in the manner therein prescribed.

XIII. or REPLEVIN.

Sec. 109. Plaintiff may claim delivery of property.
' 110. Atiidavit to be made, and what it shall show.
111. Justice to order the delivery.
Order to be endorsed on the aliidavit.
Bond to be given.
112. On receipt of order, aliidavit and bond, sheriff to take the property.Copies to be served on the defendant.
113. Defendant may except to the sureties.
114. Defendant may require the return of the property upon giving a proper bond.
115. Defendant’s sureties to justify.
Oliicer responsible until their justification, &c.
1216.. Action of the officer in case the property is concealed.
117. Disposition of the property.
118. Method of proceeding in case of adverse claim to the property.
119.. Odilcer to make return of aiiidavit &c., to the justice ; when.

SEC. 109.. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of ' personal
property may at the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before
answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as provided in this
act. 1
SEC. 110. When a delivery is claimed, an aiiidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing

1st. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entititled to the possession thereof, by
virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be
set forth ;

2d. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant ;.

3d. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best
knowledge, ‘information and belief ;

4th. That the same has not been taken for a tax, ‘assessment or line,

pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against
the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure, and ”

5th. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 111. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writing
upon the aliidavit, order the sheriff or any constable of the county, to take
the same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff upon receiving a
proper bond.

SEC. 112. 1 Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order with a bond,
executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff or
constable, to the effect, that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the aiiidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the
return of the property of the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered
against the plaintifff, the sheriff or constable shall forthwith take the property described in the aiiidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant
or his agent, and retain it in his custody: He shall also without delay,
serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order and bond, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found within the county, or to
his agent from whose possession the property is taken, or if neither can be
found in the county, by leaving them at the usual abode of either within
the county, with some person of suitable age and discretion ; -or if neither
have any known place of abode in the county, putting them into the post
office, directed to the defendant at the post office nearest to him.

See. 113. The defendant may within two days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit, order and bond, give notice to the oliicer that he
excepts to the sufiiciency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify upon one day’s notice before the justice;
and the oilicer shall be resposible for the suiiiciency of the sureties, until
the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
justify, or new _sureties be substituted, and they justify. If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot re—c1aim the property as provided in the
next section. .

SEC. 114. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintili‘, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintifff,

require the return thereof upon giving to the officer a bond, executed by
two or more suliicient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property as stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the
delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered against the
defendant. If a return of the property be not so required, within two days

after thetaking and serving of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered
to the plaintifff, except as provided in this act.

SEC. 115. The defendant’s sureties, upon one day’s notice to the plaintifff, or his attorney, shall justify before the justice, and upon such
justification, the officer shall deliver the property to the defendant. The
officer shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties until they justify, or
until the justification is complete, or expressly waived, and may retain the
property until that time, but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify
at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plaintifff.

SEC. 116. If the property, or any part therof, be concealed in a building
or enclosure, the oiiicer shall publicly demand its delivery, and if it be not
delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open and
take the property into his possession.

SEC. 117. When the officer shall have taken property as in this act
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary
expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 118. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or his right to the possession thereof, stating the ground of such
title or right, and serve the same upon the officer before the delivery of the
property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property
or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand-of him or his
agent, indemnify the officer against such claim by a bond executed by two
sufficient sureties accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth
double the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plaintifff
over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution, and freeholders or householders of the county; and no claim to
such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent, shall
be valid against the officer unless made as aforesaid, and notwithstanding
such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time to
demand such indemnity.

SEC. 119. The othcer shall return the order and affidavit with his proceedings thereon, to the justice within five days after taking the property
mentioned therein.

XIV. FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

Sec. 120. Entry into lands, &c., how to be made.

121. Person entitled to the premises to be restored to the possession.
122.. Complaint in writing to be made to a justice of the peace.

123. Justice to issue summons.

124- How summons shall be served.

. 125- 51“? to be summoned.

mons named.

Sec. 126. Sulilcient jurors not attending, justice may order, others to be summoned.

127. Plaintiff failing to attend, to be non-suited.

128. Defendant failing to appear, case may be tried ex parte, or continued.

129. If .defendant appear, his answer to be in Writing, setting forth his defense.

130. Mode of trial, and proof required on the part of the plaintifff.

131. Proceedings on finding the defendant guilty.

132. Verdict to be in writing; form of.

133. Proceedings in case of verdict of “ not guilty.”

134. New trial may be granted; when. ’

135. Title, in no issue, to be inquired into.

136. One year’s quiet possession may be pleaded in bar; when.

137. Person entitled to any premises, may recover possession in certain specified
cases. '

138. Upon complaint for any of the causes mentioned in the last section, jury
not necessary, unless demanded.

139. In action for recovery of premises, demised or let, for neglect or 1-efusalvto
pay rent, defendant may, before judgment, pay the amount due, with
interest and costs.

140. Justice to have power to continue, as in other cases. a

141. Nothing in this act to bar or prevent the party injured from bringing his

action to recover possession of the premises, or damages for trespass,
or injury committed.

SEC. 120. No person shall make entry into lands, tenements, or other
possessions, but in cases where entry is given by law; and in such cases,_he
shall not enter with force, but only in a peaceable manner.

SEC. 121. When any forcible entry shall be made, or when an entry
shall be made in a peaceable manner, and the possession shall be unlawfully
held by force, the person entitled to the premises may be restored to the
possession thereof, in the manner hereinafter provided.

SEC. 122. The person entitled to the possession of the premises may
make complaint in writing, on oath, to a justice of the peace of the county
in which the premises are situated, setting forth that the person complained
of is in possession of the lands or tenements in question—describing them;
and that he entered into the same With force, or that he unlawfully holds
the same by force, as the case may be, and the time when.

SEC. 123. Upon receiving such a complaint, the /justice shall issue a
summons, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commanding him to summon the person or persons against whom such complaint
shall have been made, to appear before the justice, on a day in such sumSEC. 124. The summons shall be served by the officer as in other cases,
and at the same time; a copy of the complaint shall, in like manner, he
served on the defendant. The officer shall, in his return, state the time
and manner of such service.

SEC. 125. The justice shall, at the time of issuing the summons, issue a
venire to the sheriff or constable, commanding’ him to Summon Six 300d

I

and lawful men, qualified to serve as jurors, to appear at the time
and place appointed for the trial of the complaint, to be a jury in the case.

Such venire shall be returned on or before the day appointed for the trial;
and the officer shall endorse thereon the list of the jurors summoned.

SEC. 126. If a sufficient number of jurors do not attend, or attending,

3 a.re set aside by challenging peremptorily, or for cause, the justice may order the {sheriff or constable to complete the number, by summoning other

jurors.

SEC. 127. If the plaintifff fail to attend at the time appointed for hearing the complaint, in person, by agent, or attorney, and prosecute his action, he shall be onon-suited, and the defendant shall recover his costs. _

SEC. 128. If the defendant fail to appear at the time appointed for
hearing the complaint, the justice may proceed ex parte, or continue the
cause, at his discretion; but he shall not continue it_for a longer time than
ten da.ys, nor to any other place than that named in the summons, for the
hearing of the cause. \

SEC. 129. If the defendant appear, he shall, before the trial, file his
answer in writing, and under oath, in which he shall set forth his defense.

SEC. 130. The jury shall consist of six persons, unless the parties agree
on a less number; and when duly empaneled and sworn, the justice shall
cause the complaint to be read to them, and then call on the plaintifff to
support the same by proof; but the plaintifff shall not be required to make
further proof of the forcible entry and detainer, than that he was lawfully
possessed of the premises, and that the defendant unlawfully entered and
detains the same. 1 °

SEC. 131. If the jury on the trial nnd the defendant guilty, the justice
shall record the verdict, and give judgment thereon, with costs, and also
issue a writ of restitution, directed to the sheriff or constable, to cause the
plaintifff to be repossessed of the premises, to which shall be added a clause
commanding the oiiicer to levy the costs of the goods and chattels of the
defendant.

SEC. 132. The verdict of the jury shall be in writing, and shall be in
the form, or to the effect following: '

“ We, the jury, find the defendant guilty,” or, if in favor of the defendant, “not guilty, of said forcible entry and detainer, in manner and form
as the plaintifff in his complaint hath alleged ;” or the jury may find the defellda.-nt guilty as to part, and not guilty as to the balance of the charge,
as laid in the plaintifff’s complaint; if so, they shall state it specially in
their verdict.

SE0 133. When the jury find a verdict of “ not guilty,” generally,
for the defendant, the verdict shall be so recorded, and the justice shall enter judgment against the plaintifff for costs, and issue. execution therefore
against his goods and chattels. .

SEC. 134. In all cases ‘of forcible entry and detainer, the justice shall
have power to grant a new trial, if the same be applied for on the day the
verdict is rendered, and good cause be shown, on affidavit, therefore, which
shall be within ten days after granting the same, but not more than one
new trial shall be granted to either party.

Sec. 135. The title shall in no issue be inquired into, on any complaint
for a forcible entry or detainer.

SEC. 136. One year’s quiet possession of the premises, immediately preceding the filing of the complaint, by the party complained of, or those under whom he holds, may be pleaded by any defendant, in bar of the plainti1i"s demand of possession, unless his estate therein be ended.

SEC. 137. The person entitled to any premises, may recover possession
thereof in the manner hereinbefore provided, in the following cases: i

1st. When any person shall hold over any lands or tenements, after the
time for which they are demised or let to him, or to the person under whom
he holds, or contrary to the conditions or covenants of any lease or agreement, nnder which he holds. A

2d. When any rent shall have become due on any such lease or agreement, and the tenant, or person in possession, shall have neglected or refused, for ten days after demand of the possession, made in writing, to deliver up possession of the premises, or pay the rent so due. —

3d. When any person shall continue in possession of any premises, sold
by virtue of any mortgage or execution, after the sheriff’s deed therefore
shall have been recorded. '

4th. When any tenant, at will or by sufference, shall hold over after
the determination of his estate, by 'a notice to quit, as provided by law.

SEC. 138. When the plaintifff shall file a complaint for an unlawful detainer, for any one of the causes mentioned in the last seetion,. it shall not
be necessary for the justice to issue a venire for a jury, at the time of issuing the summons; but the justice shall, at the time of trial, proceed to hear
and determine the complaint, ‘unless either party shall call for a trial by
jury, in which case the justice shall issue a venire, in the same manner, and
the same proceedings shall thereupon be had asjin cases of forcible entry
and detainer. ‘

SEC. 1339’. When the action shall be brought to recover the possession»
Of premises demised or let, for the reason that the tenant or person in possession has refused or neglected to pay the rent due, it shall be lawful for

the defendant, at any time before judgment, to pay to the justice, for the
Plaintiff, the rent then in arrear, with interest, and the costs of the action,

and thereupon no writ of restitution _, shall be awarded.

SEC. 140. The justice shall have the same power to continue actions for
forcible entry and detainer, as in other cases. .

SEC. 141. Neither the judgment, nor anything contained in this act,
shall bar or prevent the party injured from bringing an action to recover
the possession of the premises, or to recover damages for the trespass or
injury committed against the aggressor, or party offending.

I

XV. ACTION TO RECOVER POSSESSION or A MINING CLAIM.

SEC. 142. By whom, and in what manner, complaint to be made.
143. Mode of proceeding. ,
144. Proof of usages, customs, &c., may be admitted.

SEC. 142. Any person claiming the right to the occupancy and possession of a mining claim, withheld by another, may make complaint in writing, and on oath, to a justice of the peace of the county in which the mining claim is situated, setting forth the facts constituting his right to such
possession and occupancy, and such a description of the mining claim as
can conveniently be given, and that the defendant wrongfully withholds
the possession from him.

SEC. 143. Upon filing such complaint, the same proceeding shall be
had before the justice as in actions for a forcible entry and detainer, and if
judgment be rendered for the plaintifff, a writ of restitution may in like manner be issued, to place the plaintifff in possession of such mining claim.

SEC. 144. In an action to recover possession of a mining claim, proof
shall be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations established and in
force at the bar or diggings embracing such claim; and such usages, c,11S'
toms, and regulations, when not in conflict with the laws of the United
States or of this territory, shall govern the decision of the action.

XVI. or PROCEEDINGS FOR CONTEMPT BEFORE JUSTICES or THE PEACE.

SEC. 145. Justice may unish for contempt in certain cases.
146. Punishment for contempt.

147. Person to have an opportunity to be heard.

148. If the oifender be r t h be ‘il ' d.
149. Form of warrant i'i)1f3Sc{:)Ihte1f11I)]tfiy Summm y an-algne

150. Proceedings in case of ' t’ . F f ' d t.
151. Mode of enforcing judghgdht? Ion om 0 Ju gmen

SEC. 145. In the followin‘g cases, and no others, a justice of the peace
may punish for contempt:

lst. Persons guilty of disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior
towards such ‘justice, while engaged in the trial of a cause, or in rendering
Judgfnenti °r "1 any judicial proceedings which tend to interrupt such proceedings, or impair the respect due to his authority

2d. Persons guilty of any breach of the peace, noiseor disturbance,
tending to interrupt the ofiicial proceedings of such justice. .

3d. Persons guilty of resistance or disobedience to any lawful order or ‘
processmade or issued by him.

SEC. 146. Punishment for contempt may be by fine, not exceeding
twenty-five dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not ‘exceedingtwo days, at the discretion of the justice, unless otherwise provided by
statute.

SEC. 147. No person shall be punished for a contempt before a justice
of the peace, until an opportunity shall have been given to him to be heard
in his defense; and for that purpose the justice may issue his warrant to
bring the offender before him. ,

SEC. 148. If the offender be present, he may be summarily arraigned
by. the justice, and proceeded against in the same manner as if a warrant
had been previously issued, and the offender arrested thereon.

SEC. 149. The warrant for contempt may be in the following form: .

Territory of Washington, } 88
County of '
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to apprehend A. B., and bring him before J. P., one of the justices of the peace
of said county, at his oliice in said county, to show cause why he should

_ not be convicted of a contempt alleged to have been committed on the

day of A. D. 18 , before the said justice, while engaged as
a justice of the peace in judicial proceeding.
Dated this day of A. D., 18 . J. P.,

Justice of the peace.
SEC. 150. Upon the conviction of any person for contempt, an entry
thereof shall be made in the docket of such justice, stating the particular
circumstances of .the oifense, and the judgment rendered thereon, and may
be in the following form:

Territory of Washington, 1
County of

‘ Whereas, on the day of A. D., 18 , While the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace of the said county, was engaged inthe trial of an action between C. D., plaintifff, and E. F., defendant, in said
county, A. B., of the said county, did interrupt the said proceedings, and
impair the respect due to the authority of the undersigned, by (here describe the cause particularly: ) And whereas, the said A. “B. ,was thereupon
required by the undersigned to answer for the said contempt, and show
cause why he should not be convicted thereof. And whereas, the said A.
B. did not show cause against the said charge—be it thereforee ordered,

SS.

that the said A. B. is adjudged to be guilty, and is convicted of the con-5
tempt aforesaid, and is adjudged by the undersigned to pay a fine of

dollars, (or be imprisoned, &c.,)

Dated this day of A. D., 18 . J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

SEC. 151. If any person, convicted of a contempt, be adjudged to be
imprisoned, a warrant of commitment shall’ be issued by the justice. If
he be adjudged to pay a fine, poocess may be issued to collect the same;
and when so collected, it shall forthwith be paid by the justice into the

county treasury.

XVII. cnnrromnr AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON‘.

\

Bree, 152. Any person conceiving himself injured by any error in any process, proceeding, &c., may remove the same to the district court. ‘

153. When and in what manner a certiorari can be obtained.

154. How served.
155. Justice to make a special return of all the facts and proceedings.

156. Justice may be compelled to make or amend such return.

157. When the case may be brought to argument.

158. Judgment of the district court. _
159. Proceedings in case of a reversal of a judgment which had been colIected.- ,

SEC. 152. If any person shall conceive himself injured by error in any
process, proceeding or judgment, or order given by any justice of the peace
within this territory, it shall be lawful for such person to remove such proeess, proceeding, judgment or order, to the district court, as hereinafter
provided. ’

SEC. 153. Within twenty days after the rendition of the judgment, or
if the error be committed after judgment,. then within twenty days after
such error was committed, the party applying for such certiorari, his agent,
or attorney, shall» ‘rile in the office of the clerk of the district court for the
proper county, an affidavit, stating that in his belief there is reasonable
cause for granting such certiorari, for error in such judgment or proceeding, (Setting forth the ground‘ of error alleged,) and that the application
is-made in good faith, and not for the purpose of delay, and? further shall
execute a bond to the adverse party; with one or more sureties, to be approved by the clerk» in double the amount of the judgment and costs rendered. before the justice, tothe effect that the party applying will prosecute
the writ of certiorari to: final judgment, and abide any order the court

may make therein.

SEC. 154.. The writ of certiorari shall be served on the justice within.’
ten days. afterit has been issued; and if a bond he executed in pursuance
°f the last Section. and a certificate of the clerk to that effect be served Om

the justice, all further proceedings in law in such case shall cease; and if
the execution shall have issued on such judgment, the justice shall immediately recall the same. . 7

SEC. 155. Upon the service of a writ of certiorari to reverse a judgment, it shall be the duty of the party serving the same, to deliver at the
same time to the justice, a copy of the aiiidavit on which the certiorari
was procured, and the justice shall make a special return as to all the factsl
contained in such affidavit, and of the proceedings in the case, and annex
a copy thereof to the writ, and shall file the same with the clerk of the
district court, within ten days after the service of the writ, together with
all the papers in the action; and he shall also certify the time when the
writ was served upon him. _

Sec. 156. The district court shall havepower to compel such justice
to make or amend such return by rule, attachment or mandamus, as the
case may require.

SEC. 157 . When the writ of certiorari and return shall be filed with
the clerk, the case may be brought on to argument before the district
court at any time thereafter, according to the statutes relating thereto.

SEC. 158. The district court shall, after hearing the case, give judgment as the right of the matter may appear, without regarding technical

omissions, imperfections or defects in the proceedings before the justice, ‘

which did not affect the merits, and may affirm or reverse the judgment in

whole or in part, and issue execution as upon other judgments rendered before said court. '

SEC. 159. If a judgment rendered before a justice be collected, and
afterwards be reversed by the court above, such court shall award restitution of the amount so collected, with interest from the time of collection,
and execution may issue therefore.

XVIII. or APPEALS To THE DISTRICT COURT.

Sec. 160. Who may appeal

161. When and how appeal shall be taken.

162. N o appeal allowed unless a bond shall be executed. Effect of bond.

163. In case of appeal from a judgment for the delivery of the posession of
premises, a writ of restitution to be issued unless appellant executeda bond. Elfect of bond.

164. Appeal being allowed, all further proceedings before justice to he stayed.

165. Property taken on execution to be released, &c.

166. When and in what manner the district court becomes possessed of the

cause.
167. Issue to be tried on the same pleadings unless otherwise directed.

168. District court may compel the justice to make a transcript of the 
ceedings.
169. Appeal not to be dismissed on account of a defective bond.
170. Judgment in the district court. '

f

SEC. 160. Any person considering himself aggrieved by any judgment
or decision of a justice of the peace,‘ may, in person or by his agent, appeal therefrom to the district court of the same county where the judgment was rendered, or the decision made.

SEC." 161. Such appeal shall be taken within twenty days after the
judgment is rendered, or the decision made, and shall be by filing a notice
of appeal with the justice, and serving a copy thereof on the adverse party
or his attorney. ,

SEC. 162. No appeal shall be allowed in any case, unless a bond shall
be executed on part of the appellant by one or more sureties in the sum of
one hundred dollars, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs
which may be awarded against him on the appeal, or if a stay' of proceeding before the justice be claimed, a bond with two or more sureties in‘

a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment, to the effect that the
appellant will pay the costs and judgment, provided the sum appealed
from be affirmed, or if affirmed only i11 part, then to the extent in which
it may be affirmed.

SEC. 163. If the judgment appealed from direct the delivery of the
possession of premises in an action of forcible entry and detainer, or of a
mining claim, a writ of restitution may be issued and executed unless a
bond be entered into on the part of the appellant with two or more sureties to the effect that during the possession of such premises or mining
claim by the appellant, he will not commit, nor suffer to be committed, any
waste, destruction or injury thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed
he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the premises or mining
claim, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof,

and all costs of the appeal. The amount of such bond shall be fixed by
the justice before whom the action was tried.

\ SEC. 164. -Upon appeal being made, and a bond filed to stay all proceedings, the justice shall. allow the same, and make an entry of such allowance in his docket, and all further proceedings on the judgment before
the justice shall thereupon be suspended ; and if, in the meantime, execution shall have been issued, the justice shall give the appellant a certificate
that such appeal has been allowed.

SEC. 165. On such certificate being presented to the oliicer holding the
execution, he shall forthwith release the property of the defendant that
may have been taken on execution ; and if the body of the defendant have
been taken on execution, he shall be discharged from imprisonment.

Sec. 166. On or before the first day of the term of the district court,
n°_Xt after the appeal has been taken, the appellant shall furnish the district court with a transcript of all the entries made in the justice’s docket

relating to the case, together with all the process and other papers relating
to the action, and filed with the justice, which shall be certified by such
justice to be correct, and upon the filing of such transcript the district court
shall become possessed of the cause, and shall proceed in the same manner
as near as may be, as in actions originally commenced in that court, except
as herein otherwise provided. '

SEC. 167. The ‘issue before the justice shall be tried in the district court
withoutother or new pleadings, unless otherwise directed by the court.

SEC. 168. Upon an appeal being made and allowed, the district court
may by rule and attachment compel the justice to make and deliver to the
appellant a certified transcript of the proceedings, upon paying to such
justice the fees allowed by law for making such transcript, and whenever
the court is satisfied that the return of the justice is" substantially erroneous
or defective, it may by rule and attachment ,compel him to amend the
same.

SEC. 169. No appeal allowed by a justice shall be dismissed on account
of the bond being defective, if the appellant will, before the motion is determined, execute and file in the district court such a bond as he should
have executed by the allowance of the appeal, and pay all costs that shall
be incurred by reason of such defect.

‘ SEC. 17 O. In all cases of appeal t9 the district court, if on the trial
anew in such court the judgment be against the appellant, in whole or in.
part, such judgment shall be rendered against him, and his sureties in the
bond for the appeal.

XIX. FORMS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN msrrcns comrr.»

The following, or equivalent forms, may be used by justices of the peace,
in civil actions and proceedings under this chapter, to wit:

 

Territory of Washington, l‘
County of
To any sheriff or any constable of said county:

In the name of the United States,‘ you’ are hereby commanded to summons C. D., if he be found in your county, to be and appear before‘ the undersigned,’ a justice of the peace in and for said county, on the -3 day of
-+3 18——, at — o’clock in the noon, at his office in —~-———, to

 

\ answer to A. B. in a civil action, and have you then and there this writ. 1

, 18--—.
‘ J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

 

Given under my hand. this —— day of

FORM OF A WARRANT.

 

Territory of Washington, ’, } SS
County of °.

To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

In the name ‘of the United States, you are hereby commanded to take
the body of c. 1)., if he be foundwithin your county, and bring him forthwith before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said
county, at his office in , to answer A. B. in a civil action; and you
are hereby commanded to give due notice thereof to the said plaintiii’, his
-agent or attorney; and have you then and there this Writ.

Given under my hand this - day of , 18-—.
O ' J. P.,
_ Justice of the peace.

 

 

FORM OF SUBPCENA.

Territory of Washington, }
County of , SS’

To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

In the name of the United States, you are hereby required to appear
before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for the said
county, on the —— day of ~ , f8—, at —— o’clock in the
his office in ~ , to give evidence in a certain cause, then and there to

 

   

 

I, be tried, between A. B., plaintifff, and C. D., defendant, on the part of the

plaintifff, (or defendant, as the case may be.)
Given under my hand this —— day of

 

, 18—.
J. P.,
Justice of the peaceFORM OF AN EXECUTION.

 

Territory of Washington,
County of , l 58'

To the sherid or any constable of said county:

Whereas, judgment against C. D., for the sum of —— dollars, and for
— dollars, costs of suit, was recovered on the — day of
before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said
county, at the suit of A. B. Theseare thereforee, in the name of the United States, to command you to.1evy on the goods and chattels of the said
_C' D” (excepting such as the law exempts,) and make sale thereof accordmg l5°1&W, to the amount of the said sum and costs upon this writ, and

the same return to me within thirty days, to be rendered to the said A. B.
for his debt, interest, and costs.

 

4

,1s——,, 18-—. ,
J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

 

Given under my hand this —-:- day of

FORM OF A VENIRE FOR A JURY.

,4‘

Territory of Washington, '88

County of 
To thfsheri or any constable of said county:

In the name of the United tates, you are hereby commanded to summon six good and faithful of your county, to be and appear before the
undersigned, one of the jus ces of the peacein and for said county, on the
-—— day of , 18--, at -— o’cloek in the noon of said day, at his
office in , to make a jury for the trial of a civil action, between A.

B. plaintifff, and C. D. defendant; and have you then and there this writ.

Given under my hand this —— day of , 18-. T
J. P.,

J ustice‘ of the peace.

   

 

 

FORM OF EXECUTION AGAINST THE BODY.

 

Territory of Washington, } SS
County of ’

To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

Whereas, judgment against 0. D., for the sum of ——-— dollars, and for
-———- doilars, costs of suit, was recovered on the —— day of , 18——,.
before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for saidl
county, at the suit of A. B., and an execution against his property return-r
ed unsatisfied; these are thereforee, in the name of the United States, to’
command you‘ to take the body of the said C.‘-» D., and him: convey and de«
liver to the keeper of the jail: of said‘. county, who is hereby commanded to
receive and keep the said O. D. in safe custody in prison, until the afore«
said sum, and all; legal expenses, be paid and satisfied, or until he be dis»
charged therefrom by due course of law; and of this writ make due return
Within  days; i

Given under my hand this — day of --—---, 13*”
J. P.,

Justice of the peace..

 

FORM OF EXECUTION AGAINST PRINCIPAL AND SURETY, AFTER EXPIRATION OF STAY
OF EXECUTION.

Territory of Washington, gr SS
County of , ‘ _
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

Whereas, judgment against 0. D., for the sum of —— dollars, and for

——- dollars, costs of suit, was recovbned on the — day of , 18—,

before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace, at the suit of A.

B. . And whereas, on the — daybf ‘ , 18-, E. F. became surety

to pay said judgment and costs, in m th‘ from the date of the judgment aforesaid, agreeably to law, in the pa ent of which the said O. D.

and E. F. have failed. These are, thereforee,-,_in the name, &c. (as in the
common form). A

 

 

 

FORM or onnnn IN RE1>'LI~:vn~:.

Territory of Washington, } SS
County of '
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to take
the personal property mentioned and described in the within affidavit, and
deliver the same to the plaintifff, upon receiving a proper undertaking, unless, before such delivery, the defendant enter into a suiiicient undertaking,
for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if delivery be adjudged.

Given under my hand this —,- day of , 18—.

J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

 

FORM OF A WRIT OF ATTACHBIENT.

Territory of Washington,
County of , 85‘

To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

In the name of the United States, you are commanded to attach, and
safely keep, the goods and chattels, monies, effects, and credits of C. D.,
(excepting such as the law exempts,) or so much thereof as shall satisfy,
the sum of -—'- dollars, with interest and cost of suit, in whosesoever hands
or possession the same may be found in your county, and to provide that
the goods and chattels, so attached, may be subject to further proceedings

thereon, as the law requires; and of this writ make legal service and due
return '

Given under my hand this ——- day of --—————, 18*.

J. P.,
J ustice of the peace.

 

FORM or‘ smnroxs IN FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETXINEII.

Territory of Washington, } SS
County of , '

 

To the sheriff or constable of said county:

Whereas, A. B., of ——-, hath exhibited unto the undersigned, one
of the justices of the peace in and for said county, a complaint against C.
D., for a forcible entry and detainer of the following premises, to Wit:-hereby commanded to summons the said O. D., if he be found in your county,
to appear before the undersigned, on the — day of , 18-, at —
o’clock in the noon, at his office in , then and there to make
answer to, and defend against the complaint aforesaid. And you are also
hereby commanded to serve a copy of the said complaint, on the said O.
D.; and of this writ make due return, with .your doings thereon.

Given under my hand this —— day of , 18—.
J. P.,

Justice of the peace.

 

 

   

 

‘FORM OF WRIT OF RESTITUTION IN FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER.

Territory of Washington, 1
County of —, f SS‘
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:

Whereas, A. B. did make complaint in writing to the undersigned, a
justice of the peace in and for said county, against 0. D. of the said county,
that he had been guilty of a forcible entry and detainer of a certain tract
of land (or other posscssions,) of the said A. B.: And whereas, a jury
was empaneled‘ and sworn to inquire of said complaint, and did return their
verdict, that the said O. D. was guilty of a forcible entry and detainer of
the following described tract of land, to wit:—(here describe the premises
of which the defendant is found guilty of forcibly entering and detaining;)
And whereas, judgment was entered thereon by said justice, and that the
said A. B. should have restitution of the premises; thereforee, in the name
of the United States, you are hereby commanded to cause the said O. D.
to be removed forthwith from the premises aforesaid, and that the said A.
B. have peaceable restitution of the same, and also that you levy of the

goods and chattels of C. D., found in your county, the sum of —— dollars,
being the amount of costs on the trial aforesaid, together with ————‘dollars
for this writ, and also your own fees, and make return of this writ within

thirty days next after the date hereof.

 

FORM OF UNDERTAKING FOR AN ARREST.

Whereas, an application has been made by A. B., plaintifff, to J. P., one

 

of the justices of the peace in and for county, for a warrant to arrest 0. D., defendant, founded upon an affidavit of the said plaintifff, setting
forth that C. D. (here state the cause for the arrest): Now, thereforee,
we, A. B., plaintifff, and E. F., acknowledge ourselves bound to C. D., in
the sum of —-— dollars, to pay all costs that may be awarded to the said
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of N the arrest,

not exceeding the sum of —— dollars.

Dated this —— day -of , 18--. A. B.,

 

FORM OF UNDERTAKING IN REPLEVIN.

Whereas, A. B., plaintifff, has commenced an action before J. I’., one of
the justices of the peace in and for county, against 0. D., defendant, for the recovery of certain personal property, mentioned and described
in the affidavit of the plaintifff, to wit (here set forth the property claimed):
Now, thereforee, we, A. B., plaintifff, E. F., and G. H., acknowledge our-'
selves bound unto C. D., in the sum of —— dollars, for the prosecution of
the action for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof

,.be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause

be recovered against the plaintifff.

A Dated the —- day of , I8——. A. B.,
E. F.,.

G. H.

 

 

FORM OF UNDERTAKING IN A'1‘TACHMENT.

Whereas, an application has been made by A. B., plaintifff, to J. P., one
of the justices of the peace in and for county, for a writ of attachment against the personal property of C. D., defendant, (3; foreign corporation, a non-resident, or because he has assigned, secreted, &c.): NOW;
thereforee, we, A. B., plaintifff, and E. F., acknowledge ourselves bound to
C. D., in the sum of —— dollars, that if the defendant recover judgment in
this action, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the said attachment, not exceeding the sum of —— dollars.

Dated the -—-— day of , 18-—. A. B.,
E. F.

 

 

FORM OF UNDERTAKING TO DISCHARGE ATTACHMENT.

Whereas, a writ of attachment has been issued by J. P., one of the justices of the peace in and for — county, against the personal property
99 0- D» defendant, in an action in which A. B. is plaintifff: Now, there 

fore, we, 0. D., defendant, E. F., and G. H., acknowledge ourselves bound
unto J. K., constable, in the sum of —— dollars, (double the value of the

property, ) engaging to "deliver the property attached, to wit, (here set
forth a list of the articles attached,) or pay the value thereof to the sheriff

or constable, to whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintifff’
in the aforesaid action may be issued. '

Dated‘ this — day of ————-, 18—. C. D.,

G. H.

FORM or UNDERTAKING ro INDEMNIFY CONSTABLE ON CLAIM or PROPERTY Bv A
THIRD PERSON. ‘

Whereas, L.  claims to be the owner of, and have the right to posses-.
‘sion, of certain personal property, to wit: (here describe it) which has been
taken by J. K., constable in —— county, upon an execution by J. P.,‘,_
justice of the peace in and for the county of -—-——, upon a judgment obtained by A. B., plaintifff, against 0. D., defendant: Now, thereforee, we,
A. B., plaintifff, E. F., and Gr. H., acknowledge ourselves bound unto the
.said J. K., constable, in the sum of -—-— dollars, to indemnify the said J.
K. against such claim. , A. B.,

E. F.,
G. H.

I .
. XX. CRIMINAL JURISDICTION.

SEC. 171. Jurisdiction of justices of the peace.

172. To issue warrant on complaint being made.
173. Authority of justice when an offense is committed within his view.
174. Proceedings of justice on return of warrant.
Prisoner or territory may demand a jury.
Finding of the jury.
Defendant may plead guilty. .
No line assessed or judgment entered without examination of witnesses.
In case of injury to person or property, party injured must be a witness.
175. What witnesses to be summoned.
176. Continuance; on What te1‘II1S grantedJudgment on conviction.
Stay of execution.
177. Person convicted may appeal. .
Witnesses to recognize. .
178. Justice to transmit copy of proceedings to the clerk of the court appealed to.
179. Appellant not required to advance fees on appeal.
If convicted may be required 170 P33’ 003135 Of P1‘°390‘1ti°11Proceeding on failure to enter and prosecute appeal.
180. Justice at certain dates to pay over to the county treasurer, certain monies.

Sec. 171. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in criminal prosecutions, shall be eo-extensive with their respective counties, and they shall

have concurrent jurisdiction with the district court, in alirays, assaults,
assults and battery, violation of estray laws, obstructing of highways and
bridges, charging extra tolls at ferries and bridges, neglect of roads by
supervisors, public indecency, having obscene books, pampfilets for exhibition or otherwise, forcible entry and detainer, malicious trespass, and on
conviction shall have power to fine the person so offending, in any sum not
exceeding thirty dollars.

Sec. 172. Any justice shall, on complaint made on oath in writing
before him charging any person With the commission of any crime or misdemea.nor, of which he has jurisdiction, issue a warrant for the arrest of
such person, and cause him to be brought forthwith before him for trial.

SEC. 173. Where any offense is committed in View of any justice, he
may, by verbal direction to any constable, or if no constable be present, to
any citizen, cause such constable or citizen to arrest such offender, and
keep him in custody for the space of one hour, unless such offender shall
sooner be taken from such custody by virtue of a warrant issued on complaint on oath. But such person so arrested, shall not be confined in jail,
nor put upon any trial, until arrested by virtue of such warrant.

SEC. 174. On the return of any warra.nt issued by him, it shall be the
duty of the justice to docket the cause, and unless continuance be granted,
forthwith to hear and determine the cause, and either acquit, convict and
punish, or hold to bail the offender, if the offense be bailable and prove to
be one which should be tried in the district court, or in default of bail,
commit him to jail, as the facts and the law may justify.

The prisoner or the territory may demand a jury, which may be empaneled and sworn as in civil cases, or he may be tried by the justice.

Such justice or jury, if they find the prisoner guilty, shall assess his

punishment, or if in their opinion the punishment they are authorized to .

assess, is not adequate to the offense, they may so find ; and in such case,

the justice shall order such defendant to enter into recogizance to appear’

at the next term of the district court, and shall also recognize the witnesses,
and proceed as provided by the act regulating criminal proceedings in like
cases.

The defendant may plead guilty to any offense charged, but no justice
shall assess a line or enter judgment thereon, until a witness or witnesses
have been examined, to state the circumstances of the transaction ;' and he
shall have power either to enter judgment and assess a fine, or order the
defendant to enter into recognizance to appear at the next term of the
district court ; and where the oifense charged is an injury to the person or
P1'°P91't)’» the party injured in person or property must be present and examined as a witness, unless prevented by sickness, or beyond the reach of
process.

SEC. 175. In all cases arising under this act, it shall be the duty of the
justice of the peace to summon the injured party, and all others whose
testimony may be deemed material, as witnesses at the trial, and to enforce
their attendance by attachment, if necessary.

SEC. 176. Continuance may be granted, either on application of the
prisoner, or the prosecuting attorney, or prosecuting witness, under the
same rules as in civil cases ; the costs of such continuance shall abide the
event of the prosecution in all cases, and the justice shall recognize the
defendant and the witnesses to appear from time to time, in the same manner
as is provided in other criminal examinations before him.

In all cases of conviction, under the provisions of this act, the justice
shall enter judgment for the line and costs against the defendant, and may
commit him to jail until the judgment is satisfied, or the payment thereof

be secured, and further proceedings therein shall be had as in like cases in A

the district court.

Every defendantmay stay the execution for the line and costs for thirty
days, by procuring suiiicient sureties to be approved by the justice to enter
into recognizance before him for the payment of the fine and costs, the
entry of such recognizance shall be made on the docket of the justice, and

signed by the sureties, and shall have the same effect as a judgment, and if

the same be not paid in thirty days, the justice shall proceed as in like

cases in the district court. ,
SEC. 177. Every person convicted before a justice of the peace of any

offense, may appeal from the sentence Within ten days thereafter, to the.

district court then next to be held in the same county, and such appellant
shall be committed to abide the sentence of said justice, until he shall re»
cognize to the territory‘in such reasonable sum, with such sureties as said
justice shall require, with condition to appear at the court appealed to, and
there to prosecute his appeal, and to abide the sentence of the court there
on, and in the mean time to keep the peace, and be of good behavior.

The justice shall also recognize the Witnesses, or if they are not present,
endorse their names on the copy of proceedings. '

SEC.’ 178. The justice on such appeal shall make a copy of the conviction ‘and other proceedings in the case, and transmit the same together
with the recognizance and an abstract bill of the costs to the clerk of the
court appealed to, who shall issue a subpoena for the witnesses, if they are
not under recognizance. '

SEC. 179. The appellant shall not be required to advance any fees in
claiming his appeal, nor in prosecuting the same, but if convicted in the
district court, or if sentenced for failing to prosecute his appeal, he may be
required, as a part of the sentence, to pay the cost of the prosecution.

If the appellant shall fail to enter and prosecute his appeal, he shall be

defaulted on his recognizance, if any was taken, and district court may
award sentence against him for the offense whereof he was convicted, inlike
manner as if he had been convicted thereof in that court, and if he be not
then in custody, process may be issued to bring him into court to receive

sentence.

SEC. 180. It shall be the duty of every justice, on the first Mondays in
January and July in each year, and on going out of office, to pay over to
the treasurer of his county, all money he may have received on account of
fines, and all fees which may have remained unclaimed in his hands for
twelve months, and he shall at the same tiine deliver to such treasurer a
statement in writing, showing by items the sources from which such money
was derived, and shall append thereto an affidavit, that he he has received
no other money for lines, not before paid over to such treasurer, and has
no other fees unclaimed for twelve months, in his hands ; and the treasurer’s receipt therefore, he shall file with the auditor, who shall give him a
quietus.

XXI. FORMS or PROCEEDINGS IN CRIMINAL CA-SES.

SEC. 181. The following, or equivalent forms, may be used by justices ,

of the peace in criminal proceedings under this act:

Territory of Washington, } SS
County of . , ’

To the sheriff or constable of said county :
Whereas, A. B. has this day complained in writing under oath to the
undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, that
on the —— day of 18 —, at in said county (here insert the
substance of the complaint, whatever it may be.) Therefore, in the name

 

   

of the United States, you are commanded forthwith to apprehend the said.

.0. D. and bring him before me, to be dealt with according to law.
Given under my hand this —— day of 18—.

J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

 

FORM OF SEARCH WARRANT.

 

Territory of Washington,
County of , l as
To the sheriff or constable of said county :

Whereas, A. B. has this day made complaint on oath, to the undersigned,
one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, that the following’
goods and chattels, to wit: (here describe them,) the property of the said
A. B. have within . days past, or were on the —-—— day of ———-,

 

by some person or persons unknown, been stolen, taken and carried away
out of the possession of the said A. B., in the county aforesaid ; and also
that the said A. B. verily believes that the said goods or a part thereof,
are concealed in or about the house of C. D., in said county, (describing
the premises to be searched.) Therefore, in the name of the United States,
you are commanded that with the necessary and proper assistance, you
enter into the said house, (describe the premises to be searched) and then
diligently search for the said goods and chattels ; and if the same, or any
part thereof, be found on such search, bring the same and also the said
0. D. forthwith before me, to be disposed of according to law.
Given under my hand this ——- day of 18 —.
J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

 

FORM OF COMMITMENT WHERE JUSTICE ON THE TRIAL SHALL FIND THAT HE

ms NOT JURISDICTION on THE CASE.

Territory of Washington, } SS
County of , '

To any constable, and to the keeper of the common jail of said.

 

county:
Whereas‘, C. D. of, &c., has been brought this day before the nnder-signed, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, charged on:

   

the oath of A. B., with having on the day of 18 —, in said
county, committed the offense of, (here state the offense charged in. the
warrant,) and in the progress of the trial of said charge, it appearing to
the said justice that the said O. D. has been guilty of the offense of, (here
state the new offense found on the trial) committed at the time and place
aforesaid ; and whereas, the said O. D. has failed to give bail in the sum
Of dollars, for his appearance to answer at the next term of the dis»
trict court, as required by’ me ; thereforee, in the name of the United
States, &c., (as in the last form) to receive the said C. D. into your
custody in the said jail, and him there safely keep until he be discharged
by due course of law.

Given under my hand this -—-- day of

 

18 —.
~ J. P.,
Justice of the peace,

 

FORM OF COMMITMENT TO ANSWER IN THE DISTRICT COURT.

Territory of Washington, ‘L sg
County of , ) "

To any constable, and to the keeper of the common jail of said

 

county :

Whereas, on the day of 18 ———, A. B. made complaint in
writing and on oath before" the undersigned one of the justices of the peace,
in and for said county, charging C. D. with having on the day of
18 —, committed the crime of larceny (or other crime as the case

   

 

 

C may be,) and the said C. D.‘ having been brought before and examined by

me, and it being suiiiciently proved to me that the said C. D. has in said
county, committed the crime of larceny (or other crime) by stealing one
bay horse of the value of dollars of the goods and chattels of the said
A. B., and he the said O. D. having failed to give bail for his appearance
to answer at the next term of the district court in the sum of dollars
as required by me ; thereforee, in the name of the United States, you the
said constable are commanded forthwith [to] convey and deliver the said
O. D. to the said keeper, and you the said keeper are hereby commanded.

 

 

FORM OF WARRANT TO KEEP THE PEACE.

 

Territory of Washington, SS
County of , '

To the sheriff or any constable of said county :

Whereas, A. B. has this day complained in writing and under oath, to

the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county,
that he has just cause to fear, and does fear that C. D., late of said county,
will, (here state the threatened injury or violence, as sworn to.) Therefore, in the name of the United States, you are commanded to apprehend

the said C. D., and bring him forthwith before me, to show cause why he
should not give surety to keep the peace and be of good behavior towards
all the people of this territory, and the said A-. B. especially, and fu1‘theI‘
to be dealt with according to law.
Given under my hand this —— day of 18 —.
J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

 

FORM OF COMMITMENT UPON SENTENCE.

Territory of Washington, County of , SS’

TO any constable, and the [keeper of the] common jail of said

 

county ;

Whereas, at a j ustice’s court held at my oiiice in said county, for the
trial of C. D. for the oiiense hereinafter stated, the said O. D. was convicted of having on the day of 18 —, in said county, committed,
(here state the offense) and upon conviction, the said court did adjudge and
determine that the said O. D. should be imprisoned in the common county
jail of said county, for ———-— days ; thereforee, you, the said constable, are
commanded in the name of the United States, forthwith to convey and
deliver the said O. D. to the said keeper ; and you, the said keeper, are
hereby commanded to receive the said O. D. into your custody in the said
jail, and him there safely keep until the expiration of - said —— days, or
until he shall thence be discharged by due course of law.

Given under my hand this day of 18 —.
' J. P.,
Justice of the peace.

   

FORM OF‘ CERTIFICATE OF CONVICTION.

Territory of Washington, } 88
County of , l ' ‘

At a justice’s court, held at my office in said county before me, one of
the justices of the‘ peace, in and for said county, for the trial of C. D. for
the offense hereinafter stated, the said O. D. was convicted of having on
the —— day of 18 —, at in said county of , (here
insert the oll"ense,) and upon conviction the said [court] did adjudge and
determine that the said O. D. should pay a fine of —— dollars, (or be imprisoned as the case may be,) and the said fine has been paid to me.

Given under my hand this -——— day of 18 —.
J. P.,

Justice of the peace.

 

     

 

FORM OF AN EXECUTION.

Territory of Washington,  88
County of , '

To the sheriff or any constable of said county :

Whereas, at a justice’s court held at my office in said county for the
trial of C. D. for the offense hereinafter stated, the said O. D. was convicted of having on the day of . 18—-—-, in said county, committed,
(here state the oifense,) and upon conviction the said court did adiudge
and determine that the said O. D. should pay a fine of ‘ dollars, and
-~ dollars costs ; and whereas the said fine and costs have not been
Paid; these are thereforee, in the name of the United States, to command
you to levy on the goods and chattels &c., as in execution in civil cases.

 

   

 


