Section 1. The common law of England, bo far as it is not repugnant
to, or inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the United States
and the organic act and laws of Washington territory, shall be the rule
6f decision in all the courts of this territory.
Sec. 2. There shall be in this territory hereafter but one form of action
for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress of
private wrongs, which shall be called a civil action.
Sec. 3. The party commencing the action shall be known as the plain
tiff, and the opposite party the defendant.
Sec. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party
in interest, except as is otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 5. An executor or administrator, or guardian of a minor or per
son of unsound mind, a trustee of an express trust, or a person author
ized by statute, may sue without joining the person for whose benefit the
suit is prosecuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of
this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in
whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another.
Sex;. 6. When a married woman is a party her husband must be joined
with her, except :
L When the action concerns her separate property, or her right or
claim to the homestead property, she may sue alone.
2. "When Hie action is between herself and her husband, she may sue
or' be sued alone.
3. When she is living separate and apart from her husband, she may
sue or be sued alone.
SEC. 7. Husband and wife may join in all causes of action arising from
injuries to the person or character of either or both of them, or from
injuries to the property of either or both of them, or arising out of any
contract in favor of either or both of them. If a husband and wife be
sued together, the wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband
neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also. And she may
defend in all cases in which she is' interested, whether she is sued, with
her husband or not,
Seo. 8. The widow, or widow and her children, or child or children, if
no widow, of a man killed in a duel, shall have a right of action against
the person hilling him, and against the seconds and all aiders and abet
tors. When the death of a person is caused by the wrongful act or neg
lect of another, his hoirs, or personal representatives may maintain an
action for damages against the person causing the death; or when the
death of a person is caused by an injury received in falling through any
opening or defective place in any sidewalk, street, alley, square or wharf,
his heirs, or personal representatives may maintain an action for damages
against the person whose duty it was, at the time of the injury, to have
kept in repair such sidewalk or other place. In every such action the
jury ma}' give such damages, pecuniary or exemplary, as, under all cir
cumstances of the case may to them seem just.
Seo. 9. A father, or in case of the death or desertion of his family, the
mother may maintain an action as plaintifff for the injury or death of a
child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.
Sec. 10. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother may maintain an action as plaintifff' for the seduction of a
<laughter, and the guardian for the" seduction of a ward, though the
daughter or- ward be not living with or in the service of the plaintifff' at
the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no loss of service.
Sec. 11. An unmarried female over twenty one years of age may
maintain an action as plaintifff' for her own seduction, and recover
therein such damages as may be assessed in her favor; but the prosecu
tion of an action to judgment by the father, mother, or guardian, as pre
scribed in the preceding section shall be a bar to an action by such
unmarried female.
Seo. 12. When an infant is a party, he shall appear by guardian, or if
he has no guardian, or in the opinion of the court the guardian is an
improper person, the court shall appoint one to act. Said guardian shall
be appointed as follows:
1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant if he
be of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age upon the applica
tion of a relative or friend of the infant.
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant if
lie be of the age of fourteen years, and apply on the first day of the
return term; if he be under this age of fourteen, or neglect to apply, then
upon the application of any other party to the action, or of a relative or
friend of the infant. '
Sec. 13. All persons interested in the cause of action, or necessary to
the complete determination of the question involved, shall, unless other
wise provided by law, be joined as plaintifffs when their interest is in
common with the party making the. complaint, and as defendants when
their interest is adverse to the plaintifff: Provided* That where good
cause exists, which shall he made to appear in the complaint, why a party
who should be a plaintifff cannot, from a want of consent on his part or
otherwise, be made such plaintifff, he shall be made a defendant.
Sec. 14. When the question is one of common or general interest to
many persons, or wiiere the parties are numerous and it is impracticable
to bring them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of the whole.
Sec. 15. Any assignee or assignees of any judgment, bond, specialty,
book account or other chose in action, for the payment of money by
assignment in writing, signed by the person authorized to make the same
may, by virtue of such assignment, sue and maintain an action or actions
in any court of law or equity as the case may require, in his or her name,
against the obligor or obligors, debtor or debtors therein named, notwith
standing the assignor may have an interest in the thing assigned: Froviderf, That any debtor may plead in defense a counterclaim or an off
set, if held by him against the original owner, against the debt assigned,
save that no counterclaim or off-set shall be pleaded against negotiable
paper assigned before due, and where the holder thereof lias purchased
the same in good faith and for value, and is the owner of all the interest
therein.
Sec. 10. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instru
ment, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes,
may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the 'option of
the plaintifff.
Sec. 17. No action shall abate by the death, marriage or other disa
bility of the party, or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause
of action survive or continue; but the court may at any time within one
year thereafter, on motion, allow the action to be continued by or against
his representatives or successors in interest.
Sec. 18. No action for a personal injury to any person occasioning his
death shall abate, nor shall such right of action determine by reason of
such death if he have a wife or child living, but such action may be
prosecuted, or commenced and prosecuted, in favor of such wife, or in
favor of the wife- and children, or if no wife, in favor of such child or
children.
Sec. 19. In any action brought for the recovery of the purchase money
again.-t any person holding a contract for the purchase of lands, the party
bound to perform, the contract, if not the plaintifff, may be made a party,
and the court in a final judgment may order the interest of purchaser
to be sold or transferred to the plaintifff upon such terms as may be just,
and may also order a specific performance of the contract in favor of the
complainant, or the purchaser, in case a sale be ordered.
Sec. 20. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others,
6r by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the
controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
court shall cause them to be brought in.
I", Sec. 21. When a new party is introduced into an action as a represent
ative or successor of a former party, such new party is entitled to the
same summons to be served iu the same manner as required for defend
ants in the commencement of an action.
* Sec. 22. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a con
tract, or for specific real or personal property, at any time before answer,
upon affidavit -that a person not a party to the action, and without collu
sion with him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or prop
erty, upon due notice to such person and the adverse party, may apply to
the court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and dis
charge him from liability to either party on his depositing in court the
amount of the debt, or delivering the property or its value to such per
son as the court may direct; and the court may in its discretion make
he order.
Sec 23. An}- person may, before the trial, intervene in an action or
proceeding, who has an interest in the matter in litigation in the success
of either party, or an interest against both. An intervention takes
place when a third person is permitted to become a party to an action or
proceeding between other persons, either by joining the plaintifff, in
claiming what is sought by the complaint, 'or by uniting with the defend
ant in resisting the claims of the plaintifff or by demanding anything
adversely to both the plaintifff and the defendant, and is made by a com
plaint setting forth the grounds upon which the intervention rests, filed
by leave of the court or judge on the ex parte motion of the party de
siring to intervene.
Sec. 24. When leave is given to intervene, a copy of the intervener's
complaint shall be served upon the parties to the action or proceedings
who have not appeared, or publication of a notice of the intervention
containing a brief statement of the nature of the intervenor's demand
shall be made in all cases where there are absent or non-resident defend
ants. The notice shall be published in the same manner and for the
same length of time as prescribed in this act for publication of summons.
And the complaint shall also be served upon the attorneys of the parties
who have appeared, who may answer or demur to it as if it were an
original complaint. The court shall determine upon the rights of the
intervenor at the same time the action is decided, and if the claim of the
party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs incurred by the
intervention: Provided, That no intervention shall be cause for delay in
the trial of an action between the original parties thereto beyond the
term to which the action is brought.
X Sec. 25/ Actions can only be commenced within the the periods herein
prescribed after the cause of action shall have accrued, except when in
special cases a different limitation is prescribed by statute; but in the
district court the objection that the action was not commenced within
the time limited, can only be taken by answer.
Sec. 26. The period prescribed in the preceding section for the com
mencement of actions shall be as follows:
Within ten years:
1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the
possession thereof; and no action shall be maintained for such recovery
unless it appear that the plaintifff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor was
seized or possessed of the premises in question within ten years before
the commencement of the action.
Sec. 27. Within six years:
1. An action upon a judgment or. decree of any court of the United
States, or of any state or territory within the United States.
2. An action upon a contract in writing, or liability express or implied
arising out of a written agreement.
3. An action for the rents and profits or for the use and occupation of
real estate.
Sec. 28. Within three years:
1. An action for waste or trespass upon real property.
2. An action for taking, detaining or injuring personal property,
including an action for the specific recovery thereof, or for any other
injury- to the person or rights of another not hereinafter enumerated.
3. An action upon a contract or liability, express or implied, which is
not in writing and does not arise out of any written instrument.
4. An action for relief upon the ground of fraud, the cause of action
in such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the
aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud.
5. An action against a sheriff, coroner or constable upon a liability
incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity ana by virtue of
his office, or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-pay
ment of money collected upon an execution; but this subdivision shall
not apply to action for an escape.
6. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture, where an action
is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the territory except
when the statute imposing it prescribed a different penalty.
1. An action for seduction and breach of promise of marriage.
Sec. 29. Within two years:
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, assault and battery, and false
imprisonment.
2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the territory.
Sec. 30. Within one year:
1. An action against a sheriff, or other officer for the escape of a pris
oner arrested or imprisoned on civil process.
2. An action by an heir, legatee, creditor or other party interested,
against an executor or administrator, for alleged misfeasance, malfeas
ance or mismanagement of the estate within one year from the time of
final settlement, or, the time such alleged misconduct was discovered.
Sec. 31. An action upon a statute for a penalty given in whole or in part to the person who may prosecute for the same, shall be commenced
within three years after the commission of the offense; and if the action
be not commenced within one year by a private party, it may be com
menced within two years after the commission of the offense in behalf
of the territory by the prosecuting attorney of the district in which the
county is situated, where said offense was committed.
SEC. 32. Within three months:
1. An appeal from any order of a board of county commissioners;
or upon a claim rejected by said board.
2. Upon claims against an estate, rejected by an executor or adminis
trator within three months after the rejection.
Sec. 33. An action for relief not hereinbefore provided for, 6hall be
commenced within two years after the cause of action shall have accrued.
Sec. 34. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual
open and current account, where there have been reciprocal demands
between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have
accrued from the time of the. last item proved in the account on either
side, but whenever a period of more than one year shall have elapsed
between any of a series of items or demands, they are not to be deemed
such an account.
SEC. 35. The limitations prescribed in this act shall apply to actions
brought in the name of the territoy, or any county or other public cor
poration therein, or for its benefit, in the same manner as to actions by
private parties. An action shall be deemed commenced when the com
plaint is filed.
Sec. 36. If the cause of action shall accrue against any person who shall
be out of the territory or concealed therein, such action may be com
menced within the terms herein respectively limited after the return of
such person into the territory, or after the time of such concealment;
and if after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall
depart from and reside out of this territory or conceal himself, the time
of his absence or concealment shall not be deemed or taken as any part
of the time limited for the commencement of such action.
Sec. 37. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this
chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other
officer, for an escape, be at the time the cause of action accrued either
under the age of twentj'-one years, or insane, or imprisoned on a crimi
nal charge, or in execution under the sentence of a court for a term less
than his natural life, the time of such disability shall not be a part of the
time limited for the commencement of action.
Sec. 38. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the expira
tion of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of
action survive, an action may be commenced by his representa,'
the expiration of the time and within one year from his dq
person against whom an action may he brought die before the ea
the time limited for the commencement thereof and the canst.
survives, an action may be commenced against his representatives
the expiration of that time and within one year after the issuing of lei>
ters testamentary or of administration.
Sec. 39. AVhen a person shall be an alien subject or a citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of
the war shall not be a part of the period limited for the commencement
of the action.
SEC. 40. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction
or a statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction
or prohibition shall not be a part of the time limited for the commence
ment of the action.
Sec. 41. If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed
therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed on error
or appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die and the cause of action survives, his
heirs or representatives may commence a new action within one year
after the reversal.
Sec. 42. No person shall avail himse]f of a disability unless it existed
when his right of action accrued.
SEC. 43. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the
right of action accrues, the limitation shall not attach until they all be
removed.
Sec. 44. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence
of a new or continuing contract whereby to take the case out of the
operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing
signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section shall not alter
the effect of any payment of principal or interest.
SEC. 45. AVhen any payment of principal or interest has been or
shall be made upon any existing contract, whether it be a bill of exchange,
promissory note, bond or other evidence of indebtedness, if such pay
ment be made after the same shall have become due, the limitation shall
commence from the time the last payment was made.
SEC. 40. When the cause of action has arisen in another state, terri
tory or country between non-residents of this territory, and by the laws
of the state, territory or country where the action arose, an action cannot
be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time, no action shall be
maintained thereon in this territory.
CHAPTEE III.
OF VENUE OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section'
47. Where shatl be commenced.
48. Where shall be tried.
49. Against corporation, where office is, or a^cnt.
50. In all other case* where to bo tried.
51. Venue may be clumped by court, when.
52. Of change" of place of trial.
Sectiox
5:1. District court?: transfer of cases to newly
formed.
54. Duty ol clerk when chantrc is made.
55- By stipulation, venue need not be changed.
5«. Change of venue may be vacated.
57. Venue, change of. wheu complete.
5H. Clerk must transmit papers, etc,
-X Sec. 47 AActions for the following causes shall be commenced in the
listrict in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof,
recovery of, for the possession of, for the partition of, for the
e of a mortgage on, or for the determination of all questions
ng the title, or for auy injuries to real property.
2. All questions involving the rights to the possession or title to anv
specific article of personal property, in which last mentioned class of
cases, damages may also be awarded for the detention and for injury to
such personal property.
Sec. 48. Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the district
or county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose:
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute.
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a per
son who, by his command or in his aid, shall do anything touching the
duties of such officer.
Sec. 49. An action against a corporation may be brought in any
county where the corporation has an office for the transaction of business,
or any person resides upon whom process may be served against such
corporation, unless otherwise provided in this code.
Sec. 50. In all other cases the action must be tried in the county in
which the defendants, or some of them reside at the time of the com
mencement of the action, or may be served with process, subject, how
ever, to the power of the court to change the place of trial, as provided
in this act. If the county in which the action is commenced is not
the proper county for the trial thereof, the action may, notwithstanding,
be tried therein, unless the defendant, at the time he appears and demurs
or answers, files an affidavit of merits, and demands that the trial be had
in the proper county.
Sec. 51. The court may, on motion, in the following cases, change the
place of trial when it appears by affidavit, or other satisfactory proof:
1. That the county designated in the complaint is not the proper
county; or,
2. That there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein; or,
3. That the convenience of witnesses or the ends of justice would be
forwarded by the change; or,
4. That from any cause the judge ia disqualified; which disqualifica
tion exists in either of the following cases: In an action or proceeding to
which he is a party, or in which he is interested; when he is related to
either party by consanguinity or affinity, within the third degree; when
he has been of counsel for either party in the action or proceeding.
Sec. 52. If the motion for a change of the place of trial be allowed,
the change shall be made to the county or district where the action
ought to have been commenced, if it be for the cause mentioned in subdivision one of section fifty-one, and in other cases to the most conven
ient county where the cause alleged does not exist. Neither party shall
be entitled to more than one change of the place of trial, except for
causes not in existence when the first change was allowed.
Sec. 53. -Any party in a civil action pending in any district court of a
county out of whose limits a new county, in whole or in part, has been
created, not attached to any other county for judicial purposes, and in
■which a district court has been created by law, may file with the cleric of
such district court an affidavit setting forth that he is a resident of such
newly created county, and that the venue of such action is transitory, orthat
the venue of such action is local and that it ought properly to be
tried in sxich newly created county, and upon the filing of such affidavit,
the c'erk shall make out a transcript of the proceedings already had in
such action in such district court, and certify it under the seal of the
court and transmit such transcript, together with the papers on file in his
office connected with such action to the clerk of the district court of
such newly created county, wherein it shall be proceeded with as in other
cases.
Sec. 54. When an order is made transferring an action or proceeding
for trial, the clerk of the court must transmit the pleadings and papers
therein to the court to which it is transferred. The costs and fees
thereof and of filing the papers anew, mnst be paid by the party at
whose instance the order was made, except in the cases mentioned in
sulxlivision one, section fifty-one, in which case the plaintifff shall pay
costs of transfer. The court to which an action or proceeding is trans
ferred has and exercises over the same the like jurisdiction as if it had
been originally commenced therein.
Sec. 55. Notwithstanding the provisions of section fifty -one all the
parties to the action by stipulation in writing or by consent in open court
entered in the records may agree that the place of trial be changed to
any county or district in the territory, and thereupon the court must
order the change agreed upon.
Seo. 56. If such papers be not transmitted to the clerk of the proper
court within the time prescribed in the order allowing the change, and
the delay be caused by the act or omission of the party procuring the
change, the 'adverse party, on motion to the court or judge thereof, may
have the order vacated, and thereafter no other change of the place of
trial shall be allowed to such party.
Sec. 57. Upon the filing of the papers with the clerk of the court to
which the cause is transferred, the change of venue shall be deemed
complete, and thereafter the action shall proceed as though it had been
commenced in that court.
Sec. 58. The clerk of the court must also transmit with the original
papers where an order is made changing the place of trial, a certified
transcript of all record entries up to and including the order for such
change.
Bhall be commenced by the filing of a complaint with the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought, and the issuing of a summons
thereon: Provided, That after the filing of the complaint, a defendant
in the action may appear, answer or demur whether the summons has
been issued or not, and such appearance, answer or demurrer shall be
deemed a waiver of summons. , <*£/?"' %' 1 ~''J$~.6. ? (> *7
X Sec. 60.\The clerk shall endorse on the complaint the day, month and
year the same is filed, and at any time within one year after the filing of
the same, the plaintifff may have a summons issued. The summons shall
run in the name of the United States of America, be dated and signed by
the clerk, tested in the name of the judge of the court in which it issues,
directed to the defendant, and issued under the seal of the court. The
summons shall state the parties to the action, the court in which it is
brought, the county in which the complaint is filed, and require the
defendant to appear and answer the complaint within the time men
tioned in this section, after the service of the summons, exclusive of the
day of service, or judgment will be taken according to the prayer of the
complaint. The clerk shall endorse on the summons the names of the
plaintifffs attorneys. The time in which the summons shall require the
defendant to answer shall be as follows:
1. If the defendant is served within the county in which the action is
brought, twenty days.
2. If the defendant is served out of the county, but in the district in
which the action is brought, thirty days.
3. If served in any other judicial district in the territory, forty days.
4. If served by publication, as hereafter provided, within sixty days
after the date of the first publication of the summons: Provided, That
if service is to be made by publication, the summons shall contain, in
addition to the requirements of this section, the cause and general nature
of the action. •
Sec. 61. In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintifff, at
the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant at the time of filing
his answer, when affirmative relief is claimed in such answer, or at any
time afterwards, may file with the auditor of the county in which the prop
erty is situated, a notice of the pendancy of the action, containing the
names of the parties to and the object of the action, and a description of
the property in that county affected thereby; and the defendant may also
in such notice state the nature and extent of the relief claimed in the an
swer. From the time of filing only, shall the pendency of the action be
constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected
thereby, and this notice shall be recorded by the auditor as deeds and
other conveyances are recorded. itx^u^^oUoCcof <j5fi'~^.&. ^?,^K
y Sec. 62.xThe summons shall be served by the sheriff of the county
where the defendant is found, or by his deputy, or by a person specially
appointed by him or appointed by a judge of the court in which the
action is brought, or by any citizen of the United States over twenty-one
years of age, other than the plaintifff, and who is competent to be a wit
ness on the trial of the action. A copy of this complaint shall be served
with the summons except where the service is by publication. "When
the summons is served by the sheriff or his deputy, it shall be returned
with the certificate or affidavit of the officer, of its service, and of the
service of the copy of the complaint, to the office of the clerk from which
the summons issued. When the summons is served by any- other person
as before provided, it shall be returned to the office of the clerk from,
which it issued, with the affidavit of such person of its service, and pf
the service of the copy of the complaint. The plaintifff shall be entitled
to as many writs of summons in the same suit as may be necessary to
obtain jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, and they may be
issued at the same or different times.
KSec. 63XThe summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, as
follows: W:u^^/;;,o^,As s w
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president, or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof.
2. If against any county in this territory, to the county auditor.
3. If the suit be against a foreign corporation, or a non-resident joint
stock company or association doing business within this territory, to an
agent, cashier or secretary thereof.
4. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother, guardian, or if there be none
within this territory, then to an}' person having the care or control of
such minor, or with whom he reside, or in whose service he is employed.
5. If against a person for whom a guardian has been appointed for
any cause, to such guardian.
6. In all other cases, to the defendant personally, or if he be not found,
to some suitable person at the dwelling house or usual place of abode of
the defendant.
Sec. 64. If at the time the complaint is filed or any time afterward
the plaintifff or intervenor, or an attorney in the action for the plaintifff
or intervenor, file in the action his affidavit stating that the person on
whom service is to be made, resides out of the territory, or has departed
from the territory, or cannot after due diligence be found within the ter
ritory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of summons, or the defend
ant or the party to be served is a foreign corporation, or the cause of
action against such corporation arose within the territory, service may be
made by the publication of the summons.
Sec. 65. When the affidavit required in section sixty-four has been
filed, the clerk of the court shall make out a summons as required in section sixty, and shall deliver the same to the person filing the affi
davit or his attorney in the action.
Sec. 66. Service of the summons by publication shall be made by
advertising the same in full in some weekly newspaper published in the
county where the court is held, if any such there be, and if not, then in
a weekly newspaper of general circulation in the county where the court
is held published in the judicial district where said court is held. Such
publication shall be once a week for six consecutive weeks. Such sum
mons must be published for the first time within the fourteen days follow
ing the date of said summons, and if not so published, a new summons
for publication must be obtained.
Sec. 67. The defendant against whom publication is made, or his per
sonal representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown at any
time before judgment, shall be allowed to defend the action; and the
defendant against whom publication is made, or his representatives, may
in like manner upon good cause shown and upon such terms as may he
proper, he avowed to defend after judgment, and within one year after
the entry of such judgment on such terms as may he just; and if
the defense he successful, and the judgment or any part thereof have
been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be
compelled as the court shall direct. But the title to property sold upon
execution issued on such judgment to a purchaser in good faith, shall
not be thereby affected.
Sec. 68. When the action is against two or more defendants and the
summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the plaintifff
may proceed as follows:
1. If the action he against the defendants jointly indebted upon aeontract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the court
otherwise direct, and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against
all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be
enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property of
the defendants served.
2. If the action be against the defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they
were the only defendants.^,, u - <.i,tn<( .5 c. £ /
y Sec. 69/rProof of" the service of the summons and copy of complaint,
ehaTl be as follows :
1. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the return of such sheriff or
deputy.
a. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof.
3. The written admission of the defendant, dated and endorsed upon
the summons, stating the time and place of service.
4. In case of publication the affidavit of the editor, publisher, fore
man, or principal clerk to such publication. If the service is by publication,
the original summons shall be returned to the clerk of the court
who issued it accompanied by a printed copy thereof as published,
together with the affidavit of the editor, publisher, foreman, or principal
clerk employed in the newspaper office where published, showing in
what capacity the affiant makes the affidavit, the name of such weekly
newspaper, the place where it is published, and its general circulation in
the county where the court is held if not published in such county, aud
that the printed copy as returned was published for six consecutive
weeks in such newspaper, and showing also the date of the first publica
tion and the date of the last publication thereof, and that said newspa
per named is a newspaper published at least once a week as a weekly
newspaper, in the county or judicial district required in section sixtysix of this act. tL+^-^A-zet / <f $ }v- £ . P p O,
i( Sec. 70.AFrom the time of service of the summons and copy of the
complaint, in an action at law, the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
Sec. 71. A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall be equivalent
to personal service of the summons and a copy of the complaint upon
him.
Sec. 72. A defendant appears in an action when he answerB, demurs or
gives the plaintifff written notice of his appearance, or when an attorney
gives notice of appearance for him. After appearance a defendant or hia
attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings, of which
notice is required to be given. But where a defendant has not appeared,
service of notice or papers need not be made upon him unless he is im
prisoned for want of bail.
m yjt\- ;■ *v- <,. - o
CHAPTER V.
OF PLEADINGS.
Section Suction
73. Forme of abolished; and sufficiency of, how 82. Answer must contain what.
determined.
76. Complaint, shall contain what.
Si. Counter claim denned.
74. What shall be.
75. Of complaint.
84. Defendant may demur to one or more causes of
action.
77. Demurrer to causes of. 85. Of *hain, frivolous, etc., answers.
78. Demurrer may be in ianjrua^e of statute. ' 8fi. Plaintiff may reply to new matter in answer.
79. If objections do not appear, must be taken by 87. Of demurrer to new matter in answer.
answer. 88- Judgment upon now matter in answer.
80. Service of amended complaint. 89. When defendant may demur to reply.
81. Objections; when shall be deemed waived. 91*. Mules of court to fix times of filing pleadings.
Sec. 73. All the forms of pleadings heretofore existing in civil actions
inconsistent with the provisions of this code, are abolished, and hereafter
the forms of pleading and the rule by which the sufficiency of the plead
ings is to be determined, shall be as herein prescribed.
Sec. 74. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintifff shall be:
1. The complaint. 2. The demurrer. 3. The reply. And on the part of the defendant: 1. The demurrer. 2. The answer. -..■ -\
Sec. 75. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff shall be the
complaint.
Sec. 76. The complaint shall contain:
1. The title of cause, specifying the name of the court, the name of
the county in which the action is brought, and the name of the parties
to the action, plaintifff and defendant.
2. A plain and concise statement of facts constituting the cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand for the relief which plaintifff claims; if the recovery of
money, or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.
4. When the relief sought is of an equitable nature, the complaint
shall be addressed to the judge of the district, in which the action is
brought. (-id LJL<~^LL(-ct Sj %'6'" $>, J, ''•''."$,(•■.
">(Sec. 77/The defendant may demur to the complaint, when it shall
appear upon the face thereof, either
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant
or of the subject matter of the action.
2. That the plaintifff has no legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for
the same cause; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or,
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united.
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
Sec. 78. The demurrer may specify the grounds of objection in the
statutory language of section seventy-seven, or the grounds may be dis
tinctly specified; it may be taken to the whole complaint; or to any
one of the alleged causes of action stated therein.
Sec. 79. When any of the matters enumerated in section seventyI
-seven do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may
be taken by answer.
Sec. 80. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof shall be served
on the defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall answer the
same within such time as may be prescribed by the court; and if he
omit to do so, the plaintifff may proceed to obtain judgment as in other
cases of failure to answer.
Sec. 8Tf. If no objection be taken either by demurrer or answer, the
defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting always
the objection that the court has no jurisdiction, or that the complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, which
objection can be made at any stage of the proceedings, either in the dis
trict or supreme court.
Sec. 82. The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the com
plaint controverted by the defendant or of any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter
claim, in ordinary and concise language without repetition.
Sec. 83. The counterclaim mentioned in the preceding section, must
be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a plaintifff between
whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and arising out of
one of the following causes of action:
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract, or transaction set
forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifffs claim, or con
nected with the subject of the action.
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising
also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action.
3. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and coun
ter claims as he may have whether they be such as have been heretofore
denominated legal or equitable, or both. They shall each be separately
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to
answer, in such a manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished '
Sec. Si. The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of
action stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.
Sec. 85. Sham, frivolous and irrelevant answers and defenses may be
stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the court may in its dis
cretion impose.
Sec. 86. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a defense
or counterclaim, the plaintifff may reply to such new matter, denying
fenerally or specifically each allegation controverted by him, or any
nowledge or information thereof sufficient to fonn a belief; and he
may allege in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, any
new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a defense
to such new matter in the answer.
Sec. 87. The plaintifff may demur to an answer containing new mat
ter, when it appears upon the face thereof, that such new matter dues
not constitute a defense or counterclaim, or he may for like cause demur
to one or more of such defenses or counterclaims, and reply to the resi
due.
Sec. 88. If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting
a defense or counterclaim, and the plaintifff fail to reply or demur thereto
within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move the court for
such judgment as he is entitled to on the pleadings, and if the case
require it he may have a jury called to assess the damages.
SEC. 89. The defendant may demur to any new matter contained in the
reply, when it appears upon the face thereof that such new matter is not
a sufficient reply to the facts stated in the answer. Sham, frivolous and
irrelevant replies may be stricken out in like manner and on the same
terms as like answers and defenses.
Sec. 90. The court shall establish the rules prescribing the time in
which pleadings subsequent to the complaint shall be filed.
CHAPTER VI.
VERIFICATION OF PLEADINGS.
Section
sued in criminal prosecution.
Sectios
01. Bv whom and how made.
92. When may be omitted, nor shall a pleading be
Sec. 91. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his attor
ney, and, except a demurrer, shall also be verified by the party, his
agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The veri
fication must be made by the affidavit of the party, or, if there be sev
eral parties united iu interest and pleading together, by one at least of
such parties, if such party be within the county and capable of making
the affidavit; otherwise the affidavit may be made by the agent or attor
ney of the party. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or attor
ney if the action or defense be founded on a written instrument for the
payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession of
the agent or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading
be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the
affidavit is made by the agent or attorney it must set forth the reason of
his making it. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be
made by any officer thereof, upon whom service of a notice might be
made; and when the territory, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a
party, the verification may be made by any person to whom all the ma
terial allegations of the pleading are known.
Sec. 92. When, in the judgment of the court, an answer to an allega
tion in any pleading might subject the party answering, to a criminal
prosecution, the verification of the answer to such allegation may be
omitted. Xo pleading shall be used in a criminal prosecution against
the party, as evidence of a fact alleged in such pleading.
ing a copy of the instrument of writing, or the items of an account
therein alleged; but unless he file a verified copy thereof with such
Sleadings, and serve the same on the adverse party, he shall, within ten
ays after a demand thereof, in writing, deliver to the adverse party a
copy of such instrument of writing, or the items of an account, verified by
his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he
believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The
court, or judge thereof, may order a further account, when the one deliv
ered is defective; and the court may, in all cases, order a bill of partic
ulars of the claim of either party to be furnished.
Sec. 94. In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of deter
mining its effect, its allegation shall oe liberally construed, with a view
to substantial justice between the parties.
Sec. 95. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading
it may be stricken out on motion of any person aggrieved thereby; and
when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the
precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may
require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment, or
may dismiss the same.
Sec. 96. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or
office of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts
conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may be
stated to nave been duly given or made. If 6uch allegation be contro
verted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial- the
facts conferring jurisdiction.
Sec. 97. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such per
formance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the
party pleading shall be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing
such performance. '
Sec. 98. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title, and the day of
its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.
Sec. 99. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary to
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose of showing the
application to the plaintifff, of the defamatory matter out ot which the
cause arose, but it shall be sufficient to state generally, that the same was
published or spoken concerning the plaintifff; and if such allegation be
controverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish on trial that it wa&
so published or spoken.
Sec. 100. In an action mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as defam
atory, and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of dam
ages; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in evi
dence the mitigating circumstances.
Sec. 101. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained
doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by whose com
mand he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property upon which
the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the time
doing the damage tliereon, shall be good, without setting forth the title
to such real property.
Sec. 102. Tiio plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same
complaint, when they all arise out of
1. Contract, express or implied; or,
2. Injuries, with or without force, to the person; or,
3. Injuries, with or without force, to property; or,
4. Injuries to character; or,
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages, for the
withholding thereof; or,
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages, for
the withholding thereof; or,
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by operation of
law.
But the causes of action, so united, must affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and must be separately
stated.
Sec. 103. Every material allegation of the complaint, not controverted
by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer, not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purpose of action,
be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter in a reply, is to be
deemed controverted by the adverse party, as*upon a direct denial or
avoidance, as the case may require.
Sec. 104. A material allegation in a pleading is one essential to the
claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient.
CHAPTEE VIII.
MISTAKES IN PLEADINGS: AMENDMENTS.
Section
106. Variance, when shall be deemed material.
106. When the variance if* nut material.
107. Difference between variance and failure of
proof, deemed a case of variance.
106. Action to recover possession of personal prop
erty, when plaintifff shall be permitted to
amend.
109. Power of court to allow amendments.
110. If allowed new pleading shall be filed, what
Sectios
shall be called, and what shall be.
111. Pleading not verified, and cause of action, not
separately pleaded stricken out. —Terms. *
112. When defendant's name is unknown, he may
be designated by any name.
113. Errors not affecting substantial rights to be
disregarded.
114. Supplemental pleadings may be allowed.
Sec. 105. No variance between the allegation in a pleading, and the
proof, shall be deemed material, unless it shall have actually misled the
adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon
the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so mis
led, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in what
respect he has been misled, and, thereupon, the court may order the
pleading to be amended upon such terms as shall be just.
Sec. 106. "When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evi
dence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs.
Sec. 107. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defense, to which the proof is directed, is not proved, not in some par
ticular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall
not be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections, but a fail
ure of proof.
SEC. 108. Where the plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of
personal property- on a claim of being the owner thereof, shall fail to
establish on trial such ownership, but shall prove that he is entitled to
the possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, he shall
not thereby be defeated of his action, but shall be permitted to amend,
on reasonable terms his complaint, and be entitled to judgment accord
ing to the proof in the case.
Sec. 109. The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms
as may be proper, amend any pleadings or proceedings, by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like
terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may like
wise, upon affidavit showing good cause therefore, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon such terms as may be just, an amend
ment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon
like terms, allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code; and may upon such terms as may be just, and upon payment of
costs, relieve a party, or his legal representatives from a judgment,
order or other proceeding taken against him through his mistake, inad
vertence, surprise or excusable neglect; and when for any cause satis
factory to the court, or the judge at chambers, the party aggrieved has
been unable to apply for the relief sought during the term at which such
judgment, order or proceeding complained of was taken, the court, or
the judge at chambers, in vacation, may grant the relief upon applica
tion made within a reasonable time, not exceeding five months after the
adjournment of the term.
Sec. 110. AVhen any pleading or proceeding is amended before trial,
mere clerical errors excepted, it shall be done by filing a new pleading,
to be called the amended complaint, or otherwise, as the case may be,
, Such amended pleading shall be complete in itself, without reference to
the original, or any preceding amended one.
Sec. 111. Any pleading not duly verified and subscribed, may, on
motion of the adverse party, be stricken out of the case. When any
pleading contains more than one cause of action or defense, if the same
be not pleaded separately, such pleading may. on motion of the adverse
party, be stricken out of the case. When a motion to strike out is
allowed, the court may, upon such terms as may be proper, allow the
party to file an amended pleading; or, if the motion be disallowed, and
it appear to have been made in good faith, the court may, upon like
terms, allow the party to plead over.
Sec. 11'2. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the name of the
defendant, it shall be so stated in his pleading, and such defendant may
be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when liia
true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly.
SEC. 113. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard any
error or defect in pleadings or proceedings which shall not affect the sub
stantial rights of the adverse party, and no judgment shall be reversed
or affected by reason of such error or defect.
Sec. Hi. The court may, on motion, allow supplemental pleadings,
showing facts which occurred after the former pleadings were filed.
Sec. 115. No person shall be arrested or held to bail in any civil action,
except upon the order of the court where the action is brought, or a
judge of the supreme court. >
Sec. 116. The defendant may be arrested in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of action not
arising out of contract, where the defendant is a non-resident of the
territory, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action' is for an
injury to person or character, or for injuring, or for wrongfully taking,
detaining or converting property,
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry, or for
money received, or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or
converted to his own use, by a public officer, or by an attorney, or by an
officer or agent of a corporation in the course of his employment as such,
or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity,
or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employ
ment.
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property un
justly detained, when the property, or any part thereof has been conceal
ed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the
sheriff, and with intent that it should not be so found or taken, or with
the intent to deprive the plaintifff of the benefit thereof.
i. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or iu
concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention, or
conversion of which, the action is brought.
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his'property, or is
about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors.
6. When the action is to prevent threatened injury to, or destruction
of property, in which the party bringing the action has some right, in
terest, or title, which will be impaired or destroyed by such injury or
destruction, and the danger is imminent that such property will be de
stroyed, or its value impaired, to the injury of the plaintifff.
7. On the final judgment or order of any court in this territory,
while the same remains in force, when the defendant, having no proper
ty subject to execution, or not sufficient to satisfy such judgment, has
money which he ought to apply in payment upon such judgment, which
he refuses to apply, with intent to defraud the plaintifff, or when he re
fuses to comply with a legal order of the court, with intent to defraud
the plaintifff; or, when any one or more of the causes exist for which an
arrest is allowed, in the first class of cases mentioned in this section.
Sec. 117. The court or judge making the order of arrest, shall first
be satisfied by the affidavit of the party, or his agent or attorney, and
other proof, that the case is one in which an arrest is provided for in sec
tion one hundred and sixteen, and that one or more of the prescribed
causes exist, which proof shall be in writing, and, together with the or
der, be filed with the clerk, before he shall issue any warrant for the ar
rest.
Sec. 118. The court or judge making the order shall, in all cases, spe
cify therein the amount in which the defendant shall be held to bail,
which shall, in no case, exceed the demand of the plaintifff, and one
hundred dollars in addition thereto, which amount the clerk shall en
dorse upon the writ, and the court shall also, in the order, fix the amount
of the bond to be given by the plaintifff, as provided in the next succeed
ing section, which amount shall in no case be less than one hundred dol
lars.
Sec. 119. Before any clerk shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the
defendant, he shall require the plaintifff to place on file in his office, a
copy of the order granting the warrant, unless the same was made in
open court and appears in the minutes; the original affidavit and proofs,
upon which the order was made, and a bond on behalf of the plaintifff,
in such an amount as the court or judge may have fixed in the order,
with sureties to the satisfaction of the clerk, conditioned to pay to the
defendant all damages which he shall suffer, and all expenses he shall
incur by reason of such arrest or imprisonment, if the order shall be va
cated in the manner provided for in the next succeeding section, or if
the plaintifff fail to recover in his action.
Sec. 120. The defendant may, on motion, apply to the court to vacate
'the order of arrest, on -the ground of insufficiency of the proof, or he
may show that the facts alleged, upon which the order issued, are un
true, or he may apply to have the amount of bail reduced. If the court,
upon any such motion, shall vacate the order, the defendant shall be dis
charged from the arrest, and any bond he may have given shall be can
celed, but the action, unless dismissed for other cause, shall be conduct
ed in the same manner as in cases where complaint and notice were
duly served and filed.
Sec. 121. When an order of arrest is granted prior to the filing of the
complaint, the warrant shall not issue until the complaint is filed with
the clerk, and a copy of said complaint shall be served on the defendant
with the warrant; but an order of arrest may be granted at any time
after the action is commenced and before judgment is satisfied, when the
party seeking the order shall comply with the preceding provisions in
regard to arrests.
Seo. 122. The warrant must b.e delivered to the sheriff, who, upon ar
resting the defendant, must deliver to him a copy thereof.
Sec. 123. The sheriff shall execute the warrant by arresting the de
fendant, and keeping hi in in custody until discharged by law. And the
plaintifff, in the first instance, shall be liable for the sheriff's fees, for the
food and maintenance of any person, under arrest, which, if required
by the sheriff, shall be paid weekly in advance. And such fees, so paid,
shall be added to the costs taxed or accruing in the case, and be collect
ed as other costs. And if the plaintifff shall neglect to pay such fees for
three days after a demand, in writing, upon the plaintifff or his attorney,
for payment, the sheriff may discharge defendant out of custody.
Sec. 124. The defendant may give bail by causing a bond to be exe
cuted by two or more sufficient sureties, stating their places of residence
and occupations, conditioned that the defendant shall at all times render
himself amenable to the process of the court during the pendency of
the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment ren
dered therein; or, if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section one hundred and sixteen, it shall be further con
ditioned that the specific article of property, or instrument of writing
which is the subject matter of the writ, shall be forthcoming, to abide
any order which shall be made therein; or, if he be arrested for the
cause mentioned in the sixth subdivision of said section it shall be fur
ther conditioned that he will not commit the injury or destruction alleg
ed to be threatened in the affidavit or proofs on which the arrest is
ordered.
Sec. 125. The warrant shall, in all cases, contain a short statement ot
the alleged causes for which the order was granted, and also the amount
for which bail is required.
Sec. 126. At any time before a failure to comply with their bonds,
the bail may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, or he may
surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested, in
the following manner:
1. A certified copy of the bail bond shall be delivered to the sheriff,
who shall retain the defendant in his custody thereon as upon an order
of arrest, and by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender.
2. Upon the production of a copy of the bail bond and sheriff's certi
ficate, a judge of the district court may, upon a notice to the plaintifff
of eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exon-*
erated, and on filing the order and the papers used on such application,
they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section does not apply
to an arrest for the cause mentioned in the sixth subdivision of section
one hundred and sixteen.
Sec. 127. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant the bail, at
any time or place before they are finally discharged, may themselves ar
rest him, or, by written authority, indorsed upon a certified copy of the
bond, may empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.
Sec. 128. In case of failure to comply with the condition of the bond,
the bail can be proceeded against by action only.
Sec. 129. The bail may be exonerated, either by the death of the de
fendant, or his imprisonment in the penitentiary, or by his legal dis
charge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process,
or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested,
in exoneration thereof, within twenty days after commencement of the
action against the bail, or within such further time as may be granted
by the court.
Sec. 130. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff must
deliver the order of arrest to the clerk, with his return endorsed there
on, and the bond of the bail, or a copy thereof. The plaintifff, within ten
days thereafter, may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not ac
cept the bail, or he must be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff
shall be exonerated from liability.
Sec. 131. On the receipt of notice, the sheriff or defendant may, with
in ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff or his attorney notice of the
justification of the same, or their bail, (specifying the places of residenc
es and occupations of the latter), before judgment of the court or jus
tice of the peace, at a specified time and place, the time to be not less
than five days nor more than ten thereafter. In case other bail be giv
en, there must be a new bond in the form prescribed in section one hun
dred and twenty-four.
Sec. 132. The qualifications of the bail shall be as follows:
1. Each of them shall be a resident of the territory; but no counsel
or or attorney at law, sheriff, clerk of the district court, or other officer
of such court, shall be permitted to become bail in any action.
2. Each of the bail shall be worth the amount specified in the order
of arrest, or the amount to which the order may be reduced, as provided
in this chapter, over and above all debts and liabilities, and exclusive of
property exempt from execution; but the judge or justice, on justifica
tion, may allow more than two sureties to justify, severally, in amounts
less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.
Sec. 133. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail must at
tend before the judge or justice of the peace at the time and place men
tioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath on the part of the
plaintifff touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or jus
tice of the peace, in his discretion, may think proper. The examination
must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if required by
the plaintifff.
Sec. 134. If the judge or justice find the bail sufficient, he shall en
dorse his allowance thereof on the bond and cause it to be filed with the
clerk, and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonorated from liability.
Sec. 135. The defendant may at the time of his arrest, instead of giv
ing bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order.—
The sheriff must thereupon give the defendant a certificate of deposit,
and the defendant shall be discharged from custody.
Sec. 136. The sheriff shall, within ten days after the deposit, pay the
same into court, and take from the officer receiving the same two certi
ficates of such payment, the one of which he must deliver to the plain
tiff' and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such
payment, the same proceeding may be had on the official bond of the
sheriff to collect the sum deposited, as in case of delinquency.
Sec. 137. If the money be deposited, as provided in the last two sec
tions, bail may be given and justified, upon notice as hereinbefore pro
vided, at any time before judgment; and thereupon the judge before
whom justification is had, shall direct in the order of allowance that the
money deposited be refunded by the sheriff or clei-k to the defendant,
and it shall be refunded accordingly.
Sec. 138. When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment of money
to the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under the direction of the court, apply
the same in the satisfaction thereof, and, after satisfying judgment, re
fund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judgment be in favor
of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited
and remaining unapplied.
Sec. 139. If, after being arrested, the defendant escapes or be rescued,
the sheriff himself shall be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself
«...
.
'
.
from sucli liability, by giving bail at any time before judgment.
Sec. 140. If the judgment be recovered against the sheriff upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, the
same proceedings may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to col
lect the deficiency, as in other cases of delinquency.
Sec. 141. The bail taken on arrest shall, unless they justify, or other
bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff, by action, for the dam
ages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.
CHAPTER X.
CLAIM TO RECOVER PERSONAL PROPERTY.
8ECTI01T . SECTIOS
142. Plaintiff may claim delivery of personal 14». Qualification and justification of sureties.
property. 149. Sheriff to take property concealed; how.
143. When delivery claimed; affidavit required. ; 150. Sheriff to ki'ep property, and deliver; to
144. Security on the pari of the plaintiffl'.
145. Exception to sureties, proceeding.
146. Defendant; when entitled to re-delivery.
147. Justification of defendant's sureties.
whom and when.
151. Claim by oilier Ihiin the defendant.
®
152. Sheriff to file affidavit; with whom and when.
Sec. 142. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as
herein provided.
Sec. 143. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particu
larly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by
virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall
be set forth.
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by defendant.
3. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine
pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment
against the property of the plaintifff; or if so seized, that it is by law
exempt from such seizure. And,
4. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 144. Upon the receipt of the affidavit, and a bond to the defend
ant, executed by one or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff,
to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, as
stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for the return of
the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for tie
payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against
the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in
the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and
retain it in his custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the de
fendant a copy of the affidavit and bond, by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or his agent, from whose possession the
property is taken; or if neither can be found, by leaving them at the
usual place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and dis
cretion: or, if neither have any known place of abode, by putting them
in the post-office, directed to the defendant, at the post-office nearest his
place of residence.
Sec. 145. The defendant may, within three days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit and bond, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts
to the sufficiency of the sureties; if he fail to do so, he shall be deemed
to have waived all objections to them. When the defendant excepts,
the sureties shall justify on notice, in like manner as bail on arrest, and
the sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until
the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
shall justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and justify. If the
defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property, as pro
vided in the next section.
Sec. 146. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plain
tiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plain
tiff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a bond execut
ed by one or more sufficient sureties to the effect that they are bound
in double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit of the
plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be ad
judged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any cause,
be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property be not
so required within three days after the taking and service of notice to
the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in section one hundred and fifty-one.
Sec. 147. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the plaintifff or
his attorney, of not less than two, nor more than six days, shall justify
in the same manner as bail upon arrest; upon such justification, the
sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be
responsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or until justi
fication is completed, or expressly waived, and may retain the property
until that time; but if they, or others in their place, fail to justify at
the time and place appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plain
tiff.
Sec. 148. The qualification of sureties and their justification shall be
as prescribed in respect to bail upon an order of arrest.
Sec. 149. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in a build
ing or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivei'y. If it
be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken
open and take the property into his possession, and if necessary, he may
call to his aid the power of* his county.
Sec. 150. When the sheriff shall have taken the property as herein
provided, he shall keep it in a secure place and deliver it to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his neces
sary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec. 151. If the property taken be claimed by an}7 other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or his right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff before the deliv
ery of the property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall not be bound to
keep the property or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on
demand indemnify the sheriff against such claim by a bond, executed by
two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits that they are each
worth double the value of the property, as specified in the affidavit of
plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution, and freeholders or householders of the county;
and no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or
his agent shall be valid against the sheriff, unless made as aforesaid; and
notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the property
a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.
Sec. 152. The sheriff shall file the affidavit, with the proceedings
thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the action is pending,
■within twenty days after taking the property mentioned therein; or if
the clerk reside in another county, shall mail or forward the same with
in that time.
CHAPTER XI.
INJUNCTIONS AND RESTRAINING ORDERS,
Section
153. Re-traiuing orders and injunctions; by whom
granted.
154. When an injunction may be granted—tem
porary.
155. At what time an injunction may be granted.
150. Notice; restraining order granted in emer
gency.
157. On hearing, parties may read affidavits.
188. Terms, party obtaining.
159. Bund before granted
160. When granted after restraining order.
161. A writ of, not necessary.
162. Release of errors ; how made.
Section
103. Whom, shall bind.
1(54. When it is necessary to serve.
165. Money collected on a judgment, subject to th©
order of the court.
166. Disobedience to. a contempt.
167. Proceedings for contempt.
168. Person arrested for contempt to give bond*
169. Motion to dissolve or modify.
170. Damages awarded after dissolution.
171. When' dissolved, damages shall include.
17-2. Court may reinstate.
173. Power of "judge in vacation.
Sec. 153. Restraining orders and injunctions may be granted by the
district court in term time, or by any judge of the supreme court in
vacation.
Sec. 154. "When it appears by the complaint that the plaintifff is enti
tled to the relief demanded and the relief, or any part thereof, consists
in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commis
sion or continuance of which during the litigation would produce great
injury to the plaintifff; or when during the litigation, it appears that the
defendant is doing, or threatened, or is about to do, or is procuring, or
is suffering some act to be done in violation of the plaintifff's rights re
specting the subject of the action tending to render the judgment inef
fectual; or where such relief, or any part thereof, consists in re
straining proceedings upon any final order or judgment, an injunction
may be granted to restrain such act or proceedings until the further or
der of the court, which may afterwards be dissolved or modified upon
motion. And where it appears in the complaint at the commencement
of the action, or during the pendency thereof, by affidavit, that the de
fendant threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his property with
intent to defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted
to restrain the removal or disposition of his property, w c '-/ ■/.
* Seo. 155. The injunction may be granted at the time of commencing
the action, or at anv time afterwards, before judgment in that proceeding.
Sec. 156. No injunction shall be granted until it shall appear to the
court or judge granting it, that some one or more of the opposite party
concerned, has had reasonable notice of the time and place of making
application, except that in cases of emergency to be shown in the com
plaint, the court may grant a restaining order until notice can be given
and hearing had thereon.
Sec. 157. On the hearing of an application for an injunction, each
party may read affidavits.
Sec. 158. Upon the granting or continuing an injunction, such terms
and conditions may be imposed upon the party obtaining it as may be
deemed equitable.
Sec. 150. Xo injunction or restraining order shall be granted until
the party asking it shall enter into a bond, in such a sum as shall be
fixed by the court or judge granting the order, with surety to the satis
faction of the clerk ot the district court, to the adverse party affected
thereby, conditioned to pay all damages and costs which may accrue by
reason of the injunction or restraining order. The sureties shall, if re
quired by the clerk, justify in like maimer as bail upon an arrest, and
until they so justify, the clerk shall be responsible for their sufficiency.
Sec. 160. When an injunction is granted rtpon the hearing, after a
temporary restraining order, the plaintifff shall not be required to enter
into a second bond, unless the former shall be deemed insufficient, but
the plaintifff and his surety shall remaiu liable upon his original bond.
Sec. 161. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of injunction, but
the clerk shall issue a copy of the order or injunction duly certified by
him, which shall be forthwith served by delivering the same to the ad
verse party.
Si:o. 162. In application to stay proceedings after judgment, the plain
tiff shall endorse upon his complaint a release of errors in the judgment
whenever required to do so by the judge or court.
Sec. 163. An order of injunction shall bind every person and officer
restrained from the time he is informed thereof.
Sec. 104. When notice of the application for an injunction has beeu
served upon the adverse party, it shall not be necessary to serve the order
upon him, but he shall be bound by the injunction as soon as the bond
required of the plaintifff is executed and delivered to the proper officer.
Sec. 165. Money collected upon a judgment afterward enjoined, re
maining in the hands of the collecting officer, shall be paid to the clerk
of the court granting the injunction, subject to the order of the court.
Sec. 166. Whenever it shall appear to any court granting an order of
injunction, or judge thereof in vacation, by affidavit, that any person has
willfully disobeyed the order after notice thereof, such court or judge
shail award an attachment for contempt against the party charged, or a
rule to show cause why it should not issue. The attachment or rule
shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and directed to the sheriff, and
shall be served by him.
Sec. 167. The attachment for contempt shall be immediately served,
by arresting the party charged, and bringing him into court, if in ses
sion, to be dealt with as in other cases of contempt; and the court shall
also take all necessary measures to secure and indemnify the plaintifff
against damages in the premises.
Sec. 168. If the court is not in session, the officer making the arrest
shall cause the person to enter into a bond, with surety, to be approved
by the officer, conditioned that he personally appear in open court, on
the first day of the next term thereof, to answer such contempt, and that
he will pay to the plaintifff all his damages and costs occasioned by the
breach of the order; and in default thereof, he shall be committed to the
jail of the county until he shall enter into such bond with surety, or be
otherwise legally discharged.
Sec. 169. Motions to dissolve or modify injunctions may be made in
open court, or before a judge of the supreme court' in vacation, at any
time after reasonable notice to the adverse party.
Sec. 170. When an injunction to stay proceedings after judgment for
debt or damages shall be dissolved, the court shall award such damages
not exceeding ten per cent, on the judgment, as the court may deem
right, against the party iu whose favor the injunction issued.
Sec. 171. If an injunction to stay proceedings after verdict or judg
ment in an action for the recovery of real estate, or the possession thereof,
be dissolved, the damages assessed against the party obtaining the in
junction, shall include the reasonable rents and profits of the lands re
covered, and all waste committed after granting injunction.
Sec. 172. Upon an order being made dissolving or modifying an or
der of injunction, the plaintifff may move the court to reinstate the or
der, and the court may, in its discretion, allow the motion, and appoint
a time for hearing the same before the court, or a time and place for
hearing before some judge thereof, and upon the hearing, the parties
may produce such additional affidavits or depositions as the court shall
direct, and the order of injunction shall be dissolved, modified, or rein
stated, as the court or judge may deem right. Until the hearing of the
motion to reinstate the order of injunction,the order to dissolve or
modify it, shall, be suspended.
Sec. 173. The judge of the district court shall have power to make
every order in vacation which by the provisions of this chapter, may be
made by the court in term time.
CHAPTER XII.
Section
174. May be issued at time of Issue of sum
mons.
175. Affidavit for what to contain.
IT'S. B-md of plaintifff for; conditions, etc.
177. Writ to whom directed to sheriff; requi
sites.
178. Shares of stock and other property liable.
179. How real ami personal property attached.
180. Notice to *herlff that person has property
or owes debts to plaintifff.
191. When garnishee liable to plaintifff.
1*2. Citation of garnishees to answer in court.
183. Inventor}' to be made of property attached.
184. Sale of perishable property; debts may be
collected without suit.
ATTACHMENT.
SECTtON
u
185. Judgment to be satisfied out of the proper
ty attached; how.
After
186- After sale of property attached, fiheriff may
satisfy deficiency by execution.
187. Execution returned uusutisfled ; plaintifff
may proceed as in other cases.
188. Attachment discharged If, judgment for
defendant.
189. Defendant may release property attached
by giving bond.
190. Writ to be returned by sheriff; when,
191. When court may order sale of property
attached.
193. Power of judge iu vacation.
Sec. 174. The plaintifff at the time of issuing the summons, or at any
time afterward, before judgment, may have the property of the defend
ant attached in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the
satisfaction of such judgment as he may recover.
SEC. 175. The writ oi attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending; but before any such writ shall issue,
the plaintifff or some one in his behalf, shall make and file with such
clerk an affidavit, stating that a cause of action exists against the defend
ant in favor of the plaintifff, and the nature thereof, and that the defend
ant is indebted to the plaintifff thereon, specifying the amount of said
indebtedness, as near as may be, over and above all set offs and counter
claims, and that the same is not secured by any mortgage or lien upon
real or personal property, or any pledge of personal property, or if orig
inally so secured, such security has, without any act of the plaintifff's,
become inadequate.
Sec. 176. Before the writ of attachment shall issue, the plaintifff, or
some one in his behalf, shall execute and file with the clerk a bond or
undertaking, with two or more sureties, in a sum not less than two hun
dred dollars and equal to the amount for which plaintifff demands judg
ment, conditioned that the plaintifff will pay all costs that may be ad
judged to the defendant and all damages which he may sustain by rea
son of the attachment not exceeding the amount specified in such bond
or undertaking, should the same be wrongful or oppressive. With the
bond or undertaking, there shall also be filed the affidavit of the sureties,
from which it must appear that such sureties are qualified and that,
taken together, they are worth the sum specified in the bond or under
taking over and above all debts and liabilities and property exempt from,
execution. No person, not qualified to become bail upon arrest, is qual
ified to become surety upon a bond or undertaking for an attachment.
Sec. 177. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff of any county in
which property of such defendant may be, and shall require him to
attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant within his
county not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be suffi
cient to satisfy the plaintifff s demand, the amount of which shall be
stated in conformity with the complaint, together with costs and exSenses.
Several writs may be issued at the same time, to the sheriffs of
ifferent counties. After the return of any writ of attachment, by the sheriff
executing the same, the plaintifff, notwithstanding such return, may have
other writsof attachment issue iu the same action, withoutfurther proceed
ings, the same to be executed in the same manner as original writs.
Sec. 178. The rights or share's which such defendant may have in the
stock of any association or corporation, together with the interest, and
profits thereon, and all other property in this territory of such defendant
not exempt from execution, shall be liable to be attached. The sheriff
shall note upon the writ the date of its delivery to him, and shall make
a full inventory of the property attached, and return the same with the
writ.
Sec. 179. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered shall
execute the same without delay, as follows:
1. Eeal property shall be attached by filing a copy of the writ,
together with a description of the property attached, with the county
auditor of the county in which the attached real estate is situated.
2. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by
taking into custody.
3. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or
company, shall be attached by leaving with the president, or other head
of the same, or the secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof, a copy
of the writ, and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defend
ant is attached in pursuance of such writ.
4. Debts and credits, and other personal property, not capable of man
ual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing such debts,
or having in his possession, or under his control such credits, or other
personal property, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the debts owing
by him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal property in
his possession, or under his control, belonging to the defendant, are
attached in pursuance of such writ.
Sec. ISO. Upon receiving information in writing from the plaintifff or
his attorney, that any person has in his possession or under his control
any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is
owing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff^ shall serve upon such per
son a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits or other personal
property or debts, as the case may be, are attached in pursuance of such
writ.
Sec. 181. All persons having in their possession "or under their con
trol any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant or
owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon them of a
copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be,
unless such property be delivered up or transferred or such debts be paid
to the sheriff, liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits, prop
erty or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any judgment
recovered by him be satisfied.
Sec. 182. Any person owing debts to the defendant or having in his
possession or under his control any credits or other personal property
belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the court
or judge, or referee appointed by the court or judge, and be examined on
oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to attend
for the purpose of giving information respecting his property, and may
be examined on oath. The court or judge may, after such examination,
order personal property capable of manual dilivery to be delivered to the
sheriff, on such terms as may be just, having reference to any liens
thereon or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be given of
all other personal property containing the amount and description
thereof.
Sec. 183. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the property
attached, and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make
such return as to debts and credits attached, he shall request, at the time
of service, the party owing the debt or having the credit to give him a
memorandum, stating the amount and description of each; and if such
memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of the refusal with the
writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum may be required to
pay the cost of any proceedings taken for the purpose of obtaining
information lespecting the amount and description of such debt or
credit.
Sec. 184. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff
shall sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on exe
cution. The proceeds and other property attached by him shall be
retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in the
action unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment
recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done without suit.
The sheriffs receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount paid.
Sec. 185. It' judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the sheriff shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which has not been
delivered to the defendant or claimant, as hereinbefore provided, or sub
jected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to the issu
ing- of the attachment, if it be sufficient for that purpose:
1. -By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property sold by him, or if any debts or credits collected by him, or so
much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment.
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been issued
on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of the prop
erty, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose remain in his hands. Notice of the sales shall
be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales ou execution.
Sec. 186. If after selling all the property attached by him remaining
in his hands and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds of
any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to the payment
of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall proceed
to collect such batauce as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever
Jhe judgment shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand,
shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property remaining in
his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the
judgment.
Sec. 187. If the execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part,
the plaintifff may proceed as in other cases upon the return of an execu
tion.
Sec. 188. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintifff, all
the proceeds of sales and money collected by the sheriff, and all the
property attached remaining in the sheriff's hands shall be delivered to
the defendant or his agent. The order of attachment shall be discharged
and the property released therefrom.
Sec. 189. Whenever the defendant has appeared in the action, he^may
at any time before judgment therein, have the attached property deliv
ered to him, by executing and delivering to the officer holding said prop
erty, a bond or undertaking, to be approved by such officer, in a sum at
least two hundred dollars more than the amount claimed in plaintifff's
affidavit, with at least two sureties, who shall be residents of this terri
tory, to the effect that the parties executing such bond or undertaking
will pay to the plaintifff the amount of any judgment, costs and interest
thereon, which the plaintifff may recover against the defendant in the
action, which bond or undertaking shall run to the plaintifff. Before the
officer shall approve the bond or undertaking the sureties to the same
shall make ana deliver to such officer an affidavit from which it must
appear that they are residents of the territory of Washington, and are
worth, over and above all debts and liabilities and exemptions in prop
erty within this territory, the sum specified in said boud or undertaking;
which affidavits shall be endorsed upon or annexed to such bond or
undertaking and returned by the officer taking the same, to the clerk
of the court issuing the writ of attachment. In case the plaintifff recover
judgment in said action, lie may bring an action on said bond or under
taking against all or any of the parties executing the same, and shall be
entitled to recover the amount recovered against the defendant named in
the writ of attachment.
Sec. 190. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment with the
summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within twenty days
after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings endorsed thereon,
or attached thereto.
Sec. 191. Whenever property has been taken by an officer, under a
writ of attachment, in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, and
it shall be made to appear satisfactorily to the court, or a judge thereof,
that the interest of the parties to the action will be subserved by a sale
thereof, the court or judge may order such property to be sold, in the
same manner as property is sold under an execution, and the proceeds
to be deposited in court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such or
der shall be made only upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney,
in case such party have been personally served with a notice in the ac
tion.
Sec. 192. The judge of the district court shall have power to make
every order in vacation which, by .the provisions of this chapter, may be
made by the court in term time.
CHAPTER XIII.
OF RECEIVERS AND DEPOSITS IN COURT.
Section
Section
193. In what cases, may be appointed.
1S4. Oath and bond of.
195. Court: may order property to be deposited
in court.
196. Court may compel obedience to its orders.
197. Deposit not to be loaned.
19R. Powers of.
199. When part of ; claim admitted, defendant to
satisfy.
Sec. 193. A receiver may be appointed by the court in the following
cases:
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of prop
erty, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim.
2. In an action between partners, or other persons jointly interested
in any property or fund.
3. In all action's where it is shown that the proporty, fund or rents
and profits in controversy are in danger of being lost, removed or mate
rially injured.
4. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of a mortgage and the
sale of the mortgaged property, when it appears that such property is in
danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured; or when such prop
erty is insufficient to discharge the debt, to secure the application uf the
rents and profits accruing, before a sale can be had.
5. When a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent, or is in im
minent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights.
6. And in such other cases as may be provided for by law, or when,
in the discretion of the court it may be necessary to secure ample justice
to the parties, provided that no party or attorney or other person inter
ested in an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
Sec. 194. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn
to perform them faithfully, and with one or more sureties, approved by
i
the court, execute a bond to such person as the court may direct, condi
tioned that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the ac
tion, and obey the orders of the court therein.
Sec. 195. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of ft
party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or
other thine capable of delivery, which being the subject of the litigation,
is held by nim as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due
to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in court,
or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the fur
ther direction of the court.
Sec. 196. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have
ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the order
is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as for con
tempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or
thing, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the
court.
Sec. 197. Money deposited, or paid into a court in an action, shall not
be loaned out, unless, with the consent of all parties having an interest
in, or making claim to the same.
Sec. 198. The receiver shall have power, under control of the court,
to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession of the property,
to receive rents, collect debts, and generally to do such acts respecting
the property, as the court may authorize.
Sec. 199. When the answer of the defendant admits part of the plain
tiff's claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order the defendant to
satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order by execution or
attachment.
CHAPTEK XIV.
OF ISSUES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section
law
Section
200. Issues arise, when. Are of two kinds.
201. Issues of law.
202. Issue* of fact.
203. Issues of law and fact In same action;
llr-ii tried.
Sec. 200. Issue arises upon the pleading when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party, and controverted by the other, and
are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and
2. Of fact.
Sec. 201. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer, or reply, or to some part thereof.
Sec. 202. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
answer; or
1. Upon new matter or a set-off, controverted by the reply; or
3. Upon new matter in the reply.
Sec. 203. Issues both of law and fact may arise upon different parts of
the pleading in the same action. In such cases, the issues of law shall
be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
Sec. 204. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless referred
as provided in this chapter. An issue of fact shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jury trial be waived, or a reference be ordered, as provided in
this chapter. The waiver of a jury, or agreement to refer, shall be by
stipulation of the parties filed, or the oral consent of parties given in
open court and entered in the records: Provided, Tl at nothing herein
contained shall be so construed as to restrict the chancery powers of the
judges, or to authorize the trial of any issue by a jury, when the com
plaint alleges an equitable claim, and seeks relief solely upon the ground
of the equities of the demand made by the pleadings in the action.
Sec. 205. A motion to continue a trial on the ground of the absence
of evidence, shall only be made upon affidavit, showing the materiality
of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has
been used to procure it, and also the name and residence of the witness or
witnesses. The court may also require the moving party to state, upon affi
davit the evidence which he expects to obtain ; and if the adverse party ad
mit that such evidence would be given, and that it beconsided as actual
ly given on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall
not be continued. The court, upon its allowance of the motion, may im
pose terms or conditions upon the moving party.
Sec 206. When the action is called for trial, the clerk shall prepare
separate ballots, containing the names of the jurors summoned, who have
appeared and not been excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall
then draw from the box twelve names, and the persons whose names are
drawn shall constitute the jurj\ If the ballots become exhausted, before
the jury is 'complete, or if from any cause, a juror or jurors.be excused
or discharged, the sheriff, under the direction of the court, shall summon
from the bystanders, citizens of the county or district, as many qualified
persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. Whenever it shall
be requisite for the sheriff to summon more than one person at a time
from the bystanders or body of the district or county, the names of the
talesmen shall be returned to the clerk, who shall thereupon write the
names upon separate ballots and deposit the same in the trial jury box,
and draw 6uch ballots separately therefrom, as in the case of the regular
panel. The jury 6hall consist ot twelve persons, unless the parties con
sent to a less number. The parties may consent to any number not less
than three, and such consent'shall be entered by the clerk on the min
utes of the trial.
SEC. 207. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on. either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can
be made. The challenge shall be to individual jurors, and be peremp
tory or for cause. Each part}7 shall be entitled to three peremptory
challenges.
SEC. 20S. A peremotory challenge is an objection to a juror for which
no reason need be given, but upon which the court bIihII exclude him.
SEC. 200. A challenge for cause is an objection to a juror, and may be
either: .
1. General; that the juror is disqualified from serving in any action;
or •
2. Particular; that he is disqualified from serving in the action on
trial.
Sec. 210. General causes of challenge are:
1. A conviction for a felony.
2. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by law for a juror.
3. Unsoundness of mind, or such defect in the faculties of the mind,
or organs of the body, as renders hiin incapable of performing the duties
of a juror.
Sec. 211. Particular causes of challenge are of two hinds:
1. For such a bias as when the existence of the facts is ascertained, in
judgment of law disqualifies the juror, and which is known in this code
as implied bias.
2. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of the juror in ref
erence to the action, or to either party, which satisfies the trier in the
exercise of a sound discretion, that be cannot try the issue impartially
and without prejudice to the substantial rights of the party challenging,
and which is known in this code as actual bias.
SEC. 212. A challenge for implied bias may be taken for any or all of
the following causes, and not otherwise:
1. Consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree to either party.
2. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, attorney and client
master and servant or landlord and tenant, to the adverse party; or be
ing a member of the family of, or a partner in business with, or in the
employment for wages, of the adverse party, or being surety or bail in
the action called for trial, or otherwise, for the adverse party.
3. Having served as a juror on a previous trial in the same action, or
in another action between the same parties for the same cause of action,
or in a criminal action by the territory against either party, ^ipon sub
stantially the same facts or transaction.
i. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or the
principal question involved therein, excepting always, the interest of the
■juror as a member or citizen of the county or municipal corporation.
Sec. 213. A challenge for actual bias may be taken for the cause men
tioned in the second subdivsion of section two hundred and eleven. But
<>n the trial of such challenge, although it should appear that the juror
challenged has formed or expressed an opinion upon what he may have
heard or read, such opinion shall not of itself be sufficient to sustain the
challenge, but the court must be satisfied, from all the circumstances,
that the juror cannot disregard such opinion 'and try the issue impar
tially.
Sec. 214. An exemption from service on a jury shall not be cause of
challenge, but the privilege of the person exempted.
Sec. 215. The jurors having been examined as to their qualifications,
first by the plaintifff and then by the defendant, and passed for cause, the
peremptory challenges shall be conducted as follows, to- wit:
The plaintifff may challenge one, and then the defendant may challenge
one, aud so alternately until the peremptory challenges shall be exhausted.
The panel being filled and passed for cause, after said challenge shall have
been made by cither party, a refusal to challenge by either party in the
said order of alternation, shall not defeac the adverse party of his full
numbei of challenges, but such refusal on the part of the plaintifff to
exercise his challenge in proper turn, shall conclude him as to the jurors
once accepted by him, and if his right be not exhausted, his further chal
lenges shall be confined, in his proper turn, to talesmen only.
Sec. 216. The challenges of either party shall lie taken separately in
the following order, including in each challenge all the caucus ot chal
lenge belonging to the same class:
1. For general disqualification.
2. For implied bias.
3. For actual bias.
4. Peremptory.
Sec. 217. The challenge may be excepted to by the adverse party for
insufficiency, and if so, the court shall. determine the sufficiency thereof,
assuming the facts alleged therein to be true. The challenge, may be
denied by the adverse party, and if so, the court shall try the issue and
determine the law and the facts.
Sec. 218. Upon the trial of a challenge, the rules of evidence applica
ble to testimony offered upon the trial of an ordinary issue of fact shall
govern. The juror challenged, or any other person otherwise competent
may be examined as a witness by either party. If a challenge be deter
mined to be sufficient, or found to be true, as the case may be, it shall
be allowed, and the juror to whom it was taken excluded; but if deter
mined or found otherwise, it shall be disallowed.
Sec. 210. The challenge, the exception and the denial may be made
orally. The judge of the court shall note the same upon hfs minutes,
and the substance of the testimony on either side.
Sec. 220. As soon as the number of the jury has been completed, an
oath or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance that
they and each of them, will well, and truly try, the matter in issue
between the plaintifff and defendant, and a true verdict give, according to
the law and evidence as given them on the trial.
Sec. 221. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall proceed in the
following order:
1. The plaintifff must briefly state the cause of action and the evidence
by which he expects to sustain it. The defendant may in like manner
state the defense aud the evidence he expects to offer in support thereof,
but nothing in the nature of comments or argument shall be allowed iu
opening the case. It shall be optional with the defendant whether he
states his case before or after the close of the plaintifff's testimony.
2. The plaintifff or the party upon whom rests the burden of proof in
the whole action, must first prodace his evidence; the adverse party will
then produce his evidence.
3. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the
court for good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer
evidence in their original case.
4. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request the judge
to charge the jury in writing, in which event no other charge or instruc
tion shall be given, except the same be contained in the said written
charge; or either party may request instructions to the jury on points
of law, and if the court refuse to give the same, the party requesting
may except. Either party shall also be entitled to require of the judge
that all interlocutory orders, instructions or rulings upon the evidence
during the progress of the trial of a cause, shall be reduced to writing,
together with any exceptions that may be made thereto, ;md the same
shall be made a part of the record of the case, and any refusal on the part of the- judge trying the cause or making the order to comply with
all or any of the provisions of this section shall be regarded error, and
entitle the party whose request shall have been refused to a reversal of
the judgment on a writ of error: Provided, always, That the instruc
tion or ruling so requested is pertinent and consistent with the law and
evidence of the case, and that such refusal has worked an injury to the
party requesting the same.
5. After the conclusion of the evidence and the filing of request for
charge in writing or instructions, the plaintifff or party having the bur
den of proof may, by himself or one counsel, address the court and jury
upon the law and facts of the case, after which the adverse party may
address the court and jury in like manner by himself and one counsel,
or by two counsel, and be followed by the party or counsel of the party
first addressing the court. No more than two speeches on behalf of
plaintifff or defendant shall be allowed.
6. The court shall then charge the jury upon the law in the case. If
no request lias been made for said charge to be iu writing, or if no in
structions have been requested, said charge may be oral; but either party
at any time before the jury return their verdict, may except to the same
or any part thereof; but no exception shall bo regarded by the supreme
court, unless the same shall embody the specific parts of said charge to
which exception is taken. In charging the jury, the court shall state to
them all matters of law necessary for the information of the jury in find
ing a verdict; and if it become necessary to allude to the evidence, it
shall also inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all
questions of fact.
Sbo. 222. Any party may, when the evidence is closed, submit in dis
tinct and concise propositions the conclusions of fact which he claims to
be established, or the conclusions of law which he desires to be adjudged,
or both. They may be written and handed to the court, or at the option
of the court,"oral, and entered in the judge's minutes.
Sec. 223. All questions of law including the admissibility of testimony,
the facts preliminary to such admission, and the construction of statutes
and other writings, and other rules of evidence, are to be decided by the
court, and all discussions of law addressed to it.
Sec. 224. All questions of fact other than those mentioned in the sec
tion preceding, shall be decided by the jury, and all evidence thereon
addressed to them.
Sec. 225. Whenever in the opinion of the court it is proper that the
jury should have a view of real property which is the subject of litiga
tion, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order
the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of a proper officer, to
the place which shall be shown to them by the judge or by a person
appointed by the cotirt for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent
no person other than the judge, or person so appointed, shall speak to
them on any subject connected with the trial.
Sec. 228. The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper offi
cer, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before the sub
mission of the cause to them, be permitted to separate; in either case
they may be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to converse
with any other person, or among themselves, on any subject connected
with the trial, or to express any opinion thereon, until the case is finally
submitted to them.
SEC. 227. If after the formation of the jury, and before verdict, a juror
become sick so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court may order
him to be discharged. In that case, unless the parties agree to proceed
with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn and the trial begin
anew; or the jury may be discharged and a new jury then or afterwards
formed.
Sec. 228. A juror may be examined by either party as a witness, if he
be otherwise competent. If he be not so examined, he shall not com
municate any private knowledge or information that he may have of the
matter in controversy, to his fellow jurors, nor be governed by the same
in giving his verdict.
Ssc. 229. After hearing the charge, the jury may either decide in the
jury box or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept
together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient place
under the charge of one or more officers, until they agree upon their ver
dict, or are discharged by the court. The officer shall, to the best of his
ability, keep the jury thus separate from other persons, without drink,
except water, ana without food, except ordered by the court. He must
not suffer any communication to be made to them, nor make any him
self, unless by order of the court, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict, and he shall not, before the verdict is rendered, com
municate to any person the state of their deliberations or the verdict
agreed on.
Sec. 230. If, while the jury are kept together, either during the pro
gress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court
order them to be provided with suitable and sufficient, food and lodging,
they shall be so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the county.
Sec. 231. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with them
the pleadings in the cause, and all papers which have been received as
evidence on the trial, (except depositions,) or copies of such parts of
public records or private documents given in evidence, as ought not,
in the opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in
possession.
SEC. 232. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if they
desire to be informed of any point of law arising in the case, they may
require the officer having them in charge to conduct them into court.
Upon their being brought into court the information required shall be
given ill the presence of or after notice to the parties, or their attorneys.
'Sec. 233. The jury may be discharged by the court on account of the
sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their dis
charge, or by consent of both parties, or after they have been kept
together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of
their agreeing.
Sec. 234. In all cases where a jury are discharged or prevented from
giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause, during the progress
of the trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, the action shall be
continued to the next term, unless both parties demand an immediate
trial, in which case it shall go to the foot of the trial list.
SEC. 235. While the juiy are absent the court may adjourn from time
to time, in respect to other business, but it is nevertheless to be deemed
open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to the-jury
until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A final- adjournment
of the court discharges the jury.
Sec. 230. "When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they shall be
conducted into court by the officer having them in charge. Their names
shall then he called, and if all do not appear, the rest shall be discharged
without giving a verdict.
Sec. 23.7. If the jury appear, they shall be asked by the court or. the
clerk whether they have agreed upon their verdict, and if the foreman
answer in the affirmative, Tie shall on being required declare the same.
Sec. 238. When a verdict is given and before it is filed, the jury may
be polled at the request of either party, for which purpose each shall be
asked whether it is his verdict; if any juror answer in the negative the
jury shall be sent out for further deliberation. If the verdict be infor
mal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of
the court, or the ju,ry may again be sent out.
Sec. 239. When the verdict is given and is such as the court may
receive, and if no juror disagree or the jury be not again sent out, the
clerk shall file the verdict. The verdict is then complete and the jury
shall be discharged from the case. The verdict shall be in writing, and
under the direction of the court shall be substantially entered in the
journal as of the day's proceedings on which it was given.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE VEEDICT.
Section Section
240. General and tpeclal verd'ete defined. * tion of jury; and when at court's.
241. When nod nnw jury may a*seps value of 243. Special ahall control general verdict;
property, anu damagce. when.
242. \V hen verdict general or special at discre- J 244. When jury may assets amount of verdict.
Sec 240. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A gen
eral verdict is that by which the jury pronounces generally upon all or
any of the issues either in favor of the plaintifff or defendant. A special
verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judg
ment to the court.
Sec. 241. In an action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if the property has not been delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant
by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of
the property if their verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if they find
in favor of the defendant and that be is entitled to a re-tnrn thereof, they
may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the com
plaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason of
the detention or taking and withholding such property.
Sec. 242. In every action for the recovery of money only, or specific
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or spe
cial verdict. In all other cases, the court may direct the j'.iry to find a special
verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases may
instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular
questions of fact, to be stated in writing, and may direct a written find
ing thereon. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk
and entered in the minutes.
Sec. 243. When a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with
the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shall give judgment accordingly.
Sec. 244. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an action for the
recovery of money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the recovery
of money is. established beyond the amount of the plaintifffs claim as estab
lished, the jury shall also assess the amount of the recovery: they may
also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery
when the court gives judgment for the plaintifff on the pleadings.
CHAPTER XVII.
TBIAL BY THE COURT.
Section I Section
245. How trial by jury may be waived. 247. Finding of facta equivalent to verdict: '
846. Decision ofV.ourt to bellied; how glveD. new trial.
Sec. 245. Trial by jury may, with the assent of the court, be waived
by the several parties in the mannejr following:
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court entered .in the minutes.
Sec. 246. Upon the trial of an issue of tact by the court, its de
cisions shall be given in writing and filed with the clerk. In giving the
decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law shall be separately
stated. Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly.
Sec. 247. The order of proceedings on a trial by the court shall be the
same as provided in trials by jury. The finding of the court upon the
facts shall be deemed a verdict, and may be set aside in the same man
ner and for the same reason as far as applicable, and a new trial granted.
Seo. 248. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or
law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties;
but either party shall have the right in an action at law, upon an issue of
fact, to demand a trial by jury.
Sec. 249. Where the parties do not consent the court or judge may
upon the application of either, direct a reference in all cases formerly
cognizable in chancery in which reference might be made:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
a long account on either side, in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific ques
tion of fact involved therein; or,
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the informa
tion of the court, before judgment upon an issue of law, or for carrying
a judgment or order into effect; or,
3. When a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action;- or,
4. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding.
Seo. 250. A reference may be ordered to any person or persons not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree
the court or judge may appoint one or more, not exceeding three.
Sec. 251. When the appointment of referees is made by the court or
judge, each referee shall be:
1. Qualified as a juror as provided by statute.
2. Competent as juror between the parties.
3. A duly admitted and practicing attorney.
Sec. 2.52. When the referees are chosen by the court, each party shall
have the same right of challenge as to such referees, which shall be made
and determined in the same manner and with like effect as in the forma
tion of juries, except that neither party shall beentfitled to a peremptory
challenge.
Sec. 253. Subject to the limitations and directions prescribed in the
order of reference, the trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same power to grant
adjournments, administer oaths, preserve order, punish all violations tliereof upon such trial, compel the attendance of witnesses, and to punish
them for non-attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify, as is possessed
by the court.
Sec. 254. The report of the referees shall state the facts found, and
when the order of reference includes an issue of law, it shall state the
conclusions of law separately from the facts. The referees shall file with
their report the evidence received upon the trial. If evidence offered by
either party shall not be admitted on the trial and the party offering the
same except to the decision rejecting such evidence at the time, the ex
ceptions shall be noted by the referees and theyshall take and receive
such testimony and file it with the report. Whatever judgment the
court may give upon the report, it shall, when it appears that such evi
dence was frivolous and inadmissible, require the party at whose in
stance it was taken and reported, to pay all costs and disbursements
thereby incurred.
Sec. 255. The report shall be filed with the clerk. If it be filed in
term time, either party may within such time as may be prescribed by
the rules of the court, or by special order, move to set the same aside, or
for judgment thereon, or such order or proceeding as the nature of the
case may require. If the report be filed in vacation the like proceedings
may be had at the next term following.
Sec. 256. The court may affirm or set aside the report either in whole
or in part. If it affirms the report it shall give judgment accordingly.
If the report be set aside, either in whole or in part, the court may
make another order of reference as to all or so much of the report as is
set aside, to the original referees or others, or it may find the facts and
determine the law itself and give judgment accordingly. Upon amo
tion to set aside a report, the conclusions thereof shall be deemed and
considered as the verdict of the jury.
CHAPTER XIX.
EXCEPTIONS.
Section
257. Exceptions; no particular form of required.
25S. May be settled at time of decision com
plained of. or noted and settled afterward.
259. Settlement of bills of exceptions.
860. After judgment,, how settled.
Section
201. When trial judge refuses, supreme court
may order exceptions settled.
262. Judge may settle bill alter he ceases to
hold office.
Decision of referee deemed excepted to.
v' Sec. 257.(!no particular form of exception is required. The objection
must be stated with so much of the evidence or other matter, as is
necessary to explain it and no more. But when the exception is to the
verdict or decision upon the grounds of the insufficiency of the evidence
to sustain it, the objection must specify the particulars in which such
evidence is alleged to be insufficient.,, Li <, 'j'-'-c.- / '■"< ,
Sec. 258.' A bill containing the exception to any ruling may be pre
sented to the judge, at the time the ruling is made, or the exception
may be entered on the judge's minutes and afterward settled. The bill
must be conformable to the truth, or be at the time corrected until it be
so, and signed by the judge and filed with the clerk. £^ - o,
y Sec. 259. Ifv a bill is not presented at the time of ruling, a bill
containing the exceptions or any of them, relating to any ruling had up
to the time of the entry of judgment, may upon three days' notice to the
adverse party, at any time after such ruling is made, and within ten days
after the entry of judgment or such other time as may be fixed by the
court or judge, be presented to the judge and settled. Ay
V Sec. 260^ Exceptions to any decisions made after judgment, may be
presented to the judge at the time of such decision, and may be settled
or noted as provided in section two hundred and fifty -eight, and a bill
thereof may be presented and settled afterwards as provided in section
two hundred and fifty-nine, and within like periods after entry of the
order upon appeal, from which such decision is reviewable.
261/ If the judge, in any case, refuse to allow an exception in accordance
with the facts, the party desiring the bill settled may apply by
petition to the supreme court, to approve the same. The application
may be made in the mode and manner and under such regulations as
that court may prescribe, and the bill when proven, must be certified by
a justice thereof as correct, and filed with the clerk of the court in which
the action was tried, and when so filed it has the same force and effect
as if settled by the judge who tried the cause. , ,,^
Sec. 262.' If the judge who presided at the trial ceases to hold office
before the bill is tendered or settled, he may nevertheless settle such
bill or the party may as provided in the preceding section, apply to the
supreme court to prove the same.
v Sec. 263.' "When a cause has been tried by the court or by referees, and '
the decision or report is not made immediately after the closing of the
testimony, the decision or report shall be deemed excepted to, on a mo
tion for a new trial, or on appeal, without any special notice that an ex
ception is taken thereto.
CHAPTER XX.
ARBITRATION AND AWARD.
Section
864. S'lits. &c, except title to real estate, may
!«■ submitted to.
26.V Agreement l<> arbitrate; requisites of.
266. Arbitrators to he sworn: award to whom
and now delivered ; judgment upon.
267. Compensation of. cists, etc.
Section
2o9. Court may refer cause Lack to referees, snd
i
on failure to correct, shall l.e j.cn-esstd
of the case.
'27°. Powers of arbitrators.
271. Laws us to evidence and witnesses govern.
Proceedings tor contempt.
268. Exception to award, lor what may be ' 273. Taxation of cos's, and execution.
taken. 274. Award, and transcript of judgment thereon.
Sec. 264-. All persons desirous to end, by arbitration, any controversy,
suit or quarrel, except. such as respect the title to real estate, may submit
their difference to the award or umpirage of any person or persons mutu
ally selected.
Sec. 2H5. Said agreement to arbitrate shall be in writing, signed by
the parties, and may be by bond in any sum, conditioned that the parties
entering into said submission shall abide the award.
'Sec. 266. The said arbitrators shall be duly sworn to try and determine
the cause referred to them, and a just award make out, under the hands
and seals of a majority of them, agreeably to the terms of the submis
sion. Said award, together with the written agreement to submit, shall
be sealed up. by the arbitrators and delivered t* the party in whose favor
it shall be made, who shall deliver the same, without breaking the seal,
to the clerk of the district court of the district including the county
wherein said arbitration is held, who shall enter the same on record in
his office. A copy of the award, signed by said arbitrators, or a majority
of them, shall also be delivered to the party in whose favor it is ren
dered, who shall, if the matter be not settled, serve a copy of the same
on the adverse party at least twenty days before the commencement of '
the next term of the said district court, and if no exceptions be filed
against the same, by or before the second day of said term, the judgment
of the court shall be entered as of a jury, and execution may issue therefor and the same proceedings upon said award, with like effect as
though said award were the verdict had as in civil actions.
Seg. 267. The arbitrators chosen under the provisions of this chapter
shall each be allowed three dollars per day, to be taxed with other costs
of suit; but if either party fail to appear on the day agreed upon for
the arbitrators to meet, said party shall be liable for all costs accruing
t!teit day unless his absence was unavoidable, and shall be so established
to the satisfaction of said arbitrators. And any arbitrator failing to at
tend on the day appointed, unless delayed by sickness or unavoidable ac
cident, shall forfeit and pay the sum of five dollars to the school fund of
the county, to be recovered by action before a justice of the peace, in
the name of the county commissioners of the county.
Sec. 268. The party against whom an award may be made, may ex
cept in writing thereto for either of the following causes:
1. That the arbitrators or umpire misbehaved themselves in the case.
2. That they committed an error in fact or law.
3. That the award was procured by corruption or other undue means.
Sec. 269. If upon exceptions filed it. shall appear to the said district
court that the arbitrators have committed error in fact or law, the court may
refer the cause back to said arbitrators, directing the amendment of said
award forthwith, returnable to the current term of said court, and on
the failure so to correct said proceedings, the court shall be possessed of
the case and proceed to its determination.
Sec. 270. Arbitrators, or a majority of them, shall have power:
1. To compel the attendance of witnesses duly notified by either party
and to enforce from either party the production of all such books, pa
pers and documents as they may deem material to the cause.
2. To administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses.
3. To adjourn their meetings from day to day, or for a longer time,
and also from place to place, if they think proper.
4. To decide both the law and the fact that may be involved in the
cause submitted to them.
Sec. 271. The laws in force in this territory relating to evidence and
the manner of procuring the attendance of witnesses, shall govern in
arbitrations.
Sec. 272. The law governing proceedings for contempt, in the trial of
cases bat'ore justices of the peace, so far as the same may be applicable,
shall apply to the proceedings before arbitrators.
Sec. 273. The costs of witnesses, and other fees in the case, shall be
taxed against the losing part}'; said fees shall be indorsed upon the
award, and when said award is affirmed as the judgment of the district
court, execution shall issue therefore as for costs in civil actions.
Sec. 274. Such award, when so affirmed, shall be in all respects like
any other judgment of the district court, and a transcript of such judg
ment, or execution issued thereon, recorded in the county auditor's office
in the same manner as other judgments, shall be a lien upon real estate
in said county.
Sec. 275. A new trial is a re-examination of an issue in the same court
after a trial and decision by a jury, court or referees.
Sec 276. The former verdict or other decision may be vacated and a
new trial granted, on the motion of the party aggrieved, for any of the
following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such party:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party,
or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which such party
was prevented from having a fair trial.
2. Misconduct of prevailing party or jury; and whenever any one or
more of the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any general or
special verdict to a finding on any question or questions submitted to
the jury by the court, other and different from his own conclusions, and
arrived at by a resort -to the determination of chance or lot; such
misconduct may be proved by the affidavits of one or more of the jurors.
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have guard
ed against.
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the ap
plication, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered
and produced at the trial.
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influ
ence of passion or prejudice.
C. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too
large or too small, when the action is upon a contract, or for the injury
or detention of property.
7. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other de
cision, or that it is against law.
8. Error in law occurring at the trial and excepted to at the time by
the party making the application.
Sec. 277. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness
of damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation,
nor in any other action where the damages shall equal the actual pecuni
ary injury sustained.
Sec 278. The motion for a new trial shall state the grounds or causes
for which a new trial is asked, and if made for any of the causes men
tioned in the first, second, third or fourth subdivision of section two
hundred and seventy-six, the facts upon which it is based may be showu
by affidavit.
Sec 279. Notice of an intended motion for a new trial shall be given
in one day after the verdict or other decision is made, if rendered in
term time, and the motion shall be served on the adverse party or his
attorney, and with the affidavits (if any) shall be filed with the clerk in
two days thereafter; when affidavits are filed by the moving party, the
adverse party shall have two days in which to file counter affidavits; the
motion shall be heard and determined at the term when made, unless the
court continue the same, or grant further time for the hearing: Provid
ed, That if the term at which such verdict or decision is rendered, ad
journ before said motion can be heard the judge shall fix a time and
place when the same can be heard.
Sec. 280. Upon a trial by the court when the decision is given in va
cation, a motion for a new trial shall be filed within twenty days from
the time of filing such decision. If the next regular term of said court
shall commence within less than twenty days from the time of filing
snch decision, then such motion shall be filed by the first day of said
term. In either case, the adverse party may, within four days after the
filing of the motion, file counter affidavits where the same are allowed.
Sec. 281. In all cases of motion for a new trial, the grounds thereof
shall be clearly specified, and no cause of new trial, not so Stated, snail
be considered or regarded by the court.
Sec. 282. If the motion be supported by affidavits, counter affidavits
may be offered by the adverse party, and if the cause be newly discover
ed evidence, the affidavits of any witness or witnesses, showing what
their testimony will be, shall be produced, or good reasons shown for
their non-production.
CHAPTER XXII.
JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.
Bbctioit
883. Definitions.
VA. Against whom may be given; extent
Section
thereof.
285. In actions against several defendants.
Sec. 283. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in the action.
Sec. 284. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of sev
eral plaintifffs and for or against one or more of several defendants; and
it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves.
Sec. 285. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, whenever
a several judgment is proper, leaving the action to proeeed against the
others.
CHAPTER XXIIi:
JUDGMENT OF NON-SUIT.
BlCTtON I S«CTIO»
J86. Action; when may be dismissed. the merits.
267. In all other cases, Judgment shall be on | 288. Non suit shall not bar another action.
Sec. 286. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of non-suit en
tered in the following cases:
1. By the plaintifff himself, at any time, either in term time or in va
cation, before the jury retire to consider their verdict, unless set-off be
interposed as a defense, or unless the defendant sets up a counterclaim
to the specific property or thing which is the subject matter of the
action.
2. By either party, upon the written consent of the other.
3. By the court, when the plaintifff fails to appear on trial, and the
defendant appears and asks for a dismissal.
4. By the court, when upon the trial and before the final submission of
case, the plaintifff abandons it.
5. By the court, on the refusal or neglect of the plaintifff to make the
necessary parties, after having been ordered by the court.
6. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, where
there are others whom the plaintifff fails to prosecute with diligence.
7. By the court, for disobedience of the plaintifff to an order concern
ing the proceedings in the action.
8. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when upon the trial,
the plaintifff fails to prove a sufficient cause for the jury.
Sec. 287. In every case other than those mentioned in the last section,
the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.
Sec. 288. When a judgment of non-suit is given, the action is dis
missed; but such judgment shall not have the effect to bar another ac
tion for the same cause. •
CHAPTER XXIV.
JUDGMENT ON FAILURE TO ANSWER. IN WHAT CASE JUDGMENT MAYBE HAD
UPON FAILURE TO ANSWER.
Bectiox
289. In actions on contacts for payment of
money only, default* and proceerture.
289. In actions for other relief and for damages.
Section
2H9. Where service is by publication.
290. Court may set aside default, when.
Sec. 289. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer to the
complaint, as follows:
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money only,
the plaintifff may file with the clerk proof of personal service of the
summons and complaint on one or more of the defendants. The court
shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount claimed, against the de
fendant or defendants, or against one or more of the several defendants in
the cases provided for in section sixty -eight. Where the defendant, by his
answer, in any such action, shall not deny the plaintifff's claim, but shall
set up a counterclaim amounting to less than the plaintifff's claim, judg
ment may be had by the plaintifff for the excess of said claim over the
eaid counterclaim.
2. In other actions the plaintifff may, upon the like proof, apply to the
court after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief de
manded in the complaint. If the taking of an account, or of the proof
of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to car
ry- the judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. Where
the action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the court
may order the damages to be assessed by a jury; or if to determine the
amount of damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by
a reference as above provided. If the defendant give notice of appear
ance in the action, before the expiration of the time for answering, he
shall be entitled to five days' notice ot the time and place of application
to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint.
3. In action where the service of the summons was by publication,
the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time for answering, may, upon
proof of service by publication, apply for judgment; and the court must
thereupon require proof of the demand mentioned in the complaint, and
must require the plaintifff or his agent to he examined on oath respect
ing any payments that have been made to tiie plaintifff, or to any one for
his use on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the
amount which he is entitled to recover, or for such other relief as he
may he entitled to.
Sec. 290. The court may, in its discretion, before final judgment, set
aside any default, upon affidavit showing good and sufficient cause, and
upon such terms as may be deemed reasonable.
CHAPTER XXV.
JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.
Section
291. When may be given.
292. How corporations or minora can confab
judgment.
893. When, by one of several defendant*,
jointly liable.
Section
294. Requisites of confession of.
295. May be entered without action, in what cases.
i!lii. .Statement to be verified; what shall contain.
297. To be presented to jud^c and endorsed by
him; further proceedings.
Sec. 291. On the confession of the defendant, with the assent of the
plaintifff or his attorney, judgment may be given against the defendant
in any action before or after answer, for any amount or relief not ex
ceeding or different from that demanded in the complaint.
Sec. 292. When the action is against the Territory, a county or other
public corporation therein, or a private corporation, or a minor, the con
fession shall be made by the person who at the time sustains the relation
to such Territory, corporation, county or minor, as would authorize the
service of a notice upon him; or in the case of a minor, if a guardian for
the action has been appointed, then by such guardian; in all other cases
the confession shall be made by ths defendant in person.
Sec. 293. When the action is upon a contract and against one or more
defendants jointly liable, judgment may be given on the confession of
one or more defendants, against all the defendants thus jointly liable,
whether such defendants have been served or not, to be enforced only
against their joint property and against the joint and separate property
of the defendant making the confession.
Sec. 294:. The confession and assent thereto shall be in writing and
subscribed by the parties making the same, and acknowledged by each
before some officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds.
Sec. 295. A judgment by confession may be entered without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
Sec;. 296. A statement in writing shall be made, signed by the defend
ant and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
1. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum.
2. If it be for money due or to become due, it shall state concisely the
facts out of which the indebtedness arose, and shall show that the sum
confessed to be due, is justly due or to become due.
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contin
gent liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability,
and show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the same.
Sec. 297. The statement must be presented to the district court or a
judge thereof, and if the same be found sufficient, the court or judge
shall endorse thereon an order that, judgment be entered by the clerk;
whereupon it may be filed in the office of the clerk, who shall enter a
judgment for the amount confessed, with costs. Execution may be
issued and enforced thereon in the same manner as upon judgments in
other cases.
CHAPTER XXYI.
SUBMITTED CASES.
Section Section
298. Parties having differences may present £99. JiuVnient upon -nliiin's-ion; costs.
same to court, how. j 3'>it. Jiiuu'ment may be euloiced a.-- oilier cases.
Sec. 29S. Parties to a question in difference which might be the sub
ject of a civil action may, without action, agree upon a case containing
the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission
of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action h'ad
been brought. Put it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is
real, and the proceedings in good faith to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case and
render judgment thereon as if ;m action were pending.
Sec. 299. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment hookas in other
cases, but without costs for any proceedings prior to the trial. The case,
the submission and a copy of the judgment shall constitute the judg
ment roll.
Sec. 300. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it
had been rendered in an action, ami shall be in the same manner subject
to appeal.
CHAPTER XXYIT.
OF THE MODE OF TAKING AND ENTEBING JUDGMENTS.
Section | Skctiox
801. Judgment in trials by jury, when to be entered. :il]. Clerk to prefix index to docket.
302. A\ hen case is reserved lor argument.
803. Judgment tor excess, in set-off.
304. Judgment for possession; restitution of prop
erly.
305. Clerk to enter in journal determination of ac
tion.
300. Clerk to keep all the papers in the case; how.
307. Each clerk to keep an execution docket.
808. Within what time, and what to be entered
therein.
309. To enter transcripts of Judgments of other
courts. •
810. Clerk shall enter all subsequent proceedings.
312. County auditors to record transcripts of
juilirmenl. how.
313. Clerk to keep book of levies, what shall
contain, index to be pivlixed.
314. Summons to joint dehiors, not originally
served.
315. What summons shall contain.
310. Plaintiff must flic affidavit of amount un
satisfied.
317. Answer of defendant.
318. What shall constitute the allegations tone tried.
319. Verdict cannot exceed amount unsatisfied
and interest.
Sec. 301. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment shall be en
tered in conformity to the verdict, at the term during which it is ren
dered, unless an affidavit or statement of grounds for a new trial shall
be filed, or unless the court order the case to be reserved for argument
or further consideration, or grant a stay of proceedings.
Sec. 302. When the ease is reserved for argument or further consider
ation, as mentioned in the last section, it may be brought by either party
before the court for argument, at the first term thereafter.
Sec. 303. If a set-off established at the trial, exceed the plaintifffs de
mand so established, judgment for the defendant shall be given for the
excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any affirmative
relief, judgment shall be given accordingly.
Sec. 304. In un action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintifff may be for the possession or value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot he had, and damages for the detention. It' the
property has been delivered to the plaintifff, and the defendant claim a
return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the
property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and dam
ages for taking and withholding the same.
SEC. 305. All judgments shall be entered by the clerk, suoject to the
direction of the court, in the journal, and shall specify clearly the amount
to be recovered, the relief granted, or other determination of the action.
Sec. 30'5. Immediately after entering the judgment, the clerk shall at
tach all the papers in the case and keep them in his office.
SEC. 307. Every clerk shall keep in his • office a well-bound hook,
to be called the exeeu'.' i.s duc';ef, which shall be a public record and
open during the usual bu-ii.e:-.- liour* to all persons desirous of inspect
ing it.
Seo. 308. Within twenty day-; after the close of any term of the court,
the clerk shall enter in said execution docket, a statement of each final
judgment rendered at such term, and shall, at the request of the judg
ment creditor or his attorney, furnish a transcript of said judgment to
said judgment creditor, and upon the filh'.g of *aid tran-cript in the of
fice of the county auditor, it shall be a lien upon all real estate of said
judgment debtor, in the county where such transcript shall be filed, for
the period of five years irom the date said judgment was rendered. ' And
said lien shall attach from the day of the date of said judgment, if said
transcript shall have been hied within the said twenty days. And in
case an attachment has been levied upon any real estate, then from the
levy of the attachment. The fees for making and tiling such transcript
shall be paid by the judgment creditor, and be taxed as costs against the
judgment debtor, and be collected as other costs in the case. Said state
ments and transcripts shall contain:
1. The names at length of all the parties.
2. The date of the judgment and against whom rendered.
3. The amount or nature of the judgment and costs.
4. An abstract of the costs of each party, and to whom belonging.
Sec. 300. The clerk shall also enter in his execution docket a minute,
in like manner, of any transcript of a judgment from the supreme court,
or from any district court of the territory, or from a justice of the
peace, when the same are presented to him for that purpose, as shall be
provided by law. He shall in like manner, at the instance of the judg
ment creditor, furnish to any county auditor's office, any certified trans
cript of said judgment, for filing therein, the fees whereof shall be paid
by the party requesting such transcript, but taxable as other costs in the
case.
Sec. 310. He shall leave space on the same page, if practicable, with
each case, in which he shall enter, in the order in which they occur, all
the proceedings subsequent to the judgment in said case, until its final
satisfaction, including the time when and to what county the execution
is issued and when returned, and the return or substance thereof.
When the execution is levied on personal property, which is returned
unsold, the entry shall be: "Levied (noting the date) on property not
sold." When any sheriff shall furnish the clerk with a copy of any levy
upon real estate on any judgment, the minutes of which are entered in
his execution docket, the entry shall be: "Levied upon real estate,"
noting the date, and shall refer to the page upon the book of levies where
the same is entered, as is hereinafter provided. When any execution
issued to any other county is returned, levied upon real estate in such
county, tfce entry in the docket shall be: "Levied on real estate
of , in. county," noting the date, county, and defendant
whose estate is levied upon, and when the money is made, or any part
thereof, the amount and time when made shall be entered; also when a
writ of error has been taken, or the judgment is appealed, modified, dis
charged or in any manner satisfied, the facts in respect thereto shall be
entered. The parties interested may also assign or discharge such judg
ment on such execution docket. When the judgment is fully satisfied
in any way, the clerk shall write the word "satisfied," in large letters
across the face of the entry of such judgment.
Sec. 311. The clerk shall prefix to the execution docket a full and cor
rect alphabetical index, both direct and inverse, containing the names of
all persons parties to judgments, plaintifffs and defendants, in separate
columns.
SEC. 312. The auditor of each county shall keep in his office a well
bound book, which shall be a public record, open to inspection at all rea
sonable hours, in which he shall enter all transcripts of judgments from
the supreme or district courts, presented to him for that purpose, and
when a judgment is satisfied he shall write across the face in huge letters
the word "satisfied."
Seo. 313. The clerk shall also keep in his office a well bound book, to
be called a book of levies, which shall be a public record and open dur
ing the usual business hours to all persons desirous of inspecting the
same, in which he shall enter all levies upon real estate in his county,
when delivered to him by the sheriff, as provided by law. An alphabet
ical index shall lie prefixed to the book of levies, containing the names of
all persons upon whose real estate such levies have been made, and
when such levies are discharged in any manner, an entry thereof shall
be made in the margin of the book of levies where the levy is recorded.
Sec. 314. When a judgment is recorded against one or more of several
persons jointly indebted upon an obligation by proceeding as provided in section sixty-eight of this act, such defendants who were not originally
served with the summons, and did not appear to the action, may be
summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment,
in the same manner as though they had been originally served with* the
summons.
Seo. 315. The summons, as provided in the last section, must describe
the judgment, and require the person summoned to show cause why he
should not be bound by it, and must be served in the same manner and
returnable within the same time, as the original summons. It is not
necessary to file a new complaint.
Sec. 316. The summons must be accompanied by an affidavit of the
plaintifff, his agent, representative, or attorney, that the judgment, or
some part thereof, remains unsatisfied, and must specify the amount due
thereon.
Sec. 317. Upon the service of such summons and affidavit, the defend
ant may answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment,
or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently to the
taking of the judgment, or he may deny his liability on the obligation
npon which the judgment was rendered, except a discharge from such
liability by the statute of limitations.
Sec. 318. If the defendant in his answer, deny the judgment, or set
np any defense which may have arisen subsequently, the summons, with
the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute the written allegations in
the case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judg
ment was rendered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the
summons with the affidavit annexed, and the answer constitute such
written allegations.
Sec. 319. The issue formed may be tried as in other cases, but when
the defendant denies in his answer any liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him,
it must not exceed the amount remaining unsatisfied mi such original
judgment, with interest thereon.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
LIEN OF JUDGMENTS.
Section32».
Rate of interest wJiieh judgments* Hhall bear
321. Judgment a li<::i un real estate, how lonir
S KcnoN
3-22. Appeal, etc., not to ulTect lien, upon per
sonal property, from actual levy.
Sec. 320. Judgments shall bear the legal rate of interest from date
thereof, except when rendered upon an express contract in writing,
wherein a different rate of interest is agreed upon by the parties, in
which w.iC the judgment shall, until paid and satisfied, bear the same
rate of interest specified in such written contract.
Sec. 321. The real estate of any judgment debtor, and such as he may
acquire, shall be held and bound to satisfy any judgment of the district
or supreme court, or any judgment of a justice of the peace, authorized
by law to be levied upon real estate, for the period of five years from the
day on which said judgment was rendered, said lien to commence as
follows: On judgments of the district court of the district including the
county or counties in which real estate of the judgment debtor is situ
ated, from the date of the rendition, but within twenty days from the
date of such rendition, a transcript thereof certified by the clerk of the
said district court, shall be filed and recorded in the county auditor's
office of the county where the said lands are situated, and if not so filed
within said period of twenty days, the lien of said judgment shall be
suspended until the filing of said transcript. From and after said filing
of transcript by the county auditor of any county in the territory, such
judgment shall be a lien upon all real estate of the judgment debtor in
such county for the period of five years, commencing from the date on
which said judgment was rendered. In all other judgments which are
by law a lien upon real estate, the lien upon lands in any particular
county commences and attaches from the date of filing the transcript in
the county auditor's office of said county, and continues for the period
of live years from the date of rendition of the judgment.
Sec. 322. An appeal to the supreme court, writ of error, or stay of
■fe'
execution shall not affect any existing lien; and in all cases of an appeal
or writ of error, the date of final judgment in the supreme court shall
be the time from which said five years shall commence to run. Personal
property shall only be held from the time it is actually levied upon.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ON REVIVAL AND CONTINUANCE OP JUDGMENTS.
Section I Section
Million for, who may make and proceedurc. order of court, judgment, etc.
... ' fiir ' ' ' ' '
323- Motion for, who may make and proceedurc. [
324. Proof must be furnished of existing debt, |
Sec 323. If any judgment shall remain unsatisfied in whole or in
part, at the end of five years after the date of its rendition, the lien
thereof may be revived and continued, as in this section provided:
1. The judgment creditor, his assignee, or the party to whom said
judgment is due and payable, shall file a motion with the clerk of the
court where judgment is entered, to revive and continue the lien of the
same, with leave to issue an execution. The motion shall state the
names of the parties to the judgment, the date of its entry, the amount
claimed to be due thereon, or the particular property, of which the pos
session was thereby adjudged to such party, remaining undelivered. The
motion shall be subscribed and verified in the same manner as an origi
nal complaint.
2. At any time after filing such motion, the party may cause notice to
be served on the judgment debtor in like manner and with like effect
as a summons; said notice shall be attached to a copy of said motion, by
the clerk of the court, and be served b}r the sheriff or other officer as an
original summons. It shall cite the judgment debtor to appear and
show cause why the said motion should not be allowed. The time in
which the judgment debtor shall be required to appear, shall be the
same as is prescribed for answer to a complaint, and the law applicable
to service of a summons, shall apply to the service of such notice. In
case the judgment debtor be dead, the notice may be served upon his
legal representatives.
3. The judgment debtor, or in case of his death, his representatives,
may file an answer or demurrer to such motion within the time allowed
by law to answer a complaint, alleging any defense to such motion which
may exist. If no answer be filed within the time prescribed, themotion
shall be allowed as of course. The moving party may demur or reply to
the answer. The pleadings shall be subscribed and verified, and the pro
ceedings concluded as in original actions.
4. The word "representatives," in this section shall be deemed to in
clude any or all of the persons in whose possession property of the
judgment debtor may be which is liable to be taken and sold or delivered
in satisfaction of the execution, and not otherwise.
5. The order shall specify the amount due upon such unsatisfied judg
ment for which execution is to issue, or the particular property, posses
sion of which is to be delivered ; it shall be entered in the journal and
docketed as a judgment, and a final record shall be made of the proceed
ings in the same manner as a judgment.
Sec. 324. Such motion shall not be granted unless it be established by
oath of the party or other satisfactory proof that the judgment, or some part thereof remains unsatisfied. The order of court granting such leave
ahall operate as a revival of the judgment for amount found due at the
time of such revival, and the same shall be and continue a lieu upon real
estate of the judgment debtor for a period of five years from and after
the date of such order, in like manner with the original judgment:
Provided, That a transcript thereof shall within twenty days be filed in the
office of the county auditor of the county where the lands lie of suchjudgment debtor, or said lien shall be suspended till such transcript be
filed. Revived judgments shall bear, the same interest and be in all re
spects similar to original judgments, as to lieu and enforcement or col
lection.
CHAPTER XXX.
OF EXECUTIONS.
Sictiok I Section
396. Execution within Ave years. 330. To what counties execution may be issued.
827. How judgments may be enforced. 331. Returnable within sixty days.
823. Four kinds oi executions. Order to collect 332. Execution against the person.
costs. 338. What property liable to execution.
829. Form and requisites of an execution. | 334. Assignment of judgment.
Sec. 325. The party in whose favor judgment is given, may at any
time, within five years thereafter, have a writ of execution issued for its
enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter; if the period of five years
shall have elapsed, an execution shall not issue thereafter, without such
judgment shall have been revived as provided in the next preceding chapter, on revival and continuance of judgment.
Sec. 326. When a judgment requires the payment of money, or the
delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in those
respects by execution, as provided in this chapter. When it requires
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may
be served on the party against whom it is given, or the person or officer
who is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and a writ shall
be issued commanding him to obey or enforce the same. If he refuses,
he may be punished by the court as for a contempt.
Sec. 327. There shall be four kinds of execution; one against the
property of the judgment debtor, another against his person, the third
for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such
delivery with damages for withholding the same, and the fourth, com
manding the enforcement of or obedience to any special order of the
court. And in all cases there shall be an order to collect the costs.
Sec. 328. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the
United States, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the
clerk, and shall be directed to the sheriff of the county in which the
property is situated, or coroner, when the sheriff is a party, or interest
ed, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the court, the
district or county where judgment was rendered, the names of the par
ties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and the amount
actually due thereon, and shall require substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor it shall re
quire the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the per
sonal property of the debtor, and it sufficient personal property cannot
be found, out of his real property, upon which the judgment is a lien.
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property or
trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with inter
est, out of such property.
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the coun
ty, until he shall pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged ac
cording to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop
erty, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same,
particularly describing it. to the party entitled thereto, and may, at the
same time, require the sheriff to satisfy any charges, damages, or rents
and profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal prop
erty of the party against whom it was rendered, and the value of the
property for which the judgment was recovered, shall be specified there
in. If a delivery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal prop
erty cannot be found, then out of his real property. When it is to en
force obedience to any special order, it shall particularly command what
is required to be done, or to be omitted. When the nature of the case
shall require it, the execution may embrace one or more of the require
ments above mentioned. And in all cases, the execution shall require
the collection of all interest, costs, and increased costs thereon.
Sec. 329. When the execution is against the property of the judg
ment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county in this terri
tory, but it shall not be issued in the first instance, to the sheriff of any
county out of the district in which the judgment is rendered, unless the
plaintifff or his attorney, shall first make and file with the clerk an affi
davit that the defendant has not subject to execution, sufficient property,
real or personal, in any county in said district, to satisfy the judgment,
but that he has property subject to execution in some other county or
counties. But after an execution has been returned "no property found"
in the district or county in which judgment was rendered, an execution
may be issued to any county outside of said district, upon the plaintifff
or his attorney making oath that the defendant has property subject to
execution in such county. When it requires the delivery of real or per
sonal property, it shall be issued to the sheriff of the county where the
property, or some part thereof, is situated.
Sec. 3^0. The sheriff shall indorse upon the writ or execution, the time
when he received the same, and such execution shall be returnable within
sixtj* days after its date, to the clerk who issued the same. And no
sheriff shall retain any monies collected on execution, more than twen
ty days, before paying the same, to the clerk of the court who issues the
writ, under penalty of twenty per cent, on the amount collected, to be
paid by the sheriff; the one-half to the party to whom the judgment
is payable, and the other half to the county commissioners of the
county wherein the action was brought, for the use of the school fund
of said county. And the clerk shall immediately after the receipt of
any monies collected on any judgment, notify the party to whom the
same is payable, and pay over the amount to the said party on demand.
On failure to bo notify and pay over, without reasonable cause shown for
delay, the clerk shall forfeit and pay the same penalty, to the same par
ties, as is above prescribed for the sheriff.
Sec. 331. If the action be one in which the defendant may be arrest
ed, as provided by law, an execution against the person of the judgment
debtor may be issued to any county in the territory: Provided, That
the sheriff shall not arrest the defendant if he shall deliver to him the
property subject to levy, sufficient to satisfy said judgment.
Sec. 332. A person arrested on execution, shail be imprisoned within
the jail, or the liberties thereof, and kept at his own expense until satis
faction of the execution, or his legal discbarge; but the plaintifff shall
be liable to the sheriff, in the first instance, for such expense, as in other
cases of arrest in the same manner, and to the same extent as therein
prescribed.
Sec. 333. All property, real and personal, of the judgment debtor,
not exempt by law, shall be liable to execution. (y^( / ., £ .-,-_ ,
>'. Sec. 331.yin all cases in which a judgment has been recovered in any
of the courts of this territory, which shall have been assigned to any
person, execution may issue in the name of the assignee, upon the as
signment being recorded in the execution docket by the clerk of the
court in which the judgment is recovered, -and the provisions of this sec
tion shall extend to all judgments heretofore recovered as well as to
those hereafter to be recovered.
CHAPTER XXXI.
OF STAY OF EXECUTION.
Section #
335. In judgments of supreme court, and dis
trict court.
336. Bond for stay of execution.
337. Judgment upon stay bond.
Section
338. Qualification of sureties.
339. Defendant may have stay for unexpired term.
340. Bonds where filed.
Sec. 335. Stay of execution shall be allowed on judgments rendered
in the supreme court and district court, as follows:
In the supreme court:
1. On all sums under five hundred dollars, thirty days.
2. On all sums over five and under fifteen hundred dollars, sixty days.
3. On all sums over fifteen hundred dollars, ninety days.
On judgments rendered in the district court:
1. On all sums under three hundred dollars, two months.
2. On all sums over three hundred and under one thousand dollars,
five months.
3. On all snms over one thousand dollars, six months.
Sec. 336. Before any execution shall be stayed under the provisions of
this chapter, the defendant shall give bond to the opposite party, in double
the amount of the judgment and costs, with surety to the satisfac
tion of the clerk, conditioned to pay said judgment, interest, costs and
increased costs, at the expiration of the period of said stay.
Sec. 337. If the judgment is not satisfied, at any time after the expi
ration of the period for which execution has been stayed, the plaintifff, at
any subsequent term of the court from which the execution issued, may,
upon motion supported by an affidavit that such judgment or any part
thereof is unpaid, and 6tating how much still remains due thereon, have
jugdment against the sureties upon said bond, for the balance remaining
due, and have an execution therefore, upon which no stay shall be allowed.
Sec. 338. The sureties upon a bona for 6tay of execution 6hall possess
the same qualifications, ana justify in the same manner as bail upon ar
rest in civil actions. '
Sec. 339. When execution has not been stayed, and execution issues
before the time has elapsed for which it might have been stayed, as is
herein provided, the defendant may have stay for the balance of the time,
upon giving the proper bond and surety, which bond and surety shall
be approved by and justified before the sheriff.
Sec. 340. Bonds required by this act shall, when taken, be lodged
with the clerk of the court where the judgment was rendered, and plac
ed on file in his office.
.■ftacnoif
CHAPTEE XXXII.
841. Separate property and earnings of wife not 11af
^ble lor husband's debts.
848. Homestead, what shall be. Value *1000.
843. Surviving husband or wife entitled to home
stead.
844. Homestead may be mortgaged, how.
845. Proceeding if creditor believes homestead
EXEMPTION. •
Skctiox
worth over $1000.
346. Subsequently purchased homestead exempt.
847. Schedule of personal property exempt, except
for judgment for price.
348. ( if waiver of exemption.
349. Trial of whether property is exempt.
Sec. 341. All real and personal estate belonging to any married wo
man at the time of her marriage, and all which she may have acquired
subsequently to such marriage, or to which she shall hereafter become
entitled in her own right, and all her personal earnings, and all the
issues, rents and profits of such real estate, shall be exempt from attach
ment and execution upon any liability or judgment against the husband,
bo long as she or any minor heir of her body shall be living: Provided,
That her separate property shall be liable for debts owing by her at the
time of her marriage.
Sec. 342. There shall be also exempt from execution and attachment
to every householder, being the head of a family, a homestead not exceed
ing in value the sum of one thousand dollars, while occupied as such by
the owner thereof, or his or her family. Said homestead may consist
of a house and lot or lots in any city, or of a farm, consisting of any
number of acres, so that the value of the same shall not exceed the aforesaid
sum of one thousand dollars. Such homestead may be selected at any
time before 6ale.
Sec. 343. When any person dies seized of a homestead, leaving a
widow, or husband, or minor children, the survivors shall be entitled to
the homestead, but in case there be neither surviving husband, widow or
children, the said homestead shall be liable for the debts of the deceased.
Sec. 344. Nothing herein contained, shall be construed to prevent the
owner of a homestead from voluntarily mortgaging the same ; but no
mortgage shall be valid against the wife of any mortgagor who may be
occupying said homestead with him, unless 6he shall ireelv and volunta
rily, separate and apart from her husband, sign and acknowledge said
mortgage; and the officer taking the acknowledgment shall fully apprise
her o? her rights and the effect of signing such mortgage.
Sec. 345. When any creditor shall be of opinion that any homestead
claimed under the provisions of this act is of greater value than one
thousand dollars, on filing an affidavit to that effect with the clerk of the
district court, the judgment creditor may proceed against said home
stead as in other cases of real estate, and if said homestead shall sell for
over one thousand dollars and costs, the surplus shall be applied to the
payment of the judgment of said creditor, and in all such cases the sum
of one thousand dollars, free of charge or expense, shall bo paid to the
owner of the homestead ; and in case the said homestead shall not sell
for more than one thousand dollars and costs, the person instituting the
proceeding shall pay all costs of such proceeding, and the said proceed
ing cease and not affect or impair the rights of the owner of the home
stead.
Sec. 346. In case of the sale of said homestead, any subsequent home
stead acquired by the proceeds thereof, shall also be exempt from attach
ment ana execution, nor shall any judgment or other claim against the
owner of such homestead be a lien against the same in the hands of a
bona fide purchaser for a valuable consideration. //". / S ) h "- <>
VSec. 347Jf The following property shall be exempt from execution' or
attachment, except as is hereinafter specially provided:
1. All wearing apparel of every person and family.
2. All private libraries, family pictures and keepsakes.
3. To each householder, one bed and bedding, and one additional bed
and bedding for every two members of the family, and other household
foods and utensils and furniture, not exceeding one hundred and fifty
ollars coin in value.
4. To each householder, two cows with their calves, five swine, two
stands of bees, twenty-five domestic fowls, and provisions and fuel for the
comfortable maintenance of such householder and family for six months:
Provided, That in case such householder shall not possess, or shall not
desire to retain the animals named above, he may select from his prop
erty and retain other property, not to exceed one hundred and fifty dol
lars coin in value.
5. To a farmer, one span of horses, or mules, with harness, or two
yoke of oxen with yokes and chains, and one wagon ; also farming uten
sils actually used about the farm, not exceeding in value two hundred
dollars in coin.
6. To a mechanic, the tools and instruments used to carry on his trade
for the support of himself and family; also material not exceeding in
in valne five hundred dollars incoin.
7. To a physician, his library, not to exceed in value five hundred dol
lars in coin; also one horse and buggy, the instruments used in his prac
tice, and medicines not exceeding in value two hundred dollars in coin.
8. To attorneys, clergymen, and other professional men, their libraries
not exceeding five hundred dollars in coin value; also office furniture,
fuel and stationery not exceeding in value two hundred dollars in coin.
9. All firearms kept for the use of any person or family.
10. To any person a canoe, skiff or small boat, with its oars, sails and
rigging not exceeding in value fifty dollars in coin.
11. To a person engaged in lightering for his support or that of his
family, one or more lighters, barges or scows, and a small boat with oars,
sails and rigging, not exceeding in the aggregate two hundred and fifty
dollars in coin value. i ■..-FjJ
12. To a teamster or drayman engaged for his support and that of liis
family, his team. The word team in this subdivision means a span of
horses, harness, and one wagon or dray.
13. To a person engaged in the business of logging, for his snpport
and that of his family, three yoke of work cattle and their yokes; and
axes, chains, implements for the business and camp equipments, not ex
ceeding three hundred dollars coin in value.
14. A sufficient quantity of hay, grain or feed to keep the animals
mentioned in the several subdivisions of this chapter for six weeks. But
no property shall be exempt from an execution issued upon a judgment
for the price thereof, or any part of the price thereof, or for any tax
levied thereon.
Sec. 348. This chapter shall not be so construed as to prevent any sin
gle man, or married man, his wife joining him, from waiving, by agree
ment in writing, the benefit of this act: Provided, That any agreement
of waiver made by a husband and wife, shall be witnessed and 'acknowl
edged as required in case of a deed conveying real estate: And provided
also, That nothing in this chapter shall be construed to exempt from
attachment or execution the property, real or personal, of non-residents
or a person who has left or is about to leave the territory, with the intent
to defraud his creditors.
Sec. 349. When a debtor claims personal property as exempt he shall
deliver to .the officer making the levy an itemized list of all the personal
property owned or claimed by him, including money, bonds, bills, notes,
claims and demands, with the residence of the person indebted upon the
said bonds, bills, notes, claims and demands, and shall verify such list by
affidavit, lie shall also deliver to such officer a list by separate items of
the property he claims as exempt. If the husband be absent or incapa
ble of acting the claim may be made, the list delivered and verified by
the wife. If the creditor, his agent or attorney demand an appraisement
thereof, two disinterested householders of the neighborhood shall be
chosen, one by the debtor and the other by the creditor, his agent or
attorney, and these two, if they cannot agree, shall select a third; [but if
either party fail to choose an appraiser, or the two fail to select a third,
or] if one or more of the appraisers fail to act, the officer shall appoint
one. The appraisers shall forthwith proceed to make a list by separate
items, of the personal property selected by the debtor as exempt, which
they shall decide as exempt, stating the value of each article, and annex
ing to the list their affidavit to the following eil'ect: "We solemnly swear
that to the best^of our judgment the above is a fair cash valuation of
the property therein described," which affidavit shall be signed by two
appraisers at least, and be certified by the officer administering the oaths.
The list shall be delivered to the officer holding the execution or other
process and be by him annexed to and made part of his return and the
property therein specified shall be exempt from levy and sale, and the
other personal estate of the debtor shall remain subject thereto. In case
no appraisement be required the officer shall return with the process the
list of the property claimed as exempt by the debtor. The appraisers shall
each be entitled to one dollar, to be paid by the creditor, if all the prop
erty claimed by the debtor shall be exempt; otherwise to be paid by the
debtor.
Sec 350. When any other person than the judgment debtor shall
claim property levied upon or attached, he may have the right to de
mand and receive the same from the sheriff or other officer making the
attachment or levy, upon his making an affidavit that the property is his,
or that he has a right to the immediate possession thereof, stating on
oath the value thereof, and giving to the sheriff or officer a bond, with
sureties in double the value of such property, conditioned that he will
appear at the next term of the district court of the county in which the
property was seized, which shall commence ten days or more after the
bond is accepted by the sheriff or other officer, and make good his title
to the same, or that he will return the property or pay its value to the
said sheriff or other officer.
Sec. 351. If the sheriff or other officer require it, the sureties shall
justify as in other cases, and in case they do not so justify when required,
the sheriff or officer shall retain the property; if the sheriff or officer do
not require the bail to justify he shall stand good for their sufficiency.
He shall date and endorse his acceptance upon the bond.
Sec. 352. The officer shall return the affidavit, bond and justification
if any, to the office of the clerk of the district court, and the clerk shall
place the same upon his trial docket at the first term, which shall com
mence ten clays or more after it was accepted by the sheriff or officer as
above provided for, and it shall stand for trial at that term.
Sec. 353. The person claiming the property shall be plaintifff, and the
sheriff and plaintifff in the execution, defendants.
Sec. 354. If the claimant makes good his title to the property, the
bond shall be canceled ; if to a portion thereof, a like proportion of the
bond shall be canceled; but if he shall not maintain his title, judgment
shall be rendered against him and his sureties for the value of the prop
erty, or for such less amount as shall not exceed the amount due on the
original execution or attachment. "When the judgment is in favor of
the sheriff for the entire property, the claimant shall pay the costs; when
the claimant recovers all the property, judgment shall be given in favor
of the claimant for costs; when the claimant recovers a portion of the
property only, the costs shall be apportioned. "When the plaintifff pre
vails, the costs may be taxed against the defendant who was plaintifff in
the execution or attachment, or the court may, if it shall be of opinion
that the sheriff attached or levied upon said property without the exer
cise of due caution, adjudge him to pay the costs or any portion thereof.
Sec. 355. "When the writ of execution is against the property of the
judgment debtor, it shall he executed by the sheriff as follows:
1. If property lias been attached, he shall endorse on the execu
tion, and pay to the clerk forthwith the amount of the proceeds of sales
of perishable property or debts due the defendant received by him, suffi
cient to satisfy the judgment.
2. If the judgment is not then satisfied, and property has been at
tached and n mains in his custody, he shall sell the same, or sufficient
thereof to satisfy the judgment.
3. If then any portion of the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if no
f>roperty has been attached or the same has been discharged, lie shall
evy on the property of the judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the
judgment.
4. Property shall be levied on in like manner and with like effect as
similar property is attached.
5. Until a levy, personal property shall not be affected by the execu
tion. When property has been sold or debts received by the sheriff on
execution, he shall pay the proceeds thereof, or sufficient to satisfy the
■judgment, as commanded in the writ.
6. "When property has been attached and it is probable that such prop
erty will not be sufficient to satisfy the judgment, the execution may be
levied on other property of the judgment debtor without delay. If after
satisfying the judgment any property, or the proceeds thereof, remain in
the custody of the sheriff, he shall deliver the same to the judgment
debtor.
Sec. 356. In the case of property in the possession of, or owing from
any garnishee, the sheriff shall proceed as follows:
1. If it appear from the certificate of the garnishee that he is owing a
debt to the judgment debtor which is then due, if such debt is not paid
by such garnishee to the sheriff, on demand, he shall levy on the proper
ty of the garnishee of the amount thereof, in all respects as if the execu
tion was against the property of the garnishee. But if such debt be not
then clue, the sheriff shall sell the same, according to the certificate, as
other property.
2. If, in like manner, it appear that the judgment debtor has rights
or shares in the stock of the garnishee, as provided in subdivision 3 of section 179, the sheriff shall sell the same according to the certificate as
other property.
3. If in like manner it appear that the garnishee has other personal
property of the judgment debtor in his possession, and the same has not
been bailed to such garnishee for a period then unexpired, unless the
same be delivered to the sheriff on demand, ho shall levy upon the same
wherever he may find it. Ihit if such property is in the possession of
such garnishee upon a bailment then unexpired, the sheriff shall sell the
same, or the interest of the judgment debtor therein according to the
certificate, as other property.
Sec. 357. When a sheriff with an execution levies upon any of the per
sonal property mentioned in subdivision three of section one hundred
and seventy-nine, and if the same is not delivered, paid or transferred to
him at the time, he shall proceed thereafter in reference to such property
as provided in the preceding section. Such property may be delivered,
paid or transferred to the sheriff at the time of the levy, or sufficient
thereof to satisfy the execution; and the sheriff's receipt to the person,
association or corporation, as the ca.-e may be, .shall lie «, sufficient dis
charge therefore.
Sec. 358. AY hen the sheriff shall levy upon personal property, by vir
tue of an execution, he may permit the judgment debtor to retain he
same, or any part thereof, in his possession until the day of sale, upon
the defendant executing a written bond to the sheriff with sufficient
surety, in double the value of such property, to the effect that it shall
be delivered to the sheriff at the time and place of sale, and for non-de
livery thereof, an action may be maintained upon such bond by the sher
iff or the plaintifff in the execution; but the sheriff shall not thereby be
discharged from his liability to the plaintifff for such property.
Sec. 359. Before the sale of property on execution, notice thereof shall
be given as follows:
1. In case of personal property, by posting written or printed notice
of the time and place of sale in three public places of the county where
the sale is to take place, not less than ten days successively.
2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly
describing the property, for four weeks successively, in three public
places of the county where the property is to be sold, and publishing a
copy thereof, once a week for the same period, in a newspaper of the
county, if there be one, or if there be none, then in a newspaper pub
lished nearest to the place of sale.
Sec. 360. All sales of property upon execution, shall be made by auc
tion between nine o'clock in the morning and four o'clock in the after
noon. After sufficient property has been sold to satisfy the execution,
no more shall be sold. Neither the officer holding the execution nor his
deputy, shall become a purchaser or be interested in any purchase at
such sale. When the sale is of personal property capable of manual de
livery, and not in the possession of a third person, association or corpor
ation, it shall be within view of those who attend the sale, and be sold in
snch parcels as are likely to bring the highest price ; and when the sale is of
real property and consisting of several known lots or parcels, they shall
be sold separately or otherwise as is likely to bring the highest price, or
when a portion of such real property is claimed by a third person, and
he requires it to be sold separately, such portion shall be sold separately.
Sales of real property shall be made at the court house door.
Sec. 361. If at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff should be
prevented from attending at the place appointed, or being present should
deem it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale for want
of purchasers, or other sufficient cause, he may postpone the sale not ex
ceeding one week next after the day appointed, and so from time to time
for the like cause, giving notice of every adjournment by public procla
mation made at the same time, and by posting written notices of such
adjournment under the notices of sale originally posted by him. The
sheriff for like causes may also adjourn the sale from time to time, not
exceeding thirty days beyond the day at which the writ is made returna
ble, with the consent of the plaintifff endorsed upon the writ.
Sec. 362. When the purchaser of any personal property, capable of
manual delivery, and not in the possession of a third person, association
or corporation, shall pay the purchase money, the sheriff shall deliver to
him the property, and if desired shall give him a bill of sale containing
an acknowledgment of the payment. In all other sales of personal prop
erty the sheriff shall give the purchaser a bill of sale with the like ac
knowledgment.
Sec. 363. The form and manner of sale of real estate by execution
shall be as follows: The sheriff shall proclaim aloud at the place, of sale,
in the hearing of all the bystanders: "I am about to sell the following
tracts of real estate (here reading the description,) upon the following
execution:" (here reading the execution). lie shall also state the
amount which he is required to make upon the execution, which shall
include damages, interests and costs np to the day of sale, and increased
costs. He shall then offer the land for sale, the lots and parcels sepa
rately or together, as he shall deem most advantageous. All land except
town lots shall be sold by the acre.
Sec. 361. When the land is sold by the acre and any less number of
acres than the whole tract or parcel is sold, it shall be measured off to
the purchaser in a square form, from the north-east corner of the tract
or parcel, unless some person having an interest in the land shall, at the
the sale, or prior thereto and before the bidding is made, request that the
land sold shall be taken from some other part, or in some other form;
in such case, if such request is reasonable, the officer making the sale
shall sell accordingly.
Sec. 365. When an entire tract or parcel of land is sold by the acre, it
shall not be measured but shall be deemed and taken to contain the
number of acres named in the description, and be paid for accordingly;
and when the number of acres is not contained in the description, the
officer shall declare according to his judgment how many acres are con
tained therein, which shall be deemea and taken to be the true number
of acres.
Sec. 366. The officer shall strike off the land to the highest bidder,
who shall forthwith pay the money bid to the officer, who shall return
the money with his execution and his doings thereon, to the clerk of the
court from which the execution issued, according to the order thereof:
Provided, however, That when final judgment shall have been entered
in the supreme court and the execution upon which sale has been made
issued from said court, the proceedings on execution and return shall be
docketed for confirmation in the district court in which the action was
originally commenced, and like proceedings shall be had as though said
execution had issued from the said district court.
i
Sec. 367. Upon the return of any sale of real estate as aforesaid, the
clerk shall enter the cause on which the execution issued, by its title, in
the docket of the term next after such return, and mark opposite the
same "sale of land for confirmation," and the following proceedings shall
be had:
1. The plaintifff shall be entitled, on motion therefore, to have an order
confirming the sale at the term next following the return of the execu
tion, or if it be returned in term time, then at such term, unless the
judgment debtor, or in case of his death, his representatives, shall file
with the clerk, ten days before such term, or it the writ be returned
in term time, then five days after the return thereof, his objections
thereto.
2. If such objections be filed the court shall notwithstanding allow
the order -confirming the sale, unless on the hearing of the motion, it
shall satisfactorily appear that there were substantial irregularities in
the proceedings concerning the sale, to the probable loss or injury of the
party objecting. In the latter case, the court shall disallow the motion,
and direct that tLe property be resold in whole or in part, as the case may
be, as upon an execution received of that date.
3. Upon the return of the execution, the sheriff shall pay the proceeds
of the sale to the clerk, who shall then apply the same or so much there
of as may be necessary, in satisfaction of the judgment. If an order
of resale be afterwards made, and the property sell for a greater amount
to any person other than the former purchaser, the clerk shall first repay
to such purchaser the amount of his bid out of the proceeds of the latter
6ale.
4. Upon a resale, the bid of the purchaser at the former sale shall be
deemed to be renewed and continue in force, and no bid shall be taken
except for a greater amount. If the motion to confirm be not heard and
decided at the term at which it is made, it may be continued and heard
and determined before the judge, or at any term thereafter. An order
confirming a sale shall be a conclusive determination of the regularity
of the proceedings concerning such sale as to all persons in any other
action, suit or proceeding whatever.
5. If after the satisfaction of the judgment, there be any proceeds of
the sale remaining, the clerk shall pay such proceeds to the judgment
debtor or his representative, as the case may be, at any time before the
order is made upon the motion to confirm the sale, provided such party
file with the clerk a waiver of all objections made or to be made to the
proceedings concerning the sale; but if the sale be confirmed, such pro
ceeds shall be paid to such party of course, otherwise they shall remain
in the custody of the clerk until the sale of the property has beeu dis
posed of.
Seo. 368. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of the reveisal
of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest and the
costs and disbursements of the suit by which he was evicted, from the
plaintifff in the writ of execution.
Sec. 369. When property liable to an execution against several persons
is sold thereon, and more than a due proportion of the judgment is
levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays without a
sale more than his proportion, he may compel contributions from the
others; and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an obliga
tion or contract of one of them as security for another, and the surety
pays the amount or any part thereof, either by sale of his property or
before sale, he may compel repayment from the principal. In such case
the person so paying or contributing, shall be entitled to the benefit of
the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment, if within thirty days
after his payment, he file with the clerk of the court where the judgment
was rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution or repay
ment. Upon tiling such notice, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in,
the margin of the docket where the judgment is entered.
Sec. 370. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less than a
leasehold of two years unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In
all other cases, such property shall be subject to redemption, as herein
after provided in this chapter. At the time of sale the sheriff shall give
to the purchaser a certificate of the sale, containing:
1. A particular description of the property sold.
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole price paid.
4. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated. The matters
contained in such certificate shall be substantially stated in the sheriff's
return of his proceedings upon the writ.
Sec. 371. Property sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last section, or any part thereof separately sold, may be redeemed by the fol
lowing persons or their successors in interest:
1. The judgment debtor or his successor in interest, in the whole or
in any part of the property separately sold.
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment, decree or mortgage on any
portion of the property, or any portion of any part thereof, separately
sold, subsequent in time to that on which the property was sold.
The persons mentioned in subdivision two of this section are termed
redemptioners.
Sec. 372. The judgment debtor or redeinptioner may redeem the prop
erty within six months from the date of the order confirming the sale,
by paying the amount of the purchase money, with interest at the rate
of two per centum per month thereon from the time of sale, together
with the amount of any taxes which the purchaser may have paid there
on, and if the purchaser be also a creditor having a lien prior to that of
the redeinptioner, the amount of such lien with interest.
Sec. 373. If the property be so redeemed by a redeinptioner, either
the judgment debtor or any other redemptioner may, within sixty days
from the last redemption, again redeem it on paying the sum paid on the
last redemption, with interest at the rate of two per centum per month
thereon, from the date of the last preceding redemption, in addition togeth
er with the amount of any taxes which the last redemptioner may have paid
thereon, and unless his lien be prior to that of such redemptioner, the
amount of sue!) lien with interest. The property may be again and as
often as a debtor ur a redemptioner is disposed, redeemed from the last
previous redemptioner, within sixty days from the last redemption, on
paying the sum paid on the last previous redemption, with interest at
the rate of two per centum per month thereon from the date of such pre
vious redemption, together with the amount of any taxes paid thereon
by such last redemptioner, and the amount of any liens held by such
last redemptioner, prior to his own, with interest. Notice of redemp
tion shall be given to the sheriff.
Sec. 374. If no redemption be made within six months from .the con
firmation of the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance
from the sheriff, or if so redeemed, whenever sixty day 8 has elapsed,
and no other redemption has been made, the time for redemption shall
have expired and the last redemptioner shall be entitled to a conveyance
from the sheriff. If the judgment debtor redeem at any time before
the time for redemption expires, the effects of the sale shall be deter
mined and he shall be restored to his estate.
Sec. 375. The mode of redeeming shall be as provided in this section:
1. The person seeking to redeem shall give the purchaser or redemp
tioner, as the case may be, two days' notice of his intention to apply to
the sheriff for that purpose. At the time and place specified in said
notice, such person may redeem by paying to the sheriff the sum re
quired. ' The sheriff shall give the person redeeming a certificate as in.
case of sale on execution adding therein the sum paid rn redemption,
from whom redeemed and the date thereof. A party seeking to redeem
Bhall submit to the sheriff the evidence of his right thereto, as follows:
2. Proof that the notice required by this section has been given to
the purchaser or redemptioner, or waived.
3. If he be a lien creditor, a copy of the docket of the judgment or
decree under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk
of the court' where such judgment or decree is docketed, or if he seeks
to redeem upon mortgage, the certificate of the record thereof.
4. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified
by the affidavit of himself or agent, showing the amount then actually
due on the judgment, decree or mortgage.
5. If the redemptioner or purchaser have a lien prior to that of the
lien creditor seeking to redeem, such redemptioner or purchaser 6hall
submit to the sheriff the like evidence thereof, and of the amount due
thereon, or the same may be disregarded.
Sec. 376. When two or more persons apply to the sheriff to redeem
at the same time, he shall allow the person having the prior lien to re
deem -first, and so on. The sheriff shall immediately pay the money
over to the person from whom the property is redeemed, if he attend at
the redemption, or if not, at any time thereafter when demanded. Where
a sheriff shall wrongfully refuse to allow any person to redeem, his right
thereto shall ne>t be prejudiced thereby, and upon the submission of the
evidence and the tender of the money to the sheriff, as herein provided,
he may be required by order of the court or judge thereof, to allow such
redemption. .
Sec. 377. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption, the
court or judge thereof may restrain the commission of waste on the
property by order granted, with or without notice, on the application of
the purchaser or judgment creditor, but it shall not be deemed waste
for the person in possession afterwards, during the period allowed for
redemption, to continue to use it in the same manner in which it
was previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry, or
to make the necessary repairs to buildings thereon, or to use wood or
timber on the property therefore, or for the repair of fences, or for fuel
in his family while he occupies the property.
Seo. 37S. The purchaser, from the day of sale until a resale or redemp
tion, and the redemptioner from the day of his redemption until another
redemption, shall be entitled to the possession of the property purchas
ed or redeemed, unless the same be in the possession of a tenant holding
under an unexpired lease, and in such case shall be entitled to receive
from such tenant the rents or the value of the use and occupation thereof
during the same period.
Sec. 379. In all cases where real estate has been or may hereafter be
sold, in^pursuance of law, by virtue of an execution or other proeess, it
ebali be the duty of the sheriff or other officer making such sale to exe
cute and deliver to the purchaser, or other person entitled to the same, a
deed of conveyance of the real estate so sold, as follows:
1. When such other execution or process issues upon an ordinary money
judgment, such sheriff or other officer shall execute and deliver such
deed within six months after the confirmation of such sale.
2. When such execution or other process issues upon a decree for the
foreclosure of a mortsrajje. such sheriff or other officer shall execute and
deliver such deed within five days after the confirmation of such sale.
3. In case the term of office of the sheriff or other officer making
such sale shall have expired before a sufficient deed has been executed,
then the successor in office of such sheriff or other officer shall, within
the time specified in this act, execute and deliver to the purchaser or
other person entitled to the same, a deed of the premises so sold; and
such deed shall be as valid and effectual to convey to the grantee the
lands or premises so sold, as if the deed had been made by the sheriff or
other officer who made the sale.
Sue. 3S0. The party to whom such sheriff's deed is given, shall upon
the receipt thereof, take the same to the clerk of the district court, -who
shall enter in his book of levies where the levy- is recorded, the sale of
real estate therein conveyed, and shall endorse the fact upon the deed,
with the date when presented to him and when made. And no county
auditor shall record any such deed without such endorsement.
CHAPTER XXXV.
PROCEEDINGS 8UPPLEMENTAKY TO EXECUTION.
Section I Section
381. Debtor may be required to answer concern- > 3ft 1. Witncnsc" required to testifv.
ing hi* property; and may be arrested, when, j 383. Ordertlmt property be applied on execution.
3S£. Debtor of judgment iK'blof may pay latter"s 380. Proceeding upon claim ol another to properly,
creditor. or on dcnialof indebtedness to judgment debt383. Examination of debtors of judgment debtor, or.
or of those having property belonging to him. | 387. Disobedience of orders, punished as contempt.
Sec. 381. After the issuing of an execution against property, and up
on proof by affidavit of a party, or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
court or of a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the judgment
debtor to a; "ear at a specified time and place, before such judge, or a
referee appoi. ' .1 by him, to answer concerning the same; and such pro
ceedings may thereupon be had for the application of tiie property of
the judgment debtor, toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as are
provided upon the return of an execution. Instead ot the order reS
uiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the judge may, upon afdavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it appear to
him that there is danger of tiie debtor absconding, order the sheriff to
arrest the debtor and bring him before such judge. Upon being brought
before the judge he may be ordered to enter into a bond with sufficient
surety, that he will attend from time to time before the judge or referee,
as shall be directed during the pendency of proceedings and until the
final determination thereof, and will not, in the meantime, dispose of any
portion of* his property, not exempt from execution. In default of en
tering into such bond, he may be committed to prison.
Sec. 3S2. After the issuing of an execution against property, any per
son indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the exe
cution, and tin.' sheriff's receipt shall he a sufficient discharge for the
amount so paid.
Sec. 383. Al'ter the issuing or return of an execution against property
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
judgment, aud upon proof by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the judge, that any person or corporation has property of such judg
ment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount exceeding fifty dollars,
the judge may by an ordei1 require such person or corporation, or any
officer or member thereof to appear at a specified time and place, before
him or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the same.
X Sec. 384.\Witnesses may be required to appear and testify before the
judge or referee, upon any proceeding under this chapter, in the. same
manner as upon the trial of an issue.
Sec. 385. The judge or referee may order any property of the judg
ment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands of such debtor or
any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards
the satisfaction of the judgment; except that the earnings of the debtor
for his personal services, at any time within sixty days next preceding
the order, shall not be so applied, when it shall be made to appear by
the debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for
the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his labor.
Sec. 386. If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest
in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, the court or judge
may authorize, by an order to that effect, the judgment creditor to insti
tute an action against such person or corporation for the recovery of such
interest or debt; and the court or judge may by an order forbid a trans
fer or other disposition of such interest or debt, until an action can be
commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modified
or vacated by the judge granting the same, or the court in which the
action is brought, at any time upon such terms as may be just.
Sec. 3S7. If any person, party or witness, disobey an order of the
referee, propei'lv made in the proceedings before him under this chapter,
he may be punished by the court or judge ordering the reference for a
contempt.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
OF WITNESSES AND EVIDENCE.
Skctiox Section
388. Who are competent witnesses. 391. Incompetent witnesses.
3S'J- Interest affects credibility. Proviso. 892. Parties who shall not be examined with ont
390. Conviction ol crime affects credibility; perjury, consent,
incompetency.
Sec. 388. Every person of sound mind, suitable age and discretion,
except as hereinafter provided, may be a witness in any action, or pro
ceeding.
Sec. 3S9. Any person offered as a witness shall not be excluded from
giving evidence, by reason of his interest in the event of the action, as a
party thereto, or otherwise, but such interest miy be shown to affect his
credibility: Provided, however, That in an action or proceeding where
the adverse party sues or defends as executor, administrator or legal rep
resentative of any deceased or insane person, or as a guardian of a
minor under the a«;e of fourteen years, then a party in interest, or to the
record, shall not bo admitted to testify in his own behalf.
Sec. 390. Any person offered as a witness shall not be excluded from
giving evidence by reason of conviction for crime, but such conviction
may be shown to affect his credibility: Provided, That any person who
shall have been convicted of the crime of perjury, shall not be a compe
tent witness in any case, unless such conviction shall have been reversed,
or unless he shall have received a pardon.
Sue. 391. The following persons shall not he competent to testify:
1. Those who are of unsound mind, or intoxicated at the time of their
production for examination, and
2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts, respecting which they are examined, or of
relating them truly.
Sec. 392. The following persons shall not be examined as witnesses:
'( 1.' A husband shall not be examined for or against his wife, without the
consent of the wife, nor a wife for or against her husband without the
consent of the husband; nor can either during marriage or afterward, be
without the consent of the other, examined as to any communication
made by one to the other during marriage. But this exception shall not
apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a
criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed by one against the
other. *
2. An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent of his cli
ent, be examined as to any communication made by the client to him, or
his advice given thereon in the course of professional employment.
3. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the person
making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in
his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he belongs.
4. A regular physician or surgeon shall not, withont the consent of
his patient, be examined in a civil action as to any information acquired
in attending such patient, whicli was necessary to enable him to prescribe
or act for the patient.
5. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to communi
cations made to him in official confidence, when the public interest would
Buffer by the disclosure.
Section393.
Who Bhnll not be compelled to attend, and
tender of fee* when subpoenaed.
894. What aubposua may require, aud production of
books, papers, etc.
393. now issued.
396. How nerved, and proof thereof.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
MANNER OF COMPELLING THE ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES.
Section
897. Person in attendance required to testify, without notice.
398. Witness served, liable for damages for non at
tendance}.
3H9. Witness failing to attend, gnilty of contempt.
40t). Attachment may inane for witness.
401. Testimony of prisoner, how obtained.
402. Order can only he upon affidavit.
Sec. 393. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness before any
court of record, judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee or
other officer, in any civil action out of the sub-district in which he re
sides, unless his residence be within twenty miles of such court, judge,
justice of the peace, commissioner, referee or other officer. And no per
son shall be compelled to attend as a witness in any civil action or pro
ceeding, unless the fees be paid or tendered to him, which are allowed
by law, for one day's attendance as a witness, aud for traveling to and
returning from the place where he is required to attend, provided such
fees be demanded by him at the time of service of the snbpoena.
Sec. 39-t. The subpoena may require not only the personal attendance
of the person to whom it is directed, at a particular time and place,
to testify as a witness, but may also require him to bring with him any
books, documents or things under his control; but no public officer or
person having the possession or control of public records or papers
■which by law are required to be kept in any particular office or place,
shall be compelled to produce the same in any court.
Sec. 395. The subpoena shall be issued as follows:
1. To require attendance before a court of record, or at the trial of an
issue therein; it shall be issued in the name of the United States, and
be under the seal of the court before which the attendance is required,
or in which the issue is pending.
2. To require attendance out of such a court before a judge, justice of
the peace, commissioner, referee or other officer authorized to administer
oaths or to take testimony in any matter under the laws of this territory,
it shall be issued by such judge, justice of the peace, commissioner,
referee or other officer before whom the attendance is required.
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take tes
timony by a court of any other state, territory or county, it may be is
sued by any judge or justice of the peace, in places within their respec
tive jurisdictions.
Sec. 396. Such subpoena may be served by any suitable person over
eighteen years of age, by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by
giving him a copy thereof, or by leaving such copy at the place of his
abode. "When service is made by any other person than an officer au
thorized to serve process, proof of service shall be made by affidavit.
Sec. 397. A person present in court or before a judicial officer, may
be required to testify in the same mainer as if he were in attendance
upon a subpoena issued by such court or officer.
Sec. 398. If any person duly served with a subpoena and obliged to
attend as a witness, shall fail to do so, without any reasonable excuse, he
shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such
failure, to be recovered in a civil actiou.
Sec. 399. Such failure to attend as required by the subpoena, shall also
be considered a contempt, and upon due proof, the witness may be pun
ished by a fine not exceeding fifty dollars, and stand committed until said
fine and costs are paid or until discharged by due course of law.
Sec. 400. The court, judge, justice of the peace or other officer, in "
such case, may issue an attachment to bring such witness before them
to answer lor contempt, and also testify as witness in the cause in which
he was subpoenaed.
Sec. 401. If the witness be a prisoner confined in a jail or prison
within this territory, an order for his examination in prison, upon depo
sition, or for his temporary removal and production before a court or
officer, for the purpose of being orally examined, may be issued.
Sec. 402. Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the
nature of the action or proceeding, the- testimony expected from the
witness, and its materiality.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
EXAMINATION OF PARTIES.
Section
403. A party to action mar be examined by adverse
parly.
401. Discovery may be sought, instead of examina
tion on trial.
4*.K>. 01' uuswer to interrogatories filed.
Section
40fi. Filing interrogatories no bar to amination
on trial.
407. Rebuttal of testimony of adverse party.
•108. Refusal of adverse party to answer, "etc., pen
ally; proviso.
Sec. 403. A party to an action or proceeding may be examined as a
witness, at the instance of the adverse party, or of one of several adverse
parties, and for that purpose maybe compelled in the same manner, and
subject to the same rules of examination as any other witness to testify
at the trial, or lie may be examined on a commission.
Sec. 404. Instead of the examination being had at the trial, as pro
vided by the last section, the plaintifff, at the time of filing his complaint
or afterwards, and the defendant, at the time of filing his answer or af
terwards, may file in the clerk's office interrogatories for the discovery
of facts and documents material to the support or defense of the actioD,
to be answered on oath by the adverse party.
Sec. 405. Such interrogatories shall be answered, and such answers
filed in the clerk's office, within twenty days after the same are served
on the party interrogated, unless for cause shown a further time be allow
ed by the court or judge thereof.
Sec. 406. A party to an action having filed interrogatories to be ans
wered by the adverse party, as prescribed by the last two sections, shall
not, thereby be precluded from examining such adverse party as a wit
ness at the trial.
SEC. 407. The testimony of a party, either upon examination at the
trial, or upon interrogatories filed, may be rebutted by adverse testimony.
Sec. 408. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or to
be examined upon a commission, or to answer any interrogatories filed,
his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken out, and judgment tak
en against him, and he may also, in the discretion ot the court, be proceeded
against as in other cases for a contempt: Provided, That the pre
ceding sections thall not be construed so as to compel any person to an
swer any question where such answer may tend to criminate himself.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
DEPOSITIONS.
Section . I Section
409. Testimony can be taken by, when. 418. May be used by either party; exceptions,
410. May tic taken any time after summons served. etc.. form ot taking and corrections by wit411. In territory who can take, notice. ness.
412. Out of territory, who can take.
41?.. Commissions to take, how granted and issued.
414. Notice of taking; requisites.
415. When notice may be served by publication.
416. How taken and certified.
419. Shall not be read, if reason for taking does not
exist.
420. May be read in subsequent action, between
same parties: when. ^^J
4*21. May be used in appellate court.
417. To be sealed and transmitted to proper tribu- 422. Witness may be compelled to appear by offlnal. cer taking.
Sec. 409. The testimony of a witness may be taken by deposition, to
be read in evidence in an action, suit, or proceeding commenced and
pending in any court in this territory in the following cases:
1. When the witness resides out of the sub-district and more than
twenty miles from the place of trial.
2. When the witness is abdut to leave the sub-district, and go more
than twenty miles from the place of trial, and there is a probability
that he will continue absent when the testimony is required.
3. When the witness is sick, infirm or aged so as to make it probable
that he will not be able to attend at the trial.
4. When the witness resides out of the territory.
Sec. 410. Either party may commence taking testimony by deposi
tions at any time after service of summons upon the defendants.
Sec. 411. Either party may have the deposition of a witness taken in
this territory, before any judge of the district court, justice of the peace,
clerk of the supreme or district court, mayor of a city or notary public,
on serving on the adverse party or his attorney previous notice of the
time and place of examination. Such notice shall be at least three days,
and in addition one dry, Sundays excepted, for every ten miles of the
distance from the place of examination to the residence of the person
to whom notice is given.
Sec. 412. Depositions may be taken out of the territory by a judge,
justice or chancellor or clerk of any court of record, a justice of the
peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or town, or
any person authorized by a special commission from any court of this
territory.
Sec. 413. Any court of record in this territory or any judge thereof,
is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions within or with
out this territory. The commission must be issued to a person or per
sons therein named by the clerk under the seal of the court granting the
same, and depositions under it must be taken upon written interrogato
ries, unless the parties otherwise agree, upon notice to the adverse party
as required in section 411.
Sec. 414. Prior to tlie taking of any deposition, unless taken under a
special commission, a written or printed notice specifying the action or
proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to be used,
and the time and place of taking the same, shall be served upon the ad
verse party, his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual place of
abode. The notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse party suffi
cient time, by the usual route of travel to attend, and one day for prep
aration, exclusive of Sundays and the day of service; and the examina
tion may, if so stated in the notice, he adjourned from da}r to day.
Sec. 415. When the party against whom the deposition is to be read
is absent from or a non-resident of the territory, and has no agent or at
torney of record therein, he may be notified oi the taking of the depo
sition by publication. The publication must be made three consecutive
weeks, in some newspaper printed in the couuty where the action or pro
ceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such county, and if not in
some newspaper printed in this territory of general circulation in that
county. The publication must contain all that is required in the writ
ten or printed notice, and may be proved in the manner prescribed in
case of the publication of summons.
Sec. 416. The deposition shall be written by the officr taking the same,
or by the witness, or by some disinterested person in the presence and
under the direction of such officer. When completed it shall be careful
ly read to or by the witness, corrected if desired, and subscribed by him
and certified by the officer substantially as follows:
Terkitory of Washington, \
County of ; j '
I, A. B., justice of the peace in and for said county, (or judge, clerk,
etc., as the case may be,) do hereby certify that the above deposition was
taken before me, and reduced to writing by myself, (or witness as the
case may be,) at , in said county, on the day of , 18 —, at
o'clock, in pursuance of notice hereto annexed; that the above
named witness, before examination, was sworn (or affirmed) to testify
the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and that the said
deposition was carefully read to (or by) said witness, and then subscribed
by him. A. B., (Justice of the Peace.)
Dated at , the day of 18—.
Sec 417. The deposition shall be enclosed in a sealed envelope, by the
officer taking the same, and directed to the clerk of the court, arbitra
tors, referee, or justice of the peace before whom the action is pending,
or to such person as tiie parties in writing may agree upon, and either
delivered to the clerk of the court or other person, or transmitted through
the mail or by some private person.
Sec. 418. Such deposition may be used by either party upon the trial
or other proceeding against any party giving or receiving the notice,
subject to all legal exceptions, to the competency or credibility of the wit
ness, or the manner of taking the deposition. But if the parties attend,
at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory shall be
made at the trial, unless the same was taken at the time of the examin
ation. It shall be the duty of the person taking the deposition to pro
pound to the witness every question proposed by either party, and to
note all objections to the form of any interrogatory, and when any inter
rogatory is objected to on account of form, unless the form is amended
and the objection waived, he shall write after the question and before the
answer the words "objected to," and when any witness declines to answer
a question on the ground that it will criminate himself, that fact shall
also be noted after the question if written down. The deposition may
be taken in the form of a narative, or by question and answer, or partly
in either form, as either party present at the examination shall require.
When taken by question and answer, the officer shall first write down
the question and then the answer, as nearly as may be in the language
of the witness; but when the deposition is read to the witness previous
to signing it, he shall be permitted toamond his answer to any question
or any part of his deposition; such amendment, however, unless both
parties shall otherwise agree, shall not be made by way of interlining or
erasing, but shall be added at the end of the deposition under the title
'■amendment by the witness," and such amendment shall intelligibly
refer to the part so amended.
Sec. 419. No deposition shall be used if it appear that the reason for
taking it no longer exists: Provided, however, That if the party pro
ducing the deposition in such case shall show any sufficient cause then
existing for using such deposition, it may be admitted.
Sec. 420. When the plaintifff" in any action shall discontinue it, or
when it shall be dismissed for any cause, and another action shall after
wards be commenced for the same cause between the same parties, or
their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken in the first
action may be used in the other, in the same manner and subject to the
same conditions and objections as if originally taken for such other
action: Provided, That the deposition shall have been duly filed in the
court where the first action was pending, and shall have remained in the
custody of the court, from the termination of the first action until the
commencement of the other.
SEC. 421. When any action shall have been appealed from one court
to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used in the court below,
may be used in the appellate court, in the same manner and subject to
such exceptions for informality or irregularit}', .and none other, as
were taken in writing to such depositions in the court below.
Sec. 422. Any witness may be subpceued and compelled, by any officer
authorized to take depositions, to appear and give his deposition at any
place within twenty miles of the abode of such witness, in like manner
as he may be subpoened and compelled to attend as a witness in any
court, and he shall suffer the same penalties for a failure to attend as are
prescribed in chapter 37 of this act.
CHAPTER XL.
proceedings to perpetuate testimony.
8«cno!T
433. Testimony, how perpetuated.
424. Proceedings preparatory to ta'cing such testi
mony.
425. Commission, when to Issue.
Sectios
420. Deposition, how taken.
427. To bo filed when returned; and used subject
to logal objection.
Sec. 423. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the testi
mony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting forth
briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest in, or to the subject
concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the names
of all the persons interested or supposed to be interested therein, and
also the name of the witness proposed to be examined, which statement
shall be under oath and filed in the district court. If the subject of the
proposed deposition relate to real estate within this territory, the state
ment shall be filed in the county where the lands, or any part thereof
lie, otherwise in the county where the parties interested, or some of them
reside. Upon such statement an application may be made to such court
or judge thereof, to allow the examination of such witness.
SEC. 424. The court or judge shall appoint a time and place for hear
ing such application, and shall order notice thereof and of the statement,
to he served on all persons mentioned therein as adversely interested
in the matter. The notice shall be served personally on all those living
in the- territory at least twenty days before the time of hearing the ap
plication. Upon those who are not residents of the territory, it shall be
served by publication or otherwise, in the same manner as a n»tice is
served upon a non-resident.
Sec. 425. If upon hearing of the parties or of tlie applicant alone,
should no adverse party appear, the court or judge shall be satisfied
that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, ati order shall
be made allowing the examination of the witness; and such court or
judge may direct a commission to issue therefore, in like manner as a
commission to take the testimony of witnesses as in other cases.
SEC. 426. The deposition of such witness, whether residing in this
territory or not, shall be taken upon written interrogatories filed by the
applicant, and cross interrogatories filed by any party adversely inter
ested, if he shall think fit, and it shall be taken and returned substan
tially in the same manner as if taken upon commission, to be used in
any cause pending in the same court.
Sec. 427. The deposition when returned shall be filed in the office of
the clerk of the court by whom the commission was issued, and if a trial
be had between the person, at whose request the deposition was taken,
and the person named in the statement, or any of them, or their succes
sors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or
his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or settled in
firmity, the deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be used by either
party, subject to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the
examination, no objections to the form of the interrogatory shall be
made at the trial, unless the same were taken at the time of the exam
ination.
CHAPTER XLI.
RECORDS, DOCUMENTS, BOOKS, ETC.
Section
428. Exhibit of document*, etc., to adverse party;
on refusal excluded !is evidence.
429. Instrument may be read without proof of its
genuineness.
430. Records of other courts admies iblc, when.
Sectiox
431. Copies of instruments, when admissible.
432. Of certified copies of official papers.
433. Certificate of residence, etc.. by lnnd officers.
4S4. 01 the validity of official seal.
435. Of printed copies of foreign statutes.
Sec. 428. Any court or judge thereof, in which an action is pending,
may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other within a speci
fied time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any
book, document or paper in his possession, or under his control, contain
ing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defense therein. If
compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book,
document or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evi
dence by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be
such as he alleges it to be, and the court may also punish the party re
fusing as for contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent
a partv from compelling another to produce books, papers or documents
where he is examined as a witness.
Seo. 429. If either party at any time before trial allow the other an
inspection of any writing, material to the action, whether mentioned in
the pleadings or not, and deliver to him a copy thereof, with notice that
he intends to read the same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may
be so read without proof of its genuineness or execution, unless denied
by affidavit before the commencement of the trial. If such denial be
made, of any writing not mentioned in the pleadings, the court may
give time to either party to procure evidence, when necessary for the
furtherance of justice.
Seo. 430. The records and proceedings of any court of the United
States, or any state or territory, shall be admissible in evidence in
ail cases in this territory when duly authenticated by the attesta
tion of the clerk, prothonotary or other officer having charge of the rec
ords of such court, with the seal of such court annexed.
Sec. 431. Whenever any deed, conveyance, bond, mortgage or other
writing, shall have been recorded or filed in pursuance of law, copies of
record of such deed, conveyance, bond or other writing, duly certified by
the officer having the lawful custody thereof, with the seal of the office
annexed, if there be such seal, if there be no such seal, then with the offi
cial certificate of such officer, shall be received in evidence to all intents
and purposes as the originals' themselves.
Seo. 432. Copies of all papers on file in the office of the surveyorgeneral
of Oregon or Washington territory, registers and receivers of
the various land offices in this territory, secretary of Washington terri
tory, territorial treasurer, territorial auditor, territorial superintendent
of common schools, county treasurer, county auditor, or any matter re
corded in either of said offices duly certified by the respective officers
with the respective seals of office annexed, where such officers have an
official seal, shall be admitted in evidence in all courts of the terri
tory.
Sec. 433. Any certificate of residence and cultivation of the public
lands issued by the surveyor-general of Oregon or Washington territory,
or by the register and receiver of either of the land offices therein, or
any certificate, receipt or exemplification of the records of either of said
offices issued to any settler upon, or purchaser of said lands, or in any
way affecting the rights of parties to lands in said territory, issued or
given in pursuauce of law, or as evidence of any matter recorded in
either of said offices, or any copies of maps, plats or diagrams of land
claims of every nature or kind or plats of the public surveys, certified by
either of said officers, shall bo admitted as evidence in all the courts of
this territory. In actions affecting real estate, such certificate shall be
prima facie evidence that the title of the lands mentioned or described
in such receipt is in the person or persons named therein.
Sec. 434. A seal of court or public office, when required to any writ,
process, or proceeding to authenticate a copy of any record or document,
may be affixed by making an impression directly on the paper which shall
be as valid as if made upon a wafer or on wax.
Sec. 435. Printed copies of the statute laws of any state, territory, or
foreign government, if purporting to have been published under the
authority of the respective governments, or if commonly admitted and
read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all courts in this
territory, and on all other occasions as presumptive, evidence of such laws.
CHAPTER XLIL
TO REVERSE, VACATE, OR MODIFY JUDGMENTS IN THE COURTS IN WHICH REN
DERED.'
Seotiun
486. Causes
Sxcrrov
for which district court at next term ' pcllec may.
may vacate or'niodify,
437. Motion lor new trial for after, diHeovered
grounds.
438. Procedure to correct errors of clerk.
439. When and how proceeding under section 436
shall be instituted.
440. Proceedings Mini] conform to practice in origi
nal actions.
441. There mutt be valid defense or cause of ac
tion; lien continued.
442. Vacation of order to be decided before val
idity of defense or cause of action.
443. Injunetum to *ray proceedings maybe granted.
441. Damages on nfhVniJ nee of judgment.'
445. Appellate jurisdiction of supreme court, and
herein of suits in error and appeals.
446. Order* to which appeals or write of error
taken.
447. Supreme court may prescribe rules for allow
ance of appeal* and writs of error.
448. Of mistake of clerk.
449. A correctable order in Inferior court shall not
he reversed.
460. Reversal may take place without motion for
new trial.
451. Findings of court need not be stated In rec
ord; but cou't must try cause, when.
452. Mav issue all writs necessary for appellate jur
isdiction.
Di^missy^.
463. Dismissal Tor failure to assign errors.
464. What shall constitute the record.
463. Appellant to file perfect transcript.
460. Appeal shall not be dismibscd for informal
ity. Amendments.
46T. Appeal shall .not ftay proceedings, except
bond given.
468. Judge may fix bond on refusal of clerk.
469. Sureties on bond may he objected to and
new bond ordered.
470. Stay of proceedings on new bond.
471. Penalty of bond regulated.
472. Apnea! from part of judgment—no stay to
other part.
473. Execution may be countermanded by clerk.
474. Property to he returned to judgment debtor.
475. Supreme court may reverse, affirm or modify.
476. Judgment against sureties on appeal bond.
477. Damages- to he awarded in judgment.
478. Supreme court may remand or enforce judg
ment.
470. Of restitution of property to appellant.
460. Purchaser in good faith not affected by rever
sal df judgment.
481. May enforce mandates on inferior court*.
482. Of petitions for re-hearing.
4b3. Petition for re-hcaring shall contain argu
ment for.
4S4. Clerk to docket causes.
463. When writ of error may he taken; district court ' 4H5. Hearing of causes by court.
4'f:
457.
458.
4r.'.i.
may diiect special verdict, as parties may
agree to judgment In form.
454. One of co-partners may prosecute writ of error.
455. Co-partner refusing to join deprived of ben
efit.
Unless they decline, shall be deemed as
joining.
Partial appeals shall not disturb rights.
Appeal or writ of error, how token.
Appeal only perfected when.
460. when notice of appeal shall he served.
461. On failure to file tranecript, remedy of ap
pellee.
462. Where appellant fails to file transcript ap486. Opinion to be filed with clerk.
487. Remit it iu* to be entered oi record on receipt.
488. Errors need not be assigned in particular
form .
480. All motions to be entered, of notice.
490. Original papers may he produced, if necessary.
491. Action shall not abate by death.
492. Motion of appellee to dismiss.
493. When appeal or writ of error Improperly
taken or prosecuted.
404. Of service of notice In appellate proceedings.
495. Of executions from supreme court.
496. Construction of terms appeal, error, etc
SEC. 486. The district court in which a judgment has been rendered,
or by which, or the judge of which, a final order has been made, shall
have power after the term at which such judgment or order was made,
to vacate or modify such judgment or order:
1. By granting a new trial for the cause, within the time and in the
manner, and for any of the causes presciibed by the sections relating to
new trials.
2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendant served by
publication only as prescribed in section sixty-seven.
3. For mistakes, neglect or omission of the clerk, or irregularity in ob
taining a judgment or order.
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the judg
ment or order.
5. For erroneous proceedings against a minor person of unsound mind,
when the condition of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor
the error in the proceedings.
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the ac
tion.
7. For unavoidable casualty, or misfortune preventing the party from
prosecuting or defending.
8. For error in a judgment shown by a minor, within twelve months
after arriving at full age.
Sec. 437. When the grounds for a new trial could not with reasonable
diligence have been discovered before, but are discovered after the term
at which the verdict, report of referee, or decision was rendered or made,
the application may be made by petition filed as in other cases, not later
than the second term after the discovery, on which notice shall be served and
returned, and the defendant held to appear as in an original- action. The
facts stated in the petition shall be considered as denied without answer.
The case shall be tried as other cases by ordinary proceedings, but no
motion shall be filed more than one year after the final judgment was
rendered.
Sec. 438. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk
or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order, shall be by motion
served on the adverse party, or on his attorney in the action, and within
one year; and when made to vacate a judgment because of irregularity
in obtaining it, must be made on the second day of the succeeding term.
Sec. 439. The proceedings to obtain the benefit of subdivisions four,
five, six, seven and eight of section 436, shall be by petition, verified by,
affidavit, setting forth the judgment or order, the facts or errors con
stituting a cause to vacate or modify it, and the facts constituting a de
fense to the action, if the party applying was a defendant; and such pro
ceedings must be commenced within one year after the judgment or
order was made, unless the party entitled thereto be a minor or person
of nnsound mind, and then within one year from the removal of such
disability.
Sec. 440. In such proceedings the party shall be brought into court in
the same way, on the same notice as to time, mode of service, and mode
of return, and the pleadings shall be governed by the principles, and
issues be made np by the same form, and all the proceedings conducted
in the same way, as near as can be, as in original action by ordinary pro
ceedings, except that defendant shall introduce no new cause, and the
cause of the petition shall alone be tried.
Sec. 441. The judgment shall not be vacated on motion or petition
until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the action in which
the judgment is rendered; or, if the plaintifff seeks its vacation, that
there is a valid cause of action; and when judgment is modified, all
liens and securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the modified
judgment.
Sec. 442. The court may first try and decide upon the grounds to va
cate or modify a judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the
validity of the defense or cause of action.
Sec. 443. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order
may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part
thereof, which injunction may be granted by the court or the judge upon
its being rendered probable, by amdovit or petition sworn to, or by ex
hibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment
or order vacated or modified.
Sec. 444. In all cases of affirmance of the judgment or order, when the
proceedings have been suspended, judgment shall be rendered against the
plaintifff in error for the amount of the former judgment, interest and
costs, together with damages at the discretion of the court, not exceed
ing ten per cent, on the amount of the judgment.
Sec. 445. The supreme court has appellate jurisdiction over all judg
ments and decisions of all other courts of record, as well cases of
civil actions as in proceedings of a special or independent character. —
For the exercise of such appellate jurisdiction, section 1869 of the re
vised statutes of the United States, providing for the allowance of writs
of error, bills of exception and appeals, and tor the exercise of chancery
as well as common law shall govern. Every final judgment, order or de
cision of a district court or judge thereof, in actions at law, as the same
are known and recognized, may be re-examined by writ of error in the suEreme court, for error in law. In such cases the supreme court shall
ear and determine the cause upon the errors assigned in the notice of
the plaintifff in error. The party suing out such writ of error, shall be
called the plaintifff in error and the adverse party shall be called the de
fendant in error. Every final judgment, order, or decision of a district
court, or judge thereof, in actions of an equitable nature, where equita
ble relief is sought, or where chancery jurisdiction has been exercised,
shall be reviewed in the supreme court by appeal. In all such equita
ble causes, the party taking or prosecuting the appeal shall be known as
the appellant; the adverse party the appellee. When both parties ap
peal, the cause shall be docketed as it was in the court below. In suits
of error and appeals, subject always to the distinction herein recognized,
the practice shall be as hereinafter prescribed.
Sec. 446. An appeal or writ of error may also be taken to the su
preme court from the following orders:
1. An order made affecting a substantial right in an action, when such
order, in effect, determines the action and prevents a judgment from
which an appeal might be taken.
2. A final order made in special proceedings affecting a substantial
right therein, or made on a summary application in an action after judg
ment.
3. "When an order grants or refuses, continues, or modifies a provis
ional remedy; or grants, refuses, dissolves, or refuses to dissolve an in
junction or attachment; when it grants or refuses a new trial, or when
it sustains or overrules a demurrer.
4. An intermediate order involving the merits and materially affect
ing the final decision.
5. An order or judgment on habeas corpus. If any of the above or
ders are made by a judge, the same is recorded in the same way as if
made by a court.
Sec. 447. The court may also, in its discretion, prescribe rules for
allowing appeals or writs of error on such other intermediate orders or
decisions as is deemed expedient, and for permitting the same to be
taken and tried during the progress of the trial in the court below; but
such intermediate appeals- or writs must not retard proceedings in the
court from which the appeal is taken.
SEC. 448. A mistake of the clerk shall not be ground for an appeal or
writ of error, until the same has been presented and acted upon by the
court below.
Sec. 449. A judgment or order shall not be reversed for an error
which can be corrected on motion in an inferior court, until such motion
has been made and overruled.
Sec. 450. The supreme court may review and reverse on appeal, or
writ of error, any judgment or order of the district court, although no
motion for a new trial was made in such court.
Sec. 451. When a cause is tried by the court, it shall not be necessary
in order to secure a review of the same in the supreme court, that there
should have been any finding of facts or conclusions of law stated in the
record; but the supreme court shall hear and determine the same when
ever it shall appear from a certificate of the judge, agreement of parties,
or their attorneys, or, in case the evidence consists wholly of written tes
timony, from the certificate of the clerk, that the transcript contains all
the evidence introduced by the parties on the trial in the court below.
Seo. 452. The court may issue all writs and process necessary for the
exercise and enforcement of its appellate jurisdiction.
Sec. 543. Appeals and writs of error from the district court may be
taken to the supreme court at any time within six months from the ren
dition of the judgment or order appealed from, or complained of, and
not afterward. But nothing herein contained shall prevent the district
judge who tried tlie cause, to make certificate that the cause involves the
determination of a question of law, upon which it is desirable to have
the opinion of the supreme court. In such cases said judge may direct
a special verdict to be found, and in all cases the parties may make an
agreed statement of facts, signed by themselves or their attorneys,
which shall be entered of record, which shall have the effect of a special
verdict, and may under the direction of the judge of the district court,
be taken to the supreme court, and for that purpose the district court
shall render a judgment in form only, which shall not be executed until
the final decision of the cause. The supreme court, on hearing such cases,
may give judgment or remand the cause for further proceedings in the
district court.
Sec. 454. A part of several co-parties may appeal or prosecute a writ
of error; but in such case they must serve notice thereof upon all the
other co-parties and file the proof thereof with the clerk of the supreme
court.
Stx. 455. If the other co-parties refuse to join, they cannot nor can
any of them, take an appeal or writ of error afterwards; nor shall they
derive any benefit from the appeal, or suit in error unless from the
necessity of the case.
SEC. 450. Unless they appear and decline to join, they shall be deemed
to have joined and shall be liable for their due proportion of costs.
Sec. 457. An appeal or writ of error from part of an order, or from
one of the judgments of a final adjudication, or from part of a judg
ment, shall not disturb or delay the rights of any party to any judgment
or part of any judgment, or order not appealed from, but the same shall
proceed as if no such appeal had been made."
Sue. 458. An appeal, or writ ot error is taken by filing with the clerk
of the court in which the judgment or order appealed from is entered
a notice, stating the appeal from the same, or some specific part thereof,
and serving a copy of said notice on the adverse party or his attorney.
Every notice of appeal or writ of error must be signed by the party
taking the same, or his attorney of record, and must contain the title of
the district court in which the proceedings sought to reviewed were had;
the title of the cause as in the district court; a particular description of
the judgment, decree or order sought to be reviewed; and, in case of
appeal, a particular description of every decision, ruling, order or decree
by which the appellant claims to have been aggrieved and which he
relies upon as ground for a reversal or modification of the judgment,
order or decree; and in case of a writ of error, a particular description
of the errors assigned.
SEC. 459. An appeal shall not be perfected until the notice thereof
has been served upon the adverse party, or his attorney of record. Upon
payment ot his fees, the clerk shall forthwith transmit by mad, express,
or messenger, not a party, nor the attorney of a party, a transcript of
the record in the cause, or so much thereof as the appellant, or plaintifff
in error, in writing, in the notice has directed, to which shall be appended
copies of the notice of appeal, and the supersedeas bond, if any.
Sec. 400. The notice of appeal or suit in error, must be served at least
thirty days, and the cause filed and docketed at least fifteen days before
the first day of the next term of the supreme court, or the same shall
not then be tried unless by consent of parties. If the appeal or writ of
error is taken less than thirty days before the term, it must be so filed
and docketed, before the next succeeding term.
Sec. 461. If the appellant fails to file a transcript, and have the cause
docketed, as provided in the preceding section, the appellee or defendant
in error may file a certified copy of the judgment or order appealed from,
and of the notice served, and, on motion, have the appeal, or suit in er
ror dismissed, or the judgment or order appealed from affirmed: Provkled,
That when the failure to file the transcript is owing to the fault or
omission of the clerk of either the appellate or inferior court, or other
circumstance, over which the appellant has no control, the court shall
not dismiss the cause, but shall fix such time for hearing the same, as
will insure a fair trial.
Sec. 462. If the transcript has been sent up, but the appellant or plain
tiff in error does not file the same when the same should be filed, as
herein provided, the appellee or defendant in error may file the same,
and may, on motion, have the appeal dismissed or judgment affirmed,
as the court from the circumstances of the case shall determine.
Sec. 463. If the transcript has been sent up, and errors have not been
assigned in the notice as hereinbefore required, the appellee or defend
ant in error may have the appeal or writ of error dismissed or the judg
ment or order affirmed, unless good cause for the failure be shown by
affidavit.
Sec. 464. In an action by ordinary proceedings, and in an action by
equitable proceedings, tried in whole or in part on oral testimony, all
proper entries made by the clerk, and all papers pertaining to the cause
and filed therein, except subpoenas, depositions, and other papers which
are used as mere evidence, are to be deemed part of the record. But in
an action by equitable proceedings, tried upon written testimony, the
depositions and all papers which were used as evidence, are to be certi
fied up to the supreme court, and shall be so certified, not by transcript,
but in the original form. But a transcript of a motion, affidavit or
other paper, when it relates to a collateral matter, shall not be certified
unless by direction of the appellant. If so certified, when not material
to the determination of the appeal or writ of error, the court may direct
the person blameable therefore to pay the costs thereof.
Sec. 465. The appellant or plaintifff in error shall file a perfect trans
cript, and to that end the clerk of the court below must, at any time on
his suggestion of the diminution of the record and on the payment of
fees, certify up any omitted part of the record, according to the truth, as
the same appears of record in his office; and such appellant shall not be
entitled to any continuance in order to correct the record, unless it shall
clearly appear to the court that he is not in fault. Subject to which re
quirement, either party may, on motion before trial day, obtain an order
on the clerk below, commanding him to transmit at once to the supreme
court a true copy of such imperfect or omitted part of the record as shall
be in general terms described in the affidavit or order. Such motion
must be supported by affidavit, unless the diminution be apparent or ad
mitted by the adverse party, and must not be granted unless the court
is satisfied that it is not made for delay.
Sec. 466. An appeal or writ of error shall not be dismissed for any
informality or defect in the notice or the service thereof, if from the
transcript it can be reasonably understood that the adverse party has had
sufficient notice of the pendency of the suit in error or appeal, and the
notice recites the errors alleged or the order or judgment complained of
with such certainty, that his substantial right would not be prejudiced
bv the hearing of the -cause. And the supreme court shall, upon reason
able terms, allow all amendment's in matters of form, curative of such
defects, to the end that substantial justice be secured to the parties.
SEC. 467. An appeal or writ of error shall not stay proceedings on the
judgment or order or any part thereof, unless the appellant shall cause
to be executed before the clerk of the court which rendered the judg
ment or order, a bond witli one or more sureties to be approved by the
clerk, to the effect that the appellant or plaintifff in error shall pay to the
appellee or defendant in error all costs and damages that shall be adjudg
ed against the appellant on the appeal; also that lie will satisfy and per
form the judgment or order appealed from, in case it shall be affirmed,
and any judgment or order which the supreme court may render, or or
der to be rendered by the inferior court, not exceeding in amount or value
the original judgment or order, and all rents or damages to property
during the pendency of the appeal, out of the possession of which the
appellee is kept hy reason of the appeal. If the bond is intended to
stay proceedings on only a part of the judgment or order, it shall he
varied so as to secure the part staved alone. When such bond has been ap
proved by the clerk, and filed, he shall issue a written order command
ing the appellee and all others to stay proceedings on such judgment or
order, or on such part as is superseded as the case may be. No appeal
or stay shall vacate or affect the judgment not appealed from.
Sec. 468. In cases wherein the "appellant or plaintifff in error has per
fected his appeal or writ of error to the supreme court, and the clerk of
the district court has unjustly refused to approve the appeal bond offered,
or makes the penalty therein too large, or the conditions thereof unjust,
the appellant may move the supreme court if in session, or in its vaca
tion a judge thereof, on giving to the appellee such written notice as the
court or judge thereof may prescribe, to determine the conditions, fix
the penalty, and approve the appeal bond. The motion, verified by the
affidavit of the appellant or plaintifff in error, or his attorney, shall con
tain a brief statement of the nature of the action in which the appeal
or writ of error was taken, of the judgment or order appealed from, of
the steps taken by the appellant or plaintifff in error with reference to his
appeal, and of his giving, or offering to give, an appeal bond, of the ac
tion of the clerk of the court below, with reference to such "bond, and
wherein he has acted wrongfully; and if the supreme court, or any judge
thereof, considers that the clerk has made unjust conditions in the bond,
or the penalty thereof too high, or has wrongfully refused to approve the
same, such court or judge shall issue an order prescribing the conditions
of the appeal bond, fixing the penalty thereof and either approve it or
direct the clerk of the supreme court so to do, which bond shall be filed
with the officer last named. The supreme court, or judge thereof, may
order that all or any part of the papers and records in the cause appeal
ed, or certified copies thereof, be produced on the hearing of such motion,
and pending the disposition thereof, may make an order staying the en
forcement of the judgment or order appealed from, and on such terms
as are just. The order, if made by the judge, shall be in writing and
signed by him, and upon the service thereof, or of a certified copy, when
made in court, upon the clerk of the court below, all proceedings in the
court appealed from shall be staved, and all orders, all processes, execu
tions, or other papers issued therefrom shall be recalled, and the appell
ant or plaintifff in error be placed in the same condition that he was when
the judgment or order appealed from was made or rendered.
Sec. 469. If the appellee or defendant in error believe the bond defec
tive, or the sureties insufficient, he may move the supreme court, if in
session, or in its vacation, on ten days' written notice to the appellant,
may move any judge of said court to discharge the bond, and if the court
or such judge shall consider the sureties insufficient, or the bond sub
stantially defective in securing the rights of the appellee, the court or
such judge shall issue an order discharging such bond, unless a good bond
with sufficient sureties, be executed before a day by him fixed. The or
der, if made by a judge, shall be in writing and signed by him; and upon
his filing, or the filing of a certified copy of the order, when made in
court, in the office of the clerk of the inferior court, execution and other
proceedings for enforcing the judgment or order may be taken if a new
and good bond is not filed and approved by the day as aforesaid.
Sec. 470. But another order staying proceedings may be issued by the
clerk, upon execution before him, of a new and lawful bond with sufficiient
sureties as hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 471. If the judgment or order is for the payment of money, the
fenalty shall be in at least twice the amount of the judgment and costs,
f not for the payment of money the penalty shall be sufficient to save
the appellee or defendant in error harmless from the consequences of
taking the appeal or writ of error. But it shall in no case be less than
one hundred dollars.
Sec. 472. The taking of the appeal from a part of a judgment or or
der, and the filing of a bond as above directed, does not cause a stay of
execution as to any part of the judgment or order not appealed from.
Sec. 473. If execution has issued prior to the filing of the bond above
contemplated, the clerk shall countermand the same.
Sec. 474. Property levied upon and not sold at the time such counter
mand is received by the sheriff, shall forthwith be delivered up to the
judgment debtor.
Sec. 475. The supreme court may reverse, affirm or modify the judg
ment or order below, or the part of either appealed from, or may render
such judgment or order as the inferior court or judge should have done,
according as it may think it proper.
Sec. 476. The supreme court, when it affirms the judgment, shall also,
if the appellee or defendant in error moves therefore, render judgment
against the appellant or plaintifff in error and his sureties on the bond
above mentioned for the amount of the judgment, damages and costs re
ferred to therein, in case such damages can be accurately known to the
court without an issue and trial.
Sec. 477. Upon the confirmance of any judgment or order for the pay
ment of money, the collection of which, in whole or in part has been su
perseded by bond as above contemplated, the court shall award to the
appellee, or defendant in error, damages upon the amount superseded;
and, if satisfied by the record that the appeal or writ of error was taken
for delay only, must award such sum as damages, not exceeding fifteen
per cent, thereon, as shall effectually tend to prevent the taking of ap
peals or writs of error for delay only.
Sec. 478. If the supreme court affirm or modify the judgment or or
der, it may send the cause to the court below to have the same carried
into effect, or it may itself issue the necessary process for this purpose,
and direct such process to the sheriff of the proper county as the party
may require.
Sec. 479. If, by the decision of the supreme court, the appellant or
plaintifff in error becomes entitled to a restoration of any part of the
monev or property that was taken from him, by means of such judgment
or order, either the supreme court, or the court below, may direct execu
tion or writ of restitution to issue for the purpose of restoring to such
appellant or plaintifff in error, his property or the value thereof.
Sec. 480. Property acquired by a purchaser in good faith, under a
judgment subsequently reversed, shall not be affected by such reversal.
Sec. 481. The supreme court shall have power to enforce its mandates
upon inferior courts and officers by fine and* imprisonment, which
imprisonment may be continued until obeyed.
Sec. 482. If a petition for rehearing be filed, the same shall suspend
the decisions of the court on its presentation, or one of the judges, if in
vacation, shall so order, in either of which case such decision shall be
suspended until the next term.
Sec. 483. The petition for rehearing shall be the argument of the
applicant therefore, and if the court think that such argument requires a
reply, it shall so indicate to the other party and he may make reply
within such time as said court shall allow, and with a view to -a rehear
ing the court may extend the suspension of proceeding yet farther, if
need be.
Sec. 484. The clerk shall docket the causes as the same are filed in his
office, and shall arrange and set a proper number for trial each day of
the term, placing together those from the same judicial district, and
shall cause notice of the manner he has set such causes to be published
and distributed in such manner as the court may direct.
SEC. 485. The court shall hear all the causes docketed, when not con
tinued by consent, or for cause shown by the party, and the party may
be heard orally or otherwise, in his discretion.
Sec. 486. No cause is decided until the opinion in writing is filed with
the clerk.
Sec. 487. If remanded to the inferior court to be carried into effect,
such decision and the order of the court thereon, being certified thereto
and entered on the records of the court, shall have the same force and
effect as if made and entered during the session of the court in that dis
trict.
Sec. 488. An assignment of error need follow no stated form, but
must in a way as specific as the case will allow, point out the very error
objected to; among several points in a demurrer, or in a motion, or instruc
tions, or rulings in an exception, it must designate which is relied on as
an error; and the court will only regard errors which are assigned with
the required exactness; but the court must decide on each error assigned.
Sec. 489. All motions must be entered in the motion book, and shall
stand over till the next morning after the morning on which entered;
and till after having been publicly called by the court, unless the parties
otherwise agree, and the adverse party shall be deemed to have notice of
motion.
Sec. 490. When a review of an original paper in the action may be
important to a correct decision of the appeal, or writ of error, the court
may order the clerk of the court below to transmit the same, which he
shall do in some safe mode to the clerk of the supreme court, who shall
hold the same subject to the control of the court.
Sec. 491. The death of one or all of the parties shall not cause the pro
ceedings to abate, but the names of the proper persons shall be substi
tuted, as is provided in such cases in the district court, and the case may
proceed. The court may also, in such case, grant a continuance when
6uch a course will be calculated to promote the ends of justice.
SEC. 492. When an appellant, or plaintifff in error has no right, or
fuither right to prosecute the appeal or writs of error, the appellee or
defendants in error may move to dismiss; and if the grounds of the mo
tion do not appear in the record, or by writing purporting to have been
signed by the appellant or plaintifff in error and filed, they must be veri
fied by affidavit.
Sec. 493. The appellee or defendant in error ma}', by answer filed and
verified by himself, agent or attorney, plead any facts which render the
taking of the appeal or writ of error improper, or destroy the right of
appellant or plaintifff in error further prosecuting the same, to which
answer the appellant or plaintifff in error may file a reply, likewise ver
ified by himself, his agent or attorney, and the questions of law or fact
therein shall be determined by the court.
Sec. 494. The service of all notices of appeal or writs of error, or in
any way growing out of such rights, or connected therewith, and all no
tices in the supreme court, shall be in the way provided for the services
of like, notices in the district court, and they may be served by the same
person and returned in the same manner; and the original notice of the
appeal or writ of error must be returned immediately after service to
the office of the clerk of the district court where the suit is pending.
Sec. 495. Executions issued from the supreme court shall be the same
as those from the district court and attend with the same consequences,
and shall be returnable in the same time. ■
Sec. 496. Whenever, in the foregoing chapter the words appeal, appel
lant or appellee, are used, they shall be construed when so required and
applicable to law proceedings as contradistinguished from equitable ac
tions, as suit in error, plaintifff in error or defendant in error.
SECTION
4!*7. When set -off may he made.
498. Set-off when plaintifff is a trustee.
CHAPTER XLTII.
499. In actions by executors and administrators,
of demand against testators and intestates.
500. Balance found for defendant.
SET-OFF.
Section
501. Set-offs by executors, trustees, «fcc, sued.
502. Must be set forth in answer.
503. When set-off equal or less than plaintifff's
demand.
504. Judgment against plaintifff.
Sec. 497. The defendant in a civil action upon a contract expressed or
implied, may set off any demand of a like nature against the plaintifff in
interest, which existed and belonged to him at the time of the com
mencement of the suit. And in all such actions, other than upon a ne
gotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, negotiated in good faith
and without notice before due, which has been assigned to the plaintifff,
he may also set off a demand of a like nature existing against the person
to whom he was originally liable, or any assignee pnor to the plaintifff,
of such contract, provided such demand existed at the time of the assign
ment thereof, and belonging to the defendant in good faith, before
notice of such assignment, and was such a demand as might have been
set off against such person to whom he was originally liable, or such
assignee .while the contract belonged to him.
Sec. 498. If the plaintifff be a trustee to any other, or if the action be
in a name of the plaintifff who has no real interest in the contract upon
which the action is founded, so much of a demand existing against those
whom the plaintifff represents or for whose benefit the action is brought,
may be set off as will satisfy the plaintifff's debt, if the same might
have been set off in an action brought by those beneficially interested.
Sec. 490. In actions brought by executors and administrators, de
mands against their testators and intestates, and belonging to defendant
at the time of their death, may be set off by the defendant in the same
manner as if the action had been brought by and in the name of the de
ceased.
Sec. 500. When a set off shall be established in an action brought by
executors or administrators, and a balance found due to the defendant,
the judgment rendered thereon against the plaintifff shall have the same
effect as if the action had been originally commenced by the defendant.
Sec. 501. In actions against executors and administrators and against
trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the defend
ants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestates or
those whom they represent, in the same manner as the person so repre
sented would have been entitled to set-off the same, in an action against
them.
Sec. 502. To entitle a defendant to a set-off he must set the same
forth in his answer.
Sec. 503. If the amount of the set-off, duly established, be equal to
the plaintifff's debt or demand, judgment shall be rendered that the
plaintifff take nothing by his action; if it be less than the plaintifff's debt
or demand, the plaintifff shall have judgment for the residue only.
Sec. 504. If there be found a balance due from the plaintifff in the
action to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the de
fendant for the amount thereof, but no such judgment shall be rendered
against the plaintifff when the contract, which is the subject of the
action, shall have been assigned before the commencement of such action,
nor for any balance due from any other person than the plaintifff in the
action.
CHAPTER XLIV.
COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section
605. Compensation of attorney, costs.
50ti. Shall be allowed to successful party.
GO". Plaintiff when not entitled to costs.
608. Plaintiff entitled to no more costs than
damages, when.
609. Costs when several actions on one instru
ment, etc.
510. When defendant entitled to.
511. To one or more of several defendants.
612. Amount of costs allowed.
513. Necessary disbursements in addition to.
514. Referee's fees.
515. In postponement of trial.
Section
51(i. Where tender is made.
517 Plaintiff refusing to receive deposit.
518. In appeals from justice of peace.
519. Guardian, when responsible for.
5'i0. Against executors, etc.
521. Against assignee.
522. Against territory or county.
523. Ou appeal from inferior court.
524. Costs of appeal to supreme court.
525. If allowed, apportionment thereof.
52ti. Relaxation of.
527. Security for may be required of
dent and plaintifff.
Sec. 505. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors, shall be left to the agreement, expressed or implied, of the
parties, but there 6hall be allowed to the prevailing party upon the judg
ment certain sums by way of indemnity for his expenses in the action,
which allowances are termed costs.
Sec. 506. Costs shall be allowed the party in whose favor the judgment
is rendered, except as is otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 507. The plaintifff shall not be entitled to costs in actions within
the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, which shall be commenced in
the district court. The amount claimed shall be the test of jurisdiction.
Sec. 508. In an action for an assault and battery, or" for false imprison
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or
seduction, if the -plaintifff recover less than ten dollars, he shall be entitled to no more costs or disbursements than the damage recovered.
Sec. 509. When several actions are broHghl on one bond, undertak
ing, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in writing,
or in any other case for the same cause of action against several parties,
who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs or
disbursements shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than one of such
actions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded against in
the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous action,
openly within this territory.
Sec. 510. In all cases where costs and disbursements are not allowed
to the plaintifff, the defendant shall be entitled to have judgment in his
favor for the same.
Sec. 511. In all actions where there are several defendants not united
in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers, and the
plaintifff fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award costs
to such defendants as recover judgments in their favor, or either of them.
Sec. 512. When allowed to either party, costs to be called the attorney
fee, shall be as follows:
1. In all actions settled before issue is ioined, five dollars.
2. In all actions where judgment is rendered without a jury, ten dollars.
3. In all actions where judgment is rendered after irapanneling a jury,
fifteen dollars.
4. In all actions removed to the supreme court and settled before
argument, ten dollars.
5. In all actions where judgment is rendered in the supreme court,
after argument, fifteen dollars.
Sec. 513. The prevailing party, in addition to allowance for costs, as
provided in the last section, shall also be allowed for all necessary dis
bursements, including the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of
witnesses, the necessary expenses of taking depositions, by commission
or otherwise, and the compensation of referees. The disbursement shall
be stated in detail and verified by affidavit, which shall be filed with the
clerk of the court, within ten days after the judgment.
Sec. 514. The fees of referees shall be five dollars to each, for every
day necessarily spent in the business of the reference and twenty cents
per folio for writing testimony; but the parties may agree in writing
upon an}' rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate shall be allowed.
Sec. 515. When an application shall be made to a court or referees to
postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceed
ing ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the con
dition of granting the postponement.
Ski;. 516. When in an action for the recovery of money, the defendant
alleges in his answer, that, before the commencement of the action, he
tendered to the plaintifff the full amount to which he is entitled, in
such money as by agreement ought to be tendered, and thereupon brings
into court, for the plaintifff, the amount tendered, and the allegation be
found true, the plaintifff shall not recover costs, but shall pay them to
the defendant.
f Sec. 517. If the defendant in any action pending, shall at any time
deposit with the clerk of the court, for the plaintifff, the amount which
he admits to he due, together with all costs that have accrued, and notify
the plaintifff' thereof, and such plaintifff shall refuse to accept the same in
discharge of the action, and»shall not afterwards recover a larger amount
than that deposited with the clerk, exclnsive of interest and cost, he
shall pay all costs that may accrue from the time such money was so de
posited.
Sec. 518. In all civil actions tried before a justice of the peace, in
which an appeal shall be taken to the district court, and the party appellant
shall not recover a more favorable judgment in the district court than
before the justice of the peace, such appellant shall pay ali costs.
Seo. 519. When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff, the
guardian or person by whom he appeared in the action shall be respons
ible therefore, and payment may be enforced by execution.
Sec. 520. In action prosecuted or defended by an executor, adminis
trator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, costs shall be recovered as in an action by or against a person
prosecuting in his own right, but such costs shall be chargeable only
upon or collected of the estate of the party represented, unless the court
shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant personally,
for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defense.
Sec. 521. When the cause of action, after the commencement of the
action, by assignment, or in any other manner, becomes the property of
a person not a party thereto, and the prosecution or defense is thereafter
continued, such person shall be liable to the costs in the same manner
as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by execution.
Sec. 522. In all actions prosecuted in the name and for the use of
the territory, or in the name and for the use of any county, the territory
or county shall be liable for costs in the same case and to the same
extent as private parties.
Sec. 523. When the decision of a court of inferior jurisdiction, in an
action or special proceeding, is brought before the supreme court or a
district court for review, such proceedings shall, for purpose of costs,
be deemed an action at issue upon a question of law, from the time the
same is brought into the supreme court or district court, and costs there
on may be awarded and collected in such manner as the court shall di
rect, according to the nature of the case.
Sec. 52-t. In the following cases the costs of an appeal to the supreme
court shall be in the discretion of the court:
1. When a new trial shall be ordered.
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part.
Sec. 525. In all actions and proceedings other than those mentioned
in this chapter, where no provision is made for the recovery of costs,
they may be allowed or not, and if allowed may be apportioned between
the parties, in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 526. Any party aggrieved by the taxation of costs by the clerk
of the court may, upon application, have the same re- taxed by the court
in which the action or proceeding is had.
Sec. 527. When a plaintifff in an action resides out of the district or
county, or is a foreign corporation, security for the costs and charges
which may be awarded against such plaintifff may be required by the de
fendant. When required, all proceedings in the action shall be stayed until
a bond, executed by two or more persons, be filed with the clerk, con
ditioned that they will pay such costs and charges as may be awarded
against the plaintifff by judgment or in the progress of the action, not
exceeding the sum of two hundred dollars. A new or additional bond
may be ordered by the court or judge, upon proof that the original
bond is insufficient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until
such new or additional bond be executed and filed. The plaintifff may
deposit with the clerk the sum of two hundred dollars in lieu of a bond.
CHAPTER XLV.
OF COMMISSIONERS TO CONVEY REAL ESTATE.
Section
528. District court, may appoint, when.
529. Deed of commissioner niust refer to judg
ment of court.
530. What title passes by such conveyance.
531. On sale ordered "by the court, what title
passes.
Section
9:12. Conveyance must be examined and ap
proved by court.
533. Signature 'of commissioner sufficient.
534. Conveyance, in what office to be recorded.
535. Court "may enforce judgment to execute a
conveyance of real estate.
Sec. 52S. The several district courts may, whenever it is necessary,
appoint a com missioner to convey real estate:
1. When by a judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey
real property to another, or any interest therein.
2. When real property, or any interest therein, has been sold under a
special order of the court and the purchase money paid therefore.
Sec. 529. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judg
ment authorizing the conveyance, that the same may be readily found,
but need not recite the record in the case generally.
Sec. 530. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass
to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land.
Sec. 531. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the
court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action or
proceeding.
Sec. 532. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass any right
until it has been examined and approved by the court, which approval
shall be endorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it.
Sec. 533. It shall be sufficient for the conveyance to be signed by the
commissioner only, without affixing the name of the parties whose title
is conveyed", but the names of the parties shall be recited in the body of
the conveyance.
Sec. 534. The conveyance shall be recorded in the office in which by
law it should have been recorded had it been made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.
Sec. 535. In case of a judgment to compel a party to execute a con
veyance of real estate, the court may enforce the judgment by attach
ment or sequestration, or appoint a commissioner to make the convey
ance.
Sec. 536. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in real prop
erty and a right to the possession thereof, may recover the same by
action in the district court of the proper county, to be brought against
the tenant in possession; if there is no such tenant, then against the
person claiming the title or some interest therein.
Sec. 537. A defendant who is in actual possession may, for answer,
plead that he is in possession only as a tenant of another, naming him
and his place ot residence, and thereupon the landlord, if he apply there
for, shall be made defendant in place of the tenant, and the action shall
proceed in all respects as if originally commenced against him. If the
landlord do not apply to be made defendant within the time the tenant
is allowed to answer, thereafter he shall not be allowed to, but he shall
be made defendant if the plaintifff require it. If the landlord be made
defendant on motion of the plaintifff he shall be required to appear and
answer within ten days from notice of the pendency of tlie action and
the order making him defendant, or such further notice as the court or
judge thereof may prescribe.
Sec. 538. The plaintifff in such action shall set forth in his complaint
the nature of his estate, claim or title to the property, and the defendant
may set up a legal or equitable defense to plaintifff's claims; and the
superior title, whether legal or equitable, shall prevail. The property
shall be described with such certainty as to enable the possession thereof
to be delivered if a recovery be had
Sec
estate in himself or another in the property, or any license or rijrht to
the possession thereof unless the same be pleaded in his answer. If so
pleaded, the nature and duration of such estate, or license or right to the
possession, shall be set forth with the certainty and particularity required
in a complaint. If the defendant does not defend for the whole of the
property, he shall specify for what particular part he does defend. In an
action against a tenant, the judgment shall be conclusive against a land
lord who has been made defendant in place of the tenant, to the same
extent as if the action had been originally commenced against him.
539. The defendant shall not be allowed to give in evidence any
Sec. 540. The jury by their verdict shall find as follows:
1. If the verdict be for the plaintifff, that he is entitled to the posses
sion of the property described in the complaint, or some part thereof, or
some undivided share or interest in either, and the nature and duration
of his estate in such property, part thereof, or undivided share or interest,
in either, as the case may be.
2. If the verdict be for the defendant, that the plaintifff is not entitled
to the possession of the property described in the complaint, or to such part thereof as the defendant defends for, and the estate in such property
or part thereof, or license, or right to the possession of either established
on the trial by the defendant, if any, in effect as the same is required to
be pleaded.
Sec. 541. The plaintifff shall only be entitled to recover damages for
withholding the property for the term of six years next preceding the
commencement of the action, and for any period that may elapse from
snch commencement, to the time of giving a verdict therein, exclusive
of the use of permanent improvements made by the defendant. When
permanent improvements have been made upon the property by the
defendant, or those under whom he claims holding under color of title
adversely to the claim of the plaintifff, in good faith, the value thereof at
the time of trial shall be allowed as a set-off against such damages.
Sec. 542. If the right of the plaintifff to the possession of the prop
erty expire, after the commencement of the action and before the trial,
the verdict shall be given according to the fact, and judgment shall be
given only for the damages.
Sec. 543. The court or judge thereof, on motion, and after notice to
the adverse party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing the
party applying therefore to enter upon the property in controversy and
make survey and admeasurement thereof, for the purposes of the action.
Sec. 544. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served upon the defendant, and thereupon the party may enter
upon the property and make such survey and admeasurement; but if
any unnecessary injury be done to the premises, he shall be liable therefore.
Sec. 545. An action for the recovery of the possession of real property
against a person in possession, cannot be prejudiced by any alienation
made by such person either before or after the commencement of the
action; but if such alienation be made after the commencement of the
action, and the defendant do not satisfy the judgment recovered for dam
ages for withholding the possession, such damages may be recovered by
action against the purchaser.
Sec. 546. A mortgage <>f real property shall not be deemed a convey
ance so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of
the real property, without a foreclosure and sale according to law.
Sec. 547. In an action by a tenant in common, or a joint tenant of
real property against, his co-tenant, the plaintifff must show, in addition
to his evidence of right, that the defendant either denied the plaintifffs
right or did some act amounting to such denial.
Sec 548. When in the case of a lease of real property and the failure ot
tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting right to re-enter for
such failure; he may bring an action to recover the possession ot such
property, and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a
re-entry upon the property. But if at any time before the judgment
in snch action, the lessee or his successor in interest as to the whole or a part of the property, pay to the plaintifff, or bring into court the amount
of rent then in arrear, with interest and cost of action, and perform
the other covenants or agreements on the part of the lessee, he shall be
entitled to continue in the possession according to the terms of the lease.
Sec. 549. In an action to recover the possession of real property, the
judgment therein shall be conclusive as to the estate in such property and
the right to the possession thereof, so far as the same is thereby deter
mined, upon the party against whom the same is given, and against all
persons claiming from, through or under such party after the commence
ment of such action, except as in this section provided. When service
of the notice is made by publication, and judgment is given for failure
to answer, at any time within two years from the entry thereof, the
defendant or his successor in interest as to the whole or any part of the
property, shall, upon application to the court or judge thereof, be entitled
to an order vacating the judgment and granting him a new trial, upon
the payment of the costs of the action.
Sec. 550. If the plaintifff has taken possession of the property before
the judgment is set aside and a new trial granted, as provided in the
preceding section, such possession shall not be thereby affected in any
way; and if judgment be given for defendant in the new trial, he shall
be entitled tu restitution by execution in the same manner as if he were
plaintifff.
CHAPTER XLYII.
Sec. 551. In an action at law, for the recovery of the possession of
real property, if either party claim the property as a donee of the
United States, and under the act of congress approved September 27th,
1S50, commonly called the "Donation law," or the acts amendatory
thereof, such party, from the date of his settlement thereon, as pro
vided in said act, shall be deemed to have a legal estate in fee, in such
property, to continue upon condition that he perform the conditions re
quired by such acts, which estate is unconditional and indcfeasable after
the performance of such conditions. In such action, if both plaintifff
and defendant claim title to the same real property, by virtue of settle
ment, under such acts, such settlement and performance of the subse
quent condition shall be prima facie presumed in favor of the party hav
ing or claiming under the elder certificate, or patent, as the case may be,
unless it appears upon the face of such certificate or patent that the same
is absolutely void. Any person in possession, by himself or his tenant,
of real property, and any private or municipal corporation in possession
by itself or its tenant of any real property, or when such real property is
not in the actual possession of any one, any person or private or municipal
corporation claiming title to any real property under a patent from the
United States, or during his or its claim of title to such real property
under a patent from the United States for such real estate, may main
tain a civil action against any person or persons, corporations or associa
tions claiming an interest in said real property or any part thereof, or
or any right thereto adverse to him, them, or it, for the purpose of de
termining such claim, estate, or interest; and where several persons, or
private or municipal corporations are iti possession of, or claim as afore
said, separate parcels of real property, and an adverse interest is claimed
oi claim made in or to any such parcels, by any other person, persons,
corporations or associations, arising out of a question, conveyance,
statute, grant, or other matter common to all such parcels of real estate,
all or any portion of such persons or corporations so in possession, or claim
ing such parcel of real property may unite as plaintifffs in such suit to
determine such adverse claim or interest against all persons, corporations,
or associations claiming such adverse interest.
Sec. 552. When several persons hold and are in possession of real
property as tenants in common, in which one r>r more of them have an
estate of inheritance, or for life or years, an action may be maintained
by one or more of such persons, for a partition thereof, according to the
respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for sale- of such
'property, or a part of it, if it appear that a partition cannot be made
without great prejudice to the owners.
Sec. 553. The interest of all persons in the property shall be set forfh
in the complaint specifically and particularly as far as known to the
plaintifff, and if one or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of
interest, of any of the parties be unknown to the plaintifff, or be uncer
tain or contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend upon an
executory devise, or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that
such parties cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the com
plaint.
Sec. 554. The plaintifff may, at his option, make creditors having a
Hen upon the property or any portion thereof, other than by a judgment
or decree, defendants in the suit. When the lien is upon an undivided
interest or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made,
is thenceforth a lien only on the share assigned to such party; but such
share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the
partition, in preference to such lien.
Sec. 555. The notice shall be directed by name to all the tenants in
common, who are known, and in the same manner to all lien creditors
who are made parties to the suit, and generally to all persons unknown,
having or claiming an interest or estate in the property.
Sec. 556. If a party, having a share or interest in, or lien upon the
property, be unknown, or either of the known parties reside out oi the
territory or cannot be found therein, and such fact be made to appear by
affidavit, the notice may be served by publication, as in ordinary
cases. When service is made by publication, the notice must contain
a brief description of the property which is the subject of the suit.
Seo. 557. Ihe defendant shall set forth in his answer, the nature, and
extent of his interest in the property, and if he be a lien creditor, how
such lien was created, the amount of the debt secured thereby and re
maining due, and whether such debt is secured in any other way, and
if so, the nature of such other security.
Sec. 55S. The rights of the several parties, plaintifffs as well as defend
ants, may be put in issue, tried and determined in such suit, and where
a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of the property is necessary,
the title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction of the court,
before the decree for partition or sale is given.
Sec. 559. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by evi
dence, or if it appear by the evidence without such allegation in the com
plaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property or any part
of it, is so situated that partition cannot be made without great preju
dice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof, and for that pur
pose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise, upon the requisite
proofs being made, it shall decree a partition according to the respective
rights of the parties as ascertained by the court, and appoint three ref
erees, therefore, and shall designate the portion to remain undivided for
the owners whose interests remain unknown or are not ascertained.
Seo. 560. In making the partition, the referees shall divide the prop
erty, and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties, qual
ity and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective rights
of the parties as determined by the court, designating the several por
tions by proper landmarks, and may employ a surveyor with the neces
sary assistants to aid them therein. The referees shall make a report
of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner of executing their
trust, describing the property divided and the shares allotted to each
party, with a particular description of each share.
Sec. 561. The court may confirm or set aside the report in whole or in
part, and if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report being
confirmed a decree shall be entered that such partition be effectual for
ever, which decree shall be binding and conclusive:
1. On all parties named therein, and their legal representatives who
have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof
as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder or inheritance of such property or any part thereof,
after the termination of a particular estate therein, or who by any con
tingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who
have an interest in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or
for life.
2. On all persons interested in the property to whom notice shall have
been given by publication.
3. On all other persons claiming from or through such parties or*persons
or either of them.
Sec. 562. Such decree and partition shall not affect any tenants for
years or for life, of the whole of the property which is the subject of
partition, nor shall snch decree and partition preclude any persons, ex
cept such as are specified in the last section, from claiming title to the
property in question, or from controverting the title of the parties be
tween whom the partition shall have been made.
Sec. 563. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor
and his assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by
the court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by law
to the referees, shall be paid by the plaintifff and may be allowed as costs.
Sec. 56±. If the referees report to the court that the property, of which
partition shall have been decreed, or any separate portion thereof is so
situated that a partition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice
to the owners, and the court is satisfied that 'such report is correct, it
may thereupon by an order direct the referees to sell the property or
separate portion thereof.
SEC. 565. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if
there be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the property}
the whole of such estate may be set off in any part of the property not
ordered sold.
SEC. 560. Before making an order of sale, if lien creditors, other than
those by judgment or degree, have not been made parties^ the court, on
motion of either party, shall order the plaintifff to file a supplemental
complaint, making such creditors defendants.
Sec. 567. If an order of sale be made before the distribution of the
proceeds thereof, the plaintifff shall produce to the court the certificate of
the auditor of the county where the property is situated, showing the
liens remaining unsatisfied, if any, by judgment or decree upon the prop
erty or any portion thereof, and unless he do so the court shall order a
referee to ascertain them.
SEC. 568. If it appear by such certificate or reference, in case the cer
tificate is not produced, that any such liens exist, the court shall appoint
a referee to ascertain what amount remains due thereon or secured there
by respectively, and the order of priority in which they are entitled to
be paid out of the property.
SEC. 56[). The plaintifff must cause a notice to be served at least twenty
days before the time for appearance on eacli person having such lien by
judgment or decree, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place to make proof by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the true amount
due or to become due, contingently or absolutely on his judgment or
decree.
Sec. 570. The referee shall receive the evidence and report the names
of the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts due thereon, or
secured thereby, and their priority respectively, and whether contingent
or absolute. lie shall attach to his report the proof of service of the no
tices and the evidence before him.
Sec. 571. The report of the referee may be excepted to by either
party to the suit, or to the proceedings before the referee, in like manner
and with like effect as in ordinary cases. If a lien creditor be absent
from the territory, or his residence therein be unknown, and that fact
appear by affidavit, the court or judge thereof may by order direct that
service of the notice may be made upon his agent or attorney of record,
or by publication thereof, for such time and in such manner as the order
may prescribe.
Sec. 572. If the report of the referee be confirmed, the order of confir
mation is binding and conclusive upon all parties to the suit, and upon
the lien creditors who have been duly served -with the notice to appear
before the referee, as provided in section 561*.
Sec. 573. The proceeds of the sale of the encumbered property shall
be distributed by the decree of the court, as follows:
1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the suit.
2. To pay the costs of the reference.
3. To satisfy the several liens in their order of priority, by payment
of he sums due, and to become due, according to the decree.
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to
their respective shares.
Sec. 574. Whenever any party to the suit, who holds a lien upon the
property or any part thereof, lias other securities for the payment of the
amount of such lien, the court may in its discretion, order such sureties
to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may or
der a just deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the
property on account thereof.
Sec. 575. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of the liens, and
to determine their priority as above provided, or those hereinafter au
thorized to determine the rights of parties to funds paid into court, shall
not delav the sale, nor affect any other party, whose rights are not involved
in such proceedings.
Sec. 570. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees,
or any part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons entitled
thereto, whenever the court so directs. But if no such direction be given,
all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited as
directed by the court.
Sec. 577. When the proceeds of sale of any shares or parcel belonging
to persons who are parties to the suit and who are known, are paid into
court, the suit may be continued as between such parties, for the deter
mination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and
adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken iu court, or by
a referee at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if necessary,
require such parties' to present the facts or law in controversy, by plead
ings as in an original suit.
Sec. 578. All sales of real property made by the referees shall be made
by public auction, to the highest bidder, in the manner required for the
Bale of real property on execution. The notice shall state the terms of
sale, and if the property, or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior
estate, charge or lien, that shall be stated in the notice.
Sec. 57!'. The court shall, in the order of sale, direct the terms of credit
which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of the
premises, of which it may direct a sale on credit; and for that portion of
which the purchase money is required by the provisions hereinafter con
tained, to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners, infants or par
ties out of the territory.
Sec. 580. The referees may take separate mortgages, and other securi
ties for the whole, or convenient portions of the purchase money, of such
parts of the property as -r.- directed by the court to be sold on credit, in
the name of the clerk of t':t court, and his successors in office; and for
the. shares of any known owner of firll age, in the name of such owner.
Sec. 581. When the e.-tate of any tenant for life or years, in any undi
vided part of the property in question, shall have been admitted by the
parties, or ascertained by the court to be existing at the time of the or
der of sale, and the person entitled to such estate .shall have been made
a party to the suit, such estate may be first set off out of any part of the
property, and a sale made of such parcel, subject to the prior unsold
estate of such tenant therein; -but if in the judgment of the court, a due
regard to the interest of all the parties require that such estate be aiso
sold, the sale may be so ordered.
Si:c. oS'2. Any person en''t'.: d !" ::'i estate for life or years in any un
divided part of the property ..... , . ;v.e -:i:i:, have been sold, shall be
entitled to receive such sum in gross as may be deemed a reasonable
satisfaction for such estate," and which the person so entitled shall con
sent to accept inste.id thereof, by an instrument duly acknowledged and
filed with the clerk.
Sk:\ 58o. If such eon.- en t be not given, as provided in the last sect:on,
befui'.' the report of sale, the court shall ascertain ai.d determine what
proportion of the proceeds of the sale, afier deducting expenses, will be
a ju.-t ■irui reasonable sum to be invested lbr the Ik neiit of the person
entilhd to such estate for I be, or years, and shad order the same to be
deposited in court for that purpose.
Si:<\ 5^4r. If the persons entith d to such estate, for life or years, be
unknow i, the court, shall provide for the protection of their rights in the
same m-inner, as far as may be, as if they were known and had appeared.
Sia: 5s."). In all eases of .-ales in partition, when it appears that any
person has a vested or contingent future right or estate therein, the
court shall ascertain and settle the proportionate value of such contin
gent or vested right or e.-tate, and shali direct such proportion ol the pro
ceeds of sale to he invested, secured or paid over in such manutT as to
protect the rights and' interests of the parties.
bi:.'. 586. In all cam's of sales of property the teims shall be made
known at the time, and if the premises consist of distinct fauns or lots,
they shall be sold separately or otherwise, if the court so directs.
SEC. 5S7. Neither of the referees, nor1 any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase, nor shall the guardian
of an infant bean interested party in the purchase of any real property be
ing the subject of the suit, except for the be relit of the infant. All sales
contrary to the provisions of this section shall he void.
SEC. 588. After completing the sale, the referees shall report the same
to the court, with a description of the different parcels of laud sold to
each purchaser, the name of the purchaser, the price paid or secured, the
terms and conditions of the sale, and the securities, if any, taken. The
report shall be filed with the clerk.
iir.v. 589. The report of sale may be excepted to in writing by any
party entitled to a share of the proceeds. If the sale be continued, the
order of confirmation shall direct the referees to execute conveyances
and take securities pursuant to such sale.
Sec. 590. When a party entitled to a share of the property, or an
encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds
of the sale as belong to him.
S'kc. 591. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an unknown,
owner, or to a person without the territory who has no legal representa
tive within it, or when there are proceeds arising from the sale of an
estate subject to the prior estate of a tenant for life or years, which are
paid into the court or otherwise deposited by order of the court, the
same shall be invested in securities on interest tor the benefit of the per
sons entitled thereto.
Sec. 592. When the security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or when
an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done, except as
herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the court and his
successors in office, who shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the
parties interested, subject to the order of the court.
Sec. 593. When security is taken by the referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security by an instrument in writing under
their hands, delivered to the referees, agree upon the share and propor
tions to which they are respectively entitled, or when shares and propor
tions have been previously adjudged by the court, such securities shall be
taken in the names of and payable to the parties respectively entitled
thereto, and shall be delivered to such parties upon their receipt there
for. Such agreement and receipt shall be returned and filed with the
clerk.
Sec. 594. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an
investment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive the interest
and principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the
court may direct, and shall file in his office all securities taken and keep
an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk's
office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and monies
received by him thereon, ami the disposition thereof.
SEC. 595. When it appears that partition cannot be made equal between
the parties according to their respective rights, without prejudice to the
rights and interests of some of them, the court may adjudge compensa
tion to be made by one party to another on account of the inequality of
partition; but such compensation shall not be required to be made to
others by owners unknown, nor by infants, unless in case of an infant it
appear that he has personal property sufficient for that purpose, and that
his interest will be promoted thereby.
Sec. 596. When the share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale
may be paid by the referees making the sale, to his general guardian, or
the special guardian appointed for him in the suit, upon giving the
security required by law, or directed by order of the court.
Sec. 597. The guardian ";ho may be entitled to the custody and man
agement of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property
shall have been sold, may receive in behalf of such person his share of
the proceeds of such real property from the referees, on executing a
bond with sufficient sureties, approved- by'thc judge^of the court, con
ditioned that he faithfully discharge the trust reposed in him, and will
render a true and just account to the person entitled, or to his legal rep
resentative. / ,
Sec. 598. The general guardian of an infant, and the guardian enti
tled to the custody and management of the estate of an insane person,
or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is
interested in real estate held in common or in any other manner, so as
to authorize his being made a party to an action for the partition thereof,
may consent to a partition without suit and agree upon the share to be
6et off to such infant or other person entitled, and may execute a release
in his behalf to the owners of the shares or parts to which they may
respectively be entitled, and upon an order of the court.
Sec. 591). The costs of partition, including fees of referees and other
disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share
in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein,
and may be included and specified in the decree. In that oase there shall
be a lien on the several shares, and the decree may be enforced by exe
cution against the parties separately. When, however, a litigation arises
between some of the parties only, the court may require the expense of
such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.
CHAPTER XLIX.
OF WASTE AND TRESPAS8.
Skctiox [ Section
600. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action judgment therein.
of waste, actionable as other wrongs. ! 60:i. It trespass casual or involunlary. judgment.
flOl. Action for waste and judgment therein. j (i04. Of injunction to restrain w:iste.
&>2. Action for trespass in particular cases and ]
Sec. 600. Wrongs heretofore remediable by action of waste shall be
subjects of actions as other wrongs.
Sec. 601. If-a guardian, tenant in severalty, or in common, for life or
for vears. of real property, commit waste thereon, any person injured
thereby may maintain an action at law for damage* therefore against such
guardian or tenant; in which action there may be judgment for treble
damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party committing or permitting
the waste, and of eviction from the property. But judgment of forfeit
ure and eviction shall only be given in favor of the person entitled to
the reversion against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the
estate in reversion is determined in the action, to be equal to the value
of the tenant's estate or unexpired term, or to have been done or suffered
in malice.
Sec. 602. Whenever any person shall cut down, girdle or otherwise
injure, or carry off any tree, timber or shrub on the land of another
f>erson, or on the street or highway in front of any person's house, vilage, town or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons or pub
lic grounds of any village, town or city, or on the street or highway in
front thereof, without lawful authority, in an action by such person, vil
lage, town or city against the person committing such trespasses or any
of them, if judgment be given for the plaintifff, it shall be given for
treble the amount of damages claimed or assessed therefore, as the case
may be.
Sec. 603. If upon trial of such action it shall appear that the tres
pass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable cause
to ljelieve that the land on whb'h such trespass was committed was liis
•\vn, Hi' that nl' the person in whose service or by who.-e direction the act
was done, or tint such tree or timber was tufc ii fio'.n uninclosed wood
lands, tor the nurpose of repairing any public, highway or bridge upon
the land or a !i lining it, ju lament sh ill only ')-■ given for single damages.
SEC. ti't. Wnen any two or more persons are opposing claimants
under the laws of the (Tinted States to any laud in this territory, and
one is threatening to coal in if upon such land waste \v! ;c'i tends materially
to lessen tlie value of the inheritance and which can pot he compensated
by dam-: :'i'- ; i.d there is imaiiii ■■ut danger that unle-s restrained such
waste wiil he committed, the party, on filing his complaint and satisfying
the -court or ju ;.;• ' of the existence of the facts, may have ;i;i injunction
to restrain the : 'Iverse pirty. In all cases he shad gi\( n i.h'e and bond
as is provid. 1 in other c..S"» where iu junction is grant '. an i the injunc
tion wben !.,-' iit"d shall h ■ set asi Je or modili- d as is provided generally
for injunct, m and 1 entraining orders.
CIIAITKR L.
xri-.M." ".:.
F.-i-nos ! >:.i .".
l>'''». ^ '". "' .•" I'1"'i. ' 'n't' .I'll !<•. ' ■ .. ... 'fln! f'li* fl'."1."l»'l i.
(nil. V, :.. u ... i. >: ii ... ■• -.-ut of. . ..-.i. .!.•■„ - \ ■::'. l>..:i.l.
Sk<\ <i...i. . ic ,»b.,ti a ■.'io;i of ii:iy hig.iw.y o.' ti:,1 c' > dug of tie chan
nel of a!i\ -t> 'iii ■ use.'i for bo:>t!:i-_; or r.i.'.'.ng !•■■■•-. r:r.:'>er or tini' er, or
what ■-, r is injurious to !k .,1th or .n lee^it or <:.. ud,e to these".- ..or
an oe-f'-i'-tion to the five n-e oi p:""';» rty, ,-o a- to »■»■ enlia' !y int. r.'ere
with tie eoii'ioj't. l.:e enjoyment of the lie' .-.:: i pr >perty, is a nuisance,
and til: sn eer of :'ii a-tio'.i for damag ■.-■ .".id otueraud .'a "her leiief.
St-.e. ('.:!■;. ;-' ; i • i i aetioti may he bivAigtit by any p -rson who.-e prop.-rty
is ;iijui,ii"'..-'y ■!'. et d or who,-.' per-oiial e;d >; m a.t is le'.-e-.ed by the
nuisa'ne. Ii' j i ' _• - i - ■ : 1 1 be :jive:i for vhe p'ai i;:'fiu such action, he may
in i.di'n 'into te" i.m eati in to enf. -re-' the same, mi Hint ion, have an
order. a .owing a Wan" it to is-ue ! > the site:"..:' to abate such nuisance.
Such motion mu-t be made at the term at whici: j:i !jj m.ent i.-> given, and
shall lu a'lowed of course, unless it appear on the hearing th-.r the nui
sance has ceased or that sii'di remedy i -. ina .equate to abate or pre\ent
the cotitinua.ice of tlie nuisance, in wiiich la.ter case the plaint i.i' may
have the d.dei dant enjoined.
SEC. (I'll. If the I'^'wr be made, the cleric shall thereafter, at anytime
within six mouths, when requested by the plai.;titf, issue such warrant
directed to the i-het'iil', requiring him forthwith to abate the nni.-ance at
the expense of the defendant, and return the warrant as soon thereafter
as may be, with his proceedings endorsed thereon. The expenses of
abating the nui-ance may be levied by the siierill' on the property of the
defendant, and in this respect the warrant is to be deemed an execution
against property.
Si:<: odS. At any time before the order is made or the warrant issues,
the defendant may, on motion to the court or judge thereof, have an or
der to stay the issue of such warrant for such period as may be necessa
ry, not exceeding six months, to allow the defendant to abate the nui
sance himself, upon his giving bond to the plaintifff in a sufficient amount
•with one of more sureties, to the satisfaction of the court or judge there
of, that he will abate it within the time and in the manner s]>ecitied in
such order. The sureties shall justify as bail lipon arrest. If the de
fendant fails to abate such nuisance within the time specified, the war
rant for the abatement of the nuisance in xy issue as if the same had
not been stayed.
CHAPTER LI.
FOKEeLOSUKK OF MOKTCAOK.
SECTION ' SKCTIOV
6tf*. M'TttM^11 m-iy be foreclosed, when and in "IV. When pmpi'.-ly cannot be sold in parcels,
whit court. . ]k.i.:c Un^< ui h.- had.
610. K 'in '"iy o!' ill >rt'*-tcr ■•-' couliuo.l to property j M*. 1*/ .l.i<> applicable to chattel mortmo-i"ia*?erl:
when. e.tL"s.
611. Promts n;- p ;.'i thereof to he sold. Gilt. M >. . rl^eo may proceed on senar.ite prom61-2.
When oth " p-jperty of tin; mortgagee j i- : in l' n i vl'wire of inorltra^e where
"hall In- !e\ '.<-'<\ upon. ihv i-- -eparat- promise of jm, anient for
61'J. !>.* Ti-; of fo vci WK.'; ho>V" enforce 1. 0* .ie'enry.
611. Plaintiff ti..: f'i fo-'clo-e while prosoentinir (12*. int.>: nl' sale, what judgment for deflai:'!"ii
tor -ani ■ 'lettt. etc. cia. -y.
615. Pnn. ..'^-.ti (I'j-- ^ t i;. *-cl ; >vhi'U. fi:*I. 0\' -aft1- of property not included in de516.
Omri may uireet sul : of ]>ortiou of prop- < ree.
erty. &$>. J uitLiiucnt^ tn-v'i* like other judgments.
Sec. 6(>9. When default is made in the performance of any condition
contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or his a-signs may proceed in
the district court of the district or county where the land, or some part
thereof, lies, to foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the
mortgage.
Ski.'. 610.. When there is no express agreement in the mortgage nor
any separate instrument given for the payment of the sum secured there
by, the remedy of the mortgagee shall ':>.■ confined to the property mort
gaged.
Sec. till. In rendering judgment of foivi'losi'.re the court shall order
the mortgaged premises, or so much thcivif as may be necessary, to be
sold to satisfy the mortgage and en.-;.-, of .the action. The payment of
the mortgage debt, with interest and co.-its at any time before sale, shall
satisfy the judgment.
Sec. 612. When there is an express agreement for the payment of the
sum of money secured contained in the mortgage or any separate instru
ment, the Court shall direct in the. decree of foreclosure that the balance
due on the mortgage, and costs which may remain unsatisfied after the
sale of the mortgaged premises, shall be satisfied from any property of
the mortgage debtor.
Sec. 613. The decree may be enforced by execution, as an ordinary
decree for the payment of money. The execution shall contain a de
scription qf the mortgaged property. The sheriff shall endorse upon the
execution the time when he receives it, mid he shall thereupon forthwith
proceed to sell the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be
necessaiy to satisfy the judgment, interests, and costs, upon giving the
notice prescribed in section 359, relating to sales of property' under exe
cution. And if any part of the judgment, interest and costs, remain
unsatisfied, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy upon any property
of the defendant, not. exempt from execution, and all Subsequent pro
ceedings under said execution shall conform, except as herein provided,
to the provisions regulating sales of property u*>ou executions.
Sec. 614. The plaintifff shall not proceed to foreclose his mortgage
while he ia prosecuting any other action for the same debt or matter
which is secured by the mortgage, or while he is seeking to obtain exe
cution of any judgment in such other action; nor shall he prosecute any
other action for the same matter while he is foreclosing his mortgage or
prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure.
Sec. 615. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a mort
gage upon which there shall be due any interest or installment of the
principal, and there are other installments not due, if the defendant pay
into the court the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time be
fore the final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be
enforced upon a subsequent default in the payment of any installment
of the principal or interest thereafter becoming due. In the final judg
ment, the court shall direct at what time and upon what default any
subsequent execution shall issue.
Sec. 616. In such cases, after final judgment, the court shall ascertain
whether the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done with
out injury to the interests of the parties, the court shall direct so much
only of the premises to be sold, as will be sufficient to pay the amount
then due on the mortgage with costs, and the judgment shall remain
and be enforced upon any subsequent default, unless the amount due shall
be paid before execution of the judgment is perfected.
Sec. 617. If the mortgaged premises cannot be gold in parcels, the
court shall order the whole to be sold, and the proceeds of the sale shall
be applied first to the payment of the principal due, interest and costs, and
then to the residue secured by the mortgage and not due: and if the
residue do not bear interest, a deduction shall be made therefrom by dis
counting the legal interest; and in all cases where the proceeds of the
sale shall be more than sufficient to pay the amount due and costs, the
surplus shall be paid to the mortgage debtor, his heirs and assigns.
Sec. 618. The provisions herein contained, so far as the same shall be
applicable, shall govern in actions for the foreclosure of chattel mort
gages or bills of sale creating liens on personal property.
Sec. 619. The mortgagee or holder of the lien may proceed upon his
mortgage or lien, if there be a separate obligation in writing to pay the
same, secured by said mortgage or lien, he may bring suit upon such
separate promise. When he proceeds on the mortgage, if there be a'
specific agreement therein contained for the payment of a certain sum,
or there is a separate obligation for the said sum, in addition to a decree
of sale of mortgaged property, judgment shall be rendered for the
amount due upon said mortgage or other instrument, the payment of
which is thereby secured. The decree shall direct the sale of the mort
gaged property, and if the proceeds of said sale be insufficient under the
execution, the sheriff is authorized to levy upon and sell other property
of the mortgage debtor, not exempt from execution, for the sum remain
ing unsatisfied.
Sec. 620. In all actions of foreclosure where there is a decree for the
sale of the mortgaged premises or property, and a judgment over for
any deficiency remaining unsatisfied after applying the proceeds of the
6ale of mortgaged property, further levy and sales upon other property
of the judgment debtor may be made under the same execution. In
such sales it shall only be necessary to advertise notice for two weeks in
a newspaper published in the district or county where the said property
is located, and if there be no newspaper published therein, then in the
most convenient newspaper having a circulation in such county.
Sec. 621. When sales of other property not embraced in the mort
gage or decree of sale are made under the execution to satisfy any defi
ciency remaining due upon judgment, two weeks' publication of no
tice of such sale shall be sufficient. Such notice shall be published in a
newspaper printed in the district or county where the property is situ
ated, and if there be no newspaper published therein, then in the most
convenient newspaper having a circulation in said district or county.
Sec. 622. Judgments over for any deficiency remaining unsatisfied af
ter application of the proceeds of sale of inortgaged property, either real
or personal, shall be similar in all respects to other judgments for the
recovery of money, and may be made a lien upon the property of a judg
ment debtor as other judgments, and the collections thereof enforced in
the same manner.
CHAPTER LII.
THE Sl'ECIFC performance of certain contracts.
Section
631. Decedent's contract in writing to be per
formed by executor, etc.
624. Petition;- by party claiming conveyance;
procedure.
6*io. Hearing anil detcrmi nation of petition.
626. IX-cree of conveyance.
6^7. 11" decedent resident executor shall make
conveyance.
Section
convey.
ti*21K What conveyance shall recite and pass.
620. Appeal to supreme court allowed.
631. Certitied copy of decree entitles party to.
possession.
632. Representative of party entitled may pro
ceed.
633. Of depositions of witnesses.
638. If deceased non-resident commissioner to ; 634. Any party interested may take depositions.
Sec. 623. If any person who is bound by contract, in writing, to con
vey any real estate, shall die before making the conveyance, the district
court having the jurisdiction over the county in which such real estate or
any portion thereof, is situate, may make a decree authorizing and direct
ing the conveyance of such real estate to the person entitled thereto, in
all cases, when such deceased person, if living, might be compelled to
make such conveyance.
Sec. 624. On fiiing and presentation of a petition of any person claim
ing to be entitled to such conveyance under such contract, setting forth
' the facts upon which such claim is predicated, the district court or the
judge thereof, shall make an order appointing a time and place for hear
ing such petition, which shall be at some day of a regular term of said
district court and shall also order notice of the pendency thereof and
the time and place of the hearing, to be published four success
ive weeks next before such hearing, in such newspaper in the territory as
the court shall designate.
Sec. 625. At the time and place appointed for such hearing or at such
other time as the same may be adjourned to, upon proof by affidavit of
the publication of the notice, the court shall proceed to a hearing, and
all persons interested as creditors, heirs, devisees or personal representa
tives, may appear and resist such petition, by filing their objections in
writing, and the court may examine on oath the petitioners, and all wit
nesses who rrtay be produced on the hearing by any interested party for
that purpose.
Sec. 020. After a full hearing upon such petition and objections, of
the facts and circumstances of the claim, if the court is satislied that the
petitioner is entitled in equity to a conveyance of the real estate described
in the petition, or any part thereof, or any interest therein, the court
shall make a decree authorizing and directing the execution and delivery
of a conveyance to the petitioner.
Sec (127. Such conveyance shall lie executed by the executor or admin
istrator of the estate of the deceased, if the deceased was a resident of or
hid his place of abode at the time of his death in this territory, or if he
died therein; but in such case no decree for conveyance shall be made,
unless the executor or administrator shall have been personally served
with a copy -of the said petition and the notice provided for in section
624 for at least two weeks prior to the time appointed for the hearing.
Sec 028. If the deceased died out of the territory and notbaving been
a resident thereof at the time of his death, such conveyance shall be
executed by a commissioner to bo appointed by the court in the decree,
for that purpose, but in such ca.*o in addition to the notice provided for
in section 021, it shall appear to the satisfaction of the cjurt at the hear
ing, that the executor, or admini-strat or of such deceased duly appointed
in another state, territory or country, or his heirs or devisees shall have
had reasonable notice personally of the pendency of said petition, alid of
the time and place appointed for such hearing. And such foreign exe
cutor or administrator shall have the same right at the hearing, or on ap
peal, to file objections and resist the claim of the petitioners, at. an execu
tor or administrator appointed under the laws of the territory would have;
and it shall not be necessary in such case that an administration of the
estate of the deceased be had in the territory, to authorize the decree of
conveyance prayed for, if the district court upon the hearing shall so find.
Sec. 029. A conveyance executed under the provisions of this chapter
shall so refer to the decree authorizing the conveyance that the- same may
be readily found, but need not recite the record in the case generally, and
the conveyance made; in pursuance of a decree shall pass to the grantee
all the estate, right, title and interest contracted to be conveyed by the
deceased, as fully as if the contracting party himself •were still living and
executed the conveyance in pursuance of such contract.
Sec. 0:>0. Any party interested may. within six months from the ren
dition of the decree, appeal therefrom to the supreme court, in the same
manner as appeals are taken and prosecuted from final decrees or judg
ments in equity causes; but if no appeal be taken from such decree, within
the time limited therefore, or if such decree be affirmed on appeal, it
shall be the duty of the executor, administrator or commissioner to exe
cute and deliver the conveyance according to the directions contained in
the decree; and a certified copy thereof shall be recorded with the deed
in the office of the auditor of the county where the lands lie, and shall
be conclusive evidence of the correctness of the proceedings anil of the
authority of the executor, administrator or commissioner to make such
conveyance.
Sec. 631. A copy of the decree for the conveyance made by the district
court and duly certified and recorded in the office of the auditor of the
county wherein the land is situate, shall give to the person entitled to the
conveyance a right to the immediate possession of the land contracted
for ami of holding the same according to the terms of the intended con
veyance, in like manner and with luus eifeet, as if they had been con
veyed in pursuance of the decree.
Sk<\ 632. If the person to whom the conveyance was to be made shall
die before the commencement of the proceedings according to the provi
sions of this chapter, or before the completion of the conveyance, any
person who would have been entitled to the conveyance under him, as
heir, devisee or otherwise,' in case the conveyance, had been male accord
ing to the terms of the contract, or the executor or administrator of such
deceased person, for the benefit of persons entitled, may commence such
proceedings or prosecute the same if already commenced; and die con
veyance shall be so nmde as to vest the estate in the same persons, who
would have been entitled to it, or in the execution or administration for
their benefit.
S;v. (>5o. The testimony of witnesses in support of the claim of the
petitioner may be taken by deposition before any officer authorized to
administer oaths, whenever the deposition of such witnesses might be
taken to be used in the trial of a civil action in the district court. But
notice of the particular time and place of taking siuli deposition shall
be published by the petitioner, in tiie paper-required to be designated by section (J2+. for three successive weeks prior to taking the same, winch
notice shall also state the name of the oilieer before whom the depo-ition
is to be taken, and the name of the witnesses whose testimony is pro
posed to bj taken, at such time and place. Any party interested in the
estate, may appear and cross-interrogate such witnesses, and the manner
of examination and the form of such deposition shdl be in conformity
with the chapter reg. dating depositions of witness '< residing in the ter
ritory, although sucii witnesses may not reside therein.
Sko. b'o-t. Any party intere-tcd in the estate and* resisting the claim of
the petitioner, may, after tiling his objections, take the testimony of wit
nesses in his behalf in like manner, and as in an alii lavit for continuance
in civil actions up m irood c mse, shown and for tin. t purpose the court
may postpone the dual hearing of such petition until the testimony can
be taken.
CHAPTER LIU.
CIIAXIili OF PERSON *S NAME.
Section
6Ti3. Poivons may petition, givini: n^ous.
Sko. 035. Any person desiring a change of his name or that of hi3
child or ward, may apply therefore to the district court of the county in
which he resides, by petition setting forth the reasons for such change;
thereupon such court in its discretion may order a change of the name
and thenceforth the new name shall be in place of the former.
CHAPTER LIV.
NE EXEAT.
Section* Section
<>Jti- A-tions ma}' be commoiHvd on contract (ill). Jn who*e favor mav bo had.
bvlore timpfor porfo'-maii.' ■; when. 1811. UelY'iMlaiit mav haCv habeas corpiH.
837. OrdiTof arrest; bond of plaintifff. 642. Proceeding iuay b.' had before jn-ticc of
638. D 'f-'nitaul to give .speei il ball, or bo com the pe-iee.
mittud. fil). PnirM'ciliiiKM In district whore defendants
$39. Defendant may he^liicharir.'d, when. round.
Sec. 636. Actions may be commenced upon any agreement in writing
before the time for the performance of the contract expires, when the
plaintifff or his agent shall make and file an affidavit with the clerk of
the proper court, that the defendant is abont to leave the territory with
out performing or making provisions for the performance of the contract,
taking with him property, monies, credits or effects subject to execution,
with intent t» defraud plaintifff.
Sec. 637. Upon snch affidavit being filed, the clerk shall issue an order
of arrest and bail, directed to the sheriff, which shall be issued, served
and returned, in all respects as such orders in other cases; before such
order shall issue, the plaintifff shall file in the office of the clerk a bond
with sufficient surety to be approved by the clerk, conditioned that the
plaintifff will pay the defendant such damages and costs as he shall
wrongfully sustain by the occasion of the suit, which sureties shall
justify as bail upon an arrest.
Sec. 638. The sheriff shall require the defendant to enter into a recog
nizance of special bail, with sufficient surety, personally to appear on the
first day of the court at its next term, and abide the order of the
court, and in default thereof the defendant shall be committed to prison
until discharged in due conrse of law, such special bail shall be liable
for the principal and shall have a right to arrest and deliver him up, a3
in other cases, and the defendant may give other bail.
Sec. 639. Instead of giving special bail, as above provided, the defend
ant shall be entitled to his dischrrge from custody if he will secure the
performance of the contract to the satisfaction of the plaintifff
Sec. 640. This proceeding may be had in favor of any surety or other
person jointly bound with the defendant. It may also be prosecuted by
the person in whose favor the contract exists, against any one or more of
the persons bound thereby, upon filing siich affidavit, when the co-con
tractors are non-residents or probably insolvent, or at the request of any
of them when they are residents and solvent.
Sec. 641. The defendant may have the same remedy by writ of habeas
corpus as in other cases of arrest and bail.
Sec. 642. The proceedings may be had before justices of the peace in.
all cases within their jurisdiction.
Sec. 643. The affidavit and bond may be filed, and proceedings had in
any district where the defendants may be found.
CHAPTER LV.
ACTIONS OF SURETIES AGAINST PRINCIPAL.
Section Suction
644. Simjty may require action instituted. U4S. Judsrinent satisfied by sureties, does not
645. w hen surety to be discharged, discharge principal
646. Trial between co-dofendauts not to affect 619. Sureties paying judgment remedy against
nliiintitf. co-defendants.
647. When property of principal is first to be 650. No surety shtill confess judgment.
exhausted. i fijl. Extended to legal representatives.
Sec. 644. Any person bound as surety upon any contract in writing
for the payment of money or the performance of any act, when the
right of action has accrued, may require by notice in writing the credi
tor or obligee forthwith to institute an action upon the contract.
Sec. 645. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a rea
sonable time to bring his action upon such contract, and prosecute the
same to judgment and execution, the surety shall he discharged
from all liability thereon.
Sec. 646. When any action is brought against two or more defendants
upon a contract, any one or more of the defendants being surety for the
others, the surety may, upon a written complaint to the court, cause the
question of securityship to be tried and determined upon the issues made
by the parties at the trial of the cause, or at any time before or after the
trial, or at a subsequent term, but such proceedings shall not affect the
proceedings of tl.e plaintifff.
Sec. 647. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the surety, the
court shall make an order directing the sheriff to levy the execution
upon, and first exhaust the property of the principal before a levy shall
be made upon the property of the surety, and the clerk shall indorse a
memorandum of the order upon the execution.
Sec. 648. When any defendant, surety in a judgment or special bail or
replevin or sui-ety in a delivery bond or replevin bond, or any per
son being surety in any bond whatever, has been or shall be compelled
to pay any judgment or any part thereof, or shall make any payment
which is applied upon such judgment by reason of such suretyship, or
when any sheriff or other officer or other surety upon his official bond
shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any part thereof by reason of
any default of such officer, except for failing to pay over money collected,
or for wasting property levied upon, the judgment shall not be dis
charged by such payment, but shall remain in torce for the use of the
bail, surety, officer or other person making such payment, and after the
plaintifff is paid, so much of the judgment as remains unsatisfied may be
prosecuted to execution for his use.
Sec. 649. Any one of several judgment defendants, and any one of sev
eral replevin bail having paid and satisfied the plaintifff, shall have the
remedy provided in the last section against the co-defendants and co-sure
ties to collect of them the rateable proportion each is equitably bound
to pay.
Sec. 650. No surety or his representative shall confess judgment or
suffer judgment by default in any case where he is notified that there is
a valid defense, if the principal will enter himself defendant to the action
and tender to the surety or his representatives good security to indem
nity liim, to be approved by the court.
Seh. 651. The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall extend to heirs,
executors, and administrators of deceased persons, but the provisions of section six hundred and forty five shall not operate against persons un
der legal disabilities.
CHAPTER LVI.
SUITS ON OFFICIAL BONDS, FINKS AND FORFEITURES.
Skctio*
Sbctiov
65-3. Official bond*, (o whom deemed a security.
653. Who may maintain action thereon.
654. When leave of court must Urst be obtained.
655. Judgment no bar to action for other deliu•quency.
656. Judgment against surety, for what can be
given.
057. Who may sue for lines and forfeitures.
658. For penalties not to exceed amount of.
659. Collusorv judgment will not bar recovery
by another person.
660. Disposition of fines and forfeitures.
Seo. 652. The official bond of apublicofficer, to the territory, or to any
county, city, town or other municipal or public corporation of like char
acter therein, shall be deemed a security to the' territory, or to such
coumy, city, town or other municipal or public corporation, as the case
may be, and also to all persons severally, for the official delinquencies
against which it is intended to provide.
SEC. 05:5. When a public officer by official misconduct or neglect of
duty, shall, forfeit his official bond or render his sureties therein liable
upon such bond, any person injured by such misconduct or neglect, or
who is by law entitle 1 to the bone:it of the security, may maintain an
action at law thereon in his own name against the officer and his sureties
to recover the amount to which he may by reason thereof be entitled.
Sec. 05-t. Before an action can be commenced by a plaintifff, other than
the territory, or the municipal or public corporation named in the bond,
leave shall be obtained of the court or judge thereof where the action is
triable. Such leave shall be granted upon the production of a certified
copy of the bond and an affidavit of the plaintifff, or some person in his
behalf, showing the delinquency. Tint if the matter set forth in his affi
davit be such that, if true, the party applying would clearly not be entitled to recover in the action, the leave shall not be granted, it it does
not appear from the complaint that the leave herein provided for has
been granted, the defendant, on motion, shall be entitled to judgment
of nonsuit; if it does, tiie defendant may controvert the allegation, and
it the issue be found in his favor, judgment shall be given accordingly.
Sue. 055. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency shall
not preclude the same or another party from maintaining another action
on the same bond for another delinquency.
Sec'. ;t50. In an action upon an official bond, if judgments have been
recovered against the surety therein other than by confession, equal in
the aggregate to the penalty or any part thereof of such bond, and it such
recovery be established on the trial, judgment shall not be given against
such surety for an amount exceeding such penalty, or such portion there
of as is not already recovered against him.
SEC. 0f7. Fines and forfeitures may be recovered by an action at law
in the name of the officer or person to whom they are by law given, or
in the name of the officer or person who by law is authorized to prose
cute for them.
Sko. 053. When an action shall be commenced for a penalty, which by
law is not to exceed a certain amount, the action may be commenced for
that amount, and if judgment be given for the plaintifff, it may be for
such amount or less, in the discretion of the court, in proportion to the
offense.
Sec. 053. A recovery of a judgment for a penalty or forfeiture by
collusion between the plaintifff and defendant, with intent to save the de
fendant wholly or partially from the consequences contemplated by law,
in case when the penalty or forfeiture is given wholly or partly to the
person who prosecutes, shall not bar the recovery of the same by another
person.
SEC. 000. Fines and forfeitures not specially granted or otherwise ap
propriated by law, wheu recovered, shall be paid into the school fund of
the proper county. Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property
real or personal shall be forfeited to the territory, or to any officer for its
use, the action for the recovery of such property may be commenced in
any county where the defendant may be found or where such property
may be.
CHAPTER LVII.
ACTIONS HY AND AGAINST PUBLIC CORPORATIONS.
Section
fifjl. How and for what causes maintained.
6*32. A jrainst public corporations; causes.
663. Pleadings, how verified.
Skction
itt;4. Judgment ncriiiiiHt, how enforced. ,
005. Officer compelled to satisfy judgment.
Sec. Gf.il. An action at law may be maintained by any county, incor
porated town, school district or other public corporation of like charac
ter in this territory, in its corporate name, and upon a cause of action
accruing to it, in its corporate character and not otherwise, in either of
the following cases:
1. Upon a contract made with such public corporation.
2. Upon a liability prescribed by law in favor of such public corporation.
3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such public corporation.
4. To recover damages for an injury to the corporate rights or property
of such public corporation.
Sec 662. An action may be maintained against a county or other of the
public corporations mentioned or described in the preceding section, either
upon a contract made by such county, or other public corporation in its
corporate character and. within the scope of its authority, or
for an injury to the rights of the plaintifff arising from some act or omis
sion of such county or other public corporation.
Sec. 663. In such actions the pleadings of the public corporation shall
be verified by any of the officers representing it in its corporate capacity
in the same manner sis if such officer was a defendant in the action, or by
the agent or attorney thereof, as in ordinary actions.
Sec. 664. If judgment be given for the recovery of money or damages
against such county or other public corporation, no execution shall issue
thereon for the collection of such money or damages, but such judgment
in such respect shall be satisfied as follows:
1. The party in whose favor sur>h judgment is given may at any time
thereafter, when execution might issue on a like judgment against a pri
vate person, present a certified transcript of the docket thereof to the
officer of such county or other public corporation who is authorized to
draw orders on the treasury thereof.
2. On the presentation of such transcript such officer shall draw an
order on such treasurer for the amount of the judgment, in favor of the
party for whom the same was given. Thereafter such order shall be pre
sented for payment and paid with like effect and in like manner as other
orders upon the treasurer of such county or other public corporation.
3. The certified transcript herein provided for shall not be furnished
by the clerk unless at the time an execution might issue on such judg
ment if the same were against a private person, nor until satisfaction of
the same judgment in respect to such money ordamagesbeacknowledged as
in ordinary cases. The clerk shall include in the transcript the memoran
dum of snch acknowledgment of satisfaction and the entry thereof. Un
less the transcript contain such memorandum, no order upon the treas
urer shall issue thereon.
Sec. 665. Should the proper officer of said corporation fail or refuse to
satisfy said judgment, as in the preceding section provided, an attach
ment may be issued to compel his performance of said duty.'
CHAPTER LVIII.
HABEAS COJtrCS.
Section
66ft. Every person shall have the benefit of.
057. Application for writ or.
&JS. Writs granted in term or vacation, and
without delay.
669. To whom directed, and what to command.
670. If directed to sheriff, to be delivered by
clerk.
671. When directed to any other person.
67'J. How served, when person to cannot be
found.
673. Einmediate return to be made.
674. Return to be vurifled, and what it shall
contain.
675. Traverse and decision on said return.
676. Cause to be heard and decided summarily.
677. Legality of custody not to be inquired into
in certain cases.
Section
678. Court mav discharge, commit, admit to
bail, etc. "
t>79. Writ to admit to bail, person interested iu
detention to be notified.
680. Conn may compel attendance of witnesses, etc.
6-41. No officer liable to action for obeying writ.
OSi. When person may be brought before c onrt
by warrant.
liS3. Conn may corarn:nul apprehension of per
son causing restraint.
684. Writ how executed and returned.
tiS3. Temporary order may be made; court may
change custody of prisoner.
688. May be served on Sunday.
637. Writs, etc., by whom to be issued, etc., re
turns, amendments.
638. In favor of parents, etc., of intants audinsane.
Sec. 6t>6. Every person restrained of his liberty under any pretense
whatever, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause
of the restraint, and shall be delivered therefrom when illegal.
Seo. 667. Application for the writ shall be made by petition, signed
and verified either b}r the plaintifff or by some person in his behalf, and
shall specify: ■ i
1. By whom the petitioner is restrained of his liberty, and the place
where, (naming the parties if they are known, or describing them if they
are not known.)
2. The cause or pretense of the restraint according to the best of the
knowledge and belief of the applicant.
3. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what the illegality consists.
Sec. 663. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by the supreme court
or district court, or by any judge of either court, whether in term or
vacation, and upon application the writ shall be granted without delay.
Sec. 669. The writ shall be directed to the officer or party having the
person under restraint, commanding him to have such person before the
court or judge at such time and place as the court or judge shall direct
to do and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and have then
and there the writ.
Sua 670. If the writ bo directed to the sheriff, it shall bedelivered by
the clerk to him without delay.
Seo. 671. If the writ be directed to any other person, it shall bedeliv
ered to the sheriff and shall be by him served by delivering the same to
such person without delay.
SEC. 672. If the person to whom such writ is directed cannot be found
or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff, the same may be served by leav
ing it at the residence of the person to whom it is directed, or by post
ing the same on some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling house or
where the party is confined or under restraint.
Seo. 673. The sheriff or other person to whom the writ is directed
shall make immediate return thereof, and if he refuse after due service
to make return, the court shall enforce oba Hence by attachment.
Seo. 674. The return must be signed and veritial by the person mak
ing it, who shall state:
1. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party in his custody.
2. If the authority ^liail he in writing, he shall return a copy ami pro
duce the original on tiic hearing.
3. If he has had the party in his custody or under his restraint, and
has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the time, place
and cause of the transfer. He shall produce the party at the hearing
■unless prevented by sickness or infirmity, which must be shown in the
return.
Sec. 675. The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth of the allega
tion of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to decide on the return, or the
hearing may be adjourned until the party can be produced, or for other
good cause. The plaintifff may except to the sufficiency of, or controvert
the return or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in evidence.
The new matter shall be vuil'ed. except in cases of commitment on a
criminal charge. The return and pleadings maybe amended without
causing a delay.
Seo. 676. The court or judge shall thereupon proceed in a summary
way to hear and determine the cause, and if no legal cause be shown for
the restraint or for the continuation thereof, shall discharge the party.
Sec. 677. No court or judge shall inquire into the legality of any judg
ment or process whereby the party is in custody, or discharge him when
the term of commitment has not expired, in either of the cases following:
1. Upon any process issued on any final judgment of a court of compe
tent jurisdiction.
2. For any contempt of any court, officer or body having authority in
the premises to commit; but an order of commitment, as for a contempt
upon proceedings to enforce the remedy of a party, is not included in
any of the foregoing specifications.
3. Upon a warrant issued from the district [court] upon an indictment
or information.
Sec. 678. No person shall be discharged from an order of commitment
issued by any judicial or peace officer for want of bail, or in cases not
bailable on account of any defect in the chirge or process, or for alleged
want of probable cause; but in all cases the court or judge shall sum
mon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal charge, and dis
charge, admit to vail or re-commit the prisoner, as may be just and legal,
and recognize witnesses when proper.
Sec. 670. The writ may be had for the puipose of admitting a prisoner
to bail in civil and criminal actions. When any person has an interest
in the detention, and the prisoner shall not be discharged until the per
son having such interest is notified.
SEC. 680. The court or judge shall have power to require and compel
the attendance of witnesses, and to do all other acts necessary to deter
mine the case.
Sec. 681. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a civil action for
obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order of discharge made thereon.
Sec. 682. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit that anyone is illegally
held in custody or restraint, and that there is good reason to believe that
such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction of the court or judge
before whom the application is made, or will sutler some irreparable in
jury before compliance with the writ can be enforced, 6uch court or
judge may cause a warrant to be issued reciting the facts, and directed,
to the sheriff' or any constable of the county, commanding him to take
the person thus field in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him be^fore
the court or judge to be dealt with according to the law.
Sec. 083. The court or judge may also, if the ijfime be deemed neces
sary, insert in the warrant a command for the apprehension of the per
son charged with causing the illegal restraint.
Sec. 684. The officer shall execute the writ by bringing the person
therein named before the court or judge, and the like return of proceed
ings shall be required and had as in ca.se of writs of habeas corpus.
Sec. 0>5. The court or judge may make any temporary orders in the
cause or disposition of the party during the progress of the proceedings
that justice may require. The custody of any party restrained may be
changed from one person to another, by order of the court or judge.
SEC. 686. Any writ or process authorized by this chapter may be isSneri
and served, in cases of emergency, on Sunday.
Sice. 687. All writs and other process authorized by this chapter shall
be issued by the clerk of the court, and sealed with the seal of such
court, and shall be served and returned forthwith, unless th .■ court or
judge shall specify a particular time for such return. And no writ or
other process shall be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is
shown to notify the officer or person of the purport of the process.
Amendments may be allowed and temporary commitments when neces
sary.
SEC. 688. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in favor of parents,
guardians, masters and husbands, and to enforce the rights, and for the
protection of infants and insane persons; and the proccedings«shaIl in
all cases conform to the provisions of this chapter.
CHAPTER LIX.
MANDATE AND PROHIBITION.
Section
Section
680. Writs of, may issue from supreme and dis
trict conrt.
690. DMrict court, jurisdiction of.
691. To wh.im uiul for w'nit mandate may issue.
6fti. U >w Issu ■ 1 an.l made retu^n-ilde.
69*1. Viisf writ nrny be alternative or peremptory.
691. I — Ik's unptj return tiierl as civil .-iciion.
69o. When plaintll! in:iy recover dani'itrc-.
89 >. Court mayenlan;,' timeof return and plead
ing. <'tc.
HOT. Oh dieuce to enforce smell writs, bow enforced.
I'/K Writ* of prohibition, what toe >min:iud.
iKi'l. Whnt judgment may be rendered.
7(10. Costs.
701. Appeal and writ of error.
SEC. 689. Writs of mandate and prohibition may issue from the su
preme and district courts of the territory, but such writs shall issue
from the supreme court only when necessary for the exercise of its func
tions and powers. In the district court the writ may be made returnable
either in the term time or vacation and may be tried before the
jud^e of said court, in like manner and with like effect as in term time.
SEC. 690. The district court, or judge thereof, of the county wherein
the defendant, if a public officer or body, exercise his or its functions, or
if a private person or corporation, wherein such person resides or may
be found, or such private corporation might be sued in an action, shall
have exclusive jurisdiction of the proceeding, except that the supreme
court shall have jurisdiction in all cases where it may be necessary or
proper to enable such court to maintain appellate jurisdiction.
Sec. 691. Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior court, cor
poration, board, officer or person, to compel the performance of an act
which the law specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust
or station. But though the writ may require such court, corporation,
board, officer or person, to exercise its or his judgment, or proceed to
the discharge of any of its or his functions, it shall not control judicial
discretion. The writ shall not be issued in any case where there is any
other plain and adequate remedy.
Sec. 692. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and motion, and shall
be attested and sealed, and made returnable as the court shall direct, and
the person, body, or tribunal, to whom the same, shall be directed and'
delivered, shall make return, and for neglect to do so, shall be proceeded
against as. for contempt.
SEC. 693. The first writ shall be in the alternative or peremptory, as
the court shall direct.
Sec. 694. Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ, issues of
law and fact may be joined, and like proceedings shall be had for the
trial of issues and rendering judgment as in civil actions.
Sec. 695. In case a verdict shall be found for plaintifff when the writ
is in the alternate, or it judgment be given for him, he shall recover
damages as in an iiction for a false return, against the party. making the
return, and a peremptory writ shail be granted without delay.
Sec. 696. The i-otirt shall have the same power to enlarge the time of
making a return and pleading to such writ, and for filing any subsequent
pleadings, and to continue such cause, as in civil actions.
Sec. 697. Obedience to such writ may be enforced by attachment and
fine and imprisonment, or both.
Sec. 698. The writ of prohibition shall command the court or party
to whom it shall be directed, to refrain from any further proceedings in
the matter therein specified, until the return ot the writ and the further
order of the court thereon, and upon the return, to show cause why they
shall not be absolutely restrained from further proceeding in the matter.
Sec. 699. The court shall render judgment either that a prohibition
absolute, restraining the court and party proceeding in the matter, do
issue, or authorizing the court and party to proceed in the matter in
question. ]
Sec. 700. Costs shall l>e awarded in these proceedings as in civil actions.
Sec. 701. From the judgment of the district court or judge thereof,
refusing or directing such writs, an appeal or writ of error may be tuken
to the supreme court in like manner and efiect as in civil actions.
CHAPTER LX.
IN FORMATION.
Section
Tfti. Against whom may be filed.
708. Bv whom it mav be filed.
704. Of what to consist.
705. When against pnrtv usurping office.
706. Notice by relator, delault and subsequent
proceedings.
707. Judgment where office contested.
708. Judgment for relator, hip rights.
709. Court mav enforce its order.
Section
710, Limitation of action for damages.
711. When defendant guilty, judgment; and
herein ol corporations.
Tl'-*. Collection of costs against, corporation.
ill. Of property forieited to Territory.
'11. Liability for costs.
ril5. To annul or vacate patents, deeds, etc.
*10. Dy whom maybe Hied.
Sec. 702. An information may be lil'.d against any person or corpora
tion in the following cases:
1. "When any person shall usurp, intrude upon, or unlawfully hold or
exercise any public office or franchise within the territory, or any office
in any corporation created by the authority 0f the territory.
2. When any public officer shall have done or suffered any act,
which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office.
3. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or fran
chise, one information may be Hied against any or all such persons in or
der to try* their respective rights to the office or franchise.
4. When any association or number of persons shall act within this
territory as a corporation, without being legally incorporated.
5. Or where any corporation do, or omit acts which amount to a sur
render or a forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or
where they exercise powers not conferred by law.
Sec. 703. The information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney in.
the district court of the proper county, upon his own relation, whenever
he shall deem it his duty to do so, or shall be directed by the court or
other competent authority, or by any other person on his own relation,
whenever he claims an interest in the office, franchise or corporation
which is the subject of the information.
Sec. 704. The information shall consist of a plain statement of the
facts which constitute the grounds of the proceedings, addressed to the
cou rt.
Sec. 705. Whenever an information shall be filed against a person for
usurping an office, by the prosecuting attorney, he shall also set forth
therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with an
averment of his right thereto; and when filed by any other person he
shall show his jnterest in the matter, and he may claim the damages he
.has sustained.
Sec. 706. Whenever an information is filed, a notice signed by the re
lator shall be served and returned, jib in other ac'ions. The defendant
shall appear and answer, or suffer default, and subsequent proceeding
be had as in other ca.-es.
Sec. 707. In every case wherein the right to an office is contested, judg
ment shall be rendered upon the rights of the parties, and for the dam
ages the relator may show himself entitled to, if any, at the time of the
judgment.
Sioc. 7(18. If judgment be rendered in favor of the relator, he shall
proceed to exercise the functions of the office, after he has been qualified
as required by law, and the court shall order the defendant to deliver over
all books and papers in his custody or within his power, belonging to the
office from which he has been ousted.
Sec. 7(19. It' the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver over the
books and papers pursuant to the order, the court or judge thereof shall
enforce the order by attachment and imprisonment.
Sec. 710. When judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintifff, he
may, if he has not claimed his damages in the information, have his ac
tion for the damages at any time within one year after the judgment.
Sec. 711. Whenever any defendant shall be found guilty of any usur
pation of or intrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any office or fran
chise within this territory, or any office in any corporation created by the
authority of this territory, or when an}' public officer thus charged shall
be found guilty of having done or suffered any act which by the provis
ions of the law shall work a forfeiture of his office, or when any associa
tion or number of persons shall lie found « 1 1 i 1 t_y of having acted as a cor
poration without having been legally incorporated, the court shall give
judgment of ouster against the defendant or defendants, and exclude him
or them from the office, franchise or corporate rights, and in case of cor
porations that the same shall be dissolved, and the court shall adjudge
costs in favor of the plaintifff.
Sec. 712. If judgment be rendered against any corporation or against
any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs
to be collected by executions against the persons claiming to be a cor
poration or by attachment against the directors or other officers of
the corporation, and shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of
its property and effects, take an account and make a distribution thereof
among the creditors. The prosecuting attorney shall immediately insti
tute proceedings for that purpose.
Seo. 713. Whenever any property shall be forfeited to the territory
for its use, the legal title shall be deemed to be in the territory from the
time of the forfeiture, and an information may be filed by the prosecut
ing attorney in the district court for the recovery of the property, alleg
ing the ground on which the recovery is claimed, and like proceedings
and judgment shall be had as in civil action for the recovery of the
property.
Sec. 714. When an information is filed by the prosecuting attorney,
he shall not be liable for the costs, but when it is filed upon the relation
of a private person such person shall be liable for costs unless the same
are adjudged against the defendant.
Sec. 715. An information may be prosecuted for the purpose of annul
ling or vacating any letters patent, certificate or deed, granted by the
proper authorities of this territory, when there is reason to believe that
the same were obtained by fraud or through mistake or ignorance of a
material fact, or when the patentee or those claiming under him have
done or omitted an act in violation of the terms on which the letters,
deeds or certificates wero granted, or have by any other means forfeited
the interests acquired under the same.
Sec. 71*5. In such cases, the information may be filed by the prosecutingattorney
upon his relation, or by any private person upon his relation
showing his interest in the subject matter; and the subsequent proceed
ings, judgment of the court and awarding of costs, shall conform to the
above provisions, and such letters patent, deed or certificate shall be an
nulled or sustained, according to the right of the case.
CHAPTER LXI.
ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS.
Sectiox Section
717. Action by, for (Inmates in causing death of 721. When inventor}' may be avoided or contraperson.
71S. Survivorship of actions.
719. If several executors sued considered one
\> ir«-jn.
720. Failure to answer shull only charge with
assets, when.
dieted.
7*^3. Liability of executor of his own wrong.
7.>}. Authority of an executor.
724. Arrest and attachment of executors, etc.
not allowed for acts of testator and iutostate .
Seo. 717. When the death of a person is caused by the wrongful act
or omission of another, the personal representatives of the former may
maintain an action at law therefore against the latter, rf the former mi "lit
have maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter, for an injury
caused by the same act or omission. Such action shall he commenced
within two years after the death, and the damages therein shall not ex
ceed live thousand dollars, and the amount recovered, if any, shall be ad
ministered as other personal property of the deceased person.
Sec. 718. All other causes of action by one person agaiust another,
whether arising on contract or otherwise, survive to the personal repre
sentatives of the former and against the personal representatives of the
latter. Where the cause of action survives as herein provided, the exec
utors or administrators may maintain an action at law thereon against,
the party against whom the cause of action accrued, or after his death
against his personal representatives.
Sec. 71!*. In au action against several executors or administrators, they
shall all be considered as one person representing their testator or intes
tate, and judgment may be given and execution issued against all of
them who are defendants in the action, although the notice be served
only on part of them in the same manner and with like effect as if served
on all, except as provided in the next section.
Sec.' 720. When a judgment is given against an executor or adminis
trator for want of answer, such judgment is not to be deemed evidence
of assets in his hands, unless it appear that the complaint alleged assets
and that the notice was served upon him.
Sec. 721. In an action against executors and administrators, in which
the fact of their having administered the estate of their testator or intes
tate, or any part thereof, is put in issue and the inventory of the prop
erty of the deceased returned by them is given in evidence, the same
may be contradicted or avoided by evidence:
1. That any property has been omitted in such inventory or was not
returned therein at its full value, or that since the return thereof such
property has increased in value.
2. That such property has perished or been lost without the fault of
such executors or admistrators, or that it has been fairly and duly sold by
them at a less price than the value so returned, or that since the return
of the inventory such property has deteriorated in value. In such ac
tion the defendants cannot be charged for any things in action specified
in their inventory, unless it appear that they have been collected or with
due diligence might have been.
Sec. 722. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own wrong
for having taken, received or interfered with the property of a deceased
person, but is responsible to the executors or administrators of such de
ceased person for the value ot all property so taken or received, and for
all injury caused by his interference with the estate of the deceased.
Sec. 723. An executor of an executor has no authority as such to com
mence or maintain an action or proceeding relating to the estate of the
testator of the first executor, or to take any charge or control thereof.
Sec. 724-. In an action against an executor or administrator as such,
the remedies of arrest and attachment shall not be allowed on account of
the acts of his testator or intestate, but for his own acts as such executor
or administrator, such remedies shall be allowed for tlie same causes in
the manner and with like effect as in actions at law generally.
CHAPTER LXIT.
CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENT.
Section
Section
7i~». W;vitacts or omissions arc deemed.
72rt. Powers of court to punish.
7*J7. In presence of court, how punished.
72S. la other e:is>s, proce lure.
7-i>. If in -.''lst > lv in iv !>• p.-o Ili'oI to answer.
730. T'-ritor.' j>1 iiiui:f. wii > ;>- >-*ojur,;s action.
731. Wirrant for arresr. hail, of.
732. Return of sheriff and proceedings.
V i'». tie-irin<» and Kentonce.
7:H. In Imnnity to party injured maybe given
in ju^Uiiien t.
7:V>. Partv may be- imprisoned until he performs.
7*». Liable aWo to indictment if act bo indictable.
737. Alias warrant if party tail? to appear.
7-iS. Kii^at of appeal prescribed.
Sec. 725. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of jus
tice or proceedings therein, are deemed to be contempts of court:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge
while holding the court, lending to impair its authority, or to interrupt
the due course of a trial or other judicial proceedings.
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding.
3. Misbehavior in oth'ce or other willful neglect or violation of duty by
an attorney, clerk, sheriff or ^other person appointed or selected toperform
a judicial or ministerial service.
4. Deceit, abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by a party
to an action, suit or special proceeding.
5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, decree, order or process of
the court.
6. Assuming to be an attorney or other officer of the court, and acting
as such without authority in a particular instance.
7. Rescuing any person or property in the lawful custody of an offi
cer, held by such officer under an order or process of such court.
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action, suit or pro
ceeding, while going to, remaining at or returning from the court where
the same is for trial.
' 9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings of
a court.
10. Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be'sworn
or answer as a witness.
11. When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly conversing
with a party to an action, suit or proceeding to be tried at such court, or
with any other person in relation to the merits of such action, suit or
proceeding, or receiving a communication from a party or other person
in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same to the court.
12. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer, of the
lawful judgment, decree, order or process of a superior court, or proceed
ing in an action, suit or proceeding, contrary to law, after such action,
suit or proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction of such
inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer.
Sec. 72(5. Every court of justice, and every judicial officer has power
to punish contempt by fine or imprisonment, or both. But such tine
shall not exceed three hundred dollars, nor the imprisonment six months;
and when the contempt is not of those mentioned in sub-divisions one
and two ot the last section, it must appear that the right or remedy of a
party to an action, suit or proceeding was' defeated or prejudiced thereby,
before the contempt can be punished otherwise than by a line not exceed
ing one hundred dollars.
SEC. 727. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and
presence of the court or officer, it may be punished summarily, for which
an order must be made reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate
view and presence, determining that the person proceeded against is
thereby guilty of contempt, and that he be punished as therein pre
scribed.
SEC. 72S. In cases other than those mentioned in the preceding section,
before any proceedings can be taken therein, the facts constituting the
contempt must be shown by an affidavit presented to the court or judicial
officer, and thereupon such court or officer may either make an order
upon the person charged to show cause why he should not be arrested to
answer, or issue a warrant of arrest to bring such person to answer in
the first instance.
SEC. 729. If the party charged be in custody of an officer by virtue of
a legal order or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence for a
felony, an order may be made for the production of such person by the
officer having him in custody that he may answer, and he shall there
upon be produced and held until an order be made for his disposal.
Skc 730. In the proceeding for a contempt, the territory is the plain
tiff. In all 'cases of public interest, the proceeding may be prosecuted
by the district attorney on behalf of the territory, and in all cases where
the proceeding is commenced upon the relation of a private party, such
party shall be deemed a co-plaintifff with the territory.
SEC. 731. Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued pursuant to this chapter, the court or judicial officer shall direct therein whether the per
son charged may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant,
or detained in custody without bail, and if he may be bailed, the amount
in which he ma}' be let to bail. Upon executing the warrant of arrest,
the sheriff must keep the person in actual custody, bring him before the
court or judicial officer and detain him until an order be made in the
premises, unless the person arrested execute and deliver to the sheriff, at
any time before the return day of the warrant, a bond with two sufficient
sureties, to the effect that he will appear on such return day and abide
the order or judgment of the court or officer thereupon.
SEC. 732. The sheriff shall return the warrant of arrest and the bond,
if any, given hiin by the defendant, by the return day therein specified.
When the defendant has been brought up or appeared, the court or judi
cial officer shall proceed to investigate the charge by examining such de
fendant and witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may
be had from time to time, if necessary.
SEC. 733. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or judicial officer shall
determine whether or not the defendant is guilty ot the contempt
charged; and, if it be determined that he is so guilty, shall sentence him
to be punished as provided in this chapter.
SEC. 734. If any loss or injury to a party in an action, suit or proceed
ing prejudicial to his rights therein, have been caused by the contempt,
the court or judicial efficer, in addition to the punishment imposed for
the contempt, may give judgment that the party aggrieved recover of
the defendant a sum of money sufficient to indemnify him, and to satisfy
his costs and disbursements, which judgment, and the acceptance of the
amount thereof, is a bar to any action, suit or proceeding by the aggrieved
party for such loss or injury.
SEC. 735. When the contempt consists in the omission or refusal to
Eerform an act which is yet in the power of the defendant to perform,
e may be imprisoned until he shall have performed it, and in such case
the act must be specified in the warrant of commitment.
Sec. 736. Persons proceeded .against according to the provisions of
tliis chapter, are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it
be an indictable offense, but the court before which a conviction is had
on the indictment, in passing sentence shall take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted.
Sec. 737. When the warrant of arrest has been returned served, if
the defendant do not appear on the return day, the court or judicial offi
cer may issue another warrant of arrest, or may order the bond to be
prosecuted, or both. If the bond be prosecuted and the aggrieved
party join in the action, and the sum specified therein be recovered, so
much thereof as will compensate such party for the loss or injury sus
tained by reason of the misconduct for which the warrant was issued,
shall be deemed to be recovered for such party exclusively.
Sec. 73S. Either party to a judgment in a proceeding for a contempt,
may appeal therefrom in like manner and with like effect as from judg
ment in an action, but such appeal shall not have the effect to stav the
proceedings in any other action, suit or proceeding, or upon any judg
ment, decree or order therein, concerning which, or wherein such con
tempt was committed. Contempts of justices' courts are punishable in
the manner specially provided for in the '"act relating to justices of the
peace and to their practice and jurisdiction"
CHAPTER LXIII.
SUITS ON FOREIGN JUDGMENTS.
Section
739. Of judgments In other state or territory,
except where personal service.
Section
74U. In such cnsen, same defense may be made
aH in original proceedings.
Sec. 739. Judgment for debt rendered in any state or other ter
ritory, against any person or persons residents of this territory at the
time of the rendition of such judgment, shall not be of any higher
character as evidence of indebtedness than the original claim or demand
upon which such judgment is rendered, unless such judgment shall be
rendered upon personal service of summons, notice or other due process
against the defendant therein.
Sec. 740. The same defense to suits on judgments rendered without
Buch personal service may be made by the judgment debtor, which
might have been set up in the original proceeding.
Sec. 741. Pleadings sworn to by either party in any case shall not, on
the trial, be deemed proof of the facts alleged therein, nor require other
or greater proof on the part of the adverse party.
Sec. 742. When a new party is introduced into an action, as a repre
sentative or successor of a former party, such new party is entitled to
the same notice, to be given in the same manner, as required for defend
ants in the commencement of an action,
Sec. 743. The time within which an act is to be done, as herein pro
vided, shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including the
last. If the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded.
Sec 744. All process issuing out of the district court shall be directed
to the sheriff of the county in which it is to be served, and be by him
executed according to law.
Sec 745. When there is no sheriff of a county, or he is disqualified
from any cause from discharging any particular duty, it shall be lawful
for the officer or person commanding or desiring the discharge of that
duty, to appoint some suitable person, a citizen of the county, to execute
the same: Provided. That final process shall in no case be executed by
any other person than the legally authorized officer; or in case he is dis
qualified, some suitable person appointed by the court, or judge thereof,
out of which the process issues, who shall make such appointment in
writing; and before such appointment shall take effect, the person so
appointed shall give security to the party interested for the faithful per
formance of his duties, which bond of suretyship shall be in writing, be
approved by the court or judge appointing him, and be placed on file
with the papers in the case.
Sec. 740. In all cases where notice is required by this code it shall be
in writing, and must be duly served upon the party. If served by an
officer whose duty it is to serve process, his return shall be sufficient. It
may be served, however, when not otherwise especially provided herein,
by any disinterested person; in which event, proof of service must be
established by the affidavit of the person making such service: Provided,
The written admission of service of the party, his agent or attorney, shall
be equivalent to personal service.
Sec 747. Every charge of incest, fornication, adultery, or whoredom,
falsely made by any person against a female; also words falsely spoken
of any person charging such person with incest or the infamous crime
against nature, either with mankind or the brute creation, shall be ac
countable in the same manner as in the case of slanderous words charg
ing a crime, the commission of which would subject the offender to death
or other degrading penalties.
Sec. 748. Every court and officer authorized to take any bail or surety,
shall have power to examine on oath the person offering to become such
bail or surety, concerning his property, and sufficiency as such bail or
surety.
Sec. 749. No bond required by law, and intended as such bond, shall
be void for want of form or substance, recital, or condition; nor shall the
principal or surety on such account be discharged, but all the parties
thereto shall be held and bound to the full extent contemplated by the
law requiring the same, to the amount specified in such bond. In all
actions, on such defective bond, the plaintifff may state its legal effect, in
the same manner as though it were a perfect bond.
Sec. 750. Any person required to give bail, may deposit with the clerk
the amount of money for which he is required to give bail, and thereup
on be discharged from arrest.
Sec. 751. When a defendant in execution owns real estate subject to
execution, jointly or in common with any other person, the judgment
shall be a lien, and the executiou be levied upon the interest of the de
fendant only.
Sec. 752. "When he owns personal property jointly, or in co-partner
ship with any other person, and the interest cannot be separately attach
ed, the sheriff shall take possession of the property, unless the other
person having an interest therein shall give the sheriff a sufficient bond,
with surety, to hold and manage the property according to law; and the
sheriff shall then proceed to sell the interest of the defendant in such
property, describing such interest in his advertisement as nearly as may
be, and the purchaser shall acquire all the interest of such defendant
therein; but nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to deprive
the co-partner of any such defendant of his interest in any such prop
erty.
Sec. 753. Any party having a judgment upon any justice's docket,
upon which an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and no property
found, may take a transcript of such judgment and return it to the clerk
of the district court embracing his county, and upon making affidavit
that the defendant has real estate in any county of said district subject
to execution, the clerk shall enter the judgment in the execution docket,
in the same manner as judgments of the district court, and thereafter it
shall stand and execution be issued thereon as upon the judgment of the
district court. A transcript thereof shall, as in other judgments, be re
corded by the county auditor and remain a lien upon real estate in the
county where so recorded.
CHAPTEK LXV.
OF CONSTRUCTION.
Section
754. ■•District" snd "county" convertible terms.
755. Of the term "officer."
756. Of words importing number and gender.
757. Actions commenced to conform to this code,
758. This code to be liberally construed.
759. The word "month" a calendar month.
Section
7ti0. Accrued rights not affected by provisions of
this code ; effect of.
761. When same as existing statutes not new
enactments.
772. What laws are repealed.
763. Effect of this code.
Sec. 754. For all necessary purposes connected with the district court
each district shall be considered and held to be but one county; and when
ever in this code the words district or county occur, the same may be ren
dered county or district, as may be necessary: Provided, That nothing
herein contained shall be construed to confer jurisdiction upon county
officers or extend their powers beyond the limits of their counties.
Sec. 755. Whenever any term indicating an officer is used it shall be
construed, when required, to mean any person authorized by law to dis
charge the duties of such officer.
Sec. 756. "Words importing the singular number only may also be ap
plied to the plural of persons and things, and words importing the mas
culine gender only, may be extended to. females also.
Sec. 757. In actions already commenced, the pleadings to be had to
form issues, the manner of procuring testimony, [the examination of parties]
the trial and rendition of judgment and all proceedings, shall conform
to the provisions of this code as far as practicable.
Sec. 758. The provisions of this code shall be liberally construed, and
shall not be limited by any rule of strict construction.
Sec. 759. That the word "month" or "months" whenever the same
occurs in the statutes of this territory now in force, or in statutes here
after enacted or in any contract made in this territory shall be taken and
construed to mean calendar.
Sec. 760. No action or proceeding commenced before this code takes
effect, and no right accrued, is affected by its provisions; but the pro
ceedings therein must conform to the requirements of this code as far
as applicable.
Sec. 761. The provisions of this code, so far as they are substantially
the same as existing statutes, must be construed as continuations there
of, and not as new enactments.
Sec. 762. No statute law, or rule is continued in force because it is
consistent with the provisions of this code on the 6ame subject; but
in all cases provided for by this code, all statutes, laws and rules
heretofore in force in this territory, whether consistent or not with the
provisions of this code, unless expressly continued in force by it, are re
pealed and abrogated.
Sec. 763. This repeal, or abrogation, does not revive any former law
heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any rights already existing or ac
crued, or any action or proceeding already taken, except as in this code
provided; nor does it affect any private statute not expressly repealed.
Sec. 1297. There shall be elected at the next general election, and
every two years thereafter in each county in this territory, one suitable
person, who shall have the qualifications of an elector, who shall be styled
the judge of the probate court, and the court hereby constituted shall be
called the probate court, and -such judge shall hold his office, for two
years, and until his successor is duly elected and qualified. The county
auditors shall certify the name of the person elected to the governor of the
territory, who shall thereupon commission said person judge of the pro
bate court of the county for which he may have been elected.
Sec. 1298. Every person elected judge of the probate court shall, at
the time of filing his oath of office, enter into a bond' with the territory
of Washington, with two or more sureties, residents of his county, to be
approved by the board of county commissioners of his county, in a sum
of not less than one thousand nor more than ten thousand dollars, to be
fixed by the said county commissioners, conditioned that he will well and
faithfully perform the duties of his office and pay over according to law
any and all monies that may come into his hands as such judge.
Sec. 1299. The said probate court shall have and possess the following
powers:
1. Exclusive original jurisdiction within their respective counties in
all cases relative to the probate of last wills and testaments.
■ 2. The granting of letters testamentary and of administration, and re
voking the same.
3. The appointment and displacing guardians of orphans, minors and
of persons of unsound mind, and the binding of apprentices.
4. In the settlement and allowance of accounts of executors, adminis
trators and guardians.
5. To hear and determine all disputes and controversies between mas
ters and their apprentices.
6. To allow or reject claims against estates of deceased persons as
hereinafter provided.
7. To award process and cause to come before said court all and every
person or persons whom they may deem necessary to examine, whether
parties or witnesses, or who, as executors, administrators or guardians or
otherwise, shall be entrusted with, or in any way be accountable for any
lands, tenements, goods or chattels belonging to any minor, orphan or
person of unsound mind, or estate of any deceased person, with full pow
er to administer oaths and affirmations and examine any person touching
any matter of controversy before said court or in the exercise of its jur
isdiction.
8. The said court shall provide and keep a suitable seal, that the court
established by this act shall be a court of record, and shall keep just and
faithful records of its proceedings and shall have power to issue any and
all writs which ma}- be necessary to the exercise of its jurisdiction.
SEC. 1300. There shall be kept in each of the probate courts of this
territory the following books of record, that is to say:
First. A journal in which shall be entered all orders decrees and judg
ments made by the court or the jud;;e thereof and the minutes of the
court.
Second. A record of wills in which shall be recorded all wills admitted
to probate.
Third. A record of letters testamentary and of administration in which
all letters testamentary and of administration shall be recorded.
Fourth. A record of bonds in which all bonds and obligations re
quired by law to be approved by the probate court or judge shall be re
corded. •
Fifth. A record of petitions in which all petitions for orders of sale of
real estate shall he recorded.
Sixth. A record of claims in which [at least] one page shall be given to
each estate or case wherein shall be entered under the title of each estate
or case in separate columns properly ruled: (1) The names of claimants
against the estate; (2) the date of filing proof of claim; (3) the amount
claimed; (4) the amount al'owed; (5) the date of allowance; (f>) the na
ture ot the claim; ^7) the amount paid; (8s* number of the voucher for
each payment; ('.>) the date of filing the voucher.
Seventh. A memorandum of the files in which at least one page shall
be given to each estate, or case, wherein shall he noted each paper filed
in the case, except proof of claims and vouchers noted in record of claims
and the date of filing each paper.
Eighth. A record of marriages in which certificates-of all marriages
solemnized in the county shall be recorded.
SEC. 1301. A regular term of the probate court of each county shall
be held at the county seat thereof, commencing on the fourth Monday in
January, March, May, July, September and November in each year.
SEC. 1302. The judges of the several probate courts in the territory of
Washington may act as clerks of said court and -receive the fees for such
clerical services, or they may appoint the clerk, who shall qualify in the
same manner and be subject to the same restrictions as prescribed bylaw
for clerks of the district court, and he entitled to receive the fees and
emoluments as prescribed by law.
SEC. 1303. All process issuing out of the probate court shall be attest
ed by the clerk and sealed with the seal of the court, and shall be served
in the same manner as process issuing out of the district court.
SEC. 1304. The probate court shall have the same power and authority
under like restrictions and rules ot law to enforce and execute their or
ders, rules, judgments and decrees, as the district courts of this territory.
SEC. 1305. The said court may enforce by attachment the return of
any writ or process, and the payment of any monies over which it haa
jurisdiction, and to compel the production or delivery of any papers
which are subjects of, or necessary to its judicial action.
Sec. 1306. No judge of the probate court shall sit on the detenu i na
tion of any cause or proceeding in which he is interested, or related
within the fourth degree to either party, or in which he may have been
counsel.
Sep. 13)7. If the judgj bo disqualified, from any cause, for sitting on
the determination of any cause or preceding pending before him, the
same shall be certified with the original papers to the district court of
the district including the county, which shall proceed thereon to final
judgment and determination.
Sec. 1308. If said court shall not be held on the first day of the term,
such court shall stand adjourned from day today until the evening of the
third day. If at that time the judge shall not have appeared and opened
court, the same shall stand adjourned until the next regular term. Spe
cial adjourned terms may be held in continuation of the regular term,
upon its being so ordered by the court in term time and entered upon
the record of the court.
Sec. 1309. Each judge of probate court shall be a conservator of the
peace throughout his county.
Sec. 1310. The judges of the probate court may, at chambers, appoint
appraisers, receive inventories and accounts, to be filed in the probate
court, suspend the powers of executors, administrators or guardians, in
the cases allowed by law, grant letters of administration, or guardianship,
approve claims and bonds, and direct the issuance from the probate
court, of all writs and process necessary in the exercise of their powers.
CHAPTER XCVI.
PRACTICE IN I'KOBATE CASES.
Suction Section
1311. What citation to contain. 131.'i. How entered on record.
1312. How served. 1810. Depositions, how Ulkcn.
131:1. Service in special cases. , 1317. .May make rules.
1314. Where orders and trials to be made.
Sec 1311. Whenever personal notice is required to be given to any
party to a proceeding in the probate court, and no other mode of giving
notice is prescribed, it shall be given by citation, issued from the court,
eiened by the clerk and under the seal of the court, directed to the sheriff
of the proper county, requiring hiin to cite such person to appear before
the court or judge, as the case may be, at a time and place to be named
in such citation. In the body of the citation shall be briefly stated the
nature or character of the proceedings.
Sec. 1312. The officer to whom the citation is directed, shall serve it
by delivering a copy to the person or persons named therein, and shall
return the original to the court according to its direction, endorsing
thereon the time and maimer of service.
Sec. 1313. In all case^ in which citations are issued from the probate
court, they shall be served at least ten days before the first day of the
term, except when issued from the court in cases where the law requires
the judge to issue them upon his own motion, and he does so issue them,
and in such cases they shall be served in sufficient time to allow the per
son served to be in attendance on the court, and may be made returnable
on any day of the term.
Sec. 1314. All orders, settlements, trials and other proceedings en
trusted by this act to the probate court, shall be had or made in the
county in which letters testamentary, or of administration, were granted.
SEC. 1315. All orders and decrees made by the probate court during
its term, shall be entered at length on the records of the court, and also
all orders which the judge is empowered to make out of the term time,
and which are bv this act especially required to be so entered, and upon
the close of each term the judge shall sign the minutes ot the proceed
ings.
Sec. 1316. In ail matters pending in the probate court where the de
position of a witness or witnesses becomes necessary, said court, or the
judge thereof, shall issue a commission lor taking the same, in likemanner
and with like restrictions as are prescribed in the civil practice act.
And any or all such depositions lawfully taken upon any issue pending
in the probate court may be used on an appeal to the district court.
Sec. 1317. Probate courts may make rules in their discretion to regu
late the transaction of business in accordance with the foregoing section.
CHAPTER XCVII.
WILLS, AND ROLES APPLICABLE To AND GOVERNING THEIR CONSTRUCTION.
Section I Section
1318. Who competent to make wills. 'TWO. Proof of nuncupative will.
1311). Requisite* ami execution of a will. .1331. Legacy to subscribing witness, wheu void,
132<>. When testator's name be signet! by another. but a charge to pay creditors does not ren13-21.
How written will revoked. der creditors incompetent.
1322. When subsequent marriage works revocation. , 1331. When attesting witness, heir at law, as well
1323. flood, etc.. to convey properly not revocation. as devisee, and if weli established, what
1323. Devisee takes subject to. shall receive.
1324. Charge or encumbrance of estate not revoca- 1332. Estate conveyed by a devise in will.
tion. and estate subject to encumbrance. 1433. Estates for life, created by will, remainder to
132.). Of children of testators, not provided tor in revert to heirs at law of testator.
will. 1334. Of estate acquired subsequent to execution
132'). Last section inoperative, if advancements of will.
made by testator. 1*35. When contribution to be matle by devisees
132T. Of devise, if devisee dies before testator. and legatees.
1328. How far cancelling said will, etc., niav re- 133ti. Such contribution enforced by court.
vive first 1337. Codicils included ill term " will."
1329. Nuncupative will, when deemed good. 183M. Will and intent of testator to be regarded.
132!'- Of wages of mariners and soldiers. , 1339. Words and terms deiined.
Sec. 1318. Everv person who shall have attained the age of majority,
of sound mind, may by last will devise all his or her estate, real and
personal.
Sec. 1319. Every will shall he in writing, signed by the testator or
testatrix, or by some other person under his or her direction in his pres
ence, and shall be attested by two or more competent witnesses, subscrib
ing their names to the will in the presence of the ^testator.
Sec. 1S2U. Every person who shall sign the testator's or testatrix's
uaine to any will by his or her direction, shall subscribe his own name
as a witness to such will, and state that hesubscribed the testator's name
at his request.
Sec. 1321. No will in writing, except in cases hereinafter mentioned,
nor any part thereof, shall be revoked except by a subsequent will in
■writing, or by burning, canceling, tearing or oblitering the sam*', by the
testator or testatrix, or in his or her presence, or by his or her consent
or direction.
Sec. 1322. If, after making any will, the testator shall marry and the
wife shall be living at the time of the death of the testator, such will
shall be deemed revoked, unless provision shall have been made for her
by marriage settlement, or unless she be provided for in the will, or in
such way mentioned therein as to show an intention not to make such
provision, and no other evidence to rebut the presumption of revocation
shall be received.
Sec. 1323. A bond, covenant or agreement made for a valuable con
sideration by a testator to convey any property, devised or bequeathed in
any last will previously made, shall not be deemed a revocation of such
previous devit-e or bequest, but such property shall pass by the devise or
bequest, subject to the same remedies on such bond, covenant or agree
ment, for specific performance or otherwise, against devisees or legatees,
as might be had by law against the heirs of the testator or his next of
kin, if the same had descended to him.
Sec. 132-4. A charge or encumbrance upon any real or personal estate
for the purpose of securing the payment of money, or the performance
of any covenant or agreement, shall not be deemed a revocation of any
will relating to the same estate, previously executed. The devises and
legacies therein contained shall pass and take effect, subject to such
charge or encumbrance.
Sec. 132.5. If any pprson make his last will and die, leaving a child or
children, or descendants of such child or children, in case of their death,
not named or provided for in such will, although born after the making
of such will, or the death of the testator, every such testator so far as he
shall regard such child or children or their descendants, not. provided for,
shall be deemed to die intestate, and such child or children or their descend
ants, shall be entitled to such proportion of the estate of the testator, real
arid personal, as if he had died intestate, and the same shall be assigned
to them and all the other heirs, devisees and legatees shall refund their
proportional part.
Sec. 132b\ If such child or children, or their descendants, shall have an
equal proportion of the testator's estate bestowed on them in the testa
tor's lifetime, by way of advancement, they shall take nothing by virtue
of the provisions of the preceding sections.
Skc 1327. When any estate shall 'be devised to any child, grandchild
or other relative of the testator, and such devisee shall die before the
testator, leaving lineal descendants, such descendants shall take the estate,
real and personal, as such devisee would have done in case he had sur
vived the testator.
SEC. 1328. Il, after making any will, the testator shall duly make and
execute a second will, the destruction, canceling or revocation of such
second will shall not revive the first will unless it appears by the terms
of such revocation that it was his intention to revive and give effect to
the first will, or unless he shall duly republish his first will.
SEC. 1329. No nuncupative will shall be good when the estate be
queathed exceeds the value of two hundred dollars, unless the same be
proved by two witnesses, who were present at the making thereof, and it
le proven that the testator, at the time of pronouncing the same, did
bid some person present to bear witness that such was his will, or to that
effect, and such nuncupative will was made at the time of the last sick
ness, and at the dwelling house of the deceased, or where he had been
residing tor the space of ten days or more, except where such person was
taken sick from home and died before his return. Nothini; herein con
tained shall prevent any mariner at sea, or soldier in tlie military service
from disposing of his wages or other personal property by nuncupative
will.
Sec. 1330. No proof shall be received of any nuncupative will, unless
it be offered within six months after speaking the testamentary words,
nor unless the words, or the substance thereof, be first committed to
writing, and a citation issue'd to the widow or next of kin of the deceased
that they may contest the will if they think proper.
Sec. 1381. All beneficial devises, legacies and gifts whatever, made or
given in an}- will to a subscribing witness thereto, shall be void unless
there are two other competent witnesses to the same, but a mere charge
on the estate of the testator for the payment of debts shall not prevent
his creditors from being competent witnesses to his will. If such wit
ness, to whom any beneficial devise, legacy or gift may have been made
or given, would have been entitled to any share in the testator's estate,
in case the will is not established, then so much of the estate as would
have descended or would have been distributed to such witness, shall be
saved to him, as will not exceed the value of the devise or bequest made
to him in the will; and he may recover the same from the devisees or leg
atees named in the will in proportion to and out of the parts devised and
bequeathed to him.
Sec. 1332. Every devise of land in any will shall be construed to con
vey all the estate of the devisor therein, which he could lawfullj' devise,
unless it shall clearly appear by the will that he intended to convey a
less estate.
Sec. 1333. If any person, by last will, devise any real estate to any
person for the term of such person's life, such devise vests in the devisee
an estate for life, and without the remainder is specially devised tu the
heirs of said devisee, it shall revert to the heirs at-law of the testator.
Sec. 1334. Any estate, rights or interest in lands acquired by the testa
tor after the making of his or her will, shall pass thereby, and in like man
lier as if it passed at the time of making the will, if such shall mani
festly appear by the will to have been the intention of the testator.
Sec. 1335. When, any testator in his last will .-hall give any chattel or
real estate to any person, and the same shall be taken in execution for
the payment of the testator's debts, then all the other legatees, devisees
and heirs, shall refund their proportional part of such loss to such per
son from whom the bequest shall be taken.
Sec. 1330. When any devisees, legatees or heirs shall be required to
refund any part of the estate received by them, for the purpose of mak
ing up the share, devise or legacy of any other devisee, legatee or heir,
the probate court, upon the petition of the person entitled to contribu
tion or distribution of such estate, may order the same to be made, and
enforce such order.
Sec. 1337. The term "will," as used in this act, shall be so construed
as to include all codicils attached to any will.
Sec. 1338. All courts and others concerned in the execution of last
wills, shall lun e due regard to the direction ot the will, and the true in
tent and meaning of the testator in all matters brought before them.
Sec. 133!). Words in this chapter contained, or in this act which im part the singular number only, may also be applied to the plural of per
sons and things, and words imparting the masculine gender only, may
be extended to females also when such construction shall be necessary.
CHAPTER XCVIII.
VENUE.
Suction I Section
1*1". In what cuntr will to be proved, etc. lor died out of Territory.
1341. Ifestate in more than one county, and testa- [
Seo. 1340. Wills shall be proved and letters testamentary or of admin
istration shall be granted:
1. In the county of which deceased was a resident or had his place of
abode at the time of his death.
2. In the county in which he may have died, leaving estate therein,
and not being a resident of the territory.
3. In the county in which any- part of his estate may be, he having
died out of the territory, and not having been a resident thereof at the
time of his death.
Slit'. 134L. When the estate of the deceased is in more than one county,
he having died out ot the territory, and not having been a resident
thereof at the time of his death, the probate court of that county in
which application is first made for letters testamentary or of administra
tion, shall have exclusive jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate.
CHAPTER XCIX.
OF TIIK PKOOF OF WILLS.
Skctiov Section "
l'M^. Wilhin what rime will to be delivered to court. deuce.
1343. Within what time executor to present will to 135?v Record of will and exemplification to be recourt, ceived a? evidence.
1344. O'Hy of executor declining to act. or intend- 1339. When landa deviled arc in different counties,
in^ to accent. copy of will to be recorded in each county;
1343. Peunlty for violating the foroeoinir sections. in what olllce. and within what time.
134ri. F.xceutor not having will, may petition court ' 13W. Wills may he contested wilhin one year; reto
have same produced. jcllon" proceeding in such ca8".
13-47. Anv person having an interest in will may 1361. Upon tilinsof petition, a citation shall Issue
petition in like manner. to the executors, etc.
1*1*:. Co !•: ma.i i ipel production of will. < 13W. After one year, probate or rejection linal.
1:U!1. Applications for probate, etc., may be made 13t>3. Oath ol witness at time of probate when adiu vacation, missuble on trials respecting validity of
13V>. Reception ot proof and certitlcate of probate will.
or rejection. 1:104. Will and probate thereof, when k> be annulled
1:131. Court ni.iy issue commission tolakc testimony and revoked.
of aiwent witness. i:ifi.">. I'pou revocation, power* ot executor to cease.
1332. Testimony before commission same force as if 13<»5. Not liuole lol acts ilone previous to service of
taken belore court. written notice; of intention to content.
1353. Wte'i handwriting of testator and absent IHflfl. Fees, etc.. by whom to be paid.
witnesses, etc., may be proved. 13(17. When will shall be lost or destroyed, its exo1334.
Win ii witnesses dead, resideuco unknown. cnlion mav be proved.
etc.. proof. lSoH. When will established, duly of the probate
1333. Te-iimonv- to l>e reduced to writing, signed court.
and certified. IShH Restraint of administrators, etc., during pelid1
tvi. Wiiis to be recorded and originals filed. eucy of application to prove a lost or do1337. Wills properly proved, may bo read as evi- , stroyed will.
Sir. 1342. Any person having the custody of any will shall, within
thirty days after he shall have knowledge of the death of the testator,
deliver said will into the probate court which has jurisdiction or to the
person named in the said will as executor.
Sue. 1313. Any person named as executor in any will shall, within
thirty days after he has knowledge that he is executor, present the will,
if in his possession, to the probate court which has jurisdiction.
Skc 1344. An executor named in the will may decline to act. by tiling
a written renunciation at the time of filing said will; but if he intends
to accept, he shall present with the will a petition praying that the will
be admitted to probate and that letters testamentary be issued to him.
Sko. 1345. Any person violating the three preceding sections of this
act without reasonable excuse, shall be liable to every person interested
in the will tor damages caused by such neglect.
Sec. 1346. Any person named as an executor in a will, not having the
'same in his possession, may petition the court of proper jurisdiction for
an order to have the same produced, that it may be admitted to probate,
and that letters testamentary may be issued to him.
Sec. 1347. Any person having an interest in the will, may in like
manner present a petition praying that it may be required to be pro
duced and admitted to probate.
Sec. 1348. The said court may compel by citation and attachment any
person in whose possession any will may be, to produce it in court at
such time as the court may order.
Sec. 1349. Applications for the probate of a will, or for letters testa
mentary, may be made to the judge of the probate court in vacation and
he may also at any time issue all necessary orders and process to enforce
the production of any will.
Sec. 1350. When any will is exhibited to be proven, the court may
immediately receive the proof and grant a ceititicate of probate, or if
such will be rejected, issue a certificate of rejection.
Sec. 1351. If any witness be prevented by sickness from attending at
the time when any will may be produced for probate, or reside out of
the territory or more than thirty miles from the place where the will is
to be proven, such court may issue a commission, annexed to such will,
and directed to any judge, justice of the peace or ma3'or, or other per
son, empowering him to take and certify the attestation of such witness.
Sec. 1352. If such witness appear before such officer and make oath or
affirmation that the testator signed the writing annexed to such commis
sion, as his last will, or that some other person signed it by his direction
and in his presence, that he was of sound mind, that the witness sub
scribed his name thereto in presence of the testator, the testimony so
taken shall have the same force as if taken before the court.
Sec. 1353. Wlien one of the witnesses to such will shall be examined
and the other witnesses are dead, insane, or their residence unknown,
then such proof shall be taken of the handwriting of the testator, and of
the witnesses dead, insane, or residence unknown, and of such other cir
cumstances as would be sufficient to prove such will.
Sec. 1354. If it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that all
the subscribing witnesses are dead, insane or their residence unknown,
the court shall take and receive such proof of the handwriting of the
testator and subscribing witnesses to the will, and of such other facts
and circumstances as would be sufficient to prove such will.
Sec. 1355. All the testimony adduced in support of the will shall be
reduced to writing, signed by the witnesses and certified hy the judge of
the probate court.
Sep. 135fi. All wills shall be recorded in a book kept for that purpose,
within thirty days after probate, and the originals shall be carefully filed.
Sec. 1357. Every will proved according to the provisions of this chap
ter, recorded and certified by the judge of the probate court and attested
by the seal of said court, may be read as evidence without any further
proof.
Sec. 135S. The. record of any will made, proved and recorded as afore
said, and the exemplification of such record by the judge of probate, in
whose custody the same may be, shall be received as evidence, and shall
be as effectual, in all cases, as the original would be if produced and proven.
Sec. 1350. In all cases where lands devised by last will are situated in
different counties, a copy of such will shall be recorded in the county
auditor's office in each county within six months after probate.
Sec. 1360. If any person interested in any will shall appear within one
year after the probate or rejection thereof, and by petition to the pro
bate court having jurisdiction, contest the validity of said will, or pray
to have the will proven which has been rejected, he shall file a statement
containing his objections and exceptions to said will, or to the rejection
thereof. An issue shall be made up in said probate court respecting the
competency of the deceased to make last will and testament, or respect
ing the execution by the deceased of such last will and testament under
restraint, or undue influence, or fraudulent representations, or for any
other cause affecting the validity of such will. Such issue or issues shall,
at the request of either of the parties interested, be certified immediately
to the district court of the district which may embrace the county where
probate jurisdiction has been exercised. After the trial of such issue,
without an appeal or writ of error shall be taken in said case to the su
preme court, the district court shall remit the proceedings upon such trial,
together with the findings and decision, to the probate court. The pro
bate court shall render judgment according to the decision of the dis
trict court, or upon appeal to the supreme court, then upon the judg
ment or decision of said supreme court.
Sec. 1361. Upon the filing of the petition referred to in the next pre
ceding section, a citation shall be issued to the executors who have taken
upon them the execution of the will, or to the administrators with the
will annexed, and to all legatees named in the will residing in the terri
tory, or to their guardians, if any of them are minors, or their personal
representatives, if any of them are dead, requiring them to appear before
the court on some day of a regular term therein specified, to show cause
why the petition should not be granted.
Sec. 1362. If no person shall appear within the time aforesaid, the
probate or rejection of such will shall be binding, save to infants,
married women, persons absent from the United States, or of unsound
mind, a period of one year after their respective disabilities are removed.
Sec. 1363. In all trials respecting the validity of a will, if any sub
scribing witness be deceased, or cannot be found, the oath of such wit
ness, examined at the time of probate, may be admitted as evidence.
Sec. 1364. If, upon the trial of said issue, it shall be decided that the
will is for any reason invalid, or that it is not sufficiently proved to have
been the last will of the testator, the will and probate thereof shall be
annulled and revoked.
Sec. 1365. Upon the revocation being made, the powers of the execu
tor or administrator with the will annexed, shall cease, but such execu
tor or administrator shall not be liable for any act done in good faith
previous to service of written notice of intention to contest said will.
Sec. 1360. The fees and expenses shall be paid by the losing party. If
the probate be revoked or the will anmiiilled, tlie party who sliall have
resisted such revocation shall pay the cost and expenses of proceedings
out of the property of the deceased.
Sec. 1367. Whenever any will be lost or destroyed, by accident or de
sign, the probate court shall have power to take proof of the execution
and validity of the will, and to establish the same, notice to persons in
terested having first been given; such proof shall be reduced to writing
and signed by the witnesses. But no will shall be allowed to be proved
as a lost or destroyed will, unless the same shall be proved to have been
in existence at the time of the death of the testator, or be shown to
have been fraudulently destroyed in the lifetime of the testator, nor un
less its provisions shall be clearly and distinctly proved by at least two
credible witnesses.
Sec. 1368. When any will shall be established, the provisions thereof
sliall be distinctly stated and certified by the probate jud^e. under his
hand and the seal of the com t; and the certificate, together with the
testimony upon which it is founded, shall be recorded as other wills are
required to be recorded, and letters testamentary or of administration,
with the will annexed shall be issued thereon, in the same manner as
upon wills produced and duly proved.
Sko. 136!». If, before or dining' the pendency of an application to
prove a lost or destroyed will, letters of administration be granted on the
estate of the testator, or letters testamentary of any previous will of the
testator be granted, the court shall have authority to restrain the admin
istrators or executors so appointed from any acts or proceedings which
would be injurious to the legatees or devisees claiming under the lost or
destroyed will.
CHAPTER C.
RELATING TO PROBATE OF FOREIGN WILLS.
Section
l^?1. How admitted to probate.
Sec. 137o. Wills probated in any other state or territory of the Uni
ted States, or in any foreign country or state, shall be admitted to pro
bate in this territory on the production of a copy of such will and of
the original record of probate thereof, authenticated by the attestation
of the clerk of the court in which such probation was made; or if
there be no clerk, by the attestation of the judge thereof, and by the
seal of office of such officers, if they have a seal.
Sec. 1371. All provisions of law relating to the carrying into effect of
domestic wills after probate, shall, so far as applicable, apply to foreign
wills admitted to probate iu this territory as contemplated in the pre
ceding section.
Sec. 1872. After the probate of any will, letters testamentary shall
be granted to the persons therein appointed executors. If a part of the
persons thus appointed refuse to act, or be disqualified, the letters shall
be granted to the other persons appointed therein. If all such persons
refuse to act, letters of ad-ministration with the will annexed, shall be
granted to the person to whom administration would have been granted
if there had been no will.
Sko. 137:3. Any person interested in a will may file objections in writ
ing to the granting of letters testamentary, to the persons named as ex
ecutors, or any of them, and the objection shall be heard and determined
by the court.
Sec. 1374. If the executor be a minor, or absent from the territory,
letters of administration with the will annexed shall be granted during
the time of such minority or absence, to some other person, unless there
be another executor, who shall accept the trust, in which case the estate
shcill be administered by such other executor, until the disqualification
shall be removed, when such minor, having arrived at full age, or such
absentee shall be admitted as joint executor with the former.
Seo. 1375. It', after letters of administration are granted, a will of
the deceased be found, and probate thereof be granted, the letters
shall be revoked and letters testamentary or of administration with will
annexed, shall be granted.
SEC. 1376. If, after a will has been found and letters thereon granted,
the will shall afterwards be set aside, the letters shall be revoked, and
letters of administration granted on the goods unadministered.
Sec. 1377. If any executrix or administratrix marry, her husband shall
not thereby acquire any interest in the effects of her testator or intestate,
nor shall the administration thereby devolve on him, but the marriage
shall extinguish her powers and the letters be revoked.
SEC. 1378. If an executor or administrator become of unsound mind,
or be convicted of felony or infamous crime, or become an habitual
drunkard, or otherwise incapable of or unsuitable for executing the trust
reposed in him, or so fail to discharge his official duties, or waste or
mismanage the estate, or so act as to endanger any co-executor or co-ad
ministrator, the probate court upon complaint in writing made by any
person interested, supported by affidavit, and due notice given to the per
son complained of, shall hear the complaint, and if found to be just,
shall revoke the letters granted.
Sec. 1379. No executor of an executor, shall, as such, lie authorized to
administer upon the estate of the first testator, but on the death of
the sole or surviving executor of any last will, letters of administration
with the will annexed, of the estate of the first testator left unadminis
tered, shall be issued.
SEC. 1380. When all the executors named shall not be appointed by
the court, such as are appointed shall have the same authority to per
form every act, and discharge every trust required by the will, and their
acts shall be as effectual for every purpose as if all were appointed and
should act together.
Sec. 1381. Administrators with the will annexed shall have the same
authority as the executor named in the will would have had, and their
acts shall be as effectual for every purpose.
Sec. 1382. Letters testamentary and of administration with the will
annexed shall be signed by the clerk of probate, and be under the seal
of the court, and a copy of the will shall be attached to the letters.
Sec. 1383. Every adminstrator with the will annexed, and executor at
the time letters are granted him, shall make an affidavit that he knows
of no other and subsequent will of the dec-eased.
SEC. 1384. The judge of probate shall cause to be recorded in a wellbound book kept for that purpose, all letters testamentary and of admin
istration, before they are delivered to the executors or administrators,
and shall certify on such letters that they have been so recorded.
Sec. 1385. Copies of such letters, or copies of the records thereof,
certified by the probate judge, and under the seal of the probate court,
shall be received as evidence in any court in this territory.
Sec. 1£86. Let 'era testamentary to be issued to executors under the
provisions of this act, may be in the following Ibrm:
United States ok America, }
Territory of Washington. (
In the probate court of the county of .
Whereas ihe last will" of A B, deceased, was on the — day of — , a. r>.,
—, duly exhibited, proven and recorded in our said probate court, a'copy
of which is hereto annexed; and whereas it appears in and by said will,
that C 1) is appointed executor thereon, now thereforee, know all men
by these presents, that we do hereby authorize the said C I) to execute
said will according to law. J
Witness my hand and the seal of said court, this —day of—, a. d., 18 —.
Sec. 13S7. Letters of administration with the will annexed, may be
substantially in the following form:
United States of America, )
Territory of Washington, f
In the probate court of the county of .
The last will of A B, deceased, a copy of which is hereunto annexed,
having been proved and recorded in the said probate court, and , (ns
the case may be) , C D is hereby appointed administrator with the
will annexed.
Witness my hand and the seal of said court this — day of —, A. D.,
18—.
Sec. 1388. Administration of the estate of a person d) ing intestate,
shall be granted to some one or more of the persons hereinafter men
tioned, and they shall be respectively entitled in the following order:
1. The surviving husband, or wife, or such person as he or she may
request to have appointed.
2. The next of kin in the following order: 1. Child or children; 2.
Father or mother; 3. Brothers or sisters; 4. Grandchildren.
3. To one or more of the principal creditors: Provided, That if the
persons so entitled or interested shall neglect for more than forty days
after the death of the. intestate to present a petition for letters of admin
istration, or if there be no relatives or next of kin, or if the heirs or
one or more of the principal creditors, in writing, waive their right to
administration, or if there be no principal creditor or creditors, then the
probate court or judge may appoint any suitable and competent person
to administer such estate.
Sec. 1389. Application for letters of administration shall be made by
petition in writing, sjgned by the applicant or his attorney, and filed in
the probate court, which petition shall set forth the facts essential to giv
ing the court jurisdiction of the case, and such applicant, at the time of
making such application, shall make an affidavit stating, to the best of
his knowledge and belief, the names and places of residence of the heirs
of the deceased, and that the deceased died without a will.
Sec. 1390. A similar affidavit, with such variations as the case
require, shall be made by administrators of the goods remaining
ministered, and by administrators during the time of a contest about a
will, or the granting of letters of administration.
Sec. 13!'l. When a petition praying for letters of administration is
filed, the clerk must give notice thereof, by causing notices to be posted
in at least three public places in the county, one of which must be at the
place where the court is held, containing the name of the decedent, the
3 may
unad
name of the applicant, and the term of the court at which the applica
tion will be heard. Such notice must be given at least ten days before
the hearing.
Sec. 1392. Letters of administration shall lie signed by the clerk, and
be under the seal of the court, and may be substantially in the following
iorm:
United States of Amerjca, )
Territory of Washington. )
Whereas, A B, late of —, on or about the — day of —, A. D., — , died
intestate, leaving at the time of his death, property in this territory sub
ject to administration. Now, thereforee, know all men by tliese presents,
that we do hereby appoint administrator upon said estate, and here
by authorize him to administer the same according to law.
Witness my hand and the seal of said court this — day of —, A. D.,
18—.
Sec. 1393. Before letters testamentary or of administration are issued
to the executor or administrator lie must take and subscribe an oath be
fore some person authorized to administer oaths, that he will perform
according to law, the duties of his trust as executor or administrator,
which oath must be attached to and recorded with the letters.
Sec. 1394. Every person to whom letters testamentary or of adminis
tration are directed to issue must before receiving them, execute a bond
to the territory of Washington with two or more sufficient sureties to be
approved by the probate judge. In tbrm the bond must be joint and
several, and the penalty must not be less than twice the value of the per
sonal property, and twice the probably value of the annual rents, profits
and issues of the real property belonging to the estate; which values
must be ascertained by the probate judge by examining on oath the
party applying, and any other persons.
Sec. 1395. The probate judge must require an additional bond, when
ever the sale of anv real estate belonging to an estate is ordered bv him;
but no such additional bond must be required when it satisfactorily ap
pears to the court, that the penalty of the bond given, bcfoie receiving
letters, or of any bond given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value
of the personal property remaining in or that may come into the pos
session of the executor or administrator, including the annual rents,
profits and issues of real estate and twice the probable amount to be
realized on the sale of the real estate ordered to be sold.
Sec. 131*6. The bond must be conditioned that the executor or admin
istrator shall faithfully execute the duties of the trust according to law.
Sec. 13!>7. When two or more persons are appointed executors or ad
ministrators, the probate judge must require and take a separate bond
from each of them.
Sec. 139**. The bond shall not be void upon the first recovery, but may
he sued and recovered upon from time to time, by anv person aggrieved
in his own name, until the whole penalty is exhausted.
Sec. 1399. In all cases wheie bonds or undertakings are required to be
given under this title the sureties must possess the qualifications and
justify thereon in the same manner aj required by the civil practice act
for bail upon an arrest and the certificate thereof must be attached to and
filed and recorded with the bond or undertaking. All such bonds or un
dertakings must be approved by the probate judge before being filed or
recorded.
Sko. 1400. Before the probate judge approves any bond required under
this title, and after its approval, he may of bis own motion, or upon the
motion of any person interested in the estate, supported by affidavit that
the sureties, or some one or more of them are :;ot worth as much as they
have justified to, order a citation to issue, requiring such sureties to ap
pear before him at a designated time and place, to he examined touching
their property -and its value; and the judge must, at the same time,
cause notice to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring his
appearance on the return of the citation, and on its return he may exam
ine the sureties and such witnesses as may be produced touching the
property of the sureties and its value; and if upon such examination he
is satisfied that the bond is insufficient he must require sufficient addi
tional security.
Sec. 1401. Such additional bond when given and approved, shall dis
charge the former sureties from any liability arising from the misconduct
of the principal after the filing ot the same, and such former securities
shall only be liable for such misconduct as happened prior to the giving
such new bond.
Sec. llO'i. If sufficient security is not given within the time fixed by
the judge's order the right of such executor or administrator. to the ad
ministration shall cease, and the person next entitled to the administra
tion on the estate, who shall execute a sufficient bond must be appointed
to the administration.
Sec. 1403. When it is expressly provided in the will that no bond
shall be required of the executor, letters testamentary may issue and sale
of real estate be made and confirmed without any bond, unless the court
for good cause require one to be executed, but the executor may at any
time afterwards, if it appear from any cause necessary or proper, be re
quired to file a bond, as in other cases.
Sko. 1404. Any person interested in an estate may by verified petition
represent to the probate judge that the sureties of the executor or ad
ministrator thereof, have become or are becoming insolvent, or that they
have removed, or are about to remove from the territory, or from any
other cause the bond is insufficient, and ask that further [security] be
required.
Sec. 1405. If the probate judge is satisfied that the matter requires in
vestigation citation must be issued to the executor or administrator, re
quiring him to appeal-, at a time and place specified, to show cause
why he should not give further security. The citation must be served
personally on the administrator or executor, at least five days before the
return day. If he has absconded, or cannot be found, it may be served by
leaving a copy of 'it at his last place of residence, or by such publication
as the court or judge may order.
Sec. 1400. On the return of the citation, or at such other time as the
judge mav appoint, he must proceed to hear the proof and allegations
of the parties. If it satisfactorily appears that the security is from any
cause insufficient, he may make an order requiring the executor or ad
ministrator to give fui ther security, or to file a new bond in the usual
form, within a reasonable time, not less than five days.
Sko. 1407. If tlie executor or administrator neglects to comply with
the order within tlie time prescribed, the judge must by order revoke his
letters, mid his authority must thereupon cease.
Sec. 1408. When it comes to his knowledge that the bond of any
executor or administrator is, from any cause insufficient, the pro
bate judge, without any application, must cause him to be called to ap
pear and show cause, why he should not give further security, and must
proceed thereon as upon the application of any person interested.
Sko. 14-0',!. No judge of the probate court, no sheriff, clerk of a court,
or deputy of either, and no attorney at law, shall be taken as security in
any bond required to be taken in proceeding in probate courts.
Sec. 1410. The judge of the probate court shall take special care to
take as securities, men who are solvent and sufficient, and who are not
bound iti too many other bonds; and to satisfy himself, he may take
testimony, and examine, on oath, the applicant or person offered as secu
rity.
Sec. 1411. The judge of the probate court shall cause his clerk to re
cord in a. well-bound book, kept for that purpose, all bonds given by
executors and administrators, and preserve the originals in regular file.
Sec. 1412. No bond required under the provisions of this act, and in
tended as such bo::d, shall be void for want of form or substance, recital,
or conditio!.; nor shall the principal or surety on such account be dis
charged, but all the parties thereto shall be held and bound to the
full extent contemplated by the law requiring the same, to the amount
specified in such b md. In all actions on such defective bond, the plain
tiff may state its legal effect, in the same manner as though it were a
perfect bond.
Sec. 141*1 The application, and acts, authorized by the foregoing sec
tions may be heard and determined in term time, or in vacation. All
orders made therein must be entered upon the minutes of the court.
Sec. 1414. Whenever the probate judge has reason to believe from his
own knowledge, or from credible information, that any executor or adniinistrator
has wast'jd, embezzled or mismanaged, or is about to waste
or embezzle the property of the estate committed to his charge or has
committed, or is about to commit a fraud upon the estate, or is incom
petent to act, or has permanently removed from the territory, or has
wrongfully neglected the estate, or has long neglected to perform any
acts as such executor or administrator, he must by order entered upon
the minutes of the court suspend the powers of such executor or admin
istrator, until the matter is investigated.
Sec. 141o. When such suspension is made, notice thereof must be
ghen to the executor or administrator, and he must be cited to appear
and show [cause] why his letters should not be revoked. If he fail to ap
pear in obedience to the citation, or if appearing the court is satisfied
that there exists cause for his removal, his letters must be revoked, and
letters of administration granted anew as the case may require.
Sec. 141(i. At the hearing, any person interested in the estate may ap
pear and file his allegations in writing, showing that the executor or ad
ministrator should be removed, to which the executor or administrator
may demur or answer.
Sec. 1417. If the executor or adinin'stratw has absconded or conceals
himself, or has removed or absented himself from the territory, notice
may be given him of the pendency of the proceedings by publication, in
such manner as the court may direct, and the court may proceed upon
such notice, as if the citation had been personally served.
Sec. 1418. In the proceedings authorized by the preceding section for
the removal of an executor or administrator, the court may compel his
attendance by attachment, and may compel him to answer questions, on
oath, touching his administration, and upon his refusal so to do, may
commit him to jail, until he obey, or may revoke his letters, or both.
Sec. 141!). When by reason of a suit concerning the proof of a will,
or from any other cause, there shall be a delay in granting letters testa
mentary or of administration, the judge of the probate court may, in his
•discretion, appoint a special administrator, (other than one of the par
ties,) to collect and preserve the effects of the deceased; and in case of an
appeal from the decree appointing such special administrator, he shall,
nevertheless, proceed in the execution of his trust, until he shall be oth
erwise ordered by the district court to which such appeal is taken.
Sec. 1420. Every such administrator shall, before entering on the du
ties of his trust, give bond with sufficient surety or sureties, in such sum
as the judge of the probate court shall order, payable to the territory of
Washington, with condition as required of an executor, or in other cases
of administration, to make and return into the probate court as soon as
practicable, a true inventory of the goods, chattels, rights and credits of
the deceased, which have or shall come into his possession or knowledge;
and that he will truly account for all the goods, chattels, debts and
effects of the deceased that shall be received by him as special adminis
trator, whenever required by the probate court, and will deliver the same
to the person who shall be appointed executor or administrator of the
deceased, or to such other person as shall be lawfully authorized to re
ceive the same.
Sec. 1421. Such special administrator shall collect all the goods, chat
tels and debts of the deceased and preserve the same for the executor or
administrator who shall thereafter be appointed; and for that purpose may
commence and maintain suits as an administrator, and may also sell such
perishable and other goods as the probate court shall order sold, and he
shall be allowed such compensation for his service as the said court shall
deem reasonable.
Sec. 1422. Upon granting letters testamentary or of administration,
the power of the special administrator shall cease, and he shall forthwith
deliver to the executor or administrator all the goods, chattels, money
and effects of the deceased in his hands, and the executor or administra
tor may be admitted to prosecute any suit commenced by the special
administrator, in like manner as an administrator rf<? bonis non is author
ized to prosecute a suit commenced by a former executor or adminis
trator.
Sec. 1423. Such special administrator shall not be liable to an action
by any creditor of the deceased, and the time for limitation of all suits
against the estate shall begin to run from the time of granting letters
testamentaiy or of administration in the usual form, in like manner as
if such special administration had not been granted.
Seo. 1424. The special administrator shall also render an account un
der oath of his proceedings, in like manner as other administrators are
required to do.
Sec. 1425. If any executor or administrator, having first settled his
accounts, shall publish for six weeks in some newspaper in this territory
in general circulation in the county wherein his letters were granted, a
notice of his intention to apply to the probate court to resign his letters,
and the court on proof of such publication believe that he should be per
mitted to resign, it shall so order.
Sec. 1426. Such person shall then surrender his letters, his power from
that time shall cease, and he shall pay the expense of publication and of
all the procedings on such application.
SEC. 1427. If there be more than one executor or administrater of an
estate, and the letters to part of them be revoked or surrendered, or a part die or in an}' become disqualified, those who remain shall perforin
all the duties required by law.
Sec. 1428. If the executor i>r administrator of an estate shall die, re
sign, or the letters be revoked before the settlement of the estate, letters
of administration of the jroods remaining nnadministered. shall be graiited
to those to whom administration would have been granted if the orig
inal letters had not been obtained, or the person obtaining them had re
nounced administration, and the administrator de boni» iu>n shall per
form the like duties and incur the like liabilities as the lormer executors
or administrators.
Sec. 142!t. If any executor or administrator resign or his letters be
revoked, or he die, he or his representatives shall account for, pay and
deliver to his successor, or to the surviving or remaining executor or ad
ministrator, all money and propertj' of every kind, and all rights, cred
its, deeds, evidences of debt and papers of every kind of the deceased, at
such time and in such manner as the court shall order, on final settle
ment with such executor or administrator or his legal representatives.
Sec. 1430. The succeeding administrator, or remaining executor or ad
ministrator, may proceed by law against any delinquent former executor
or administrator, or his legal representatives, or the securities of either,
or against any other person possessed of any part of the estate.
Sec. 1431. All suits against securities shall be commenced within six
years after the revocation or surrender of* letters of administration or
deatli of the principal.
Sec. 1432. If any executor or administrator fail to make cither annual
or final settlement as required by law, and do not show good cause for such
failure, after having been cited for that purpose, the probate court shall
order such executor or administrator to make such settlement and may
enforce obedience to such order by attachment, and may revoke his letters.
Sec. 1433. If any person who has surrendered his letters testamentary
or of administration, or whose letters have been revoked, or the iegal
representatives of any deceased executor or administrator shall fail to
make final settlement as required by law, after being cited for that pur
pose by the probate court, it shall order such delinquent to make such
settlement, and may enforce obedience to such order by attachment.
Sec. 14:54. In all cases where citations or attachments may be issued
against any executor, administrator or other person for failing to settle
his accounts, such delinquent shall pay all costs incurred thereby, the
collection of which costs may he enforced by attachment.
Sec. 1435. The executor or administrator of a deceased person who
was a member of a co-paitnership, shall include in the inventory of such
person's estate, in a separate schedule, the whole of the property of such
partnership; and the appraisers shall estimate the value thereof, and also
the value of such person's individual interest in the partnership property,
after the payment or satisfaction of all the debts and liablilities of the
partnership.
Sec. 1436. After the inventory is taken, the partnership property shall
be in the custody and control of the executor or administrator for the
purposes of administration, unless the surviving partner shall within five
da\-s from the filing of the inventory, or such further time as the court
may allow, apply for the administration thereof, and give the bond there
for hereinafter prescribed.
Sec. 1437. If the surviving partner apply therefore, as provided in the
last section, he is entitled to the administration of the partnership estate,
if he have the qualifications and competency required for a general ad
ministrator. He is denominated an administrator of the partnership,
and his powers and duties extend to the settlement of the partnership
business generally, and the payment or transfer of the interest of the
deceased in the partnership property remaining after the payment or sat
isfaction of the debts and liabilities of the partnership, to the executor
or general administrator within six months from the date of his appoint
ment, or such further time, if necessary, as the court may allow. In
the exercise of his powers and the performance of his duties, the adminis
trator of the partnership is subject to the same limitations and liabilities,
and control and jurisdiction of the court as a general administrator.
Sec. 1438. The bond of the administrator of the partnership shall be
in a sum not less than double the value of the partnership property, ami
shall be given in the same manner and be of the same effect as the bond
of a general administrator.
Seo. 1439. In case the surviving partner is not appointed administrator
of the partnership, the administration thereof devolves upon the executor
or general administrator, but before entering upon the duties of such
administration, he shall give an additional bond in double the value of
the partnership property.
Sec. 1440. Every surviving partner, on the demand of an executor or
administrator of a deceased partner, shall exhibit and give information
concerning the property of the partnership at the time of the death of the
deceased partner, so that the same may be correctly inventoried and ap
praised; and in case the administration thereof shall devolve upon the
executor or administrator, such survivor shall deliver or transfer to him
on demand, all the property of the partnership, including all books,
papers* and documents pertaining to the same, and shall afford him all
reasonable information and facilities for the performance of the duties of
his trust.
Sec. 1441. Any surviving partner who shall refuse or neglect to com
ply with the requirements of the last section, may be cited to appear
before the court and unless he show cause to the contrary, the court shall
require him to comply with such section in the particular complained of.
Sec. 1442. The following persons are not qualified to act as executors
or administrators: Nonresidents of this territory, minors, judicial offi
cers other than justices of the peace, persons of unsound mind or who
have been convicted of any felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude, or a married woman. And when any person to whom letters
testamentary or of administration have been issued, becomes disqualified
to act because of leaving the territory, becoming of unsound mind, or is
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or of a
woman and she ceases to be single, the probate court having jurisdiction
shall revoke his or her letters as in this act provided.
Sec 1443. In all cases where it is provided in the last, will and testa
ment of the deceased, that the estate shall be settled in a manner pro
vided in such last will and testament, and that letters testamentary or
of administration shall not be required, it shall not be necessary to take
out letters testamentary or of administration, except to admit to probate
such will in the manner required by existing laws, and after the probate
of such will, all such estates may be managed and settled without the
intervention of the probate court, if the said last will and testament so pro
vides: Provided, however. In all such cases, if the party named in such
will ai executor shall decline to execute the trust, or shall [die] or be
otherwise disabled from any cause from acting as such executor, then
letters testamentary or of administration shall issue as in other cases:
And provided,' further, If the party named in the will shall fail to
to execute the trust faithfully and to take care and promote the interests
of all parties taking under the will, then upon petition of any creditor
of such estate, or of any of the heirs, or of any person on behalf of any
minor heirs, it shall be the duty of the probate courtof thecounty wherein
such estate is situated, to cite such person having the management of sued 1
estate to appear before such court, and if, upon hearing of such petition, it
shall appear that the trust in such will is not faithfully discharged, and that
the parties interested or any of them have been or are about to be dam
aged by such acts or doings of the executor, then letters testamentary
or of administration shall be had and required in such cases, and all
other matters and proceedings shall be had and required as are now re
quired in the administration ot estates, and in such cases, the costs of the
citation and hearing shall be charged against the party failing and neg
lecting to execute the trust as required in such will.
CHAPTER OIL
OF THE INVENTORY AND EFFECTS OF DECEASED l'KKSONS.
Section ' i Section
141-4. rights and duties of executors or administra- 14.Y.2. Penalty lor neglect to return inventory.
lor*. 1453. New a'ssels discovered, to be appraised aud
1445. Executors, etc., to return Inventory of real Inventoried
and persona! estate.
1440. Such estate to be appraised, and compensa
tion of the appraisers.
1447. Appraisers to take an oath and inventory.
1454. Personal e»tate to be first liable for debts,
etc., ot deceased.
1455. Penalty for embezzlement, before administra
tion granted.
"What to contain. 1456. Proceedings in case of suspected embezzle1448.
Further contents of inventory, as to moneyB of ment, etc.
deceased. I 1457. Penalty in case suspected party refuses, upon
1449. Naming executor in will does not discharge ' citation to appear.
"his debt to the testator. 1458. Persons entrusted with any part of estate,
1450. Discharge or bequest in will of executor's mav be cited to appear.
debt, not valid against creditors, when. 1450. Penalty in case of refusal.
1451. Inventory to be signed by appraisers, and j 1459. When 'estate is less than $5(X> it may be assworn 'to by executor, etc. signed lor snp,*oit of family.
Sec. 1444. Every executor or administrator shall, after having quali
fied, by giving bond as hereinbefore provided, have a right to the immedi
ate possession of all the real as well as personal estate of the deceased,
and may receive the rents and profits of the real estate until the estate
shall be settled or delivered over, by order of the probate court, to the
heirs or devisees, and shall keep in tenantable repair all houses, build
ings and fixtures thereon, which are under his control.
Sec. 1445. Every executor and administrator shall make and return,
upon oath, into the probate court, within one month after his appoint
ment, a true inventory of the real and personal estate of the deceased,
which shall come to his possession or knowledge.
Sec. 1446. The estate and effects comprised in the inventory, shall be
appraised by three suitable disinterested persons, who shall be appointed
by the probate court. If any part of the estate shall be in another
couBty than that in which letters are issued, appraisers residing in such
county may be appointed by the probate court having jurisdiction of
the case, or if most advisable the same appraisers may act. Such ap
praisers shall receive as compensation for their services, three dollars per
day, to be paid out of the estate, and when they have to go out of their
county, mileage shall be allowed.
Sec. 1447. Before proceeding to the discharge of their duties, the ap
praisers shall take and subscribe an oath before any officer authorized to
administer oaths, to be attached to the inventory, that they will honestly
and impartially appraise the property which shall be exhibited to them,
according to the best of their knowledge and ability; they shall proceed
to estimate and appraise the property, and set down each article sepa
rately, with the value thereof in dollars and cents, in figures opposite
the respective articles. The inventory shall contain ail the estate of the
deceased, real and personal, a statement of all debts, partnership and
other interests, bonds, mortgages, notes, and other securities for the pay
ment of money belongintr to the deceased, specifying the name of the
debtor in each security, the date, the sum originally payable, the endorse
ments thereon, if any, and their dates, and the t>um which, in the judg
ment of the appraisers, may be collectable on each debt, interest or security.
Sec. 1448. The inventory shall also contain an account of all monies
belonging to the deceased, which shall have come to the possession or
knowledge of the executor or administrator; and if none shall come to
bis possession or knowledge, the fact shall be so stated in the inventory.
Sec. 1449. The naming of any person as executor in a will, or the ap
pointment of any person as administrator, shall not operate as a discharge
from any just claim which the testator or intestate had against the exec
utor or administrator, but the claim shall be included in tne inventory,
and the executor and administrator shall be liable to the same extent as
he would have been had he not been appointed executor or administrator.
Sec. ]4.")0. The discharge or bequest in a will of any debt or demand
of the testator against any executor named in his will, or against any
other person, shall not be valid against the creditors of the deceased, but
shall be construed as a specific bequest of such debt or demand, and the
amount thereof shall be included in the inventory, and shall if necessary,
he applied in payment of his debts; if not necessary for that purpose,
it shall be paid in the same manner and proportions as other specific leg
acies.
Sec. 1451. The; inventory shall bo signed by tlie appraisers, and be
verified by the oath of the executor or adnii' istrator to the effect that
the inventory contains a true statement of all of the estate of the de
ceased, which has come to his possession or knowledge, and particularly
of all monies belonging to tiie deceased, and of all just claims of the de
ceased against the executor or administrator.
8k<\ 145:2. If any executor or administrator shall neglect or refuse to
return the inventory within the period prescribed, or within such further
time, not exceeding three months, as the court shall allow, the court shall
revoke the letters testamentary or of administration; and the executor or
administrator shall be liable on his bond to any party interested for the
injury sustained by the estate through his neglect.
SEC. 1453. Whenever property not mentioned in an inventory shall
come to the knowledge and possession of the executor or administrator,
he shall cause the same to be appraised in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and an additional inventory' to be returned, subscribed and sworn
to as is provided in this chapter, as soon as practicable after the discovery
thereof, and the making of such inventory may be enforced, after notice,
by attachment to which may be added the revocation of the letters.
Skc 1454. The personal estate of the deceased which shall come into
the hands of the executor or administrator, shall be first chargeable with
the payment of the debts and expenses; and "if the goods, chattels, rights
and ci edits in the hands of the executor or administrator, shall not be
sufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, the expenses of the administra
tion and the allowance to the family' of the deceased, the whole, or so
much as may be necessary of the real estate, may be sold for that pur
pose by the executor or administrator, in the manner prescribed in this
act.
SEC. 1155. If any person before the granting of letters testamentary
or administration, shall embezzle or alienate any of the monies, goods,
chattels or effects of any deceased person, he shall stand chargeable, aud
be liable to the action of the executor or administrator of the estate, in
double the value of the property so embezzled or alienated, to be recov
ered for the benefit of the estate.
SEC. 145(1. If the executor, administrator, heir, legatee, creditor or
other person interested in the estate of any deceased person shall com
plain to the probate court, on oath, that any person is suspected of hav
ing concealed, embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away or disposed of any
monies, goods, or chattels of the deceased, or that he has in his posses
sion or knowledge any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts, or other
writings which contain evidence of, or tend to disclose the right, title,
interest or claim of the deceased to any real or personal estate, or any
claim, demand, or last will of the deceased, the said judge may cite such
person to appear before the probate court, and may examine him on oath
upon the matter of such complaint. If such person be not in the county
where letters have been granted, he may be cited and examined, either
before the probate court for the county where he may be found, or before
the court issuing the order or citation; but in the latter case, if he ap
pear and be found innocent, his necessary expenses shall be allowed him
out of the estate.
Sec. 1457. If the person so cited refuse to appear and submit to such
examination, or to answer such interrogatories as may be put to him,
touching the matter of such complaint, the court may, by warrant
for that purpose, commit him to the county jail, there to remain in close
custody until he shall submit to the order of the court, and all such in
terrogatories and answers shall be in writing, and shall be signed by the
party examined and filed in the probate court.
Sec. 1458. The probate court upon the complaint on oath of any exec
utor or administrator, may cite any person who shall have been entrusted
with any part of the estate of the deceased person, to appear before the
said court, and may require such person to give a full account, on oath,
of any monies, goods, chattels, bonds, accounts, or other papers belong
ing to the estate, which shall have come to bis possession in trust for
such executor or administrator, and of his proceeding thereon; and it
the person so cited shall refuse to appear and answer such account, the
court may proceed against him as provided in the preceding section.
Sec. 1459. If by the return of any inventory of any intestate's estate,
who died leaving a widow or minor children, it shall appear that the
value of the estate does not exceed five hundred dollars, the probate
court shall, by decree for that purpose, assign for the use and support of
the widow and minor children of the intestate, or for the support of the
minor child or children, if there be no widow. -the whole estate, after the
payment of the funeral expenses and expenses of administration, and
there shall he no further proceedings in the administration, unless further
estate be discovered.
CHAPTER CIII.
PROVISION FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY.
Section Suction *
1460. Provision for widow ami minor children until 14fi'2. Kxrcutor to pay such allowance in preference
letter* granted. toother chaitres.
1461. On return of inventory, exempt property set 1463. How property pet npart to be distributed.
apart for their use. * 1464. It no widow or minor children, how estate
1 4**1 Kurlh'-r allowance if property set apart be in- to be disposed of.
sufficient. .' , ,, . -;1 . .r " '* A f .' * Vi
K_ Sec. 1 4fi0j( When a person shall die leaving a widow and minor child
or children, the widow, child or children shall be entitled to remain in
possession of the homestead, and of all the wearing apparel of the fam
ily, and of all the household furniture of the deceased; and if the head
of" thefam-ily in his or her lifetime had not complied with the provisions
of the law relative to the acquisition of a homestead, the widow or the
child or children shall be entitled to a homestead as now provided by
law for the head of a family, and the same shall be set aside for the use
of the child or children or widow on a petition by such widow or the
guardian of such child or children.^
H Sec. 1461.i,Upon the return 'of the inventory, the court shall set apart
for the use of the widow, minor child or children, all the property of the
estate by law exempt from execution. If the amount thus exempt be
insufficient for the support of the widow and minor child or children,
the probate court shall make such further reasonable allowance out of
the estate as may be necessary for the maintenance of the family accord
ing to their circumstances, during the progress in the settlement of the
estate.
Sec 1402. Any allowance made by the court in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding sectkn, shall be paid by, the executor or ad
ministrator in preference to all other charges, except funeral charges
and expen-es of administration.
Sec. 1463. When property shall have been set apart for the use of the
family, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if the deceased
shall have left a widow and no minor children, such property shall be
the property of the widow; if he shall have left also a minor child or
children, one-half to the widow, and the remainder to such child, or in
equal shares to such children, it' there are more than one; it there be no
widow then the whole shall belong to the minor child or children.
Sec. 1464. If intestate leave no widow or minor children, all his estate
shall be assets in the hands of the administrator, after payment of funeral
expenses and expenses of administration, for the payment of the debts
of the deceased, or distribution according to law.
CHAPTER CIV.
OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE ESTATE.
Section I Section
1165. Notice to he driven to creditors of deceased. a* in other cases.
1466. Copy of uotice with affidavit of printer to be 1477. When part of claim allowed, to be stated In
filed in probate con>t. indorsement.
1467. Claims barred if not presented within one 3477. If creditor refnse the allowance, when not to
year after notice. recover costs.
1IC8. Claim to be supported by affidavit; vouchers 1478. Effect of judgment against executor or ad
may be required. ministrator.
1469. Allowance or rejection to be indorsed on claim 1470. Judgment rendered niroinst testator, etc.. no
by executor, elc. execution to issue after death; proviso as
1470. Claims allowed to be filed in conrl, and ranked | to Hens on property.
amon<r debts ol estate. : 14HO. Doubtful claim may be referred.
1171. When a claim is presented by judgeof probate,
proceedings thereupon.
1472- Hejectcd claims, within what time holder to
bring Miit upon.
1473. Claim barred by statute of limitation, not to
be allowed.
1474. Claim must be presented to executor, etc..
1481. Proceedings upon reference, return of award,
and exceptions thereto, compensation of re
ferees.
14S-?. Claim by executor, etc.. against deceased, to
be presented.
1483. Letters to be revoked on neglect to notify
creditors.
before action brought. 14P4. Statement of claims against estate.
1475. Time of vacancv in administration not includ- 14itf. Proceedings in case of resignation or removal
ed iu limitation. of executor or administrator.
1476. Plaintiff in action pending, to present claim
Sec. 1465. Every executor or administrator shall immediately after
his appointment cause to be published in some newspaper printed in the
county, if there be one, it not, then in such newspaper as may be desig
nated by the court, a uotice to the creditors of the deceased, requiring
all persons having claims against the deceased to present them, with the
necessary vouchers, wkhin one year after the date of such notice, to such
executor or administrator, at the place of his residence or transaction of
business, to lie specified in the notice. Such notice shall be published as
often as the probate court shall deem necessary, but not less than once
in a week for four successive weeks.
Seo. 1466. After the notice shall have been published, a copy thereof,
together with the affidavit attached thereto, of the publisher or printer
of the paper in which the same was published, shall be filed by the exec
utor or administrator in the probate court.
Sec. 1467. If a claim be not presented within one year after the first
publication of the notice, it shall be barred.
Sec. 1468. Every claim presented to the administrator shall be sup
ported by the affidavit of the claimant that the amount is justly due,
that no payments have been made there thereon, and that there are no
offsets to the same to the knowledge of the claimant. The oath may be
taken before any officer authorized to administer oaths. The executor
or administrator may also require satisfactory vouchers to be produced
in support of the claim.
Sec. 1460. When a claim accompanied by the affidavit required in the
preceding section has been presented to the executor or administrator,
he shall endorse thereon his allowance or rejection, with the day and date
thereof. If he allow the claim, it shall be presented to the judge of the
probate court, who shall in the same manner indorse on it his allowance
or rejection. It' the executor or administrator reject the claim he shall
notify the claimant forthwith of said rejection.
Sec. 1470. Every claim which has been allowed by the executor or ad
ministrator and the said judge, shall be filed in the probate court and be
ranked among the acknowledged debts of the estate, to be paid in the
course of the administration.
Sec. 1471. Any judge of a probate court may present a claim against
the estate of any decedent for allowance, to the executor or administra
tor, and if the executor or administrator allows such claim, he shall in
writing designate some judge of the probate court of an adjoining
county, and the said judge shall have the same power to allow or reject
it as he would have, bad letters issued in his court; and the claimant
shall have, in the event of his claim being rejected, all the rights incident
to any other creditor against the estate.
Sec. 1472. When a claim is rejected by either the executor, adminis
trator or the judge of probate court, the holder must bring suit in the
proper court against the exector or administrator within three months
after its rejection, otherwise the claim shall be forever barred.
Sec. 1473. No claim shall be allowed by the executor, administrator
or probate court which is barred by the statute of limitations.
Sec. 1474. No holder of any claim against an estate shall maintain an
action thereon, unless the claim shall have been first presented to the
executor or administrator.
Set. 147o. The time during which there shall be a vacancy in the
administration shall not be included in any limitations herein prescribed.
Sec. 1476. If any action be pending against the testator or intestate,
at the time of his death, the plaintifff shall, in like manner present his
claim to the executor or administrator tor allowance or rejection, authen
ticated as in other cases; and no recovery shall be had in the action,
unless proof be made of the presentment.
Sec. 1477. Whenever any claim shall have been presented to an ex
ecutor or administrator and the judge of the probate court, and a part
thereof shall be allowed, the amount of such allowance shall be stated
in the indorsement. If the creditor shall refuse to accept the amount so
allowed in satisfaction of his claim, he shall recover no costs in any ac
tion be may bring against the executor or adminstrator, unless he shall
recover a greater amount than that offered to be allowed, exclusive of
interest and costs.
Sec. 1478. The effect of any judgment rendered against any executor
or administrator, shall be only to establish the claim, in the same man
ner as if it had been allowed by the executor or administrator and the
probate court; and the judgment shall be, that the executor or adminis
ter pay, in due course of administration, the amount ascertained to be
due. A certified transcript of the judgment shall be filed in the pro
bate court, and no execution shall issue upon such judgment, nor shall
it create a lien upon the property of the estate, or give the judgment
creditor any priority of payment.
SEC. 1479. When any judgment has been rendered against the testator
or intestate in his lifetime, no execution shall issue thereon after his
death, but it shall be presented to the executor or administrator as any
other claim, but need not be supported by the affidavit of the claimant,
and if justly due and unsatisfied, shall be paid in due course of adminis
tration: Provided, hawevcr, That if it be a lien upon any property of
the deceased, the same may be sold for the satisfaction thereof, and the
officer making the sale shall account to the executor or administrator for
any surplus in his hands.
Sec. 14.^0. If the executor or administrator doubt the correctness of
any claim presented to him, he may enter into an agreement in writing
with the claimant to refer the matter in controversy to some disinterested,
person, or persons, to be approved by the judge of the probate court.
Upon tiling the agreement in the probate court, the court shall enter an
order referring the matter in controversy to the persons so selected.
SEC. 1481. The referee or referees having been sworn, shall proceed to
bear and determine the case and make return thereof; and their award,
if not excepted to, shall be entered as the decision of the probate court.
If exceptions in writing are filed, the court shall proceed to determine
the case in like manner as other claims are determined. The compensa
tion of referees shall be the same as allowed to referees in the district, court.
SEC. 1482. If the executor or administrator is himself a creditor of
the testator or intestate, his claim, duly authenticated by affidavit, shall
be presented for allowance or rejection to the probate court, and its al
lowance by the judge sjiall be sufficient evidence of its correctness.
SEC. 1483. If the executor or administrator shall neglect for two
months, after his appointment, to give notice to creditors as prescribed
by this article, it shall be the duty of the court to revoke his letters.
Sec. I4s4. At the same time at which the executor or administrator is
required to return his inventory, he shall also return a statement of all
claims against the estate which shall have been presented to him, when
required by the court, and from time to time thereafter shall present a
statement ot claims subsequently presented to him; and in all 6uch
statements he shall designate the names of creditors, the nature of eacb
claim, when it did or will become due, and whether it was allowed or re
jected by him.
SEC. 1485. In case of resignation or removal for any cause of any
executor or administrator, and the appointment of another or others after
notice has been given by publication as required by law by such executor
or administrator first appointed to persons to present their claims against
the estate or be forever barred, it shall be the duty of the judge of
the probate court to cause notice of such resignation or removal and
6uch new appointment to be published two successive weeks in the same
newspaper in which the original notice was published, if the publication
of such paper is at the time continued, and if not, then in some other
newspaper published in the territory; and said estate shall be closed up
and settled within the year from the date of said original notice, unless
further time be granted by the probate court as provided by law.
Sec. 1486. No sale of any property shall be valid unless made under
order of the probate court, unless otherwise provided by will.
Sec. 1487. All applications for orders of sale shall be by petition, in
-writing, in which shall be set forth the facts, showing the sale to be nec
essary, and upon the hearing, any person interested in the estate, may
file his written objections, which shall be heard and determined.
Sec 1488. At the term of the court at which the inventory is returned,
the executor or administrator shall apply for an order to sell the perisha
ble property of the estate, and so much other property as may be neces
sary to be sold, to pay the allowance made to the family of the deceased.
Sec 1489. If claims against the estate have been allowed, and a sale
of property shall be necessary for the payment of the expenses of the
administration, he may also apply for an order to sell so much of the
personal estate as shall be necessary.
Sec 1490. If it appear to the court that a sale is necessary, it shall so
order. In making such sale, the court shall order such articles as are
not necessary for the support and subsistence of the family of the de
ceased, or not specially bequeathed, to be first sold.
Sec 1491. Sales of personal property shall be made at public auction,
and after notice given for at least two weeks, which notice shall be given
by notices posted in ten public places in the county, or by publication in
s. newsppper, if the judge shall so order, in which shall be stated the time
and place of sale.
Sec 1492. If it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the probate
court, that it will be for the interest of the estate to allow the executor
or administrator to sell some or the whole of the personal estate at pri
vate sale, the court may sb order.
Sec. 1493. When the personal estate in the hands of the executor or
administrator shall be insufficient to pay the allowance to the family, and
all the debts and charges of the administration, the executor or adminis
trator may sell the real estate for that purpose, upon the order of the pro
bate court. To obtain such order he shall present a petition to the court,
setting forth the amount of the personal estate that has come to his hands,
and how much, if any, remains undisposed of, a list and the amounts of
the debts outstanding against the deceased, as far as the same can be
ascertained, a description of all the real estate of which the testator or
intestate died seized, the condition and value of the respective lots and
portions, the names and ages of the devisees, if any, and of the heirs of
the deceased, which petition shall be verified by the oath of the party pre
senting the same.
Sec. 1494. If it shall appear by such petition that there is not sufri-,
cient personal estate in the hands of the executor or administrator to pay
the allowance to the family, the debts outstanding against the deceased,
and the expenses of administration, and that it is necessary to sell the
whole or someportion of the real estate, for the payment of such debts,
the probate court shall thereupon make an order, directing all persons
interested to appear at a time and place specified, not less than four nor
more than eight weeks from the time of making such order, to show
cause why an order shall not be granted to the executor or administrator
to sell the real estate of the deceased, or so much thereof as shall be
necessary, to pay such allowances, charges and debts.
Sec. 1495. A copy of such order to show cause, shall be personally
served on all persons interested in the estate, at least, ten days before the
time appointed tor hearing the petition, or shall be published at least
four successive weeks in such newspaper as the court shall order: Provid
ed, however, If all persons interested in the estate shall signify, in writ
ing, their assent to such sale, the notice may be dispensed with.
Sec. 149t>. The probate court at the time and place appointed in such
order, or at such other time to which the hearing may be adjourned,
upon proof of the due service or publication of a copy of the order, or
upon filing the consent in writing, to such sale, of all parties interested,
shall proceed to the hearing of such petition; and if such consent be not
filed, shall hear and examine the allegation and proofs of the petitioners
and of all persons interested in the estate, who may oppose the application.
Sec. 1497. If any of the devisees or heirs of the deceased are minors,
and have a general guardian in the count}', the copy of the order shall be
served on the guardian. If they have no such guardian, the court shall,
before proceeding to act on the petition, appoint some disinterested per
son their guardian for the sole purpose of appearing, for them and tak
ing care of their interests in the proceedings.
SEC. 1498. The executor or administrator may be examined under
oath, and witnesses may he examined by either party, and process may
be issued to compel their attendance and testimony, by the probate conrt,
in the same manner and with like effect as in other cases.
Sec. 1499. If it shall appear to the court that it is necessary to sell a part of the real estate, and that by a sale of such part the residue of the
estate or some specific part or piece thereof would be greatly injured, the
court may authorize the sale of the whole estate, or of such part thereof
as may be adjudged necessary, and most to the interest of all concerned.
SEC. ]500. If tin; probate court shall be satisfied after a full hearing
upon the petition, and on examination of the proofs and allegations of
the parties interested, that a sale of the whole or some portion of the
real estate is necessary for the payment of the allowance to the family,
and all valid claims against the estate and charges of administration, or
if such sale be assented to by all the parties interested, he shall make an
order of sale authorizing the executor or administrator to sell the whole
or so much and such parts of the real estate described in the petition as
he shall judge necessary or beneficial.
SEC. 1501. The order shall specify the lands to be sold and the terms
of sale, which may be either for cash or on credit, and not exceeding six
months, as the court may direct. If it appear tl at any part of such
real estate has been devised and not charged in such devise with the pay
ment of debts, the court shall order that part descended to heirs to be
sold, before that so devised.
SEC. 1502. If the executor or administrator shall neglect to apply for
an order of sale whenever it may be necessary, any person interested in
the estate may make application therefore in the same manner as an exec
utor or administrator, and notice thereof shall be given to the executor
or administrator before the hearing.
SEC. 1503. Upon making such order, the clerk of the probate court
shall deliver it to the executor or administrator, who shall thereupon be
authorized to sell the real estate as directed.
SEC. 1504. When a sale is ordered, notice of the time and place of sale
shall be posted in ten of the most public places in the county where the
land is situated, at least twenty days before the day of sale, and shall be
published in some newspaper in this territory, in general circulation in
said county, for three successive weeks next before such sale, in which
notice the lands and tenements shall be described with proper certainty.
SEC. 1505. Such sale shall be in the county where the lands are situa
ted, at public auction, between the hours of ten o'clock in the morning
and the setting of the sun the same day; but if the executor or admin
istrator shall deem it for the interest of all concerned that the sale should
be postponed, he may adjourn it for any time not exceeding fourteen
days.
SEC. 1506. In case of such adjournment notice thereof shall be given
by a public proclamation at the time and place first appointed for the
sale; and if the adjournment shall be for more than one day, further
notice shall be given by posting or publishing as the time and circum
stances may admit.
SEC. 1507. The executor or administrator shall, when the sale is on
credit, take the note or notes of the purchaser for the purchase money,
with surety, and mortgage on the property lo secure their payment.
Sec. 1508. The executor or administrator making any sale of real es
tate shall, at the next term of the court thereafter, make a return of his
proceedings to the probate court, who shall examine the same, and if he
shall be of opinion that the proceedings were unfair, or that the sum bid
den is disproportionate to the value, and that a sum exceeding such bid
at least ten per cent., exclusive of expenses of a new sale, may be ob
tained, he shall vacate such sale and order another to be had, of which
notice shall be given, and the sale shall be conducted in all respects as if
no previous sale had taken place.
Sec. 150!). When the return of the sale is made any person interested
in the estate may file written objections to the confirmation of the sale,
and may he heard and produce witnesses in support of his objections.
Sec. 1510. If it appear to the court that the sale was legally made and
fairly conducted, and that the sum bidden, was not disproportionate to
the value of the property sold, or if disproportionate, that a greater sum
as above specified, cannot be obtained, the court shall make an order
confirming the sale and directing conveyances to be executed; and such
sale, from that time, shall be con tinned and valid.
Sec. 1511. Such conveyances shall thereupon be executed to the pur
chaser by the executor or administrator. They shall refer to the original
order authorizing a sale, and the order confirming the sale and directing
the conveyance; and they shall be deemed to convey ail the estate, rights
and interest of the testator or intestate at the time of his death.
Sec. 1512. Before any order is entered confirming the sale, it shall be
proven to the satisfaction of the probate court that notice of the sale was
given, as herein prescribed, and the order of confirmation shall state that
snch proof was made.
Sec. 1513. When a testator shall have given any legacy by will that is
effectual to charge real estate, and his goods, chattels, rights and credits
shall be insufficient to pay such legacy, together with its debts and
charges of administration, the executor or administrator, with the will
annexed, may obtain an order to sell his real estate for that purpose in
the same manner and upon the same terms and conditions as are pre
scribed in this act, in ease of a sale for the payment of debts.
Sko. 1514. If the testator shall make provision by his will, or desig
nate the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts, the ex
penses of administration, or family expenses, they shall be paid accord
ing to the provision of the will, and out of the estate thus appropriated,
so far as the same may be sufficient.
Sec. 1515. When any division has been made, or any property directed
to be sold, the executor or administrator with the will annexed, may pro
ceed to sell without the order of the probate court; but he shall be bound
as an administrator, to give notice of the sale, and to proceed in making
the sale in all respects as if he were under the order of the court, unless
there are special directions given in the will, in which case he shall be
governed by si.ch directions; but in all cases he shall make return of the
sale to the probate court, who shall vacate snch sale unless the same shall
appear in all respects to be made according to law in like manner as upon
sales made by administrator.
Sec. 1516. If the provision made by thewill or the estate appropriated
be not sufficient to pay the debts and expenses of administration and
family expenses, such part of the estate as shall not have been disposed
of by the will, if any, shall be appropriated for that purpose, according to
the provisions of this act.
Seo. 1517. The estate, real and personal, given by the will to any leg
atees or devisees, shall be held liable for the payment of the debts, the
expenses of administration, and of the family, in proportion to the value
or amount of the several devises or legacies, if there shall not be other
sufficient estate, except that specific devises or legacies may be exempted
if it appear to the court necessary to carry into effect the intention of
the testator.
Sec. 15I.S. When the estate given by any will has been sold for the
payment of debts and expenses, all the devisees and legatees shall be lia
ble tu contribute according to their respective interests, to any devisee or
legatee from whom the estate devised to him may be taken for the pay
ment of the debts or expenses; and the probate court when distribution
is made, shall by decree for that purpose, settle the amount of the several
liabilities and decree how much each person shall contribute.
SEC. 1519. It' the deceased person at the time of his death was pos
sessed of a contract for the purchase of lands, his interest in such lands
under such contract, may be sold on the application of his executor or
administrator, in the same manner as if he had died seized of such lands;
and the same proceedings may be had for that purpose as are prescribed
in this act, in respect to lands of which he died seized, except as herein
after provided.
SEC. 1520. Such sale shall be made subject to all payments that may
thereafter become due on such contract, and if there be any such pay
ments thereafter to become due, such sale shall not be continued by the
probate court until the purchaser bhall have executed a bond to the ex
ecutor or administrator for his benefit and indemnity, and for the benefit
and indemnity of the persons entitled to the inteiest of the deceased in
lands so contracted for, in double the whole amount of the payments
thereafter to become due on such contract, with such sureties as the pro
bate court shall approve.
Sec. 1521. Such bond shall be conditioned that the purchaser will
make all payments for such land as shall become due, after the date of
such sale, and will fully indemnify the executor or administrator and the
person so entitled, against all demand*, costs and charges and expenses
by reason of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract; but
if there be no payments thereafter to become due on such contract, no
bond shall be required of the purchaser.
Sec. 1522. Upon the confirmation of such sale, the executor or admin
istrator shall execute to the purchaser an assignment of the contract, which
assignment shall vest in the purchaser, his heirs and assign*, all the right, title and interest of the persons entitled to the interest of the deceased
in the land sold at the time of the sale; and such purchaser shall have
the same rights and remedies against the vendor of such lands as the de
ceased would have had it' -living.
SEC. 152:j. If any person die, having mortgaged any real or personal
estate, and sliall not have devised the same, or provided for the redemp
tion thereof by will, the probate court, upon the application of any per
son interested, may order the executor or administrator to redeem the
estate out of the personal assets, if it should appear to the satisfaction of
the court that such redemption would be bencticia1 to the estate and not
injurious to creditors.
SEC. 1524. If such redemption be not deemed expedient, the court shall
order such property to be sold at public sale, which sale shall be with the
same notice, and conducted in the same manner as required in other
cases of real estate provided for in this act, and the executor or aomiuis
trator shall thereupon- execute a conveyance thereof to the purchaser,
which conveyance shall be effectual to convey to the purchaser all the
right, title and interest which the deceased would have had in the property
had not the same been mortgaged by him, and the purchase money, after
paying the expenses of the sale, shall first be applied to the payment and
discharge of such mortgage, and the residue in due course of admin
istration. It said sale of the mortgaged premises shall be insufficient to
secure the mortgage debt, the mortgagee shall file a claim tor balance,
authenticated as other claims and payable in due course of administration.
Sec. 1525. If there shall be any neglect or misconduct in the proceed
ings of the executor or administrator in relation to any sale, by which
any person interested in the estate shall suffer damages, the party ag
grieved may recover the same in a suit upon the bond of the executor or
administrator, or otherwise, as the case in ly require.
Sec. 1526. Any executor or administrator who shall fraudulently sell
any real estate of his testator or intestate, contrary to the provisions of
this act, shall be liable in double the value of the land sold, as damages,
to be recovered in an action by the person or persons having an estate of
inheritance therein.
Sec. 1527. When property is directed by will to be sold, or authority
is given in the will to sell property, the executor may sell any property
of the estate without the order of the probate court, and, either at public
or private sale, and with or without notice, as the executor may determine;
but the executor must make return of such sales as in other cases; and if
directions are given in the will as to the mode of selling, or the particu
lar property to be sold such directions must be observed. In either case
no title passes unless the sale is confirmed by the court.
CHAPTER CVI.
OF THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE EXECUTOR AND ADMINISTRATOR, AND OF
THE MANAGEMENT OF THE ESTATE.
Section
is-J8. Executor, etc., to take possession of deco
dent'* estate.
1529. Rights of action of deceased, possessed by ex
ectttor, etc.
1530, May maintain action of wnste, trespass1, etc
Section
1533. Executors may compound with debtors of
estate.
1534. Fraudulent conveyance by deceased may be
avoide. ■
1535. W'hen executor shall sue for benefit of credi1531.
Action against executor*, in tort by deceased. tors.
1532. Action on bond of former executor or admin- 1536. Real estate recovered in said action to be soldIstrator.
Sec. 1528. The executor or administrator shall take into his possession
all the estate of the deceased, real and personal, and collect all debts due
to the deceased.
Sec. 1521). Actions for the recovery of any property, real or personal,
or for the possession thereof, and all actions founded upon contracts, may
be maintained by and against executors and administrators in all cases
in which the same might have been maintained by or against their re
spective testators or intestates.
Sec. 1530. Executors and administrators may maintain actions against
any person who shall have wasted, destroyed, taken, carried away or con
verted to his own use the goods of their testator or intestate in his life
time, also may maintain actions for trespass committed on the estate of
the deceased (luring his lifetime.
Sec. 1531. Any person, or his personal representatives, shall have an
action against the executor or administrator of any estate or intestate
who in his lifetime shall have wasted, destroyed, taken or carried away, or
converted to his own use the goods and chattels of any such person, or
committed any trespass on the real estate of such person.
Sec. 1532. Any administrator may in his own name, for the use and
benefit of all parties interested in the estate, maintain actions on the
bond of an executor or of any former administrator of the same estate.
■ Sec. 1533. Whenever a debtor of a deceased person shall be unable to
pay all his debts, the executor or administrator may, with the approba
tion of the probate court, compound with him and give him a discharge
upon receiving a lair and just dividend of his effects.
Sec. 1534. When there shall be a deficiency of assets in the hands of
an executor or administrator, and when the deceased shall in his lifetime
have conveyed any real estate or anj' right or interest therein, with
intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid any right, duty or debt of any
Eerson, or shall have so conveyed such estate, which deeds or conveyances
y law are void as against creditors, the executor or administrator may,
and it shall be his duty to, commence and prosecute to final judgment
any proper action .for the recovery of the same, and may recover for the
benefit of the creditors all such real estate so fraudulently conveyed, and
may also for the benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods, chat
tels, rights and credits which ma}- have been so fraudulently conveyed
by the deceased in his lifetime, whatever may have been the manner of
such fraudulent conveyance.
Sec. 1535. No executor or administrator shall be hound to sue for
such estate as mentioned in the preceding section, for the benefit of the
creditors, unless on application of the creditors of the deceased; and the
creditors making such applications shall pay such part of the costs and
expenses, or give such security to the executor or administrator thereof,
as the probate court shall direct.
S?:c. 1536. The real estate so recovered shall be sold for the payment
of debts in the same manner as if the deceased had died seized thereof,
upon obtaining an order therefore from the probate court, and the pro
ceeds of all goods, chattels, rights and credits so recovered, shall be ap
propriated in payment of debts of the deceased, in the same manner as
other property in the hands of the executor or administrator.
Sko. 1537. No executor or administrator shall be chargeable upon any
special promise to answer damages or to pay the debts of the testator or
intestate out of his own estate, unless the agreement for that purpose or
some memorandum or note thereof is in writing, and signed by such
executor or administrator, or by some other person by him thereunto
specially authorized.
Sko. 1538. Every executor or administrator shall be chargeable in his
accounts with the whole estate of the deceased which may come into his
possession, at the value of the appraisement contained in the inventory,
except as provided in the following sections, and with the interest, profit
and income of the estate.
SEC. 1539. He shall not make profit by the increase nor suffer loss by
the decrease or destruction, without his fault, of any part of the estate.
He shall account for the excess when lie shall have svld any part of the
estate for more than the appraisement, and if any has been sold for less
than the appraisement he shall not be responsible for the loss if the sale
has been justly made.
SEC. 1540. No executor or administrator shall be accountable for any
debts due the estate if it shall appear that they remain uncollected with
out his fault.
SEC. 1541. He shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care,
management and settlement of the estate, and for his services such fees
as the law provides, bu: when the deceased, by will, shall have made
some other provision for the compensation of his executor, that shall be
deemed a full compensation for his services, unless he shall by a written
instrument, filed in the probate court, renounce all claim for compensa
tion provided by the will.
SEC. 1542. No administrator or executor shall purchase any claim
against the estate he represents, and if he shall have paid any claim for
less than its nominal value, he shall only be entitled to charge in his ac
count so much as he shall have actually paid.
SEC. 1543. When no compensation shall have been provided by will,
or the executor shall renounce his claim thereto, he shall be allowed
commission on the whole estate accounted for by hi in as follows: For
the first one thousand dollars, at the rate of seven per cent.; for all above
that sum and not exceeding two thousand dollars, at the rate of five per
cent.; for all above that sum, at the rate of four per cent., and the same
commission shall be allowed to administrators. In all cases such further
allowance may be made as the probate court shall deem just and reason
able for any extraordinary services not required of an executor or admin
istrator in the common course of his duty: FroouJe'J, That the total
amount of such allowance shall not exceed the amount of commission
allowed in this section.
SEC. 1544. Within six months after his appointment, and thereafter at
any time when required by the court, either upon its own motion or the
application of any person interested in the estate, the executor or ad
ministrator shall render lor the information of the court an exhibit
under oath, showing the amount of money received and expended by
him, the amount, of all claims presented against the estate, and the names
of the claimants, and all other matters necessary to show the condition
of its affairs.
Sec. 1545. If the executor or administrator fail to render an exhibit
within six months, as required in the last preceding section, it shall be
the duty of the probate court to issue a citation requiring him to ap
pear and render it.
Sec. 1546. Any person interested in the estate may at any time before the
final settlement of accounts, present his petition to the probate court pray
ing that the executor or administrator be required to appear and render
such exhibit, setting forth the facts showing that it is necessary and
proper that such an exhibit shall be made.
Sec. 1547. If the probate court be satisfied, either from the oath of
the applicant or from any other testimony that may be offered, that the
facts alleged are true, and shall consider the showing of the applicant
sufficient, a citation shall be issued to the executor or administrator re
quiring him to appear on some day named in the citation, which shall
be during the term of a court, and render an exhibit as prayed for.
Sec. 1548. When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or administra
tor, any person interested may appear, and by objections in writing, con
test any account or statement therein contained.. The court may exam
ine the executor or administrator, and if he have been guilty of negligence,
or wasted, embezzled or mismanaged the estate, his letters shall be revoked.
Sec. 1549. If any executor or administrator neglect or refuse to ap
pear and render an exhibit after having been duly cited, an attachment
may be issued against him, or his letters may be revoked, in the discre
tion of the court.
Sec. 1550. Every executor or administrator shall render a full account
of his administration at the expiration of one year from the time of his
appointment. If he fail to present bis account, it shall he the duty of the
court to compel the rendering of such account by attachment, and any
Cerson interested in the estate may apply for and obtain an attachment,
at no attachment shall issue unless a citation shall have been first
issued and returned, requiring the executor or administrator to appear
and show cause why an attachment should not issue.
Sec. 1551. Whenever the authority of an executor or administrator
shall cease, or be revoked for any reason, he may be cited to account be
fore the probate court, at the instance of the person succeeding to the
administration of the estate, in like manner as he might have been cited
by any person interested in the estate, during the time he was adminis
trator or executor.
Sec. 1552. If the executor or administrator resides out of the county,
or absconds or conceals himself so that the citation cannot be personally
6erved, and shall neglect to render an account within thirty days after
the time above prescribed, or if he shall neglect to render an account
within thirty days after having been committed where the attachment
has been executed, his letters shall be revoked.
Sec. 1553. In rendering his account the executor or administrator
shall produce vouchers for the expenses and charges which he shall have
paid, which vouchers shall be filed and remain in court; and he may be
examined on oath touching such payments, and also touching any prop
erty and effects of the deceased, and the disposition thereof.
Sec. 1554. On the settlement of his account, he may be allowed any
item of expenditure not exceeding twenty dollars for which no voucher
is produced, if such item be supported by his own oath, positive to the
fact of payment, specifying when, where, and to whom payment was
made, if such oath be uncontradicted; but. such allowances, in the whole,
ghall not exceed three hundred dollars for payment in behalf of any one
estate.
Sec. 1555. Executors and administrators of the estates of deceased per
sons are hereby authorized by and with the consent of the probate court
of the proper county, to expend a reasonable sum out of the estate of
the decedent, to erect a monument, or tombstone, suitable to mark the
grave of said decedent, and the expense thereof shall be paid as expenses
of administration are paid.
Sec. 3550. When the account is rendered for settlement, notice for the
hearing and settlement thereof shall be given by the probate judge by
causing notices to be posted in three of the most public places in the
county, at least twenty days before the time appointed for such settle
ment. The notice shall set forth the name of the estate, of the executor
or administrator, and the day appointed for the settlement of account,
which shall be on some day of a regular term of court. The court may
order such further notice to be given as he may deem proper.
Sec. 1557. On the day appointed, or on any subsequent day to which
the hearing may have been adjourned by the court, any person interested
in the estate may appear and file his exceptions in writing to the account,
and contest the same.
Sec. 1558. If there be any minor interested in the estate, who has no
legally appointed guardian, the court shall appoint some disinterested
person to represent him, who, on behalf of the minor, may contest the
account, as any other person interested might contest it, and who shall
be allowed by the court a reasonable compensation tbr his services.
Sec. 1559. The hearing and allegations of the respective parties may
be adjourned from time to time as shall be necessary.
Sec. 15(50. The settlement of the account and the allowance thereof by
the court, or upon appeal, shall be conclusive against all persons in any
way interested in the estate, saving, however, to all persons laboring
under any legal disability, the right to proceed against the executor or
administrator, either individually or upon his bond, within two years
after their respective disabilities shall have ceased, and in any action
brought by any such person, the allowance and settlement of the account
shall be deemed presumptive evidence of its correctness.
Sec. 1561. The account shall not be allowed by the court until it be
first proven that notice has been given as required by this act, and the
decree shall show that such proof was made to the satisfaction of the
court, and shall be conclusive evidence of the fact.
Sec. 1562. The debts of the estate shall be paid in the following order:
1. Funeral expenses. 2. Expenses of the last sickness. 3. Debts having
preference by the laws of tlie United States, -f. Taxes or any dues to
the territory. 5. Judgments rendered against the deceased in his life
time on which execution might have issued at the time of his death,
and mortgages in the order of their date. 6. All other demands against
the estate.
Sec. 1563. The preference given in the preceding section to a mort
gage, shall only extend to the proceeds of the property mortgaged; if the
proceeds of such property he insufficient to pay the mortgage, the part
remaining unsatisfied shall he classed with other demands against the
estate.
Set. 1564. If the estate he insufficient to pay the debts of any one
class, each creditor shall he paid a dividend in proportion to his claim,
and no creditor of any one class shall receive any payment until all those
of the preceding class shall have been fully paid.
Sec. 1565. It shall be the duty of the executor or admintstrator, as
soon as he may have sufficient funds in his hands, to pay the funeral ex
penses, and expenses of the last sickness, and the allowance made to the
family of the deceased, and he may retain in his hands the necessary
expenses of administration, hut he shall not be obliged to pay any other
debt or any legacy, until as prescribed by this act, the payment has been
ordered by the court.
Sec. 1566. Upon the settlement of the accounts of the executor or ad
ministrator at the end of the year, as required by this act, the court shall
make an order for the payment of the debts, as the circumstances of the
estate shall require. If there be not sufficient fluids in the hands of the
executors or administrators, the court shall specify in the decree the sum
to be paid each creditor.
Sec. 1567. If there he any claim not due, or any contingent or dis
puted claim against the estate, the amount thereof, or such part thereof
as the holder would be entitled to if the claim Were due, established, or
absolute, shall be paid into the court, where it shall remain to be paid
over to the party when he shall become entitled thereto; or if he fail toestablish his claim, to lie paid over or distributed, as the circumstances of the
Case may require: I'ronid&l, That if any creditor whose claim has been
allowed, but is not yet due, shall appear and assent to a reduction theiefrotn
of the legal interest for the time the claim has yet to run he shall
be entitled to be paid accordingly.
Sec. 1568. Whenever a decree shall have been made by the probate
court for the payment of creditors, the executor or administrator shall
be personally liable to each creditor for his claim, or the dividend there
on; and the execution may be issued on such decree, as upon a judgment
of the district court in favor of each creditor; and the same proceedings
may be had under such execution, as if it had been issued from the dis
trict court. The execufor or administrator shall he liable on his bond
to each creditor.
Sec. 1569. When the accounts of the executor or administrator have
been settled, and an order made for the payment of the debts and distri
bution of the estate, no creditor whose name was not included in the
order of payment, shall have any right to call upon the creditors who
have been paid, or upon the heirs, legatees or devisees to contribute for
the payment of his claim; but if the executor or administrator shall have
failed to give the notice to creditors as prescribed in this act, such credi
tor may recover on the bond of the executor or administrator, the amount
of his claim, or such part thereof as he would have been entitled to, had
it been allowed: Provided, That this section .shall not apply to any cred
itor whose claim was not due one year before the day of settlement, or
whose claim was contingent and did not become absolute, one year be
fore such day.
Sec. 1570. 'If all the debts shall have been paid by the first distribu
tion, the court shall proceed to direct the payment of legacies, and the
distribution of the estate among the heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled; but if there be debts remaining unpaid, the court shall give snch
extension of time as maybe reasonable, for the final settlement of the
same.
Sec. 1571. At the time designated, or sooner, if within that time all
property of the estate shall have been sold, or there shall be sufficient
funds in his hands to pay all the debts due by the estate, the executor or
administrator shall render a final account and pray a settlement of the
estate.
Sec. 1572. If he neglect to render his account the same proceedings
may be had as are prescribed in this act, in regard to the first account to
be rendered by him, and all the provisions of this act relative to the last
mentioned account, and the notice and settlement thereof, shall apply to
his account presented for final settlement.
CHAPTER CVIII.
OF THE PARTITION AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE ESTATE.
Secti' n i Section
1573. Heir, legatee etc.. may petition for legacy; 1590. Commissioners, appointed to partition, how to
when. act.
1574. Notice of application to be given. 15!'1. II' partition impracticable, estate may be sold.
1575. As to those who may oppose application. 1592. Testator's estate in common to be llrst sev157ti.
Application when allowed, and upon what
terms.
1577. Decree may order delivery of whole or part of
legacy.
1578. Proceedings, if petition necessary.
1579. Cost in such proceedings.
1680. Petition 1 y executor, etc., (or order for refund
ing legacy.
1581. Residue ol estate, when to be distributed.
1582. Decree of distribution, what to contain.
1583. Decree, upon whose application, and when
may be made.
1581. I'artiilou of undivided shares
ered.
1593. Guardians appointed for minors, etc., agents
for non-residents; notice.
1594. Commissioners to report.
1594. Proceedings thereon.
1595. When partition may be dispensed with.
l.'ittt). Questions relating to advancements, how de
termined.
1597. When court may appoint agent to take charge
of estate for non resident.
1598. AL'eut to give bond— his compensation.
1599. Unclaimed estalo to be sold, aud proceeds paid
into county treasury.
1585. Proceedings when real estate Ilea in different lij'H). Liability ol agent.
counties. ItiOl. Claim of proceeds by absentee; court when to
1586. Notice of application for partition and distrib- grant certificate.
ntlon. ; 1802. When court to discharge executor, etc.. from
1587. Partition when clones have been conveyed. lu'ure liability'.
15S8. Shares, how to be set out. 1603. When letters ofadministratiun maybe granted*
1589. When estate cannot be divided, court how to after final settlement,
act.
Sec. 1573. At any time subsequent to the second term of the probate
court,- alter the issuing letters testamentary or of administration, any
heir, legatee, or devisie, may present his petition to the court, that the
legacy or share of the estate, to which he is entitled, may be given to
him upon his giving bonds with security for the payment of his propor
tion of the debts of the estate.
Sec. 1574. ]\'otice of the application shall be given to the executor or
administrator, and to all persons interested in the estate, in the same man
ner that notice is required to be given of the settlement of the account of
the executor or administrator.
Sec. 1575. The executor, administrator, or any person interested in
the estate, may appear and resist the application; or any other heir, leg
atee, or devisee, may make a similar application for himself.
Sec. 1576. If, on the hearing, it appear to the court that the estate is
but little in debt, and that the share of the parties applying, may be al
lowed without injury to the creditors of the estate, the court shall make
a decree in conformity with the prayer of the applicant or applicants:
Provided, Each one of them shall first execute and deliver to the execu
tor or administrator, a bond in such sum as shall be designated by the
probate court, and with sureties to be approved by the judge thereof, to
the executor or administrator, conditioned for the payment by the devisee
or legatee, whenever required, of his proportion ol the debts due from the
estate.
Sec. 1577. Such decree may order the executor or administrator to de
liver to the heir, devisee or legatee, the whole portion of the estate to
which he may be entitled, or only a part thereof.
Sec. 1578. If, in the execution of such decree, any partition be neces
sary between two or more of the parties interested, it shall be made in
the manner hereinafter prescribed.
Sec. 1579. The costs of the proceedings authorized by the preceding section, shall be paid by the applicant, or if there be more than one, shall
be equally apportioned among them.
Sec. 15S0. Whenever any bond has been executed and delivered under
the provisions of the preceding sections, and the executor or administra
tor slmll ascertain that it is necessaiy for the settlement of the estate, to
require the payment of any part of the money thereby secured, he shall
petition the court for an order requiring the payment, and shall have a
citation issued and served ou the party bound, requiring him to -appear
and show cause why the order shall not be made. At the hearing, the
court, if satisfied of the necessity of the payment, shall make an order
accordingly, designating the amount and giving the time within which
it shall be paid; and if the money be not paid within the time allowed,
an action may be maintained by the executor or administrator on the
bond.
Sec. 1681. Upon the settlement of the account of the executor or ad
ministrator or at any subsequent time, upon the application of the exec
utor or administrator, or any heir, devisee or legatee, the court shall pro
ceed to distribute the residue of the estate among the persons who are by
law entitled.
Sec. 15S2. In the decree the court shall name the person and the por
tion or part to which each shall be entitled; and such persons shall have
the right to demand and recover their respective shares from the execu
tor or administrator, or any person having the same in possession.
Sec. 158S. The decree may be made on the application of the execu
tor or administrator, or of any person interested in the estate, and shall
only be made after notice has been given in the manner required in re
gard to an application for the sale of land by an executor or administra
tor. The court may order such further notice to be given as it may deem
proper.
Sec. 1584. When the estate, real or personal, assigned to two or more
heirs, devisees or legatees, shall be in common and undivided, and the
respective shares shall not be separated and distinguished, partition and
distribution may be made by three disinterested persons, to be appointed
commissioners tor that purpose by the probate court, who shall be duly
sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties, and the court shall issue
a warrant to them for that purpose.
Sec. 1585. If the real estate be in different counties, the probate court
may, if it shall judge proper, appoint different commissioners for each
county; and in such cases the estate in each county shall be divided
separately, as if there were no other estate to be divided, but the com
missioners first appointed shall, unless otherwise directed by the probate
court, make division of such real estate wherever situated within the ter
ritory.
Sec. 158B. Such partition and distribution may be ordered on the pe
tition of any of the persons interested in the estate; but before any par
tition shall be ordered, as directed in this act, notice shall be given to all
persons interested who shall reside in this territory, or to their guardians
and to agents, attorneys or guardian*, if there be any in this territory, of
such as reside out of the territory, either personally or by public notice,
as the probate court may direct.
Sec. 1587. Partition of the real estate may be made as provided in this
act, although some of the original heirs or devisees may have conveyed
their shares to other persons, and such shares shall be assigned to the
person holding the same, in the same manner as they otherwise would
have been to such heirs or devisees.
Sec. 1588. The several shares in the real and personal estate shall be
set out to each individual in proportion to his right, by such metes, bounds
and descriptions, that the same may be easily distinguished, unless two
or more of the parties shall consent to have their shares set out so as to
be held by them in common and undivided.
Sec. 1580. When any such real estate cannot be divided without prej
udice or inconvenience to the owners, the probate court may assign the
whole to one or more of the parties entitled to share therein, who will
accept it, providing the party so accepting the whole shall pay to the
other parties interested their just proportion of the true value thereof,
or secure the same to their satisfaction, and the true value of the estate
shall be ascertained by the commissioners appointed by probate court,
and sworn for that purpoee.
Sec. 1 590. When any tract of land or tenement shall be of greater
value than either party's share of the estate to be divided, and cannot be
divided without injury to the same, it may be set off by the commission
ers appointed to make partition, to either of the parties who will accept
it, giving preference as prescribed in the preceding sections; providing
the party so accepting shall pay or seen re to one or more of the others,
such sums as the commissioners shall award to make the partition equal,
and the commissioners shall make their award accordingly; but such
partition shall not be established by the court until the sums so awarded
shall be paid to the parties entitled to the same, or secured to their sat
isfaction.
Sec 1591. When it cannot be otherwise fairly divided, the whole or
any part of the estate, real or personal, may be recommended by the com
missioners to be sold; and if the report be confirmed, the court may
order a sale by the executor or administrator, and distribute the proceeds.
Sec. 1592. When partition of real estate among1 heirs or devisees
shall be required, and such real estate shall be undivided and iti common
with the real estate of any other person, the commissioners shall first
divide and sever the estate of the deceased from the estate with which
it lies in common; and such division so made and established by the
probate court, shall be binding upon all the persons interested.
Sec. 1593. Before any partition shall be made, or any estate divided,
as provided in this act. guardians shall be appointed for all minors and
insane persons interested in the estate to be divided; and some discreet
person shall be appointed to act as agent for such parties as reside out of
the territory, and notice of the appointment of such agent shall be given
to the commissioners in their warrant; and notice shall be given to all
persons interested in the partition, their guardians or agents, by the
commissioners, of the time when they shall proceed to make partition.
Sec. 1594. The commissioners shall make a report of their proceedings
in writing, and the court may, for sufficient reasons, set aside such report
and remit the same to the same commissioners or appoint others; and thereport,
when finally accepted and established, shall be recorded in the
records of the probate court, and a copy thereof attested by the judge,
under the seal of the court, shall be recorded in the office of the county
auditor in the county where the land lies.
Sec. 1595. When the probate court shall make a decree assigning the
residue of any estate to one or more persons entitled to the same, it shall
not be necessary to appoint commissioners to make partition or distribu
tion of such estate, unless the parties to whom the assignment shall have
been decreed, or some of them, shall request that such partition be made.
Sec. 1596. All questions as to advancements made, or alleged to have
been made by the deceased to any heirs, may be heard and determined
by the probate court, and shall be specified in the decree assigning the
estate, and in the warrant to the commissioners, and the final decree of
the probate court, or in case of appeal, of the district or supreme courts,
shall be binding on all parties interested in the estate.
Sec. 1597. When any estate shall have been assigned by decree of the
court, or distributed by commissioners, as provided in this act, to any
person residing out of this territory, and having no agent therein, and it
shall be necessary that some person should be authorized to take posses
sion and charge of the same tor the benefit of such absent person, the
crnrt may appoint an agent for that purpose, and authorize him to take
charge of such estate, as well as to act for such absentee in the partition
and distribution.
Sec. 1598. Such agent shall give a bond to the county in which such
estate shall be situated, to be approved by the court, conditioned faith
fully to manage and account for such estate, before he shall be authorized
to receive the same, and the court appointing such agent may allow a
reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate for his services and ex
penses.
Sec. 1599. When the estate shall have remained in the hands of the
agent unclaimed for one year, it shall be sold under order of the court,
and the proceeds, deducting the expenses of the sale, to be allowed by
the court, shall be paid into the county treasury. When the payment is
made the agent shall take triplicate receipts, one of which he shall file
with the county auditor, and another with the probate court.
Sec. 1600. The agent shall be liable on his bond for the care and pres
ervation of the estate while in his hands, and for the payment of the
proceeds of sale as required by the preceding section, and may be sued
thereon by any person interested.
Sec. 1601. When any person shall appear and claim the money paid
into the treasury, the probate court making the distribution, being first
satisfied of his right, shall grant him a certificate under its seal, and
upon the presentation of the certificate to the county auditor, he shall
draw his warrant on the county treasurer for the amount.
Sec. 1602. When the estate has been fully administered, and it shall
have been shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of
satisfactory vouchers, that he has paid all sums of money due from him,
and delivered up, under order of the court, all property of the estate to
the persons entitled, the court shall make a decree discharging him from
all liability to be incurred thereafter.
Sec. 1603. The final settlement of the estate shall not prevent a sub
sequent issuance of letters of administration, should other property of
the estate be discovered, or it should become necessary and proper from
any cause that letters should be again issued.
CHAPTER CIX.
THE APPOINTMENT AND DUTIE8 OF GUARDIANS.
Section | Section
KitLt. Appointment of guardians. 1617. Provisions relative to execnlors, bonds apply
1605. When judge to nominate and appoint guar- to guardians.
dian. Minor may nominate, when. 161K. The father, by his wilt may appoint guardians.
1606. When judge may appoint as if minor nnder 1019. The appointment of guardians pendente lite,
fourteen. not affected.
1607. Guardian not removed when minor fourteen, 1620. Sale of real estate of minor may be ordered by
except, for cause. court.
160ft. Parent entitled to guardianship of minor. 1621. Application therefore, how made.
1600. Guardian to have custody and tuition of ward, 1622. Court, when to authorize sale.
when. 1623. Guardian's sale governed by same rules as ex1610.
Custody, etc., to continue until majority. editor's, etc.
1611. Guardians may prosecute and defend for their 1624. Guardians to make report of sale.
ward". 162r>. Confirmation of sale.
1612. Bond to be given by guardian. 1026. Guardian may assent to partition of minor's
1613. Guardian to render accounts; additional se- real estate."
curilv may lie required. 1627. Expenses and compensation of guardians.
1611. Duty of guardians generally. ! 1628. How property niav be removed from territory.
1615. Court may order guardian to change Invest- 1629. Sureties in 'bonds of guardians; how disment. charged.
1616. Removal of guardians. 1630. Appeal to district court allowed.
Sec. 1604. The probate court of each county, when it shall become
necessary, may appoint guardians to minors resident in said county, who
have no guardian appointed by will; or who may reside out of the terri
tory, having estate within the county.
SEC. 1605. If the minor is under fourteen years of age, the judge may
nominate and appoint his guardian; if. said minor be over fourteen years
of age. he or she may nominate the guardian, who, if approved by the
probate court, shall be appointed accordingly: Provided, That n« judi
cial officer, excepting justice of the peace, no person of unsound mind or
a party convicted of felony, or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude,
shall be appointed guardian, and when a guardian shall incur either of
the foregoing disabilities, he shall be displaced. If a guardian becomes
probate judge, the district court of the proper county or district shall
appoint his successor.
Sec. 1606. If the guardian nominated by the minor be not approved
by the judge, or if the minor shall reside out of the territory, or if,
after being duly cited by the court, he shall neglect for ten days to nom
inate a suitable person, the court may appoint the guardian in the same
manner as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years.
Sec. 16U7. When a guardian has been appointed for any minor under
the age of fourteen, such guardian shall not be removed when such minor
arrives at the age of fourteen, except for good cause shown.
Sec. 1608. The father of the minor if living, and in case of his de
cease, the mother, being themselves respectively competent to transact
their own business, shall be entitled to the guardianship of a minor.
Sec. 1609. If the minor have no father or mother living, and compe
tent to have the custody and care of the education of such minor, the
guardian so appointed shall have the custody and tuition of his ward.
Sec. 1610. Every guardian appointed as aforesaid shall have the cus
tody and tuition of the minor, and the care and management of the es
tate of such minor, except as hereinafter provided, until he or she shall
have attained the age of majority; and males shall be deemed of full
and legal age when they shall be twenty-one years old, and females shall
be deemed of full and legal age when they shall be eighteen years old,
or at any age under eighteen, when, with the consent of the parent, or
guardian, or other person under whose care or government they may be,
they shall have been lawfully married.
Sec. 1611. Guardians, by virtue of their office as such, shall be allowed,
in all cases to prosecute and defend for their wards.
Sec. 1612. The probate court shall take of each guardian appointed
under this act, bond witli approved security, payable to the territory of
AVrashington, in a sum double the amount of the minor's estate, real and
personal, conditioned as follows:
The condition of this obligation is such, that if the above bound A
B, who has been appointed guardian for C 0, shall faithfully discharge
the office and trust of such guardian according to law, and shall ren
der a fair and just account of his said guardianship to the probate court
for the county of , from time to time, as he shall thereto be re
quired by said court, and comply with all orders of said court, lawfully
made, relative to the goods, chattels, and monies of such minor, and
render and pay to such minor ail monies, goods and chattels, title pa
pers and effects which may come into the hands or possession of such
guardian belonging to such minor, when such minor shall thereto be
entitled, or to any subsequent guardian^ should such court so direct, this
obligation shall be void, or otherwise to remain in full force and virtue,
which bond shall be for the use of such minor and shall not become void
npon the first recovery, but may be put in suit from time to time against
all, or any one or more of the obligors, in the name and [for] £he use and
benefit of any person entitled by a breach thereof, until the whole pen
alty shall be recovered thereon.
Sec. 1613. Probate courts shall have power in their respective coun
ties, with or without previous complaint, by an order duly made and
served, to oblige all guardians of minors, from time to time, to render
their respective accounts, upon oath, touching their guardianship, to
said courts for adjustment and shall have power to compel such guardian
to give supplementary security, whenever it shall judire proper, and in
default thereof to remove such guardian.
Sec. 1614. It shall be tlie duty of every guardian of any minor:
1. To make out and file, within three months after his appointment,
a full inventory, verified by oath, of the real and personal estate of his
ward, with the value of the same; and failing so to do, it shall he the
duty of the court to remove him and appoint a successor.
2. To mannge the estate for the best interest of his ward.
3. To render, on oath, to the proper court, an account of his receipts
and expenditures as such guardian, verified by (such) vouchers or proof,
at least once in every two years, or whenever cited so to do; he shall re
ceive no allowance for services, and be liable to said ward on his bond,
for ten per cent, in damages on the whole amount of estate, both real
and personal, in his hands belonging to such ward.
4. At the expiration of his trust, fully to account for and pay over to
the proper person, all the estate of said ward remaining in his hands.
5. To pay all just debts due from such ward out of the estate in his
hands, and collect all debts due such ward, and in case of doubtful debts,
to compound the same, and appear for and defend or cause to he de
fended, all suits against such ward.
G. When any ward has no father or mother, or such father or mother is
unable, or fails to educate such ward, it shall be the duty of his guardian
to provide for him such education as the amount of his estate may justify.
Sec. 161.~>. The probate court, may, on the application of a guardian or
any other person, said guardian having due written notice thereof, order
and decree any change to be made in the investment of the estate of any
ward that may to such court seem advantageous to such estate.
SEC. J 61 6. The probate court in all cases, shall have power to remove
guardians for good and sufficient reasons, which shall lie entered of re
cord, and to appoint others in their place or in the place of those who
may die, who shall give bond and security for the faithful discharge
of their duties as heretofore prescribed in this act; and when
any guardian shall be removed, or die, and a successor be appointed, the
court shall have power to compel such guardian to deliver up to such
successor all goods, chattels, monies, title papers, or other effects belong
ing to such minor which may be in the possession of such guardian so
removed, or of the executors or administrators of a deceased guardian,
or of any other person or persons who have the same, and upon failure,
to commit the party offending to prison, until he, she or they comply
with the order of the court.
Sec. 1617. All the provisions of chapter 101 relative to bonds given by
executors and administrators, shall apply to bonds taken of guardians.
Sec. 1618. The father of every legitimate child, who is a minor, may,
by his last will in writing, appoint a guardian or guardians for his minor
children; whether born at the time of making such will or afterwards, to
continue during the minority of such child, or for any less time, and
every such testamentary guardian shall give bond in like manner and
with like condition as hereinbefore required, and he shall have the same
powers and perform the same duties with regard to the person and estate
of the ward, as a guardian appointed as aforesaid.
SEC. 1619. Nothing contained in this act shall affect or impair the
power of any court to appoint a guardian to defend the interests of any
minor interested in any tuit or matter pending therein, or to commence
and prosecute any suit in his behalf.
Sec. 1620. Whenever necessary for the education, support or payment
of the just debts A' any minor, or for the discharge of any liens on the
real estate of such minor, or whenever the real estate of such minor is
suffering unavoidable waste, or a better investment of the value thereof
can be made, the probate court may, on the application of such guardian,
order the same or a part thereof to be sold.
Sec. 1621. Such application shall be by petition, verified by the oath of
the guardian, and shall substantially set forth:
1. The value and character of all personal estate belonging to such
ward that has come to the knowledge or possession of such guardian.
2. The disposition made of such personal estate.
3. The amount and condition of the ward's personal estate, if any, de
pendent upon the settlement of anjT estate, or the execution of any trust.
4c. The annual. value of the real estate of the ward.
5. The amount of rent received and the application thereof.
6. The proposed manner of re investing the proceeds of the sale, if
asked for that purpose.
7. Each item of indebtedness, or the amount and character of the lien,
if the sale is prayed for the liquidation thereof.
8. The age of the ward, where and with whom residing.
9. All other facts connected with the estate and condition of the ward
necessary to enable the court fully to understand the same. If there is
no personal estate belonging to such ward, in possession or expectancy,
and none has come into the hands of such guardian, and no rents have
been received, the fact shall be stated in the application.
Sec. 1622. If it shall appear to the court from such petition and from
the hearing thereon, that it is necessary, or would be beneficial to the
ward that such real estate or some part of it should be sold, the court
may authorize the said guardian to sell the same at public sale, on the
same terms and notice required for sales of real estate by executors and
administrators.
Sec. 1623. All the provisions of the chapter regulating sales by exec
utors and administrators shall be applicable to sales made by guardians.
Sec. 1624. At the term of the court next after such sale, such guar
dian shall make report thereof to such court, and produce the proceeds
of such sale, and the notes or obligations or other securities taken to se
cure the payment of the purchase money.
Sec. 1625. The court in confirming such sale and directing a convey
ance, shall be governed by the law regulating the confirming of sales of
real estate made by executors cr administrators, and the making of con
veyances on such sales.
Sec. 1626. Thv guardian of any minor may join in and assent to the
partition of the real estate of such minor, under the direction of the
court, upon a petition for partition.
Sec. 1627. Every guardian shall be allowed by the court, on settling
his accounts, the amount of all reasonable expenses incurred in the exe
cution of his trust, and also such compensation for his services as the
court shall deem reasonable.
Sec. 1028. When the guardian and ward are both non-residents, and
the ward is entitled to property in tikis territory, which may be removed
to another state or territory, without conflict to any restriction or limita
tion thereupon, or impairing the right of the ward thereto, such prop
erty may be removed to the state or territory in which such ward may
reside, upon the application of the guardian to the judge of the probate
court of the county in winch the estate of the ward, or the principal part thereof, may be, in the manner following: The guardian so apply
ing must produce a transcript from the records of a court of competent
jurisdiction, certified according to the laws of this territory, showing his
appointment as guardian of the ward in the state or territory in which
he and the said ward reside; that he has qualified as such according to
the laws thereof, and given bond, with sureties, for the performance of
his trust; and must also give thirty days' notice to the resident executor,
administrator, guardian, agent or trustee, if there be such, of the appli
cations. Thereupon, if no objection be made, or if no good cause be
shown to the contrary, the judge of the probate court shall -make an order
granting such guardian leave to remove the property of said ward to the
state or territory in which he or she may reside; which order shall be full
and complete authority to said guardian to sue lor and receive the same
in his own name, for the use and benefit of said ward.
Sec. 1620. Sureties in the bond of any guardian may he discharged
from liability therein, under the same r'ule and regulation prescribed for
the discharge of the sureties in the bond of executors and administrators,
and the provisions of this act regulating the same shall apply to guard
ians and guardians' bonds and sureties.
Sec. 1630. Appeals shall be allowed in all cases, from any order or
judgment of the probate court to the district court, embracing the county
exercising jurisdiction, in the same manner as provided in this act regard
ing executors and administrators and the settlement of estates.
CHAPTEK CX.
eelati.no to idiots and insane.
Section Section
ii>31. Probate courts may .appoint guardians, etc. lii-t.j. Powers of ronrt over estate of word.
lMo'-i- Inquiry as to insanity of persons, and ability ltS-lo. Kcal estate of ward may be sold, leased,
lo hear expenses of keeping. Court may mortgaged, etc.
permit friends to take charge, when. Ifi+T. Orders of court touching such real estate.
1(133. In indigent cases counties liable. HV1S. Guardian's act binds the ward.
HW4. Paying patients shall comply with contract, into. Conn may set aside guardian's proceedings.
lf»3\ Probate court to appoint guardian of e-tute. lfl.V). Ouardinu to render account when required.
lli-'Jti. Ward's estate tlrst liable, if slillicient, then HiSl. Ward exempted from arrest, served on guaroounty. dian
1IJH7. When complainant shall be liable for costs.
lfvW. Bond and qualification of guardian.
Jt^'.O. Notice of appointment shall be published.
Hi 10. Guardian shall take pos-essiou of ward's estaie.
tool. Territory may recover disbursements from
ltt-ll. Exhibits of estate by guardian. anyone win) is bound b\r law to support
pill. Additional exhibit or Inventory. insane person.
](>1-.'. Kxliibit, how atlesled and verified. 10."i5. Who are liable for support of insane persons,
li 13. Utinidiaus shall prosecute and defend actions HiW. In case or death guardian's powr ceases, esfor ward. tale to descend, etc.
ItHl. Guardians, to collect due* and pay debts of, 1057. Court has power to remove guardian.
ward.
ltjrr.2. Recovery of reason by ward, discharges guar
dian.
1653. Expense of case to be paid out of estate; if
that is not sufficient, then by territory.
Sec. 1631. The several probate courts in their respective counties in
this territory, shall have power to appoint guardians to take the care,
custody and management of all idiots, insane persons, and all who are
incapable of conducting their own affairs; and of their estates, real and
personal; the maintenance of themselves and families, and the education
of their children. < ir<^ &'jj . °,
X Sue. 1032^The probate court of any county in this teiritory, or the
judge thereof, upon application of any person under oath, setting forth
that any person hy reason of insanity is unsafe to he at large, or is suf
fering: under mental derangement, shall cause such person to be brought
before said court or judge at such time and place as the court or judge
may direct; and shall cause to appear at said time and place, one or more
respectable physicians who shall state under oath in writing, their opin
ion of the case, which opinion shall be carefully preserved and filed with
the other papers in the case; and if the said physician or physicians
shall certify to the insanity or idiocy of said person, and it appear to the
satisfaction of the court or judge that such is the fact, said court or judge
shall canse such insane or idiotic person to be taken to and placed in
the hospital for the insane in Washington territory: Provided, That
such person or any person in his behalf, may demand a jury to decide
upon the question of his insanity, and the court or judge shall discharge
such person if the verdict of the jury is that he is not insane. Said court
or judge shall also inquire as to the ability of such insane or idiotic per
son to bear the expense of his keeping in said hospital, and shall certify
the result to the trustees of the hospital for the insane in "Washington
territory, and in case such person shall have sufficient means to bear such
expense, said court or judge shall cause to be paid to the territorial treas
urer the amount of two months' expenses in said hospital in advance and
a like amount regularly every two months thereafter so long as such per
son remains under treatment in said hospital if he shall have means [suf
ficient] therefore: Provide*?, hoieever, That if such person be the head of
a family, no property that is by law exempt from execution or attach
ment for debt shall be taken to pay such expenses: Provided, That when
the relations or friends desire to take charge of such insane or' idiotic
person the court or judge may so order, if they shall give bonds to be
approved by said judge conditioned that such insane <>r idiotic person
shall be well and securely kept. > ^,-^Cio-' '■ " '1 -' ■ r'
X Sec. 1033J The county shall, in all cases where the person is indigent,
be at the expense of such conveyance to the asylum, and in the event of
the death of such person, be chargeable with the funeral expenses: [Pro
vided, That when such insane person is a resident of another county, the
county wherein such proceedings were had shall recover from the county
of which such insane person is a resident all costs and expenses.] [See
sec. 2276.] tUfi «.t*< ■ \ \ J. . J".
* Sj;c. 1634jf Paying patients, whose friends or whose property can pay
their expenses shall do so in accordance with the contract made with the
trustees of the institution; the charge in all cases shall be reasonable and
in proportion to the amount of care and accommodation required hy their
friend or guardians.
Sec. 1635. If it be found by the court that the person so brought before
the court, is of unsound mind and incapable of managing his own affairs,
the court shall appoint a guardian for the estate of such insane person.
Sec. 1636.y'When any person shall be found to be insane, or coming
within the provisions of this act, the cost of the proceedings shall be
paid out of his estate, or, if that be insufficient, by the county.
Sec. 1637. If the person alleged to be insane shall be discharged and
it shall be thought by the court that there were no grounds for such im
pression of insanity, then the cost shall be paid by the person at whose
instance the proceeding was had, and execution may issue for the same.
Sec. 1638. Every such guardian so appointed, shall, before entering
upon the duties, assigned him, enter into bond to the board of county
commissioners in such sum, and with such security as the court 6hall
approve, conditioned that he will take proper care of such insane person,
and manage and minister his effects to the best advantage, according to
law; and that he will faithfully discharge all duties as such guardian
which may by law, or by the order, sentence or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, devolve upon him; which bond shall be filed in
the office of the probate court; a copy thereof, duly certified, shall be
evidence in all respects as the original.
Sec. 1630. It shall be the duty of every such guardian, within twenty
days after his appointment, to cause notice thereof to be published in
some newspaper printed in this territory, or otherwise publish such
notice at such time and place, and in such manner as the court shall
decide.
Sec. 1640. It shall be the duty of such guardian to collect and take
into his possession the goods, chattels, monies, effects and other evidences
of debt, and all writings touching the estate, real and personal, of the
person under his guardianship.
Sec. 1641. Within forty days after his appointment, such guardian
shall make out and file in the office of the probate court, by which lie
was appointed, a just and true inventory of the real and personal
estate of his ward, stating the income and profits thereof, and the
debts, credits and effects, as the same shall have come to his knowledge.
And if, after having filed such inventory, it shall be found that there is
other property belonging to 6aid estate, it shall be 'the duty of such
guardian to make out and file an additional inventory, containing a just
and full account of the same, from time to time, as the same may be dis
covered.
Sec. 1642. All such inventories shall be made in the presence of, and
attested by two credible witnesses in the neighborhood, and shall be ver
ified by the oath of the guardian.
Sko. 1643. It shall be the duty of every such guardian to prosecute all
actions commenced at the time of his appointment, or thereafter, to be
commenced by, or on account of his ward, and to defend all actions whicb
may be brought against such ward.
Sec. 1644. Every such guardian is authorized and required to collect
all debts due to his ward, and give acquittances and discharges thereof,
and adjust, settle and pay all demands due and becoming due from his
ward, so far as his estate and effects will extend.
Sec. 1645. Every probate court shall have power to make orders for
the restraint, support and safe keeping of such person, for the manage
ment of his estate, and the support and maintenance of his family, and
education of his children, out of the proceeds of his estate; to set apart
and reserve, for the use of such family, all property, real or personal, not
necessary to be sold for the payment of debts; and to let, sell or mort
gage any part of such estate, real or personal, when necessary for the
payment of debts, the maintenance of such insane person or his family,
or the education of his children.
Sec. 1646. Whenever the personal estate of such person shall be found
to be insufficient to meet the foregoing requisitions, it shall be the duty
of such guardian to lay the same before the probate court by whom he
was appointed, setting forth the particulars relative to the estate, real
and personal, of such person, and the debts by him owing, accompanied
by a correct and true account of his doings therewith; whereupon it
shall be the dutv of such court to make an order directing the mortgage,
lease, or sale at his discretion, of the whole or such part of the real
estate as may be necessary.
Sec. 1647. The court making such order shall direct the time and
terms of such sale, mortgage, or lease of such estate, and the manner in
which the proceeds shall be applied; and shall give due notice thereof to
gether with a full description of the property to be thus disposed of, at
which time and place it shall be the duty of the guardian to execute the
order of said court, and to make a full report of his doings therein, which
report shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the guardian verifying the
report, and stating that such guardian did not directly or indirectly,become the purchaser thereof; or if otherwise disposed of, that he is not
directly or indirectly interested personally in the agreement.
Sec. 1648. When any such sale, mortgage or lease, is approved by the
court ordering the same, as having been performed according to law, and
not under such circumstances as to operate prejudicial to the interest of
such ward, it shall be the duty of the guardian to execute a deed, mort
gage or other instrument of writing, winch shall be as valid and effective
in law as if executed by such ward when of' sound mind and discretion.
Sec. 1649. If such proceedings be disapproved by said court, the court
may set them aside and proceed in like manner as if no sale had been
made.
Sec. 1650. Every such guardian as often as required by the court ap
pointing him, shall render a true and perfect account of his guardianship.
Sec. 1651. No such ward shall be held to bail, or his body be taken in
execution, in any civil action; and in all actions commenced against hiin
the process shall be served upon his guardian, and in all judgments
against such ward (or his guardian as such) the execution shall be against
the property of the ward only, and in no case against his body, nor against
that of his guardian, nor the property of said guardian, unless he shall
have rendered himself liable thereunto.
Sec. 1652. Whenever the court shall receive information that such
ward has recovered his reason, he shall immediately inquire into the
facts, and if he finds that such ward is of sound mind, lie shall forth
with discharge such person from care and custody; and the guardian shall
immediately settle his accounts and restore to such person all things re
maining in his hands belonging or. appertaining to such ward.
\ Skc. 1653." All the expense's of taking care^ of such insane person and
the management of his estate, shall be paid out of his estate if it be
sufficient, if not, out of the territorial treasury.
• Skc. 1654.' In all cases of appropriation out of the territorial treasury for
the support and maintenance, treatment, or confinement of any insane
person, the amount thereof may be recovered by the territory from any
person, who by law is bound to provide for the support and maintenance
of such insane person, if there be any such ability, to pay the same.
Sec. 1655. The father or mother of such insane person shall maintain
them at their own charge, if of sufficient ability, and if not, then the
children, grand children, or grand parents, shall, if of sufficient ability,
maintain them at tlueir own charge.
Si:c. 1656. In case of the death of any such ward, while under guard
ianship, the power of the guardian shall cease, and the estate descend
and be disposed of in the same manner as if said ward had been of sound
mind; the guardian shall immediately settle his accounts and deliver the
estate and the effects of his ward to his legal representatives.
SEC. 1657. The several probate courts shall have the power to remove
any such guardian at any time, for neglect of duty, mismanagement, or
of disobedience to any lawful order, and appoint another in his place,
whereupon such guardian shall immediately settle his account and render
to his successor the estate and effects of his ward.
CHAPTER CXI.
JJSTATE8 OF NON- RESIDENT MINORS AND PERSONS OF UNSOUND MIND.
ion | Section
1638. Real esfoitc may be sold on application of ' foreign guardian.
foreign guardian, term*, etc. I 1GG3. Trustee shall have no poorer to apply for sale
1656. Court may appoint trustee to manage estate. of real estate.
1060. First appointment lawfully made excludes ltifi-1. Trustee's term of oftice anil compensation,
jurisdiction of other probate courts. MJGo. Moneys, to whom paid over.
1661. Trustee to give bond, duties of. etc 1666. Trustees heretofore appointed.
1662. Trustee shall deliver personal property to i
SEC. 1658. Real estate belonging to minors and persons of unsound
mind, residing out of this territory, may be sold upon the application of
the foreign guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind to the
probate court' of the county in which such land is situated, upon the
terms as are or may be provided by law in case of the sale of real estate
belonging to minors residing in this territory.
Sec. 165'.*. That when any minor or person of unsound mind residing
out of the limits of this territory, has any real estate, goods, chattels,
rights, credits, money or effects in this territory, the probate court hav
ing jurisdiction of the county in which such properly or any part thereof
is situate or may be, shall, upon the application of the foreign guardian
of such minor, or person of unsound mind, appoint a trustee of such
minor or person of unsound mind to manage, collect, lease, and take
care of said property.
Sec. 1660. The first appointment of a trustee, lawfully made, shall
extend to all the property and effects of the minor in this territory, and
shall exclude the jurisdiction of the probate court- of any other county.
Sec. 1661. The said trustee shall give bond with surety, to the satis
faction of the probate court, and shall take upon himself the manage
ment of the estate and property of such minor or person of unsound
mind situate in this territory, and the collection of debts and other de
mands due such minor or person of unsound mind from persons resid
ing or being in this territory, and shall settle with the court, and be
liable to suitor removal or both, for neglect or misconduct in the perfor
mance of his duties, in like manner as is or may by law be provided in
the case of guardians of minors.
Sec. 1662. The said trustees shall, under the order of the probate court,
deliver up to the foreign guardian of such minor or person of unsound
mind all the personal property, rights and credits belonging to such
minor or person of unsound mind: Provided, That the probate court
shall make no such order except upon application of the foreign guard
ian, and sufficient proof of his appointment and qualification in accord
ance with the laws of the state or place of residence of such guardian.
Sec. 1663. The said trustee shall have no power to apply to the pro
bate court for the sale of the real estate of such minor or person of un
sound mind.
Sec. 1664. The said trustee, unless removed by the court, holds his
appointment so long as the services of a trustee may be required, and
shall receive such compensation for his services as may be stipulated
between him and the foreign guardian; and in case no agreement has
been made, then such compensation as is or may be by law provided fdr
such guardians.
Sec. 1065. AH monies due such minor or person of unsound mind,
in the hands of such trustee, shall be paid over to the foreign guardian
6o long as he shall remain such guardian, or in case of the decease of
6nch minor or person of unsound mind, then to the administrator or
legal representative of such minor or person of unsound mind.
(Sec. 1666. All appointments heretofore made of trustees for non
resident minors or persons of unsound mind by any probate court in
this territory, under the provisions of an act passed January 21, 1859,
entitled "An act relative to minors and persons of unsound mind resid
ing without the limits of this territory;" are hereby fully legalized and
made valid; and all acts lawfully done by trustees so appointed are
hereby declared valid. And all such trustees and the property under
their control b}7 virtue of such appointment by such probate courts, shall
be fully subject to all th« provisions of this chapter.)
CHAPTER CXI I.
TO AUTHORIZE THE ADOPTION OF CHILDREN.
Section | Section
1667. Any one may petition probate court for leave lrjfjft. Court may make order, when.
to adopt child; proceeding* on petition. i 1070. Natural parent* diverted of all legal rights,
1G68. If husband and wife petition, wite must be property of parents adopting cliild does not
examined separate and apart. descend to next of kin of clilld.
SEC. 1667. Any inhabitant of this territory, not married, or any hus
band and wife, jointly, may petition the probate court of their proper
county, for leave to adopt a minor child, not theirs by birth, and for a
change of name of said child; but a written consent must be given to
such adoption by the child, if of the age of fourteen years, and by each
of his or her living parents, who is not hopelessly insane or a confirmed
•drunkard. If there be no such parents, or if the parents be unknown,
or shall have abandoned such child, or if such parents, or either of them,
are hopelessly insane, or a confirmed drunkard, then, by the legal guar
dian; if there be no such guardian, then by a discreet and suitable per
son, appointed by said court, to act in the proceedings, as the next friend
of such child: 1'rovided, however, That, if the parents are living separate
and apart, the consent of both is not required, but such consent may be
given by the parent having the care, custody and control of such child.
Sec. 1668. That, if the petition be filed by husband and wife, the
court shall examine the wife separate and apart from her husband, and
shall refuse leave for such adoption, unless the court shall be satisfied,
from such examination, that the wife, of her own free will and accord
desires such adoption.
SEC. 1(569. That, upon the compliance with the foregoing provisions,
if the court shall be satisfied of the ability of the petitioner, or petition
ers, to bring up and educate the child properly, having reference to the
degree and condition of the child's parents, and shall be satisfied of the
fitness and propriety of such adoption, the court shall make an order
setting forth the facts, and declaring that, from that date, such child, to
all legal intents and purposes, is the child of the petitioner or petition
ers, and that the name of the child is hereby changed.
SEC. 1670. That by such order the natural parents shall be divested of
all legal rights and obligations in respect to such child, and the child
shall be free from all legal obligations of obedience and maintenance in
respect to them, and shall be, to all intents and purposes, the child and
legal heir of his or her adopter or adopters, entitled to all the rights and
privileges and subject to all the obligations of a child of the adopter or
adopters begotten in lawful wedlock: 1'rovided, That on the decease of
parents who have adopted a child or children under this act and the sub
sequent decease of such child or children without issue, the property of
such adopting parents shall descend to their next of kin, and not to the
next of kin of such adopted child or children.
[Skc. 1671. That an act entitled "An act relative to adoption," approved
November 12, 1875, be and the same is hereby repealed: Provided, how
ever, That no right or privilege established under said act shall be im
paired in any manner by such repeal.]
CHAPTEK CXIII.
TO DECLARE CERTAIN PEKSON8 HABITUAL DRUNKARDS AND TO PROTECT THEM
AND OTHERS, IN PERSON AND PROPERTY.
Section Section
1071. Person may be adjudged habitual drunkard. era with names of habimal drunkards; list
1671. Complaint to bo verified. to be posted.
1672. Proceedings and record of. 1(176. Petition or habitual drunkard to be released
167:1. Fees of probate judge, and liability for costs. from such decree.
1674. Penally for giving or selling liquor to habitual 1677. Any person addicted to the excessive use of
drunkard; of actions for. intoxicating liquors may, upon complaint
1675. Damages for acts of hahil mil drunkard. thereof, a« is hereinafter provided, be ad1675. Probate judge to furulsh licensed retail deal- T . i^ged an habitual drunkard.
[Skc. 1671.' Any 'person' may' make compTaiiitof any person addicted to
the excessive use of intoxicating liquors, to the probate judge in the
county wherein such person so addicted resides, that the person com
plained of is a habitual drunkard, and that in consequence thereof such
person is squandering his or her earnings or property, or that he or she
neglects his or her business, or that such person abuses or maltreats his
or her family, which complaint must be verified by the oath of the com
plainant to the effect that the same is true.] i, ,.., j__ ^ \ '
(Sec. 1673. Any person addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors may,
upon complaint thereof, made as hereinafter provided, be adjudged a
habitual drunkard.)
(Sec. 1674. Either the father, husband, mother, wife, son or daughter
of any person addicted to the excessive use of intoxicating liquors, or auy
person in the interest of the relative aggrieved or of the general public,
may make complaint to the probate judge of the county, wherein such
person so addicted resides, that the person complained of is a habitual
drunkard, and that, in consequence thereof, such person is squandering
his earnings or property, or that he neglects his business or that he
abuses or maltreats his family, which complaint must be verified by the
oath of the complainant to the effect, that the same is true.)
Sec. 1672. Upon filing of the complaint, duly verified, the probate
judge shall cause a copy thereof to be served upon the accused forthwith
and shall summon him to appear and answer, giving at least ten days'
notice, and if upon the hearing of the evidence, the allegations of the
complaint are sustained, such judge shall, in open court, declare the ac
cused to be a habitual drunkard, and shall cause the proceeding to be
entered in full upon the records pf hjs court. . r ■/
V Sec. 1673.X The same fees shall be allowed to the probate judge, and
the sheriff or constable, in all proceedings under the foregoing section of
this act, as is allowed by law for like processes and services, and like fees
tor witnesses as in civil cases before justice. of the peace; and if the com
plaint is not sustained, the person making the complaint shall pay the
costs; and in case the complaint is sustained, the person accused shall
pay the costs.
SEC. 1674. Any person who shall sell or give any intoxicating liquors
to any habitual drunkard, as defined in the foregoing section of this act,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction thereof, by
any court having criminal jurisdiction, shall be fined in any sum not less
than fifty dollars or more than three hundred dollars, or be imprisoned
in the county jail, not less than one or more than six months, at the dis
cretion of the court.
Sec. 1675. Any person who shall be injured in person or property or
means of support, by any habitual drunkard, as defined by this act, while
in a state of intoxication, or in consequence of such intoxication, shall
have a right of action in his or her own name, severally or jointly, against
any person or persons who shall, by selling or giving intoxicating liquors
to such habitual drunkard, have caused his intoxication in whole or in
part, and such person selling or giving such intoxicating liquors as afore
said, shall be liable severally or jointly for all damages sustained, and
the same maj' be recovered in a civil action. A married woman may
bring such action in her own name, and all damages recovered by her
shall inure to her separate use, and all damages recovered by a minor un
der this act, shall be paid either to such minor or to such person in trust
for him or her, as the court may direct. •
[Sfx1. 1076. Tt shall be the duty of the probate judge of each county to
furnish a copy of this act as amended, together with the names of all
persons adjudged habitual drunkards, to all parties licensed to sell by
retail intoxicating liquors in such county. And such retail dealer shall
keep posted up in his place of business a copy of said law and a list of
such habitual drunkards. A person failing to keep such law and list so
fiosted shall forfeit his license; and if he thereafter sells intoxicating
iquors he shall be punished as if selling without a license.]
[Skc. 1677. Any person so declared to be a habitual drunkard may, at any
time after the expiration of two years from the time he was so declared
to be such, by petition addressed to the judge of the court in which he
was so adjudged, have a hearing in such court, upon a day which shall be
by such court set, which day shall not be more than ten days after the
filing of such petition in such court, which petition may contain a state
ment of facts tending to show the improved condition and habits of sucb
petitioner and to establish his character for sobriety, and a prayer that
the order on record so declaring him to be such habitual drunkard be
vacated and he be released from the effects thereof; which petition shall
be duly verified by the petitioner. And if upon the hearing of such
petition and the evidence in support thereof it appear to the judge that
such petitioner is entitled to have such record vacated and be so released,
then he shall make an order so declaring that such record be vacated and
annulled and that the petitioner be thereafter released from the effects
thereof.]
•CHAPTER CXIV.
OF APPEALS.
Section
11180. Certiorari, how arid when taken.
Section
1678. In what cases allowed.
1079. Fine for taking.
Sec. 1678. An appeal shall be allowed from the decision of the pro
bate court to the district court in the cases following:
1. On granting or revoking letters testamentary, or of administration,
or guardianship.
2. On admitting a will to probate.
3. On revoking the probate or determining the validity of a will.
4. On setting apart property or making an allowance for a widow or
child.
5. On determination of the application for the sale or conveyance of
real property.
6. On the settlement of an executor, administrator or guardian.
7. On declaring, allowing, or rejecting the payment ot a debt, legacy
or distributive share of the estate.
8. On all other final orders and decrees.
SEC. 1679. At any time within sixty days after the same is made, and
not later, any person interested in the estate of any deceased person may
appeal to the district court from any order or decision of any probate
judge or court made that affects said estate; said appeal shall be taken
in the same manner, and like notice shall be given as in cases of appeal
from justices' courts to the several district courts of this territory.
Sec. 1680. Writs of certiorari may, at any time within sixty days
after the rendition of the order or decision in the probate court, issue
out of the district court to examine and determine upon any alleged
errors occurring in the final decision or order of the probate court, which
shall be heard and determined in the same manner as are like writs to
justices of the peace: Provided, The party will, under the order of the
court, file a proper bond, and will correct such irregularities as may exist:
And provided further, The court shall be satisfied that the party making
the application to correct, is not in fault, and that no injustice is done to
the opposite party: Provided, That none of the provisions of this' sec
tion shall be construed as prohibiting appeal to the district court.
Sec. 16S1. The provisions ot this code so far as they are substantially the
same as existing statutes, must be construed as continuations thereof,
and not as new enactments.
Sec. 16S2. No action or proceeding commenced before this code takes
effect, and no right accrued, is affected by its provisions, but the pro
ceedings therein must conform to the requirements of this code as far as
applicable.
Sec. 1683. When a limitation, or a period df time prescribed in anyexisting
statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy has begun to
run before this code takes effect, and the same or any other limitation is
prescribed in this code, the time which is run shall be deemed part of
the time prescribed as such limitation.
Sec. 1684. No statute, law, or rule is continued in force because it is
consistent with the provisions of this code on the same subject; but in
all cases provided for by this code, all statutes, laws, and rules heretofore
in force in this territory, whether consistent or not with the provisions
of this act, unless expressly continued in force by it, are repealed and ab
rogated.
Sec 1685. This repeal or abrogation does not revive any former law
heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any right already existing or ac
crued, or any action or proceeding already taken, except as in this code
provided, nor does it affect any private statute not expressly repealed.
Sec. 16S6. The provisions of this act shall be liberally construed and
shall not be limited by any rule of strict construction.
JUSTICE PRACTICE ACT.
CHAPTER CXVI.
RELATING TO JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND TO THEIR PRACTICE AND JURIS
DICTION.
Section
16S9. Justices, when and where elected.
1690. Each precinct entitled to one.
1691. Who eligible as justice.
1II9-J. Election of justice; bow conducted.
]69i. Justice to give bond: form of.
169*1. Bond to bellied; action upon.
16!*."). Penalty for neglect to deliver books, etc.
1696. Vacancies; how tilled.
1697. Electou to fill vacancies, auditor to post noti
ces; how.
Section
1698. At such elections ten electors may elect Judg
es of elect bin.
1699. Opening and closing of pollB.
17(10. Qualification of justice.
1701. Special election.
1702. Jurisdiction throughout county, but to reside
iu precinct.
1703. Provision In case of division of precinct.
1704. In case of ■ death, resignation, etc., books,
papers, etc.
Sko. 1689. The qualified voters of each election precinct, in the several
organized counties of this territory, shall at the time and place of hold
ing the general election, elect one or more justices of the peace.
SEC. 1600. Each precinct shall be entitled to one justice of the peace,
but the board of covintv commissioners, at the time of organizing such precinct, or at any time afterwards, may, if they deem proper, authorize
an additional justice of the peace to be elected therein.
SEC. 1691. No person shall be eligible to the office of justice of the
peace who is not a qualified voter, and who has not been a resident of
the county in which he is elected six months next preceding his election;
nor shall any sheriff, coroner, or clerk of the district court be eligible to,
or hold such office.
Sec. 1692. The election of justice of the peace shall be conducted, and
return of such election made in the same maimer, as other elections; and
every person duly elected, shall be entitled to a certificate of election,
and shall take an oath of office; which oath shall be endorsed on the
back of the certificate of election, and, together with the certificate, filed
in the office of the county auditor.
Sec. 1693. Every person elected a justice of the peace, shall, at the
time of filing his oath of office in the office of the county auditor, enter
into a bond with the board of commissioners of the proper county, with
two or more sureties, residents of the county, to be approved by the said
auditor, in the sum of five hundred dollars, conditioned that he will
faithfully pay over, according to law, all monej's which shall come into
his hands by virtue of his office as justice af the peace. Said bond may
be in the following form:
Know all men by these presents, that we, JP,AB and C 1) are held and
firmly bound unto the board of county commissioners of the county of —,
in the territory of Washington, in the sum of five hundred dollars, for the
payment of which we jointly and severally bind ourselves, our heirs, ex
ecutors and administrators.
Sealed with our seals; dated this — day of —, A. I). 18 —.
Whereas, the said J P lias been duly elected a justice of the peace, in
and for the precinct of —, in the county of —, —, A. T). 18- -. Now the
condition of the above obligation is such, that if the said J P shall faith
fully pay over, according to law, all monies which shall come into his
hands by virtue of his office as justice of the peace, then this obligation
shall be void, otherwise in full force. J P, [r,. s.]
A B, [l. s.]
CD. [L.B.]
Sec. 1694. Such bond shall be filed in the office of the county auditor;
and every person aggrieved by a breach of the condition thereof, may,
by an action upon the bond, have judgment against the justice and
his sureties, for such sum as he may show himself entitled to, with costs
and interest at the rate of twenty-live per cent, per annum ; and upon
any such judgment stay of execution shall not be allowed.
Sec. 1695. Every justice of the peace shall hold his office for the term
of two years, and until his successor is elected and qualified; and every
justice heretofore elected and qualified, shall continue to act as such until
his term of office expires, and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 1696. Whenever a vacancy shall exist in the office of justice of
the p< ace, in any precinct of any county in this territory, the same shall
be filled by election.
Sec. 1697. When any auditor of any county shall have filed with him
bv any legal voter of a precinct in which a vacancy exists, a written cer
tificate of any vacancy, if he be satisfied that there is a vacancy, lie shall
post or cause to be posted three notices to the legal voters in said pre
cinct calling: an election to fill such vacancy in the office of justice of
the peace in said precinct, which notices shall also set forth the time
when and places where the polls shall he held, and be posted in three
public places in the precinct: Provided, That no such notices shall be
posted if said written certificate is filed with the auditor within ninety
days next preceding any general election.
Sec. 1698. Whenever ten legal voters shall have assembled at the place
named for holding such election for justice of the peace, they may elect
three of their number as judges for said special election, two of whom
shall act as clerks; and they are hereby required to take an oath and
make a return to the county auditor, as officers of election are now, by
law, required to do.
Sec". 1699. Whenever a special election is held under the provisions of
this act, the polls shall be opened at eleven o'clock a. m., or so soon
thereafter, not more than two hours, as ten persons are present, and in a
precinct where no more than fifty votes were polled at the then preced
ing general election, shall be kept open two hours; when over fifty votes
were cast at the last preceding general election four hours.
Sec. 1700. Every person elected a justice of the peace under the pro
visions of this act, shall qualify in the same manner as if elected at a
general election, and shall hold his office until the next general election
and until his successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 1701. The judges of the special election herein provided for shall
appoint one of their number messenger to convey the returns of said
election and file the same with the county auditor, for which he shall
receive two dollars mileage each way at the rate of ten cents per mile;
and no further fees shall be paid the said judges of election.
Sec. 1702. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace elected in pur
suance of the provisions of this act, shall be co extensive with the
limits of the county in which they are elected or appointed; and no
other or greater, whether said county be attached to any other county
for judicial purposes or not; but every justice of the peace shall
continue to reside in the precinct for which he was elected, or appointed,
during his continuance in office.
Sec. 1703. When a precinct shall be divided, and any justice of the
peace of the original precinct ?hall fall into the new one, he shall con
tinue to discharge the duties of justice of the peace until his term of
office expires, and his successor is elected and qualified.
Sec. 1704. If any justice of the peace shall die, resign, or remove out
of the precinct for which he may be elected, or his term of office be in
any other manner terminated, the docket, books, records and papers ap
pertaining to his office, or relating to any suit, matteV or controversy,
committed to him in his official capacity, shall be delivered to the near
est justice in the precinct, who may thereupon proceed to hear, try and
determine such matter, suit or controversy, or issue execution thereon,
in the same manner as it would have been lawful for the justice before
whom such suit or matter was commenced to have done: Provided, That
if there be no other justice of the peace in said precinct, such docket,
books, records and papers shall be delivered to the county auditor, who,
on demand, shall deliver the same to a justice of said precinct, when
there shall be one qualified therein, who shall exercise the same powers
as though they had been originally delivered to him.
«' Sko. 1705.' Every person whose duty it is to deliver over the dockets,
books, records and papers as prescribed in the last section, shall forfeit
and pay, for the use of the county, fifteen dollars for every three months'
neglect to perform such duty, which sum may be recovered at the suit
of any person.
CHAPTER CXVII.
JURISDICTION OF JCSTICE8 OF THE PEACE.
Suction ' Section
1706. Co extensive with county for which elected. 1709. Jurisdiction conferred, and practice in ju«tl1707.
Office to be in precinct for which elected and ce*' court.
he may issue process throughout cuunly. 1710. Actions cognizable, ennraerated1708.
Not to hold office with an attorney, etc. 1711. Actions not in jurisdiction of justice. Sec. 1706. The jurisdiction of all justices of the peace shall be co ex
tensive with the limits of the county in which they are elected, and no
other or greater unless otherwise expressly provided by statute.
Sec. 1707. Every justice of the peace shall keep his office in the pre
cinct for which he may be elected, and not elsewhere; but he may issue
process in any place in his county.
Sec. 1708. No justice of the peace shall hold his office in the same
room with a practicing attorney, unless such attorney shall be his law
partner; and in that case, such partner shall not be permitted to appear
or practice as an attorney, in any case tried before such justice of the
peace.
SEC. 1709. Every justice of the peace elected in any precinct in this
territory, is hereby authorized to hold a court for the trial of all actions
in the next section enumerated, to hear, try and determine the same ac
cording to law; and for that purpose, where no special provision is
otherwise made by law, such court shall be vested with all the necessary
. powers which are possessed by courts of record in this territory; and all
laws of a general nature shall apply to such justice's court, as far as the
same may be applicable, and not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. :( ,(tv t . . ; ) J
. Skc. 1710/ Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction over, and
cognizance of the following actions anil proceedings:
1. Of an action arising on contract for the recovery of money only, if
the sum claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.
2. Of an action for damages for injury to the person, or for taking or
detaining personal property, or for injuring personal property, or for au
injury to real property when no issue is raised by the answer, involving
the plaintifff's title to, or possession of the same, if the damages claim
ed do not amount to one hundred dollars; also of actions to recover the
possession of personal property, when the value of such property does
not amount to one hundred dollars.
3. Of an action for a penalty, not exceeding one hundred dollars.
4. Of an action upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money,
not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum,
the judgment to be given for the sum actually due. When the pay
merits are to be made by installments, an action may be brought tor each
installment, as it shall become due.
5. Of an action on an undertaking or surety bond, taken by him, if
the amount claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.
6. Of an action tor the foreclosure of any mortgage, or the enforce
ment of any lien on personal property, when the debt secured does not
exceed one hundred dollars.
7. Of an action for damages, for fraud in the sale, purchase, or ex
change of personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed one
hundred dollars.
8. Of an action for a forcible or unlawful detention of lands, tene
ments, or other possessions.
9. Of an action to try the right ot occupancy or possession to a min
ing claim.
10. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, when
the amount does not exceed one hundred dollars.
11. And shall, in all cases, have power to issue writs of attachments
upon goods, chattels, monies and effects, where the amount does not ex
ceed one hundred dollars.
Sec. 1711. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section, shall not
however extend to the following civil actions:
1. In which, the title to real property shall come in question.
2. Nor to an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or enforcement
of a lien on real estate.
3. Nor to an action for false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction.
4. Nor to any action against an executor or administrator as such.
CHAPTER CXVIII.
COMMEN'CKMEXT OF ACTIONS —SERVICE AM) RETURN OF PROCESS.
Skctiox
lils!. Actions; how instituted.
1713. Commencement of action by summon*.
1714. Commencement by complaint and notice.
1715. Complaint and notice; when served,
1716. United States; process to run in the name of.
1717. Return; what to contain.
1718. Justice may appoint any per-on to serve pro
cess; Proviso.
1719. Service; proof of ; how made.
1720. Service by. publication; how made.
1721. Proof of publication.
1722. Written admissions proof of service.
1723. Court: when deemed to possess case.
1724- Docket; what shall contain.
174"). Security for costs; when required.
1726. Property; when may be attached.
1737. Writ of attachment; when shall issue.
173H. Plaintiff to give bond.
i729. Writ; to whom directed.
17:10. Duty of sheriff, etc.
1731. Personal property; how attached.
1732. Credits, etc.; how attnehed.
1733. Persons controlling credits in attachment.
1734. Such persons may be examined under oath.
1735. Inventory of property attached.
1736. Perishable property may be sold.
1737. Indemnity bond; when to be given.
17:18. Affidavit of claimant to property attached.
j"39. .Judgment shall be lor, what.
1740. Disposition of properly alter judgment.
1741. Property attached maybe released.
1742. Plaintiff: not to have judgment for costs, when
Sectiox
1743. Sunday, writ of attachment maybe issned.
1744. Attachment binds property; when.
1745. Officer may puisne property'111*' any county.
1T46. Warrant of arrest; when may be issued by
justice.
1747. Justice shall require bond; when.
1748. WarrauL; how served.
174ft. Officer to give notice of what.
1750. Defendant not to be detained longer that
twenty-lour hours.
1751. Continuance may be granted; how.
1752. Officer failing to execute process shall pay
what.
1753. Action by infant, bow commenced.
l',54. Infant defendant.
1755. Time lor appearance.
1756. Pleadings shall take place; when.
1757. Pleadings; what shall be.
1758. Pleadings; when shall be in writing.
1759. Pleadings, oral, to be entered on the docket.
1760. What statement deemed equivalent to a de
nial.
1761. Copy of account or instrument; when suffi
cient.
1762. Pleadings to bo verified; how.
J 763. Complaint; when taken to be true.
1764. Objections, to pleading; for what taken.
1765. Variance; what.
1766. Amendments.
176',. Set-off.
1768. Costs; defendant to have judgment for; when.
1769. Continuance not to exceed sixty days.
_ — j „ — „_ .., .._ — _„,.„.,_ ~,....j —/"■
Sec. 1712. Civil actions in the several justices' courts of this territory
may be instituted either by the voluntary appearance and- agreement of
the parties, by the service of a summons, or by the service upon the de
fendant of a true copy of the complaint and notice, which notice shall be
attached to the copy of the complaint and cite the defendant to be and
appear before the justice at the time and place therein specified, which
shall not be less than six nor more than twenty days from the date of
tiling the complaint.
SEC. 1713. A party desiring to commence an action before a justice of
the peace, for the recovery of a debt by summons, shall file his claim
with the justice of the peace, verified by his own oath, or that of his
agent or attorney, and thereupon the justice of the peace shall, on pay
ment of his fees, if demanded, issue a summons to the opposite party,
■which summons shall be in the following form, or as nearly as the case
■will admit, viz:
Territory of "Washington, 1
County. \
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to sum
mon if he (or they) be found in your county to be and appear before
me at — on — day of — at — o'clock p. m. or a. m., to answer the com
plaint of— for a failure to pay him a certain demand, amounting to —
dollars and — cents, upon — (here state briefly the nature of the claim)
and of this writ make due. service and return.
;.Tiven under my hand this — day of — 18 —.
, Justice of the Peace.
And the summons shall specify a certain place, day and hour for the ap
pearance and answer of the defendant, not less than six nor more than
twenty days from the date of filing plaintifff's claim with the justice,
which summons shall be served at least five days before the time of trial
mentioned therein, and shall be served by the officer delivering to the
defendant, or leaving at his place of abode with some person over twelve
year* of age, a true copy of such summons, certified by the officer to be
such.
SEC. 1714. Any person desiring to commence an action before a justice
of the peace, by the service of a complaint and notice, can do so by filing
his complaint verified by his own oath or that of his agent or attorney
with the justice, and when such complaint is so filed, upon payment of
his fees if demanded, the justice shall attach thereto a notice, which shall
be substantially as follows:
Territory of Washington, )
County. j
ToYou arc hereby notified to be and appear at my office in — on the —
day of—, 18—, at the hour of — M., to answer to the foregoing complaint
or judgment will be taken against you as confessed and the prayer of
the plaintifff granted.
Dated —, 18—. , J. P.
Sec. 1715. The complaint and notice shall be served at least five days
before the time mentioned in the notice for the defendant to appear and
answer the complaint, by delivering to the defendant, or leaving at his
place of abode, with some person over twelve years of age, a true copy
of the complaint and notice, certified by the officer or person making the
service to be such.
Sec. 1716. All process issued by justices of the peace, shall run in the
name of the United States, be dated the day issued, signed by the justice
granting the same, and diiected to the sheriff or any constable of the
proper county, and the same, as also the complaint and notice, shall be
served by one of said officer-!, unless otherwise directed by the justice.
Sec. 1717. Every constable or sheriff serving any process, or complaint
and notice, shall return thereon in writing, the time and manner of ser
vice, and shall sign his name to such return and endorse thereon his fees
for service.
Sec. 1718. Any justice may, by appointment in writing, authorize any
person, other than the parties to the proceeding or action, to serve any
process or paper issued by such justice, and any such person making
such service shall return on such process or paper, in writing, the time
and manner of service, and shall sign his name to such return, and be
entitled to like fees for making such service, as a sheriff or constable, and
shall endorse his fees fur service thereon: Provided, It shall not be law
ful for any justice to issue any processor papers to any person but a reg
ularly qualified sheriff or constable, in any precinct where such officers
reside, unless from sickness or some other cause said sheriff or coustable
is not able to serve the same.
Sec. 1719. Proof of service in either of the above cases shall be as fol
lows: When made by a constable or sheriff his return signed by him
and indorsed on the paper or process. When made by any pji-son other
than such officer, then by the affidavit of the person making the service.
Sec. 1720. In case personal service cannot be had by reason of the ab
sence of the defendant from the county in which the action is sought to
be commenced, it shali be proper to publish the summons or notice with
a brief statement of the object and prayer of the claim or complaint, in
some weekly newspaper published in the county wherein the action is
commenced; or if there is no paper published in such county, then in
some newspaper published in the nearest adjoining county, which notice
shall be published not less than once a week for three weeks prior to the
time fixed for the hearing of the cause, which shall not be less than four
weeks from the first publication of said notice. Said notice may be sub
stantially as follows:
Tkkkitory of Washington, )
County of . S
In justice's court, justice.
To .
You are hereby notified that — has filed a complaint (or claim as the
case may be) against you in said court which will come on to be heard
Ht my office in —, in — county, W. T.. on the — day of —, a. d. 18 —,
at the hour of — o'clock — m., and unless you appear and then and
there answer, the same will be taken as confessed and the demand of the
plaintifff granted. The object and demand of said claim (or complaint,
hs the case may be) is (here insert a brief statement.)
Complaint filed —, a. d. 18—. . J. P.
Sec. 1721. Proof of service, in case of publication, shall be the affida
vit of the publisher, printer, foreman or principal clerk, showing the
same.
Sec. 1722. The written admission of the defendant, his agent or attor
ney, endorsed upon any summons, complaint and notice, or other paper,
shall be complete proof of service in any ease.
Sec. 1723. The court shall be deemed to have obtained possession of
the case from the time the complaint or claim is filed, after completion
of service, whether by publication or otherwise, and shall have control
of all subsequent proceedings.
Sec. 1724. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket in a well bound
book, in which he shall enter:
1. The titles of all actions commenced before him.
2. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum of money be
claimed, the amount of the demand.
3. The date of the notice and the time of its return; and if an order
to arrest the defendant be made, the statement of the facts on which the
order is issued.
4. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their non
appearance, if default be made.
5. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintifff's demand, and the
amount claimed; and if any set-off be pleaded, a similar statement of the
set off, and the amount estimated, and every motion, rule, order, and ex
ception with the decision of the court thereon.
6. Every continuance, stating at whose request, andfor what time.
7. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by
whom made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial
and return of the jury.
8. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the names of
witnesses sworn, and at whose request.
9. The verdict of the jury, and when received; and if the jury disa
gree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge.
10. The judgment ot the court, and the time when rendered.
11. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to
whom delivered, and an account of the debt and costs, and the fees due
to each person separately.
12. The fact of an appeal having been made and allowed, and the time
when.
13. Satisfaction of the judgment, or any money paid thereon, and the
time when.
14. And such other entries as may he material.
Sec. 1725. Whenever the plaintifff is a non-resident of the county, the
justice may require of him security for the costs before the commence
ment of the action. ; ; '^4 t .J \y/'i.fi'Jzt+{ , • ". ■/"- (■-, y', J '/
VSec. I72(i,' In an action for the recovery of money, the plaintifff, at
the time of filing his claim or complaint with the justice, or at any time
afterwards, may have the property of the defendant attached in the man
ner hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judg
ment as he may recover, y is*j£-\
1 Sec. 1727. A writ of attachment shall be issued by any justice with
whom a complaint or claim has been filed, whenever the plaintifff, his attor
ney or agent, shall make and file with such justice an affidavit stating that
a cause of action exists against the defendant in favor of the plaintifff,
together with the nature thereof, and that the defendant is indebted to
the plaintifff thereon, specifying the amount of such indebtedness, as
near as may be over and above all just set-offs and counterclaims, and
that the same is not secured by any mortgage or lien upon real or per
sonal property, or pledge of personal property, or if originally so se
emed, such security has, without any act of plaintifff's, become inadequate.
Sec. 1728. The plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall, before the
writ issues, execute a bond in a sura equal to the amount claimed, with
sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice, payable to the defendant,
to the effect that the plaintifff will duly prosecute his proceeding in attaclnnent, and will pay all damages which may be sustained by the defendant,
if the proceedings of the plaintifff shall be wrongful and —
oppressive.
Sec. 1729. The writ shall be directed to the sheriff or constable, and
shall be delivered to such officer or such other person as may be spec
ially authorized to execute the same. It shall require such officer to
seize and take into his possession the property of the defendant in his
county not exempt from execution, or sufficient thereof to satisfy the
amount of the plaintifff's claim and costs.
Sec. 1730. Upon receipt of the writ, the sheriff, constable or other
person authorized to serve the same, shall proceed to attach the prop
erty, goods and chattels of the defendant, subject to execution, in the
manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 1731. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall be at
tached by taking it into custody; stock or shares, or interest in stock or
shares of any corporation or company, shall be attached by leaving with
the president or other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier or man
aging agent thereof, a copy of the writ, and a notice stating that the
stock or interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ;
debts and credits and other personal property, not capable of manual
delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person owing such debts, or
having in his possession, or under his control such credits, or other per
sonal property, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the debts owing by
him to the defendant, or the credits, and other personal property in his
possession, or under his control belonging to the defendant, are attached
in pursuance of such writ.
Sec. 1732. Upon receiving information from the plaintifff or his at
torney, that any person has in his possession, or under his control, any
credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or is ow
ing any debt to the defendant, the sheriff or other person or officer hav
ing the writ shall serve upon such person a copy of the writ and a notice
that such credits or other property or debts, as the case may be, are at
tached in pursuance, of such writ.
Sec. 1733. All persons having in their possession or under their con
trol, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant,
or owing any debts to the defendant, at the time of service upon them
of a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections,
shall be, unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or such
debts be paid to the sheriff, constable, or other officer or person having
the writ, liable to the plaintifff for the amount of such credits, property,
or debts, until the attachment be discharged or any judgment recovered
by him be satisfied.
SEC. 1734. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or having in
his possession or under his control any credits or other personal prop
erty, belonging to the defendant, may be required to attend before the
justice of the peace by whom the writ was issued, and be examined on
oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to attend.
for the purpose of giving information respecting his property, and may
be examined on oath. The justice may, alter such examination, order
personal property capable of manual delivery to be delivered to the
sheriff, constable or other officer or person liaviug the writ, on such
terms as may be just, having reference to any liens thereon or claims
against the same, and a memorandum to be given of all personal prop
erty containing the amount and description thereof.
SEC. 1735. The sheriff, constable, or other officer, having the writ,
shall make a full inventory of the property attached and return the same
with the writ. To enable him to make such return as to debts and
credits attached, he shall request, at the time of service, the party ow
ing the debt or having the credit, to give him a memorandum, stating
the amount and description of each; and if such memorandum be re
fused, he shall return the fact rf the refusal with the writ. The party,
refusing to give the memorandum, may be required to pay the cost of any
proceedings, taken for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the
amount and description of such debt or credit.
SEC. 1736. If any of the property attached be perishable, the officer or
person having the writ shall sell the same in the manner in which such
property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other property attached
by him shall be retained by him t" answer any judgment that may be
recovered in the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon another
judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts
and credits attached may be recovered pi evions to the attachment. Debts
and credits attached may be collected by the officer or person having the
writ, if the same can be done without suit. The officer's receipts shall
be a sufficient discharge for the amount paid.
SEC. 1737. If any property attached be claimed by any other person
than the defendant or bis agent, and the claimant make affidavit of his title thereto, or his right to the possession thereof, stating the ground of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the officer or person having
the writ, while the property is in his possession; such officer or person
shall not be bound to keep the property unless the plaintifff, on demand,
indemnify him against such claim by a bond executed by at least two suffi
cient sureties, who must l»e residents of the county, and able to prove that
they are each worth double the value of the property attached, over and
above all debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution,
-and no claim to property attached shall be valid against the officer, unless
made as aforesaid, and notwithstanding Mich claim when so made, he may
retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.
SEC. 1738. When a claim is made to property in the manner provided
in the last section, the officer shall at once make a return of the writ
with his doings endorsed thereon, and deliver the claimant's affidavit to
the justice, who shall file the same and cause notice thereof to be given
to the plaintifff or his attorney, and if the property bo not released for
failure on the part of the plaintifff to indemnity the officer, he shall set
the case for hearing, upon the allegations of the affidavit; and the case
shall be tried as a new action between the claimant as plaintifff, and the
officer and the plaintifff in the attachment suit, as defendants, and the
case shall proceed as in other civil actions, and, if either party demand it, a
jury may be empanneled as in other cases.
Sec. 17:3!). If in such suit, the claimant establish his title or right to
the possession of the property, judgment shall be rendered in his favor
for possession of the property and for costs against the plaintifff in the
attachment; if he fail to establish his title or right to the property,
judgment shall be rendered against him for costs.
Sko. 1740. After judgment in the attachment suit, the property at
tached shall be disposed of in the same manner as provided by law for
similar cases in the district courts.
SEC. 1741. Property attached may be released by the defendant giving
a bond in such amount as the justice may designate, with good and suf
ficient sureties, conditioned for the payment of any judgment that may
he recovered against him in the action and the costs thereof; or by claiming that the property is exempt, in which case the question of exemption
shall be tried by the justice summarily: Pronuled, howerer, That if
either party demand it, a jury may be cmpanncled and the matter may
he tried before the court and jury as other civil actions, and so much of
the property, as shall be decided to be exempt, shall be released and de
livered to the defendant.
SEC. 1742. The plaintifff shall not have judgment for costs of such
attachment except in some of the following cases, viz:
1. When the defendant shall have been personally served with pro
cess; or,
2. When the property of the defendant shall have been attached; or,
3. When a garnishee shall have been summoned in the county, who
shall be found to be indebted to the defendant, or to have property or
assets in his hands subject to the attachment.
Sko. 1743. A writ of attachment may be issued and executed on Sun
day, if the plaintifff will show in his affidavit that the defendant is about
to abscond on that day, to the injury of the plaintifff.
SEC. 174±. A writ of attachment binds the defendant's property from
the time it is served.
SEC. 1745. If after a writ of attachment is placed in the hands of the
officer or other person authorized to serve the same, any property of the
defendant's is removed from the county, the officer or other person so hav
ing such writ may pursue and seize the same in any county in the terri
tory within five days after the removal thereof.
SEC. 174*1 A justice of the peace shall issue a warrant of arrest in all
such cases within his jurisdiction, and for such causes, and upon such
proof as is provided for an order for a warrant in the act regulating civil
actions.
SEC. 1747. Before issuing the warrant of arrest the justice shall re
quire a bond on part of the plaintifff, with one or more sureties, to the
effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff, will pay all
costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which may
X
be sustained by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in
the bond, which shall be at least one hundred dollars.
Sec. 1748. The warrant shall be served bv arresting the defendant and
taking him before the justice of the peace who issued the same; but if
such justice, at the return thereof, be absent or unable to try the action,
the officer shall i in mediately take the defendant to the nearest justice of
the same county, who shall take cognizance of tl it' action, and proceed
thereon as if the warrant had been issued by himself.
Sec. 174'.'. The officer making the arrest shall immediately give notice
to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, and indorse on the warrant the
time of the arrest, and the time of serving notice on the plaintifff.
Sec. 1750. When a defendant is brought before a justice on a warrant
he shall be detained in the custody of the officer until he shall be dis
charged according to law, but in no case shall the defendant be detained
longer than twenty-four hours from the time he shall be brought before
the justice, unless within that time the trial of the action shall be com
menced, or unless it lias been delayed at the instance of the defendant.
Sec. 1751. If the defendant, on his appearance, demand a continuance,
the same may be granted on condition that he remain in custody or exe
cute and file with the justice a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the justice, to the effect that he will render himself
amenable to the process of the court; or that the sureties will pay to
plaintifff the amount of any judgment which he may recover in the ac
tion. On filing such bond, the justice shall order the defendant to be
discharged from custody.
Sec. 1752. If any officer, without showing good cause therefore, fail to
execute any process to him delivered, and make due return thereof, or
make a false return, such officer, for every such offense, shall pay to the
party injured ten dollars, and all damage such party may have sustained
by reason thereof, to be recovered in a civil action.
Sec. 1753. No action shall be commenced by an infant plaintifff except
by his guardian, or until a next friend for such infant shall have been
appointed. Whenever requested, the justice shall appoint suine suitable
person, who shall consent thereto in writing, to bo named by such
plaintifff, to act as his next friend in such action, who shall be responsi
ble for the costs therein.
Sec. 1754. After service and return of process against an infant de
fendant, the action shall not be further prosecuted, until a guardian for
such infant shall have been appointed. Upon the request of such de
fendant, the justice shall appoint some person who shall consent thereto
in writing, to be guardian of the defendant in defense of the action; and
if the defendant shall not appear on the return day of the process, or if
he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian, the justice may, at the
request of the plaintifff, appoint any discreet person as such guardian.
The consent of the guardian ornext friend shall be filed with the justice;
and such guardian for the defendant shall not be liable for any costs in
the action.
Sec. 1755. The parties shall be entitled to one hour in which to make
their appearance after the time mentioned in the notice for appearance,
but shall not be required to remain longer than that time, unless both
parties appear; and the justice being present, is actually engaged in
the trial of another action or proceeding; in such case he may postpone
the time of appearance until the close ot such trial.
PLEADINGS AND ADJOURNMENTS.
Sec. 1756. The pleadings in justice's court shall take place upon the
appearance of the parties, unless they shall have been previously Hied or
unless the justice shall, for good cause shown, allow a longer time than
the time of appearance.
SEC. 1757. The pleadings in the justice's court shall be:
1. The complaint of the plaintifff, which shall state in a plain and di
rect manner the facts constituting the cause of action.
2. The answer of the defendant, which may contain a denial of the
complaint, or any part thereof; and also a statement, in a plain and di
rect manner, of any facts constituting a defense.
3. When the answer sets up a set-off, by way of defense, the reply of
the plaintifff.
SEC. 1758. The pleadings shall be iu writing, when the action is for
one of the following causes:
1. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful de
tention of lands, tenements or other possessions.
2. To recover the occupancy or possession of a mining claim. In all
other cases the pleadings may be oral or in writing.
Sec. 1759. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall
be entered by the justice in his docket. When in writing they shall be
filed in his office and a reference made to them in his docket. Pleadings
shall not be required to be in any particular form, but shall be such as to
enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended.
Sec. 1760. A statement in an answer or reply, that the party has not suf
ficient knowledge or information, in respect to a particular allegation in
the previous pleadings of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be
deemed equivalent to a denial.
Sec. 1761. When the cause of action, or set-off, arises upon an account
or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for
the party to deliver the account or instrument, or a copy thereof, to the
court, and to state that there is due to him thereon, from the adverse
party, a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set-off. The court
may, at the time of pleading, require that the original account, or in
strument, be exhibited to the inspection of the adverse party, with lib
erty to copy the same; or if not so exhibited, may prohibit its being
given in evidence.
Sec. 1762. Every complaint, answer or reply shall be verified by the
oath of the party pleading; or if he be not present, by the oath of his
attorney or agent, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The veri
fication shall be oral, or in writing,in conformity with the pleading verified.
Sec. 1763. Every material allegation in a complaint, or relating to a
set-off in an answer, not denied by the pleading of the adverse party,
shall, on the trial, be taken to be true, except that when a defendant,
who has not been served with a copy of the complaint, fails to appear
and answer, the plaintifff cannot recover without proving his case.
Sec. 1764. Either party may object to a pleading by his adversary, or
to any part thereof that is not sufficiently explicit for him to
understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defense although
it be taken as true. If the court deem the objection well founded, it
shall order the pleading to be amended ; and if the party refuse to amend,
the defective pleading shall be disregarded.
SEC. 1705. A variance between the proof on the trial, and the allegations
in a pleading, shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court be
satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.
SEC. 1766. The pleadings may he amended at any time before the trial,
or during the trial, or upon appeal, to supply any deficiency or omissions
in the allegations or denials, necessary to support the action or defense,
when by such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear to the sat
isfaction of the court that a continuance is necessary to the adverse party
in consequence of such amendment, a continuance shall be granted. The
court may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amend
ment, the payment of costs to the adverse party.
SEC. 1767. To entitle a defendant to any set otf he may have against
the plaintifff, he must allege the same in his answer; and the statutes
regulating set offs in the district court, shall in all respects be applicable
to a set otf in a justice's court, if the amount claimed to he set off. after
deducting the amount [found] due the plaintifff, be within the jurisdiction
of the justice of the peace; judgment may, in like manner, be rendered
by the justice in favor of the defendant, for the balance found due the
plaintifff.
SEC. 1768. When the set off of the defendant proved shall exceed the
claim of the plaintifff, and such excess in amount exceed the jurisdiction
of a justice of the peace, the court shall allow such amount as is neces
sary to cancel the plaintifff's claim, and give the defendant a judgment
for costs; but in such case, the court shall not render judgment for any
further sum in favor of the defendant.
SEC. 1769. When the pleadings of the parties shall have taken place,
the justice shall, upon the application of either party, if the defendant
be not. under arrest, and sufficient cause be shown on oath, continue the
case for any time not exceeding sixty days. If the continuance be on
account of absence of testimony, it shall be for such reasonable time as
will enable the party to procure such testimony, and shall be at the cost
of the party applying therefore, unless otherwise ordered by the justice;
and in all other respects shall be governed by the law applicable to con
tinuance in the district court.
CHAPTER- CXIX.
TRIAL BY JURY.
Section I Section
1770. Kither party mnv demand jnry; proviso. 177(>. Justice to administer ontli to jury.
1771 . Number of jurors. 1777. Verdict to be delivered to justice, and en177y. Justice shall issue venire. tored on docket.
177:1. Sheriff or constable to execute venire. 1778. Jury unable to agree, may be discharged, mid
1771. Kither party may challenge jurors. new venire issue
1775. Challenges 'fur cause. 1779. Penalty of juror failing to attend.
SEC. 17 <0. Before the justice shall commence an investigation of the
merits of the cause cither party may demand that the cause be tried by
a jury: Provided, That, tho party demanding the jnry shall first pay to
the justice the sum of six dollars which shall lie paid over by the justice
to the jury before they are discharged, and said amount shall be taxed
as costs against the losing party.
Sko. 1771. The jury shall consist of six persons, unless the parties
agree upon any number of jurors less than six, to try the cause; in
which case the jury shall consist of such number, not exceeding six, as
the parties may agree npon.
Sec. 1772. The justice shall issue a venire, directed to the sheriff, or
any constable of the county where the cause is to be tried, commanding
him to summon six (or such number as the parties may have agreed up
on) good Knd lawful men of the county, qualified to serve as jurors in
in the district court of the same county, who shall be in no wise of kin to
either party, nor interested in the action, to appear before said jnstice,
at a time and place to be named therein, to make a jury for the trial of
the cause between the parties therein named.
SEC. 1773. The sheriff or constable shall execute such venire fairly and
impartially, and shall not summon any person whom he has reason to
believe is biased or prejudiced, for or against either of the parties. He
shall summon the jurors personally, and make a list of the persons sum
moned, which he shall certify and annex to the venire and return the
same to the justice. If a sufficient number of competent jurors cannot
be obtained from the panel returned, the sheriff or constable shall imme
diately summon others to serve in their place, and all jurors summoned
under the provisions of this act, shall receive the same compensation
irom the time they are summoned until discharged, as is allowed to wit
nesses under the provisions of this act.
Sec. 1774. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it can
be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall be per
emptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to three peremptory
challenges.
Sec. 1775. Challenges for cause majT be taken on any ground that
would be a good cause of challenge on the trial of an action in the dis
trict court. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the jnstice.
SEC. 1776. When the jury is selected, the justice shall administer to
them an oath or affirmation, well and truly to try the cause.
SEC. 1777. When the jury have agreed on their verdict, they shall de
liver the same to the justice, publicly, who shall enter it on his docket.
Sec. 1778. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that a jury, sworn in
any civil cause before him, having been out a reasonable time, cannot
agree on their verdict, he may discharge them, and issue a new venire,
unless the parties consent that the justice may render judgment on the
evidence before him, or upon such other evidence as they may produce.
Sko. 1779. Every person who shall be duly summoned as a juror, and
shall not appear nor render a reasonable excuse for his default, shall be
subject to a tine not exceeding ten dollars.
1. When the plaintifff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is
finally submitted.
2. When he tails to appear at the time specified in the notice, upon
continuance, or within one hour thereafter.
3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence that
the action is brought in the wrong county; but if the objection be taken
and overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal or appeal; if not taken
at the trial it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be cause of reversal.
Sec. 1781. When the defendant fails to appear and plead at the titne
specified in the notice, or within one hour thereafter, judgment shall be
given as follows:
1. When the defendant has been served with a true copy of the com
plaint, judgment shall be given without further evidence for the sum
specified therein.
2. In other cases, the justice shall hear the evidence of the plaintifff,
and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the evidence
to be just, but in no case exceed the amount specified in the complaint.
SEC. 1782. Upon issue joined, if a jury trial be not demanded, the
justice shall hear the evidence, and decide all questions of law and fact,
and render judgment accordingly.
SEC. 1783. Upon the verdict of a jury, the justice shall immediately
render judgment thereon. When the trial is by the justice, judgment
shall be entered immediately after the close of the trial, if the defendant
has been arrested and is still in custody; in other cases it shall be en
tered within three days after the close of the trial.
Sec. 1784. If the defendant, atany time before the trial, offer in writing to
allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintifff
may immediately have judgment therefore, with costs then accrued; but
if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail to recover on the
trial of the action, a sum greater than the offer, such plaintifff shall not
recover any costs that may accrue after he shall have been notified of the
offer of the defendant, but such costs shall be adjudged against him, and
if he recover, deducted from his recovery. lint the offer and failure to
accept it, shall nut be given in evidence to affect the recovery, otherwise
than as to costs, as above provided.
SEC. 1785. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs, by this act,
the justice shall add their amount to the judgment; or incaseof the fail
ure of the plaintifff to recover, or in case of dismissal of the action, he
shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for the amount of such
costs.
Sec. ]78ti. The execution upon a judgment by a justice of the peace
may lie stayed in the manner hereinafter provided, upon reasonable no
tice to the opposite party, and for the following periods of time, to be
calculated from the date of the judgment:
1. If the judgment be for any sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars,
exclusive of costs, one month.
2. If it be for mure than twenty-five dollars, two months.
Sec. 1787. To entitle any person to such stay of execution, some re
sponsible person, to be approved by the justice, and not being a party to
the judgment, must, within five days after rendering of the judgment,
enter into a bond, before the justice, to the adverse party, in a sufficient
sum to secure the payment of the judgment and costs, conditioned to be
void upon such payment, at the expiration of the stay.
SEC. 1788. Such bond shall be signed by the person entering into the
same, and may be in the following form:
Whereas, A B, has obtained a judgment before J P, one of the jus
tices of the peace in and for —— county, on the — day of , 18 —,
against C D, for dollars; now, thereforee, I, E F, acknowledge my
self bound to A B in the sum of dollars; this bond to be void if
such judgment shall be paid at the expiration of — month after the time
it was rendered.
Dated the — day of—, 18—. , , E F.
SEC. 1789. If at the expiration of such stay, the judgment be not paid,
the execution shall issue against both the principal and bail. If the
principal do not satisfy the execution, and the officer cannot find suffi
cient property belonging to him upon which to levy, he shall levy upon
the property of the bail, and in his return shall state what amount of
money, collected by him on the execution, was collected from the bail,
and the time when the same was received.
SEC. 1790. After the return of su?h execution, the bail shall be enti
tled, on application to the justice, to have the judgment, or so much
thereof as may have been collected from him in satisfaction of the exe
cution, transferred to his use; and he may collect the same from the de
fendant by execution, together with the interest at the rate of twelve
per cent, per annum.
SEC. 1791. If judgment be stayed in the manner above provided, after
an execution has been issued thereon, the justice shall revoke such exe
cution, in the same manner, and with like effect as he is hereinafter di
rected to revoke an execution, after an appeal has been allowed; and if
the defendant have been committed, shall order him to be discharged
from custody.
Sec. 17!>2. If there be mutual justice's judgments between the same
parties, upon which the time for appealing has elapsed on judgment, on
the application of either party, and reasonable notice given to the ad
verse party, one may be set off against the other, by the justice before
whom the judgment against which the set-off' is proposed, may be.
Sec. 1793. If the judgment proposed as a set-off was rendered before
another justice, the party proposing such set-off shall produce before such
justice a transcript of such judgment, upon which there is a certificate
of the justice before whom such may be, that it is unsatisfied in whole or
in part, and that there is no appeal, and that such transcript was ob
tained for the purpose of being set-off against the judgment to which it
is offered as a set-off. The justice granting such transcript shall make
an encr\' thereof on his docket, and all further proceedings on such judg
ment shall be stayed, unless such transcript be returned with the proper
justice's certificate thereon, that it has not been allowed in set-off.
Sec. 1794. If any justice shall set off one judgment against another,
he shall make an entry thereof on his -docket, and execution shall issue
only for the balance which may be due after such set-off. If a justice
shall allow a transcript of a judgment rendered by another justice to be
set-off, he shall file such transcript among the papers relating to the
judgment in which it is allowed in set off. If he shall refuse such transscript
as a set-off, he shall so certify on the transcript, and return the
same to the party who offered it.
Sec. 1795. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment in a justice's
court, may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto, in
the manner hereinbefore prescribed; but after the lapse of five years
from the date of the judgment, no execution shall issue except by lea\e
of the justice before whom such judgment may be, upon reasonable no
tice, to the defendant.
Sec. 1796. When any judgment shall have been rendered by any jus
tice of the peace, and the same not be satisfied during his continuance in
office, and the docket of such justice shall have been transferred to an
other justice, or to the successor of the justice rendering such judgment,
the justice to whom the docket shall be delivered shall issue execution
upon such unsatisfied judgment in the same manner, and with like effect
as if lie himself had rendered the judgment.
Sec. 1797. If the defendant have not goods and chattels in the county
in which judgment was rendered, sufficient to satisfy the execution, the
justice before whom such judgment may be, shall, at the request of the
party entitled, make out a certified transcript of the same, which may be
delivered to a justice in any other county, who shall make an entry
thereof in his docket, and issue execution thereon for the amount of the
judgment, or such part as shall be unsatisfied, with costs as in other
cases.
fcJEC. 1798. The execution shall he directed (except when it is otherwise
especially provided,) to the sheriff or any constable of the county where
the justice resides; shall be dated on the day it is issued, and made re
turnable within thirty days from the date; and it shall be against the
goods and chattels of the person against whom the same is issued.
Sec. 1799. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice shall
state in his docket, and also on the back of the execution, the amount of
the debt, or damages and costs, and of the fees due to each person sepa
rately, and the officer receiving such execution shall indorse the time of
the reception of the same.
Sec 1800. If an execution be not satisfied, it may, at the request of
the plaintifff, be renewed from time to time by the justice who issues the
same, or by the justice to whom his docket is transferred, by an indorse
ment thereon to tliat effect, signed by him, and dated when the same
shall be made. If any part of such execution has been satisfied the in
dorsement of renewal shall express the sum due on the execution. Ev
ery such indorsement shall renew the execution in full force in all re
spects for thirty days, and no longer; and an entry of such renewal shall
be made in the docket of the justice.
Sec. 1801. The officer, after taking goods and chattels into his custody
by virtue of an execution, shall, without delay, give public notice by at
least three advertisements, put up at three public places in the county,
of the time and place, when and where they will be exposed for sale.
Such notice shall describe the goods and chattels taken, and shall be put
up at least ten days before the day of sale.
Sec. 1802. At the time and place so appointed, if the goods and chat
tels be present for inspection of bidders, the officer shall expose them to
sale at public vendue to the highest bidder; he shall return the execution
and have the money before the justice at the time of making such re
turn, ready to be paid over to the persons respectively entitled thereto.
Sec. 1803. No officer shall directly or indirectly purchase any goods
or chattels at any sale made by him upon execution, and every such pur
chase shall be absolutely void.
Sec. 1804-. If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested upon a warrant, an execution against the person of such
defendant may be issued after the return of an execution against his
property unsatisfied in whole or in part. An execution against the per
son may likewise be issued after such return, where the defendant has
been arrested upon a warrant and not discharged according to law.
Sec. 1805. If there be no property found, or if the goodsand chattels lev
ied on be not sufficient to satisfy such execution, the officer shall, on de
mand of the plaintifff, summon in writingas garnishees, such persons as may
be named to the plaintifff or his agent, to appear before the justice on the
return day of the execution, to answer such interrogatories as may be
put to them, touching their liabilities as garnishees, and the like pro
ceedings shall be had thereon before the justice to final judgment as in
the proceedings by attachment.
Sec. 1806. Any justice of the peace may issue an execution against
the prevailing party, to collect fees and costs for which such party may
be liable, after an execution has been first issued against the other party,
and returned "no property found."
Sec. 1S07. If any property levied on be claimed by any other person
than the defendant in the execution, and the claimant make affidavit of
his title or right to the possession of the same, stating the ground of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the sheriff or constable,
while the property is in his posession, said sheriff or constable shall not
be bound to keep the property unless the plaintifff on demand indemnify
him in the same manner as provided in this act tor cases where property
held under attachment is claimed by persons not parties to the suit and
when such claim is made, the sheriff or constable shall immediately file
the claimant's affidavit with the justice, and notify the plaintifff thereof,
and unless the property be at once released, the justice shall set the case
for trial upon the allegations of the claimant's affidavit, and the case
shall proceed and be determined iu the same manner as provided in this
act for cases where property held under attachment is claimed by persons
not parties to tlie suit.
Sec. 1808. Nothing contained in the last section shall be so construed
as to prevent the claimant of property levied on by execution from re
sorting to any legal remedy he may choose to pursue, instead of proceed
ing in the manner therein prescribed.
CHAPTER CXXII.
OK REPLEVIN.
Section
1800. Plaintiff may claim delivery of property:
when.
1810. Affidavit made by plaintifff; Its contents.
1811. Justice to order deliveiy; order indorsed on
the affidavit; bond to be given.
1812. On receipt of order, affidavit and bond, sheriff
to take property.
1813. Defendant mav except to sureties.
1814. Defendant may require return of property
8BCTION
apon giving bond.
1815. Officer responsible until defendant's'snretles
justify.
181R. Action of officer when" property la concealed.
1817. Disposition of the property.
1818. Proceedings In adverse claims to property.
1819. Officer to make return 'of affidavit, etc., to. the
justice, when.
Sec. 1809. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of per
sonal property, may, at the time of issuing such summons, or at any
time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property as
provided in this act.
Sec. 1810. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be be made
by the plaintifff, or by some one in his behalf, showing:
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, (particular
ly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, b}- vir
tue of a special property therein, the facts in^respect to which shall be
set forth.
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to^ his'best
knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pur
suant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against
the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure, and
5. The actual value of the property.
Sec. 1811. The justice shall thereupon, by an indorsement in writing
upon the affidavit, order the sheriff or any constable of the county, to
take the same from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff upon re
ceiving a proper bond.
Sec. 1812. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order with a bond,
executed by two or more sufficient sureties, approved by the sheriff or
constable, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action, for
the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be ad
judged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause be
recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff or constable shall forthwith
take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of
the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall also
without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order and
bond, by delivering the same to him personally if he can be found within
the county, or to his agent frjm whose possession the property is taken,
or if neither can be found in the county, by leaving them at the usual
abode of cither within the county, with some person of suitable age and
discretion; or if neither have any known place of abode in the county,
by putting tiu-ni into the post office, directed to the defendant at the
post office in. an st to him.
Sec. 1813. The defendant may, within two days after the service of a
copy of the affidavit, order and bund, give notice to the officer that he ex
cepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If lie fail to do so, he shall be
deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant
excepts, the sureties shall justify upon one day's notice before the justice;
and the officer shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, un
til the objection to them is either waived as above provided, or until they
justify, or new sureties be substituted, and they justify. If the defend
ant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the. property as provided in
the next section.
Sec. 1814. At any time before the delivery of the property to the plain
tiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plain
tiff, require the return thereof upon giving to the officer a bond executed
by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, of the plaintifff,
for the delivery thereof to the plaintifff, if such delivery be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered
against the defendant. If n return of the property be not so required,
within two days after the taking mid serving of notice* to the defendant,
it shall be delivered to the plaintifff, except as provided in this chapter.
Sko. 1 S 1 .> . The defendant's sureties, upon one day's notice to the plain
tiff, or his attorney, shall justify before the justice, and upon such justi
fication, the officer shall deliver the property to the defendant. The offi
cer shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or
until the justification is complete, or expressly waived, and may retain
the property until that time, lint if they, or others in their place, fail to
justify at the time appointed, he shall deliver the property to the plain
tiff.
Sec. 1816. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a build
ing or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery, and if it be
not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open
and take the property into his possession.
Sec. 1817. When the officer shall have taken propert\-, as in this chap
ter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver to the party
entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his neces
sary expenses for keeping the same.
Sec. ISIS. If the property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto, or his right to the possession thereof, stating the ground of such title or right, and serve the same upon the officer before the delivery of
the property to the plaintifff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the
property or deliver it to the plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of
him or his agent, indemnity the officer against such claim by a bond ex
ecuted by two sufficient sureties accompanied by their affidavits, that
they are each worth double the value of the property, as specified in the
affidavit of the plaintifff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclu
sive of property exempt from execution, and freeholders or householders
of the county; and no claim to such property by any other person than
the defendant or his agent shall be valid against the officer, unless made
as aforesaid, and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may re
tain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.
Sec. IS ID. The officer shall return the order and affidavit with his
proceedings thereon, to the justice within live days after taking the
property mentioned therein.
CHAPTER CXXIII.
FORCIBLE ENTRY AM) DETAINER.
Section [ Section
1820. Knlty into lands, In what cases and how ; 1S11. Pioccedlntrs on finding defendant guilty.
made. ISfcJ. Verdict to be in writing; form of.
1*21. Per- m ''n!itl_'l to premises to. be restored to l-OI. I'roi-cidlnir-' in iviso of v.vdielof "mi it t: i]]ty."
po.ss>sion. IS VI. New trial srrur.lod; when.
18-21. C>:n'>! ilnlin writing m.ldi: to just ice of peace. 131V Tit 1 ? sliili'in n > issa • h;: inquired into.
18*2'1. Justice to issue; summons. " HI}. One year's quiet possOSsion a pi;u in bar.
132-1. II.ov summons shill bo served. 13J". Ol recovering possession of premises, after
lsii"). Jnry to he i*tun:iviii.'l. termination of lease.
li-ii. Juror* n.)t ntte.i line;, etc., justice may order 1313. For cutset mentioned in the last section, jury
ol her* su iimuue 1. tut neeessarv.
1327. Plaintiff failing to attend, to lie non suited, HH. In sitcli action, defendant may pay the
1823. Defuilmt tailing to appear, case miy be anvv.inl due.
trio.l or c iminne.l. HIT Justi -c to have power to c intinuo, as in other
1329. If il -IV'O 1 nit a;>:> tr, to file answer in writing c i -.
an 1 uu lc: oath. ,1311. Nothing in this act prevenN party injured
1330. Mode of trial, and proof required. from brine;iiiir another action.
Skc 1S20. No person shall make an entry into lands, tenements, or
other possessions, but in cases where entry is given by law; and in
such cases he shall not enter with force, but only in a peaceable manner.
Sec. 1821. When any forcible entry shall be made, or when an entry
shall be made in a peaceabie manner, and the possession shall be unlaw
fully held by force, the person entitled to the premises may be restored
to the possession thereof, in the manner hereinafter provided.
Sec. 182:2. The person entitled to the possession of the premises may
make complaint in writing, on oath, to a justice of the peace of the
county in which the premises are situated, setting forth that the person
complained of is in possession of the hinds or tenements in question —
describing tlmn and that he entered into the sain.: with force, or that he
unlawfully holds the same by force, as the case m.iy be, and the time
when.
Sioo. 1823. Upon receiving such complaint, the justice shall issue a
summons, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, com
manding him to summon the person or persons against whom such com
plaint shall have been made, to appear before the justice on a day in
such summons named.
Sue. IS2±. The summons shall be served by the officer as in other
cases, and at the same time a.copy of the complaint shall, in like man
ner, be served on the defendant. The officer shall, in his return, state
the time and manner of such service.
SEC. 1825. The justice shall, at the time of issuing the summons, is
sue a venire to the sheriff or constable, commanding him to summon six
good and lawful men, qualified to serve as jurors, to appear at the time
and pi ice appointed for the trial of the complaint, to be a jury in the
case. Such venire shall be returned on or before the day appointed for
the trial; and the olliier shall endorse thereon the list of the jurors
summoned.
SEC. 1826. If a-suffieient number of jurors do not attend, or attend
ing, are set aside by challenging peremptorily, or for cause, the justice
• miy order the sheriff or constable to complete the number, by summon
ing other jurors.
SEC. 1S27. If the plaintifff fail to appear at the time appointed for
hearing the complaint, in person, by agent or attorney, and prosecute
Lis action, he shall be non-suited, and the defendant shall recover his costs.
Sko. 1828. If the defendant fail to appear at the time appointed for
hearing the complaint, the justice may proceed ex-parte, or continue the
cause, at his discretion; but he shall not continue it for a longer time
than ten days, nor to any other place than that named in the summons
for the hearing of the cause.
Sko. IS2'J. If the defendant appear, he shall, before the trial, rile his
answer in writing, and under oath, in which he shall set forth his de
fence.
SEC. 1330. The jury shall consist of six persons, unless the, parties
agree on a less number; and when duly empanneled and sworn, the jus
tice shall cause the complaint to be read to them, and then call on the
plaintifff to support the same by proof, but the plaintifff shall not be re
quired to make farther proof of the forcible entry and detainer than that
he was lawfully possessed of the premises, and that the defendant unlaw
fully entered and detains the same.
SEC. 1831. If the jury on the trial find the defendant guilty, the jus
tice shall record the verdict, and give ju lginent thereon, with costs, and
also issue a writ of restitution, directed to the sheriff or constable, to
cause the plaintifff to be re- possessed of the premises, to which shall be
added a clause commanding the officer to levy the costs of the goods and
chattels of the defendant.
SEC. 1S32. The verdict of the jury shall be in writing, and shall be in
the form, or to the effect following:
;'We, the jury, find the defendant guilty," or, if in favor of the de
fendant, '"not guilty of said forcible entry and detainer, in manner and
form as the plaintifff in his complaint hath alleged;" or the jury may
find the defendant guilty as to part, and not guilty as to the balance of
the charge, as. laid down in the plaintifff's complaint; if so, they shall
state it specially in their verdict.
SEC. 1833. AVhen the jury find a verdict of "not guilty" for the de
fendant, the verdict shall be so recorded, and the justice shall enter judg
ment against the plaintifff for costs, and issue execution therefore against
his goods and chattels.
SEC. 1834. In all cases of forcible entry and detainer, the justice shall
have power to grant a new trial, if the same be applied for on the day
the verdict is rendered, and good cause be shown on affidavit therefore,
which shall be within ten davs after granting the same; but not' more
than one new trial shall be granted to either party.
Sec. 1835. The title to land shall in no case be inquired into, on any
complaint of forcible entry or detainer.
Sko. 1836. One year's quiet possession of the premises, immediately
preceding the riling of the complaint, by the party complained of, or
those under whom he holds, may be pleaded by any defendant in bar of
the plaintifff's demand of possession; unless the estate therein be ended.
Sec. 1837. The person entitled to any premises, may recover possession
thereof in the manner hereinbefore provided, in the following cases:
1. When any person shall hold over any lands or tenements after the
time for which they are demised or let to him, or to the person under
whom he holds, or contiary to the conditions or covenants of any lease
or agreement under which he holds.
2. When any rent shall have become due on any such lease or agree
ment, and the tenant or person in possession, shall have neglected or re
fused, for ten days after demand for the possession, made in writing, to
deliver up possession of the premises, or to pay the rent so due.
3. When any person shall continue in possession of any premises, sold
by virtue of any mortgage or execution, after the sheriff's deed therefore
shall have been recorded.
4. When any tenant at will, or by sufferance, shall hold over after the
determination of his estate, by a notice to quit, as provided by law.
SEC. 183S. When the plaintifff shall file a complaint for an unlawful
detainer, for an}' one of the causes mentioned in the last section, it shall
not be necessary for the justice to issue a venire for a jury, at the time
of issuing the summons; but the justice shall, at the time of trial pro
ceed to hear and determine the complaint, unless either party shall call
for a trial by jury, in which case the justice shall issue a venire, in the
same manner, and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had as in
cases of forcible entry and detainer.
Site. lS3y. When the action shall be brought to recover the possession
of premises demised or let, for the reason that the tenant or person in
poctession has refused or neglected to pay the rent due, it shall be law
ful for the defendant, at any time before judgment, to pay to the justice
for plaintifff, the rent then in arrear, with interest and the costs of the
action, and thereupon, no writ of restitution shall be awarded.
SEC. 1840. The justice shall have the same power to continue actions
for forcible entry and detainer, as in other cases.
SEC. 1841. Neither the judgment nor any thing contained in this chapter shall bar or prevent the party injured, from bringing an action
to recover the possession of the premises, or to recover damages for the
trespass or injury committed against the aggressor, or party offending.
CHAPTER CXX1Y.
OF PROCEEDINGS FOE CONTEMPT BEFOKE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
Section [ Ssction
1842. Justice may punish for contempt In certain IMfi. Form of warrant for contempt.
cases. | 1K47. Proceedings in case of conviction; form of
1843. Contempt, how punished, judgment.
1844 Person t-> have an opportunity to foe heard. I 1S4H. Mode of enforcing judgment.
1M5. if offender present, summarily arraigned. ;
Sec. 1842. In the following cases, and no others, a justice of the peace
ma}' punish for contempt:
1. Persons guilty of disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior
towards such justice while engaged in the trial of a cause, or in render
ing judgment, or in any judicial proceedings, which tend to interrupt
such proceeding.1*, or impair the respect due to his authority.
2. Persons guilty of any breach of the peace, noise or disturbance,
tending to interrupt the official proceedings of such justice.
3. Persons guilty of resistance or disobedience to any lawful order or
process made or iss-u.3 1 by him.
Sec. 1843. Punishment for contempt maybe by fine, not exc?e ling
twenty-five dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceed
ing two days, at the discretion of the justice, nnless otherwise provided
by statute.
Sec. 1S44. No person shall be punished for a contempt before a jus
tice of the peace, until an opportunity shall have been given to him to
be heard in bis defense; and for that purpose the justice may issue his
warrant to bring the offender before him.
Sec. 1845. If the offender be present, he may bo summarily arraigned
by the justice, and proceeded against in the same manner as if a war
rant bad been previously issued, and the offender anested thereon.
Sec. 1S46. The warrant for contempt may be in the following form:
Territory of Washington, )
County, \
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:
In the name of the United States you are hereby commanded to ap
prehend A B. and bring him before J P, one of the justices of the peace
of said county, at his office in said county, to show cause why he should
not be convicted of a contempt alleged to have been committed on the
— day of —, A. I).. 18 —, before the said justice, while engaged as a
jrtsMce of the pence in a judicial proceeding.
Dated this — day of —, A. D., 18—.
J V. Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 1S47. Upon the conviction of any person for contempt, an entry
thereof shall be made in the docket of such justice, (.fating the particu
lar circumstances of the offense, and the judgment rendered thereon,
and may be in the following form:
Territory of Washington, )
n ' - SS.
County, \
Whereas, on the — dav of —, A. D., 1 - — , while the undersigned,
one of the justices of the peace for said county, was engaged in the trial
of an action between C D, plaintifff, and K V. defendant, in said county,
A B, of the said county, did interrupt the said proceedings and impair
the respect due to the authority of the undersigned, by (here describe
the cause particularly.) And whereas, the said A B was thereupon re
quired by the undersigned to answer for the said contempt, and show
cause why he should not be convicted thereof. And whereas, the said
A B did not show cause against the said charge— be it thereforee ordered
that the said A B is adjudged to be guilty and is convicted of the con
tempt aforesaid, and is adjudged by the undersigned to pay a fine of —
dollars, (or be imprisoned, etc.)
Dated this — day of —, A. I)., 18—.
J P, Justice of the Peace.
Sec. 1848. If any person convicted of a contempt be adjudged 4:o be
imprisoned, a warrant of commitment shall he issued by the justice. If
he be adjudged to pay a fine, a process may be issued to collect the same;
and when so collected, it shall forthwith be paid by the justice into the
jconnty treasury.
Sec. 1849. If any person shall conceive himself injured by error in
any process, proceeding, judgment or order given by any justice of the
peace within this territory, it shall be lawful for such person to remove
such process, proceeding, judgment or order to the district court as here
inafter provided.
Sec. 1850. Within twenty days after the rendition of the judgment, or
if the error be committed after judgment, then within twenty days after
such error was committed, the party applying for such certiorari, his
agent or attorney, shall file in the office of the clerk of the district court
for the propel- county, an affidavit, stating that in his belief there is rea
sonable cause for granting such certiorari, for error in such iudjnnent or
proceeding, (setting forth the ground of error alleged,) and that the ap
plication is made in good faith, and not for the purpose of delay, and
further shall execute a bund to the adverse party, with one or more sure
ties, to be approved by the clerk in double the amount of the judgment
and costs rendered before the justice, to the effect that the party apply
ing will prosecute the writ of certiorari to final judgment and will abide
any order the court may make therein.
Sec. 1851. Upon complying with the provisions of the preceding sec
tion, the party applying shall be entitled to such writ; which shall be
issued by the clerk, as of course, and no application to the district court
or the judge thereof, shall be necessary in the premises.
SEC. 1852. The writ of certiorari shall be served on the justice within
ten days after it has been issued; and if a bond be executed in pursuance
of the last section, and a certificate of the clerk to that effect be served
on the justice, all further proceedings in law in such case shall cease;
and if the execution shall have issued on such judgment, the justice shall
immediately recall the same.
Sec. 1853 Upon the service of a writ of certiorari to reverse a judg
ment, it shall be the duty of the party serving the same, to deliver at the
same time to the justice, a copy of the affidavit on which the certiorari
was procured, and the justice shall make a special return as to all the
facts contained in such affidavit and of the proceedings in the case, and
annex a copy thereof to the writ, and shall file the same with the clerk
of the district court within ten days after the service of the writ, to
gether with all the papers in the action; and he shall also certify the
time when the writ was served upon him.
Sec. 1854. The district court shall have power to compel such justice
to make or amend such return by rule, attachment or mandamus, as the
case may require.
Sec. 1855. When the writ of certiorari and return shall be filed with
the clerk, the case may be brought on for argument before the district
court at any time thereafter, according to the statutes relating thereto.
Sec. ISofi. The district court shall, after hearing the case, give judg
ment as the right of the matter may appear, without regarding technical
omissions, imperfections, or detects in the proceedings, before the justice
which did nut affect the merits and may affirm or reverse the judgment
in whole or in part, and issue execution as upon other judgments ren
dered before said court.
Sec. 1n">7. If a judgment rendered before a justice be collected, and
afterwards he reversed by the court above, such court shall award resti
tution of the amount so collected, with interest from the time of collec
tion, and execution may issue therefore.
CHAPTER CXXVI.
OF APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT COURT.
Section Section
18.V. Who may appeal, lsii.s. When find in what manner the district court,
IRMl. \\ hen and hew appeal may lie taken. , po«sc-s,.d of iati-i-.
I81W. In care of an appeal troui'a jmliraHiil for the 1SI>I. I*-ue to belii-d on-line p!e;i<i;i. ;s, unless
delivery ol the posscs*ii<n ol premises, a o'.herw i*e directed.
v rii of restitution 10 lie issued, unle>-' ap- ISfi.V Disiriii (otirl in:n compel ji;-ticc t) make
peliant executes a bond, transcript nl pio< "- 1!!;,--. a'au amend I ran 31861. Appeal allowed, further proceedings before cript when defective, etc.
juMico m>i elided. IH'iti. Appeal m.l (ii-mi-s*-[l on account of defective
18fi2. Pnpeitv Inl: 11 on execution nlea^ed. and bond, w lien.
deieii'lant discharged irom imprisonment. ISfiT. JadLMn'-nl nj.iinst appclNnl. liow rendered.
SEC. ISTiS. Any person considering himself aggrieved by any judgment
or decision of a justice of the peace, ma\, in |>er.-on or by his agent, ap
peal therefrom to the district court of the same county where the judg
ment was rendered, or the decision made.
Sec. 185l». Such appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with
the justice and serving a copy on the adverse party or his attorney, and
filing a bond or undertaking as in the next section provided, within
twenty days after the judgment is rendered or the decision made. Xo
appeal shall be allowed in any case unless a bond or undertaking shall
be executed on the part of the appellant and filed with and approved by
the justice, with one or more sureties, in the sum of one hundred dol
lars, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs that may be award
ed against him on the appeal; or if a stay of proceedings before the jus
tice be claimed, a bond or undertaking, with two or more sureties, to he
approved lry the justice, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judg
ment and costs, to the effect that the appellant will pay such judgment,
including costs, as may be rendered against him on the appeal.
Sec. 1SG0. If the judgment appealed from direct the delivery of the
possession of premises in an action of forcible entry and detainer, or of
a mining claim, a writ of restitution may be issued and executed, unless
a bond be entered into on the part of the appellant with two or more
sureties to the effect that during the possession of such premises or
mining claim by the appellant, he will not commit, nor sutler to be com
mitted, any waste, destruction or injury thereon, and that if the judg
ment be affirmed he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the
premises or mining claim, from the time of the appeal until the deliv
ery of the possession thereof, and all costs of the appeal. The amount
of such bond shall be fixed by the justice before whom the action was
tried.
Sec. 1801. Upon appeal being made, and a bond filed to stay all pro
ceedings, the justice fhall allow the same, and make an entry of such
allowance in liis docket, and all further proceed i iijlt ' on the judgment
before the justice »Iim 1 1 thereupon be suspended; and if, in the meantime
execution shall have been issued, the ju.-tice shall give the appellant a
certificate that such appeal has heen allowed.
Sec. IS(!2. O.i such certificate being presented to the officer holding
the execution, he shall forthwith release the property of the defendant
that may have heen taken on execution; and if the body of the defend
ant have been taken on execution, he shall be discharged from imprison
ment.
Sue. 1S63. On or bjiori the first day of the term of the court, next
after the appeal has been taken, the justice shall furnish the district cmrt
with a transcript of all the entries made in the justice's docket relating
to the case, together with all the process and other papers relating to the
action, and fiiedwith the ju.-tice. [which shall lie certified by such justice]
to he correct, .".:: ! ;;;>on the tiling of such transcript, the district court
shall become p.>.-*e»sed of the cause, and shall proceed in the sain" man
ner, as near as may lie, as in actions originally commenced in that court
except as herein otherwise provided.
Sun. 18(H. The issue before the justice shall be tried in the district
court without other or new pleadings, unless otherwise directed by the
court.
Sk'J. ]^>5. Upon an appeal being made and allowed, the district court
may by rule and attachment, compel the justice to make and deliver to
the appe! I int a certified transcript of the proceedings, upon paying to
such justice the fees allowed bylaw for making such transcript, and
whenever the court is satisfied that the return of the justice is substan
tially erroneous or defective, it ma}7 by rule and attachment compel him
to amend the same.
Sec. lSt'ifi. No appeal allowed by a justice shall be dismissed on ac
count of the bond neing defective, if the appellant will, before the mo
tion is determined, execute and file in the district court such a bond as
he should have executed at the time of taking the appeal, and par all costs
that, shall ha\e accrued by reason of such defect.
Sic. 18(57. In all cases of appeal to the district court, if on the trial
anew in such court, the judgment be agiinst the appellant, in whole or
in part, such judgment shall be rendered against him and his sureties io
the bond for the appeal.
CHAPTER CXXVII.
TITLE TO LAJID.
Skction
lh:iS. When til Ic come* in question, how to proceed.
Sioe. 18*>8. If it appear on the trial of any cause before a justice of
the peace, from the evidence of either party, that the title to lands is in
question, which title shall be disputed by the other, the justice shall
immediately make an entry thereof in his docket, and cease all further
proceedings in the cause, and shall certify and return to the district
court of the county, a transcript of all the entries made in his docket,
relating to the cause, together with all the process and other papers re
lating to the action, in the same manner, and within the same time, as
upon an appeal; and thereupon the parties shall file their pleadings, and
the district court shall proceed in the cause to final judgment and exe
cution, in the sauie manner as if the said action had been originally
commenced therein, atid the cost shall abide the event of the suit.
CHAPTER CXXVIII.
OF WITNES8E8 AND DEPOSITIONS.
S ErTrov Suction
ISM. Witnesses may be subpoenaed within twenty is?."). Testimony of party may he rebutted.
miles. 1S7B. Party refusing to" testify, judgment may be
1ST0. Bv whom and how subpoena served. taken.
isn. Witness failing to appear, attachment may 1877. Party examined bvadvprse party may be exissue, amined on own behalf.
1872. Attachment, to whom directed, and fees of 187R. When depositions m'av be taken.
offlor. by whom paid. 1879. Notice or, how served, and deposition how
187S. Person subpneusMl neglecting to appear, lla- ta'sen. certified and returned.
able lor damages. 1880. When depositions may be read on trial.
1874. Party to action may be examined as wltuess jh81. Changes of veuuo may be allowed,
at instance of adVcrse party.
Sec. IMS',*. A subpoena issued, by a justice of the peace shall be valid
to compel the attendance of a witness in the justice's court, if such wit
ness be witliin twenty miles of the p'ace of trial.
Sec. 1870. A subpoena may be served by an}' person above the age of
eighteen years, by reading it to the witness, or by delivering to him a
copy at his usual place of abode.
Sec. 1871. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of the justice,
by proof made before him. that any person, duly subpoenaed to appear
befo-e him in an action, shall have failed, without a just cause, to attend
as a witness, in conformity to such subpoena, and the party in whose be
half such subpoena was issued, or his agent, shall make oath that the tes
timony of such witness is material, the justice shall have the power to
issue an attachment to compel the attendance of such witness: Provid
ed, That no attachment shall issue against a witness in any civil action,
unless his fees for mileage and one day's attendance have been tendered
or paid in advan.ee, it' previously demanded by such witness from the
person serving the subpoena.
Sec. 1872. Every such attachment may he directed to any sheriff or
constable of the county in which the justice resides, and shall be execu
ted in the same manner as a warrant; and the fees of the officer for issu
ing and serving the same shall be paid by the person against whom the
same was issued, unless he show reasonable cause, to the satisfaction of
the justice, for his omission to attend; in which case the party requiring
such attachment shall pay all such costs.
Sec. 1S73. Every person subptenaed as aforesaid, and neglecting to ap
pear, shall also be liable to the party in whose behalf lie may have been
subpoenaed, lor all damages which such party may have sustained by
reason of his nonappearance: Provided, That such witness had the fees
allowed for mileage and one day's attendance paid, or tendered him, in ad
vance, if demanded by him at the time of the service.
Sec. 1874. A party to an action may be examined as a witness, at the
instance of the adverse party, and for that purpose may be compelled in
the same manner, and subject to the same rules of examination, as any
other witness, to testily at the trial, or appear and have his deposition
taken.
Sec. 1875. The examination of a party thus taken, may be rebutted by
adverse testimony.
Sec. 1876. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or. give his
deposition before trial, when required, liis complaint, answer or reply,
may be stricken out, and judirinent taken against him.
Sec. 1877. A party examined by an adverse party may be examined
on his own behalf, in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But
if he testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquires put to
him by the adverse party, or necessary to quality or explain his answer
thereto, or to discharge, when his answer would charge. himself, such ad
verse party may offer himself as a witness, and he shall be so received.
Sko. ^78. Eitiier party, in an action depending before a justice of the
peace, may cause the deposition of a witness therein to be taken, when
such witness resides, or is about to go more than twenty miles from the
place of trial, or is so sick, infirm, or aged, as to make it probable that
he will not. be able to attend at the trial.
Ssc. 187'.*. The notice shall be served, and the deposition taken, certi
fied, and returned, according to the law regulating the taking of deposi
tions to be read in the district court.
Sec. 1880. The. justice shall allow every deposition taken, certified and
returned according to law, to be read on the trial of the cause in which
it is taken, in all cases where the same testimony, if given verbally be
fore him, could have been received; but no such deposition shall be read
on the trial, unless it appears to the justice, that the witness, whose dep
osition is so offered:
1. Is dead, or resides more than twenty miles from the place of trial; or,
2. Is unable, or cannot safely attend before the justice, on account of
sickness, age, or other bodily infirmity.
3. That he has gone more than twenty miles from the place of trial,
without the consent or collusion of the party offering the deposition.
Siic. 1SS1. Change of venue may be allowed for the same causes for
which they are allowed in the district court.
CHAPTER CXXIX.
AN ACTION TO RECOVER POSSESSION OF A MINING CLAIM.
Section I Section.
18t*2. liv whom and in what manner complaint to I ItiKtf. Mode of proceeding.
be made. | 18S1. Custom, in absence of statnti-. governs.
Sec 1882. Any person claiming the right to the occupancy and pos
session of a mining claim, withheld by another, may make complaint in
writing, and on oath, to a justice of the peace of the county in which the
mining claim is situated, setting forth the fact constituting his right to
such possession and occupancy and such a description of the mining
claim as can conveniently be given, and that the defendant wrongfully
withholds the possession from him.
Sec. 1883. Upon riling such complaint, the same proceeding shall be
had before the justice as in actions for forcible entry and detainer, and
if the judgment be rendered for the plaintifff a writ of restitution may
in like manner be issued, to place the plaintifff in possession of such min
ing claim.
Sko. 1S8-L In an action to recover possession of a mining claim, proof
shall be admitted of the customs, usages or regulations establhhed and
in force at the bar or diggings embracing such claim; and such customs,
and regulations, when not in conflict with the laws of the United States
or this territory, shall govern the decision of the action.

