Section 2593. The provisions of this title relate only to actions and
proceedings in the circuit courts, and other courts of record, having
concurrent jurisdiction therewith to a greater or less extent, in such
actions and proceedings, except as otherwise provided.
Section 2594. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided into:
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.
Section 2595. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of
justice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the enforcement
or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the
punishment of a public offense.
Section 2596. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
Section 2597. Actions are of two kinds:
1. Civil.
2. Criminal,
Section* 2598. A criminal action is prosecuted by the state, as i
party against a person charged with a public offense, for the punisL
ment thereof.
Section 2599. Every other is a civil action.
Section 2600. The distinction between actions at law, and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, have been abolished,
and there is in this state but one form of action for the enforcement or
protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention of private
wrongs, which is denominated a civil action.
Section 2601. Iu such action, the party complaining shall be known
as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant
Section 2602. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided by law.
7 Wis. 492: 12id 243; 13ld.375; 18 Id. 112; 17 id. 455. 515; 18 id. 566. 615; 19 id. 93. 434 ; 30 id UT;
31 id. 516; 22 id. 5'.*4, 695; 24 id. 625; 85 id. 33); 28 id. 108: 40 id. 373, 418.
Section 2603. Any person may be made a defendant, who has, or
claims an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or who is
a necessary party to a complete, determination or settlement of the
questions involved therein. '
rwin. 263, 574; 13 Id. 670; 14 Id. 238; 15 id. 95; 18 id. 431,566; 19 id. 434; 20 Id. 838: 211d.6S3.6ff;
23 id. 201 ; 23 id. 287, 45?, 4!il ; 24 id. -250: 211 id 70; 27 id. 57; 23 Id. 510, 059; 29 id. 363 ; 81 id. S3, 691:
32 id. 614; 31 id 628; 38 id. 179: 39 id. 296; 40 id. 220; 41 id. 305.
Section 2604. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
mterest must be j0ine(l ag plaintifffs or defendants; but if the consent
of any one, who should be joined as plaintifff, cannot be obtained, he
ma7 ^e ma&e a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general interest
of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous, and it maj
^e impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more mav
sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.
19 Wis. 100, 431; 20 Id. 190; 24 id. 93; 26 id. 582; 29 id. 125; 31 id. 265; 32 id. 434; 36 id. S78: 83 li
183; 40 id. 873, 402.
Section 2605. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the
real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section two thousand six hundred and 6even ; but this section shall not be deemed to
authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising out of a contrac10 Wis. 21 ; 11 Id. 875; 12 Id. 243, 668; 13 id 172, 472; 15 Id. 198, 418: 17 id. 695; 18 Id. 169. 6tt; t
Id ]88; 3i 1(] ^ ^ ld ,,.,. M )d 8.,7i g^. gj ld 6G6. ^ jd 8Ji 187j 4S8. gg J(L 101i BU. w id I>;
85 Id. 171; 36 ld. 297; 38 id. 114, 250; 42 id. 185.
Section 2606. In case of an assignment of a thing in action, the
action of the assignee shall be without prejudice to any setoff or other
defense, existing at the time or before notice of the assignment; bn:
this section shall not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of
exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good consideration be
fore due.
Section 2607. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may sue without
joining with him the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted;
a trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section, shall
^e construed *° include a person with whom or in whose name aeontract
is made for the benefit 6f another.
14 Wis. C05; 15 1(1.415; 19 ld. 43S; 20 id. 142,381:21 Id. 305; 24 id. 422; 28 Id. 103; 33 id. 618; JS id. S5G.
Section 2608. Where a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her, except that when the action concerns her
separate property or business, or alleged antenuptial debts, oris between
herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.
S Wis. 22; 5 Id 245; 6 Id. 303; 13 id. 404; 13 Id. 211, 178: 15 Id. S6u, 589; 16 1(1. 471, 606; 17 Id. 169,
477, W5; 18 id. 275. 615; 21 id. 678; S3 id. 284. 301; 34 Id. 499, 6IS; 3a id. 378; 38 id. 48; 42 id. 454, 548.
Section 2009. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or
instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory
notes, whether the action is brought upon the instrument, or by a party
thereto, to recover against other parties liable over to him, and persons
severally liable for the same demand and, without reckoning offsets or
counterclaims, in the same amount, although upon different obligations
or instruments may all, or any of them, be included in the same ac
tion, at the option of the plaintifff.
Section 2610. The court may determine any controversy between
the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights
of others, or by saving their rights; but when a complete determinarion of the controversy cannot be had without the presenccof other
parties, or any persons not parties to the action have such interests in the
subject matter of the controversy as require them to be made parties for
their due protection, the court shall order them to be brought in; and
when, in an action for the recovery of real or personal property, a per
son not a party to the action, but having an interest in the subject
thereof, malces application to the court to be made a party, it may order
him to be brought in by the proper amendment. A defendant, against
whom an action is pending, upon a contract, or for specific real or
personal property, may, at any time before answer, upon affidavit that
a person, not a party to the action, and without collusion with him,
makes against him a demand for the same debt or property, upon dne8
notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to the court for
an order to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from
liability to either party, on his depositing in court the amount of the
debt, or delivering the property or its value to such person as the court
may direct; and the court may in its discretion make the order.
Section 2611. "Whenever any party shall cause it to appear by his
affidavit, or answer duly verified, that additional parties ought to be
brought in according to the preceding section, the court shall make an
order that the summons and complaint be amended as shall be neces
sary, and that the same, with a copy of such order shall, if such ad
ditional parties be defendants, be served on them within a prescribed
time according to law; and the action shall be continued as may be
necessary, and further proceedings had therein, as if such additional
parties had been originally proceeded against.
Section 2612. Where the plaintifff is ignorant of the name or a part
of the name of any defendant, or when any person who may be a
? roper party defendant to an action to establish or enforce, redeem
rom, or discharge a lien or claim to any real or personal property, in
this state, as heir, grantee, legal representative or otherwise, is unknown
to the plaintifff, such defendant or person may be designated a defend
ant by so much of the name as is known, or by a fictitious name, or as
an unknown heir, representative, owner or person, as the case may re
quire, adding such description as may reasonably indicate the person
intended, and such person shall be regarded a defendant in the action,
and as sufficiently described therein, for all the purposes thereof, in
cluding service of the summons, as upon an absent defendant or other
wise, appointment of guardian, if an infant, and liability to be bound
I'J the proceedings, orders and judgment therein. When the true
name or the person of such defendant is ascertained, the process, pleadings, and all proceedings whatever may be amended by an orderdirecting the insertion of the true name instead of the designation
employed,
Section 2613. "When an infant is a party, he must appear by guardian,
who may be appointed by the court, in which the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof.
Section 2614. The guardian shall be appoiuted as follows:
j -^hen thg infant is plaintifff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years; or if under that age, upon applicati°n of his general or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative
or friend of the infant. If made by a relative or friend of the
infant, notice thereof must first be given to such guardian, if he have
one; if he have none, then to the person with whom such infant
resides.
2. "When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant,
if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within twenty days after
the service of the summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neg
lect so to apply, then upon the application of any other party to tie
action, or of a relation, or friend of the infant, after notice of such
application being first given to the general or testamentary guardian of
such infant, if he have one in this state, and if he have none, then to the
infant himself, if over fourteen years of age, or if under that age and
within this state, to the person with whom such infant resides.
3. If such infant is not a resident of this state, and his residence be
known, and that fact shall appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court, and it shall further appear, that such infant has no general or
testamentary guardian in this state, the court may grant an order that
notice of an application for the appointment of a guardian for the
infant, be served upon such infant, if over fourteen years of age, by
mailing a copy of said notice and order to such infant, directed to him
at his place of residence; if under fourteen years of age, by mailings
copy of such notice and order to the person with whom such infant
resides. If the residence of the infant be unknown, the court may
grant an order that the service of said notice be made by publication
thereof in a newspaper to be designated in such order, as most likely
to give notice to such infant, and for such length of time as shall
be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week, for four weeks suc
cessively.
Section 2615. "When the defendant is insane at the time the action
commenced, and no guardian has been appointed of his person and
estate, the court, or a judge thereof, shall appoint a guardian of him for
the action. If, during the pendency of any action, either party shall
become or prove to be insane, the action may be prosecuted or defended
by his guardian, in like manner as if it had been commenced after the
appointment of the guardian, or the court, or judge, may appoint »
guardian for the action, as the case may require.
Section 2616. Such guardian for the action may be appointed upon
the application of any party thereto, or of any relative or friend of such
insane party, after at least five days' notice of such application shall
have first been given to such insane party personally, if a resident of
this state, and if a nonresident, in such manner as the court or judge
shall direct. Upon the hearing of such application, the court, or judge
may, if deemed desirable and practicable, order such insane party to
appear or be brought in by the sheriff in person.
Section 2617. No guardian, appointed under the provisions of this
chapter, shall be permitted to receive any money or property of the
ward, except costs and expenses allowed to the guardian, or recovered
for his ward, until he has executed to the ward and filed with the clerk
a bond, in a sum not less than double the value of the property to be
received, with sufficient surety approved by the court or judge, to
account for and apply the same, under the direction of the court; except
he be also the general guardian of such ward, in which case additional
security may be required in the discretion of the court. And the court
inav, upon application, or upon its own motion at any time, require
additional security of any such guardian.
Section 2618. No person 6hall be appointed but upon his written
consent as guardian for a plaintifff; and no guardian of a defendant for
the action shall be liable personally for costs, unless by special order
of the court for some misconduct therein.
CHAPTER CXIX.
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section 2619. The proper place of trial of civil actions is as follows, respectively:
First. Of an action within one of the classes next following, the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated,
viz.
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein, or for the determination in any form of such estate or interest,
or for an injury to real property.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For the foreclosure, redemption or other satisfaction of a mort
gage of real property.
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any cause.
Second. Of an action within either of the two classes next following, the county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, viz.:
1. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to execute
his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a
person who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do anything touching
the duties of such officer.
2. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute;
except that when the offense for which it is recoverable was committed
on any water over which two or more counties have a common juris
diction, under sections seven and eight, the action may be brought in
either such county.
Third. Of an action for the annulment or affirmance of a marriage,
or for a divorce, the county in which the parties or either one of them
are resident
Fourth. Of an action, except appeals in condemnation proceedings,
against any railroad corporation owning or operating, under lease or
otherwise, any railroad, any county through or into which such rail
road runs.
Fifth. Of an action against any other corporation, existing under
the law of this state, the county in which it is situated or has its principal
office or place of business, or in which the cause of action or
some part thereof arose.
Sixth. Of any other action, the county in which any defendant
resides at the commencement of the action; or if neither defendant re
sides within this state, any county which the plaintifff designates in his
complaint.
Seventh. But any action or proceeding hy the state against any
county or county officer to recover any indebtedness, or state taxes
unpaid, or for any cause, may be brought and tried in any county; and
w}ienever f]ie circuit judge shall be a party, or near of tin to a party,
to an action, such action may be brought and tried in any county of aa
adjoining circuit.
Section 2620. Every action named in either of the classes in the
gr8£ subdivision of the preceding section, must be commenced in the
county in which the property, or some part thereof, is situated, subject
to a change of the place of trial, as hereinafter provided ; but in every
other action whatever, the county designated in the complaint shall be
the place of trial thereof, unless the same be changed in the time and
manner hereinafter provided.
Section 2621. When the county designated in the summons or
complaint, in any action, is not the proper place of trial thereof, the
defendant may, within twenty days after the service of the complaint,
serve upon the attorney for the plaintifff, a demand in writing that the
*"*' ^ had within the proper county, specifying it, unless there be
more than one such county, and the reason therefore. "Within five
day8 after service of such demand, the plaintifff's attorney may serves
written consent that the place of trial be changed, and specify to wta:
county, having the option to name one of two, or more, in which it
may be properly triable, and such consent shall change the place of
trial accordingly. If the plaintifff's consent be not 60 served, the de
fendant may, within twenty days after the service of his demand, move
to change the place of trial, and shall have costs if his motion 1*
granted. The right to obtain a change of the place of trial, by pro
ceeding as aforesaid, shall not be affected by any other proceedings ia
the action,
Section 2622. The court, or the presiding judge thereof, may change
the place of trial in the following cases:
1. "Where the county designated for that purpose in the complaint is
not the proper county, and the defendant has moved within the tic*
limited in the preceding section.
2. "Where there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be
had therein.
3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice wonld
be promoted by the change.
4. When the parties or their attorneys shall stipulate in writing to
change the place of trial; and, in the last case, the order may be made
by the judge.
5. In any civil action brought by or in the name of the state of "Wis
consin, that may have been or may hereafter be tried before a jury, and
such fury has disagreed or may disagree, or where the verdict of said
•jury shall have been or may be set aside and a new trial ordered therein,
hy reason of such verdict being against evidence, or contrary to the
instructions of the court, if the attorney general, his assistant, or an
attorney representing and appearing for the state in such action, sh;
make affidavit that he has good reason to and does believe that the state
cannot have a fair and impartial trial in the county where said action
was so tried or new trial so awarded, by reason of the prejudice of the
people thereof, and that such prejudice will be likely to prevent the
empaneling of a fair and impartial jury in such county, the judge of
said conrt shall order such cause removed for trial to some other county
in or out of the judicial circuit over which said judge presides, as in
the opinion of such judge will best promote the ends of justice and the
convenience of the parties. There can be but one removal for such cause
in any one case.
Section 2623. "Whenever the judge is a party, or interested in the
matter in controversy, in any action pending before him, or is related to,
or has been of counsel for either party, the court, or the presiding judge
thereof, shall, upon application of either party, and may without such
application, change the place of trial of such action.
{section 2624. The circuit court shall change the place of trial of
any action, commenced before a justice of the peace by process person
ally served, and pending upon appeal, to the county in which the defendant
resides, upon his motion made at the first term at which the
action shall be noticed for trial, if it shall be shown that he was, when
so served with process, a resident of such county.
Section 2625. The court shall change the place of trial of any action
upon the application of any party thereto who shall file his affidavit,
that he has good reason to believe, and does believe, that he cannot have
a fair trial of such action on account of the prejudice of the judge,
naming him. If such application shall be made after any continuance
in the action, it shall be granted, however, only upon the payment of
the costs of making such change and the costs of the term; but no
costs for attendance of witnesses shall be included, if notice of the
application, with a copy of such affidavit, shall have been served upon
the opposite party ten days before the commencement of the term,
But one change of the place of trial shall be granted to the same side,
under the provisions of this section.
Section 2626. When the place of trial shall be changed, it shall beT
changed to some county where the causes complained 01 do not exist;
and, except under the provisions of the next preceding section, no such
change shall be made in any action after one continuance, had on the
motion of the party applying for a change, unless it shall appear to the
court that the cause therefore was discovered or developed after such
continuance.
Section 2627; When the place of trial is changed, all further proceedings
shall be had in the county to which it is changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the parties in writing, duly filed, or by
the order of the court. All process, pleadings, and other papers, and 3
copies of all entries, orders and minutes, in the books of the clerk, in
such action, shall be certified and transmitted by the clerk of the court
to the like clerk in the county to which the place of trial is changed,
with a statement of his fees therefore and in the action, which shall be
paid before transmission, by the party procuring such change. The
change sliall be complete on filing the papers transmitted. If such
transmission be not made within twenty days from the making of the
order to change the place of trial, or the filing of the record of its
affirmance on appeal, if directly appealed from, unless such time be
extended, such order shall be deemed vacated, and no change for the
same cause thereafter made.
Section 2628. After the place of trial in an action shall have been
changed, and a trial had in the county to which the change was made, c
the proceedings or order for such change shall be conclusive, except as
against such objections as shall have been filed in writing upon a
motion to remand, before such trial was entered upon. If, after the
transmission of the papers, an order changing the place of trial shall
be reversed or set aside, the effect shall be the same as if an order were
made to change the place of trial back to the county from which it was
changed.
CHAPTER CXX.
OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section 2629. A civil action in a court of record shall be commenced by the service of a summons. From the time of such service,
or the issuance of a provisional remedy, the court shall be deemed to
have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all subsequent proCCGQIII^S.
14 WU. 28. 691; 17 Id. 477; 18 Id. 69; 90 Id. 352; 21 Id. 663; 22 id 251; 97 id. 477, 558; 30 id. 667; S
Id. 844, 614; 88 Id. 578; 89 id. 313.
Section 2630. The summons shall contain :
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which
the action is brought, the name of the county designated by the plaintifff
as the place of trial, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintifff
and defendant.
2. A direction to the defendants, summoning them to appear within
twenty days after service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service and defend the action.
3. A notice that, in case of failure so to do, judgment will be ren
dered against them according to the demand of the complaint. It shall
be subscribed by the plaintifff, or his attorney, with the addition of lus
post office address, at which papers in the action may be served on him
by mail. There may, at the option of the plaintifff, be added at the
foot, when the complaint is not served with the summons, and the onlj
relief sought is the recovery of money, whether upon tort or contract,
a brief notice specifying the sum to be demanded by the complaint
Section 2631. Such summons shall be substantially in the follow
ing form.
Court. County.
A. B., Plaintiff, )
vs. V
C. D., Defendant. )
The State of "Wisconsin:—To the said defendant:
You are hereby summoned to appear within twenty days after service
of this summons, exclusive of the day of service, and defend the above
entitled action in the court aforesaid; and in case of your failure so to
do, judgment will be rendered against you according to the demand of
the complaint; of which a copy is herewith served upon you.
E. F.,
Plaintiff's Attorney.
P. O. address , County, Wis.
If the complaint be not served with the summons, the words " of
which a copy is herewith served upon you," may be omitted or erased.
Section 2632. The summons must be filed with the clerk, and a
state tax on the action of one dollar paid, within ten days after the service of an answer or demurrer; or if no answer or demurrer be 6erved,
at the time of applying for judgment. Otherwise the action shall be
dismissed on motion of any defendant, unless the plaintifff shall pay the
tax and five dollars costs of motion.
Section 2633. A copy of the complaint may, or maynot, be served
with the summons, at the plaintifff's option. If not so served, the defendant mav, in person or by attorney, within twenty days after the
service of the summons, demand in writing a copy of the complaint,
specifying a place, embracing a postoffice address, within the state,
where it may be served, and a copy of it shall be served within twenty
days thereafter, accordingly.
Section 2034. In the case of a defendant against whom no personal
claim is made, the plaintifff may deliver to such defendant, with the
summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintifff, or his attorney, setting
forth the general object of the action, a brief description of all the prop
erty affected by it, if it affect specific, real or personal property, and
that no personal claim is made against such defendant; but a copy of
the complaint shall be served according to the preceding section, if de
manded. If a defendant, on whom such notice is served, unreasonably
defend the action, he shall pay costs to the plaintifff.
Section 2635. The summons, together with the complaint or the
notice aforesaid, may be served by the sheriff of the county where the
defendant may be found, or by any other person not a party to the ac
tion. The service shall be made, and the summons, with the complaint
or notice accompanying, if any, with proof of the service, returned to
the person, whose name is subscribed thereto, with reasonable diligence.
The person subscribing the summons may, at his option, by an indorse
ment thereon, fix a time for the service thereof, and the service shall then
be made accordingly.
Section 2636. The summons and the accompanying complaint or
notice aforesaid, shall be served by delivering a copy thereof as follows:
1. If the action be against a minor under the age of fourteen years,
to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian,
or if there be none within this state, then to any person having the carej
and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose
service he shall be employed.
2. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or
incapable of conducting his own affairs, in consequence of excessive
drinking or otherwise, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to
such guardian, and to the defendant personally.
3. If against a joint stock company, not organized as a corporation,
and having seven or more shareholders, or associates, and sued in the
name of the president under section three thousand two hundred and
ten, to such president thereof, or if not found after due diligence, to
anv other officer or shareholder.
4. In all other cases, to the defendant personally; or, if not found,
by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of abode, in presence of
some one of the family, of sni table age and discretion, who shall be in
formed of the contents thereof.
Section 2637. Actions against corporations shall be commenced in
the same manner as personal actions against natural persons. The summons, and the accompanying complaint or notice aforesaid, shall be
served, and such service held of the same effect as personal service on a
natural person, by delivering a copy thereof, as follows:
46
1. If the actioD be against a county, to the county clerk.2. If against a town, to the chairman of the town and the town clerk.
3. If against a city, to the mayor and the city clerk.
4. If against a village, to the president of the board of trustees and
the village clerk.
5. If against a school district, to the director and the tferk thereof.
6. If against a railroad corporation whose general office is within
this state, to the president, secretary, superintendent, general man
ager or general solicitor thereof, if either shall reside and be within the
state.
7. If against a railroad corporation, whose general office is, or all whose
aforesaid officers shall reside or be without the state, to any station,
freight, ticket or other agent thereof within the state.*
8. If against a corporation owning or operating sleeping or hotel
cars, or the like, which has not its /general office m the state, to any
person having charge of any of its cars, or any agent found within the
state.
9. If against any insurance corporation, not organized under the law?
of this 6tate, to the agent or attorney thereof, having authority therefore
by appointment under the provisions of section nineteen hundred and
fifteen or section nineteen hundred and fifty three, or to any agant of
such corporation within the definition of section nineteen hundred and
seventy seven, in the state.
10- " against any other corporation organized under the laws of this
state, to the president, or other such chief officer, vice president, secre
tary, cashier, treasurer, director, or managing agent thereof.
li- ^ against any other foreign corporation, to any such officer being
within the state, or to any agent having charge of or conducting any
business therefore in this state, or any trustee or assignee of such corpora
tion. But such service can be made upon a foreign corporation only,
either when it has property within the state or the cause of action arose
therein, or the cause of action exists in favor of a resident of the
state,
Section 2638. The state nay be made a party defendant in any
action in the circuit court between other parties, when necessary to the
proper determination of their rights, and the summons be served by
delivering a copy to the attorney general, or leaving it at his office in
the capitol with his assistant or clerk. But no judgment for the recov
ery of money, or property or costs, shall be rendered in any such action
against the state.
Section 2639. Service of the summons may be made without the
state, or by publication, upon a defendant against whom a cause of
action appears to exist, or who appears to be a necessary or proper
party to an action relating to real estate, on obtaining an order there
*or> M Provided m the next following section, in either of the following
cases:
j "When such defendant is a nonresident of this state, or his resi
dence is unknown, or is a foreign coqjoration, and the defendant has
property within the state, or the cause of action arose therein, and the
court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action, whether the action
be founded on contract or tort.
2. When the defendant, being a resident of this state, has departed
therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or avoid the service of a
summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent.
3. When the subject of the action is real or personal property in this
state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual* or con
tingent therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partially in
excluding the defendant from any interest or lien therein.
4. When the action is to foreclose, redeem from or satisfy a mort.
gage, claim or lien upon real estate, and the defendant is a proper party
thereto.
5. When the action is for a divorce.
6. When the action is against any private corporation organized
under the laws of the state, and the propor officers on whom to make
Bervice do not exist or cannot be found.
Section 2640. The order mentioned in the preceding section shall
be made by the court, or a judge thereof. The application therefore
shall be based upon the complaint, duly verified and filed, and an affidavit, together snowing the facts required to exist, and that the plain
tiff is unable, with due diligence, to make service of the summons upon
the defendant in respect to whom such order is applied for, and also the
post office address of such defendant, or that the plaintifff is unable,
after due diligence, to ascertain it. The order shall direct that service
of the summons be made by its publication in a newspaper, to be
designated as most likely to give notice to the defendant to be served,
for such length of time as shall be deemed reasonable, not less than
once a week, for six weeks, and that on or before the day of the first pub
lication, the plaintifff deposit, in a specified post office, a copy of the sum
mons, together with a copy of the complaint, or of a notice of the object
of the action, as the case may require, securely inclosed in an envelope,
the postage duly paid, addressed to the defendant at his post office, to be
therein named, or a direction that such deposit may be omitted because
the defendant's post office addres scannot be ascertained ; or that, at the
plaintifffs option, a copy of the summons, and a copy of the complaint
or of the notice aforesaid, be delivered to the defendant personally
without the state; which, when done, shall have the same effect as a
completed publication and mailing. The first publication must be made
within three months from the date of such order, and service shall be
deemed complete at the expiration of the full period prescribed by the
order after the date of the first publication, copies having been duly
deposited in the post office, when required.
Section 2641. Any order for service, made under the preceding
section, shall be presumptive proof of the existence of all facts required
to exist to authorize the same to be made, and conclusive in all collateral
actions or proceedings; and all like orders made under chapter one
hundred and twenty four of the revised statutes of one thousand eight
hundred and fifty eight, and acts amendatory thereof, shall have the
like effect as evidence.
Section 2642. Proof of the service of the summons and of the
complaint, or notice, if any, accompanying the same, shall be as follows:
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof, showing place,
time and manner of service.
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof, showing place, time
and manner oi service, that he knew the person served to be the de
fendant mentioned in the summons, and left with, as well as delivered
to, him a copy; and if the defendant was not personally served, he
shall state in such affidavit, when, where and with whom such copy was
left
3. The written admission of the defendant.
4. In case of publication, the affidavit of the publisher, or printer,
or his foreman or principal clerk, showing the same, and specifying the
date of the first and last publications, and an affidavit of a deposit ofa copy of the summons, with the complaint or notice, in the post office,
as prescribed by law, and the order therefore if such deposit shall have
been required, by the person making the same.
Section 2643. A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivar
lent to a personal service of the summons upon him.
CHAPTER CXXI.
OF THE PLEADINGS.
Section 2644. The forms of pleading in civil actions in courts of
record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings are
determined, are those prescribed by this chapter.
THE COMPLAINT.
Section 2645. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff is the
complaint. .
Rkptton 2646. The complaint shall contain.
iThe title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which
the action is brought, the name of the county designated by the plaintifff
as the place of trial, and the names of the parties to the action,
plaintifff and defendant.
2 A plain and cgncise statement of the facts constituting each
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition
3. A demand of the judgment to which the plaintifff supposes him6elf entitled; if the recovery of money be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated.
2M ^. B ,d 1M 158< s%;30 ld. jo, 024; 31 id. 817. 527, 631 ; 32 id. 243; 33 Id. IB;
$4 id 372- ss'ld. 171; 40 Id. 683; 41 id. 3.4, 418.
Section 9647 The plaintifff mav unite in the same complaint sevcauses
of action, whether they be such as were formerly denominated legal or equitable, or both, where they arise out of:
l. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same
subject of action; or _
2. Contract, express or implied; or
3. Injuries, with or without force, to person or property, or either; or
4. Injuries to character; or
5 Claims to recover real property, with or without damages, for
the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the same; or
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages,
for the withholding thereof; or
7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract, or by operation
° Bat' the causes of action co united must all belong to one of these
classes, and must affect all the parties to the aetion and not require
different places of trial, and must be stated separately.
Section 2648. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is
a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within twenty
days after the service of the copy of the complaint
Section 2649. The defendant may demur to the complaint, when
it shall appear upon the face thereof, either:
8 Pin. IS; 2 Wis. 228; 14 Id. 841 ; 15 id. 184; 22 id. 834; 25 id. 614; 27 Id. 69; 81 Id. 570; 84 id. 883
43 Id. 584.
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant,
or the subject of the action ; or
2. That the plaintifff lias not legal capacity to sue; or
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause; or
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant; or
5 Wis. 14; 18 id. 431, 566; 21 id. 837, 678; 23 Id. 452, 491 ; 24 id. 250; 26 id. 215; 29 id. 576; 88 id. 250
40 Id. 878.
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or
8 Wis. 332: 14 id. 581: 15 Id. 156, 281 ; 16 id. 6*3: 23 id. 500, 673; 25 id. 829, 703 ; 26 Id. 215, 450; 28 id
118; 29 id. 833; 80 id. 624; 34 id. 185, 494, 658 ; 88 id. 394, 489.
6. That the complaint does hot state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action ; or
7 Wis. 59, 433, 574; 11 id. 419; 17 Id. 114; 18 id. 431: 19 id. 225, 247, 438; 22 Id. 260; 25 id. 498, 603
614; 26 id. 450; 27 id. 115; 29 id. 65. 125.333, 375; SO id. 162; 82 id. 614.
7. That theaction was not commenced within the time limited bylaw.
Section 2650. The demurrer maybe taken to the whole complaint
or to any of the alleged causes of action therein; and the defendant
mav demur to one or more of the several causes of action stated in
, - « . - , . ,
the complaint, and answer the residue.
Section 2651. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
of objection to the complaint, in the language of the subdivision of
section two thousand six hundred and forty nine, relied upon, adding,
5f based upon the second or fourth subdivision, a particular statement
of the defect, and if based upon the seventh, a reference to the stat
ute claimed to limit the right to sue. Unless it do so, the demurrer
may be stricken out.
Section 2652. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must
Deserved, and the defendant must demur or answer thereto within
twenty days thereafter, or the plaintifff, upon filing proof of service
thereof, and of the defendant's omission, mav obtain judgment in the
"
manner provided for a failure to answer in the first instance.
Section 2653. When any of the matters enumerated in section
two thousand six hundred and forty nine, do not appear upon the face
of the complaint, the objection may be taken by answer; and the
objection that the action was not commenced within the time limited
by law, may in any case be taken by answer.
Section 2654. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same,
excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the
obiection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constiV _ t .•
tute a cause of action.
JO Wis. 142, 297 ; 22 id. 337 ; 31 id. 691.
THE ANSVVKR.
Section 2655. The answer of the defendant must contain:
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the
complaint, controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or
information thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or connterclaim,
in ordinary and concise language, without repetition.
Section 2G56. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section,
must De one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintifff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of one of the following causes of action:
!• A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set
forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifff's claim, or
connected with the subject of the action.
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising
also on contract, express or implied, and existing at the commencement of the action.
3. Where the plaintifff is a nonresident of the state, any cause of
action whatever, arising within the state and existing at the cornmencement
of the action, except that no claim assigned to the defendant shall be pleaded by virtue alone of this subdivision.
But each counterclaim shall be pleaded as such, and be so denominated, and the answer shall contain a demand of the judgment to
which the defendant supposes himself to be entitled by reason of the
I . .i . rf J
counterclaims therein,
Section 2657. The defendant may set forth, by answer, as many
defenses and counterclaims as he may have, whether they be such as
were formerly denominated legal or equitable, or both; they must
eacn De separately stated, and defenses must refer to the causes of
action which they are intended to answer, in such manner that the;
may be intelligibly distinguished.
DEMUEKEK TO ANSWER.
Section 2658. The plaintifff may, within twenty days, demur b.
the answer, or any defense therein, when, upon the face thereof, it
does not 6tate facts sufficient to constitute a defense; and to any coun
terclaim therein, where, upon the face thereof, it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a counterclaim, either:
1. Because the court has no jurisdiction thereof.
2. Because defendant has not legal capacity to maintain the same.
3. Because there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause.
4. Because there is a defect of parties.
5. Because the counterclaim does not state facts sufficient to consti
tute a cause of action.
6. Because the cause of action stated is not pleadable as a counter
claim to the action.
Section 2659. Such demurrer may be taken to the whole answer,
the alleged defenses or counterclaims therein; and the
plaintifff may demur to one or more of the several defenses and coun
terclaims, and reply to the residue of the counterclaims. The de
murrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection taken, and
when to a counterclaim, in a similar manner to that required in a de
murrer to the complaint; otherwise, it may be stricken out.
Section 2660. When any of the objections to a counterclaim mentioned
in section two thousand six hundred and fifty eight do not
appear upon the face of the answer, the objection may be taken by
reply. If not so taken, either by the demurrer or reply, the plaintiff
shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection
to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection that the counter
claim does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Section 2661. When the answer contains a counterclaim, the
plaintifff may, within twenty days, if he do not demur thereto, reply
to the counterclaim. Such reply must contain:
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the
counterclaim, controverted by the plaintifff, or of any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief.
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense, in ordi
nary and concise language, without repetition.
The plaintifff may set forth by reply as many defenses to the coun
terclaims as he may have; they must be separately stated, and refer
to the counterclaims which they are intended to answer, in such man
ner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.
Section 2662. If the answer contain any counterclaim to which
the plaintifff fails to reply or demur, within the time prescribed by
law, the defendant may move, on a notice of not less than eight days,
for such judgment as he is entitled to upon such counterclaim, and,
if the case require it, an assessment of damages may be made, or he
may at the trial have the counterclaim treated as established without
proof.
Section 2663. The defendant may, within twenty days, demur to
the reply, or any defense therein, when upon the face thereof, it does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense, stating such grounds.
general provisions.
Section 2664. Every pleading aforesaid must be subscribed by
the party or his attoruey, and must be filed before the commencemerit
of the first term after its service at which the action is noticed
for trial. In case of a failure by either party to file any pleading on
his part, such pleading may be stricken out, on motion, unless per
mitted to be filed on such terms as the court shall think proper; or
the opposite party may file the copy thereof served on him.
Section 2665. When any pleading is verified, every subsequent
pleading, except a demurrer, must be verified also; but the verification may be omitted when an admission of the allegations might subject
the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used
in a criminal prosecution against the party, as evidence of a fact ad
mitted or alleged in such pleading.
Section 2666. The verification must be to the effect that the same
is true to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters stated on information and belief, and as to those matters, he
believes it to be true, and must be by the affidavit of the party; or if
there be several parties united in interest and pleading together, by
one, at least, of such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party
be within the county where the attorney resides, and capable of making
the affidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon a written instrument
for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the
possession of the agent or attorney; or if all the material allegations
of the pleadings be within the personal knowledge of the agent or at
torney. When the pleading is verified by any other person than the
party, he shall set forth in the affidavit, his knowledge, or the grounds
of his belief on the subject, and the reasons why it is not made by the
party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made
by any officer thereof. And when the state, or any officer thereof in
its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any person
acquainted with the facts.
Section 2G67. Every material allegation of the complaint, not
controverted by the answer, as hereinbefore prescribed, and every material allegation in a counterclaim not controverted by the reply, as
hereinbefore prescribed, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken
as true. But the allegation of new matter in an answer not pleaded as
a part of a counterclaim, or of new matter in a reply, is to be deemed
controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial, or avoid
ance, as the case may require.
Section 2668. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
o^ determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
w'tn a v*ew to substantial justice between the parties.
98 Wit. 158; :« id. 34.
Section 2669. No variance between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it shall actually mislead the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or
defense upon its merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party
has Deen 80 misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of th«
court, and in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon the
court may order the pleading to be amended upon such terms as may
be jugt
Section 2670. "When the variance is not material, as provided in
tjie ja8t 8ectjon) the court may direct the fact to be found in accordance with the evidence, or may order an amendment without
CO£t8.
88 Wis. 542; 40 id. 549,606.
Section 2671. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action,
counterclaim or defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire
scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
Section 2672. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in
a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he shall deliver
to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof in writ
ing, a copy of the account which, if the pleading is verified, must be
verified by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect
that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence
thereof. The court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge or court
commissioner, may order a further account when the one delivered is
defective; and the court may in all cases order a bill of particulars of
the claim of either party to be furnished,
Section 2673. In pleading a judgment or other determination of*
court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state
the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination
may be stated to have been duly given or maae. If such allegation
be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the
trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.
Section 2674. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent
.^ a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such
performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be con
troverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial
the facts showing such performance,
Section 2675. In an action, defense or counterclaim, founded upon
an instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufiicienl
for the party to give a copy of the instrument, and to state that there
is dne to him thereon, from the adverse party, a specified sum which
he claims.
2 Wis. 62, 148; 4 Id. 248; 10 Id. 35; 88 Id. 681.
Section 2676. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to 6iich statute by its title and
the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial
notice thereof. In like manner, the statutes, acts and resolves of the
congress of the United States, and of the legislature of any state or
territory of the United States, published by authority of jthe respective
governments thereof, may be pleaded.
Section 26T7. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts, for the purpose
of showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matters
out of which the cause of action arose; but it shall be sufficient to
state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning
the plaintifff, and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff
shall be bound to establish on the trial that it was so published or
spoken.
Section 2678. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may in his answer allege both the truth of the matter
charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce
the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justification or not,
he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.
Section 2679. In an action to recover the possession of property
,....., . , J^ r , r r J
distrained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by
whose command he acted, was lawfully possessed of the real property
upon which the distress was made, and that the property distrained
was at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good without setting
forth the title to such real property.
Section 2680. In any action by husband and wife to recover damages for any injury to the person of the wife, sustained by or through
the act, procurement or negligence of the defendant, or for which the
defendant is liable, the plaintifff's may claim in the complaint, and
prove and recover, all the damages sustained by both, and which
might otherwise be recovered by separate actions.
Section 2681. If a demurrer, answer, or reply, be frivolous, the
court, or the judge thereof, may, upon motion, and five days' notice
to the party interposing the same, strike such pleading out, and
thereupon either order judgment in favor of the adverse party, or in
his discretion, allow the party interposing the same to plead over,
within a limited time, on such terms as may be just. If no further
pleading be served within the time so fixed, the adverse party may
obtain such judgment as he may be entitled to, in the manner provided
in case of a failure to answer or reply in the first instance.
24 Wis. 610; 27 id. 621 ; 38 id. 598; 37 id. 857; 40 Id. 555.
Section 26S2. A sham answer, reply or defense, whether by way of
, . , ., . , . 1 r J . .. j i
denial or avoidance, may be stricken out, on motion, and upon such
terms as the court or judge thereof may, in discretion, impose; but
no defense shall be deemed sham, the truth of which shall be sup
ported by the affidavit of a single witness, either by way of verifica
tion to the pleadings, or in opposing a motion to strike out.
Section 2083. If any pleading contain irrelevant, redundant or
scandalous matter, it may be stricken out, with costs, on motion of
the adverse party, and the conrt or judge, in discretion, may order the
attorney who signed the same, to pay the costs. When the allegatious of a pleading are so indefinite, or uncertain, that tbe precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may require
the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment.
7Wis. 372,433; 10 id. 1,74,333; 11 id. 138; 12id.441; 13id.l04; 16ld.504; 17 id. 140, 448; Hid
42; 28 id. 81,669; 20 id. 65; 36 id. 612; 87 id. 268, 265; 38 id. 250; 41 id. 329, 659.
Section 2684. A party may move upon one notice to strike out an
answer or reply, as sham, and frivolous, and irrelevant, and the court,
on such motion, may strike out any matter or defense as sham, any
other as frivolous, or as irrelevant or otherwise, as the pleading shall
be found to be.
Section 2685. Any pleading may be once amended by the party,
of course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings
already had, at any time before the period for answering it expires;
or *' can ^e 80 amended at any time within twenty days after the
service of the answer or demurrer to such pleading. In such case, a
copy of the amended pleading must be served on the adverse party.
But if it shall be made to appear to the court that such amendment
, _ . A S 1 it
was made for the purpose of delay, or that the same was unnecessary
and the opposite party will thereby lose the benefit of a term for which
tne action is or may be noticed, the amended pleading may be stricken
out and such terms imposed as to the court may seem just.
23 Wis. 19S; 24 Id. 572; 2'i id. 310,661; 26 Id. 78, 399, 58S, 656; 27 id. 472; 28 id. 198,534.581; S:i
169,209; 30 id. 208, 661 ; 81 id. 9J.5B; 32 id. 136,261, 335; 33 id. 4S8, 617 ; 24 id. 478,511, 897; S3 id. t".
195; 36 id. 504,612; 37 id. :».>, 336, 376, 653 ; 38 id. 71, 100,159,244,592,603,648; 39 id. 61, 345, 674; €
id. 355. 408, 659.
Section 2686. After the decision of a demurrer, the court may, in
jtg ^ji scretiori, if it appear that the demurrer was interposed in good
faith, allow the party to plead over, or to withdraw the demurrer oa
such terms as may be just. If a demurrer to a complaint be sustained
upon the ground that several causes of action have been improperly
united, the court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may
be just, order the action to be divided into as many actions as may be
necessary to the proper determination of the causes of action therein
mentioned.
Section 2687. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may be
allowed on motion, and on such terms as may be just, to make a supplemental complaint, answer or reply, alleging facts material to the
case, occurring after the former complaint, answer or reply, or of
which the party was ignorant when his former pleading was made.
23 WlB. 164; 26 id. 91; 83 id. 430; 84 Id. 259; 85 id. 27; 42 id. 233.
CHAPTER CXXII.
OF ARREST AND BAIL.
Section 2688. ISTo person shall be arrested in a civil action excep
a8 prescribed by this chapter, but this provision shall not apply t
proceedings for contempt.
Section 2689. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter pre
scrjbed in the following cases:
1. In an action for the recovery of damages on a cause of action
not arising out of contract, where the defendant is not a resident of
the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for
an injury to person or character, or for seduction, or for criminal
conversation, or for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining or
converting property, and in actions to recover damages for the value
of property obtained by the defendant under false pretenses or false
tolvPns
lO-kBUS.
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money received, or for
Eroperty embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, by a public officer, or
y an attorney, solicitor or counsel, or by an officer or agent of a cor
poration or banking association, in the course of his employment as
such, or by any factor, agent, broker, or any person in a fiduciary
capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional
employment.
3. In an action to recover possession of personal property unjustly
detained, where the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed,
removed or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the
sheriff.
But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a willful
injury to person, character or property.
Section 2690. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be
obtained from the court in which the action is brought, or a judge.
Section 2691. The order may be made where it shall appear to the
judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or of any other person, that a
sufficient cause of action exists, and that the case is one of those mentioned
in section two thousand six hundred and eighty nine.
Section 2692. Before making the order, the court or judge shall
require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintifff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and
all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceed
ing the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least one
hundred dollars. If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff
without sureties, he shall annex thereto an affidavit, that he is a resi
dent and householder or freeholder within the state, and worth double
the sum specified in the undertaking, above all his debts and liabilities.
Section 2693. The order may be made to accompany the summons,
or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall be directed " in
the name of the state of Wisconsin," to the sheriff of a particular
county, or generally to the sheriff of any county where the defendant
may be found, and require him forthwith to arrest him and hold him20
to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order, at a time and place
therein mentioned, to the plaintifff or attorney by whom it shall be
subscribed or indorsed.
Section 2694. The affidavit, undertaking and order of arrest shall
be delivered to the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall
deliver to him copies thereof; and the sheriff shall, within ten days
after such arrest, file the undertaking with the clerk of the court in
which the action is brought.
Section 2695. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the
defendant, and kesping him in custody until discharged by law, and
may call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of the
arrest, as in case of process.
Section 2696. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall
be discharged from arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon depositing"
the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as provided in this
chapter.
Section 2G97. The defendant may give bail by causing a written
undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail, stating their
places of residence and occupations, to the effect that the defendant
shall, at all times, render himself amenable to the process of the conn
during the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to
enforce the judgment therein; or if he be arrested for the cause ineitioned
in the third subdivision of section two thousand six hundrd
and eighty nine, an undertaking to the same effect as that provided U
section two thousand seven hundred and twenty two.
Section 2698. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, in
stead of giving bail, deposit with the sheriff the amount mentioned ij
the order. The sheriff shall therenpon give the defendant a certifier
of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody
Section 2899. The sheriff shall, within four days after the depo«',
pay the same into court, and shall take from the officer receiving tb
same, two certificates of payment, the one of which he shall deliver a
the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant. For any default in ra&iing
such payment, the same proceedings may be had on the officii!
bond of the sher'ff to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of
delinquency.
Section 2700. If the money be deposited as provided in the las
two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice as prescribe:
in section two thousand seven hundred and three, any time befo.-;
i'udgment, and taereupon the judge, before whom the justification!tad, shall direct in the order of allowance, that the money deposit
be refunded to '.he defendant, and it shall be refunded accordingly.
Section 2701. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it
remain on deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment
of money to the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under direction of the court,
apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after satisfying the imm
inent, shall refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant. If the judg
ment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall return to him the
whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.
Section 2702. Within the time limited for that purpose, the sherif
shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintifff or attorney by when
it is subscribed, with his return indorsed, and a certified copy of tie
undertaking of the bail; the plaintifff, within ten days thereafter, m»y
6erve upon the sheriff" a notice that he does not accept the bail, oria
shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerate!
from liability.
Section 2703. On receipt of 6uch notice by the sheriff, he or the
defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff ar
attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of justifi
cation of the same, or other bail (specifying the places of resident
and occupation of the latter), before a judge of the court at a speeinVi
time and place; the time to be not less than five nor more than tea
days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there shall be a ne*
undertaking in the form prescribed in section two thousand six hun
dred and ninety seven.
Section 2704. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:
1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or freeholdei
within the state.
2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the order ol
arrest, in property within the state exclusive of' property exeoipi
from execution; but a judge, on justification, may allow more thai
two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that expressed it
;he order, if the whole justification be equivalent to that of two suffi;ient
bail.
Section 2705. For the purpose of justification, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, at the time and place mentioned in the
lotice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintifff,
:ouching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge, in his discretion,
nay think proper. The examination shall he reduced to writing, and
subscribed by the bail, if required by the plaintifff.
Section 2706. If the judge find the bail sufficient, he shall annex
the examination to the undertaking, indorse his allowance thereon, and
sanse them to be filed with the court, and the bherift' shall thereupon
be exonerated from liability. In such case, if the bail shall have an
nexed to their undertaking, at the time of its delivery to the sheriff,
their affidavit showing their sufficient qualifications as bail, according
to section two thousand seven hundred and four, the judge may, in
his discretion, by order, require the costs of their justification before
him, including fees to the bail as witnesses, to be forthwith paid by
the party requiring justification.
Section 2707. At any time before a failure to comply with their
undertaking, the bail ma}' surrender the defendant in their exoneration,
or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the county where he was
arrested, in the following manner:
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be delivered
to the sheriff who shall detain the defendant in his custody thereon, as
upon an order of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in writing, acknowl
edge the surrender.
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking, and sheriff's
certificate, a judge of the court may, upon a notice to the plaintifff of
eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exoner
ated; and on filing the order and the papers used on such application,
they shall be exonerated accordingly.
But this section shall not apply to the arrest for the causes men
tioned in the third subdivision of section two thousand six hundred
and eighty nine, so as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given
to the effect provided by section two thousand 6even hundred and
twenty two.
Section 2708. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the
bail at any time or place, before they are finally charged, may themselves arrest, him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified
copy of the undertaking, may empower any person of suitable age and
discretion to do so.
Section 2709. Every person, surrendered in exoneration of his
bail, shall be kept in safe custody until he shall satisfy the judgment
rendered against him, or be discharged according to law.
Section 2710. In case of failure to comply with the undertaking,
the bail may be proceeded against by action only.
Section 2711. The bail may be exonerated either by the death of
the defendant or his imprisonment in the state prison, or by his dis
charge from the obligation to render himself amenable to the process,
or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where he was arrested,
in execntion thereof, within twenty days after the commencement of
the action against the bail, or within such further time as may be
granted by the court.
Section 2712. If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or be
rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead
thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail. But he may
discharge himself from such liability by the giving and justification of
kaj^ ag provided jn sections two thousand seven hundred and three to
section two thousand seven hundred and six, inclusive, at any time
before process against the person of the defendant to enforce an order
or judgment in the action.
Section 2713. If a judgment be recovered against a sheriff upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the same proceedings may be had on the official bond
of the sheriff, to collect the delinquency, as in other cases of delin
quency.
Section 2714. The bail taken upon the arrest 6hall, unless they
justify or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by
action for damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.
Section 2715. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the
justification of bail, apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of bail.
Sectionv2716. If the motion be made upon affidavit on the part of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the same
by affidavit or other proof, in addition to those on which the order of
arrest was made.
CHAPTER CXXII1.
OF REPLEVIN.
Section 2717. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or at
any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property,
as provided in this chapter.
Section 2718. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be
made by the plaintifff, or by some one on his behalf, showing:
1< That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, particularly
describing it, or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by
virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall
iitiU
be set forth.
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant
3_ The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his beet
knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine,
pursuant to the statute, or seized under an execution or attachment
against the property ot the plaintin, or if so seized, that it is by statute
exempt from such seizure; and,
5. The actual value of the property.
Section 2719. The plaintifff may thereupon, by an indorsement in
wrjtjng Up0n the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant and
deliver it to the plaintifff.
Section 2720. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with
ft wr;tten undertaking, executed by one or more sufficient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in double
the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution
)f the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return
hereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
or any cause be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forth
with take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the pos
session of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He
shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affida
vit, notice, and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally,
f he can be found, or his agent from whose possession the property
s taken; or if neither can he found, by leaving them at the usual
^lace of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and discre
tion.
Section 2721. The defendant may, within three days after the serrice of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to tho
sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails
» do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objections to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify, on notice, in
like manner as upon bail on arrest. And the sheriff shall be respon
sible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection is either
waived, as above provided, or until they shall justify, or new sureties
■hall be substituted and justify. If the defendant except to the sure
ties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.
Section 2722. At any time before the delivery of the property to
the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the sureties of
the plaintifff, require the return thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a
written undertaking executed by two. or more sufficient sureties, to
the effect that they are bound in double the value of the property, as
stated in the affidavit of the plaintifff, for the delivery thereof to the
plaintinyif such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may for any cause be recovered against the defendant.
If a return of the property be not so required within three days after
the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered
to the plaintifff, except as provided in section two thousand seven hun
dred and twenty seven.
Section 2723. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the
plaintifff of not less than two nor more than six days, shall justify
before a judge, in the same manner as upon bail on arrest. Upon
such justification, the sheriff 6hall deliver the property to the defend
ing The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's sureties until
they justify, or until justification is complete or expressly waived, and
may retain the property until that time; but if they, or others in
their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall
deliver the property to the plaintifff.
Section 2724. The provisions of sections two thousand seven hunired
and four, two thousand seven hundred and five, and two thousand seven hundred and six, in respect to bail, upon an order for arrest,
shall be applicable to the qualification and justification of sureties
under this chapter.
Section 2725. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed
in a building or inclosnre, the sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery;
if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to
he broken open, and take the property into his possession; and if
necessary, he may call to his aid the power of his county.
Section 2726. When the sheriff shall have taken property as inP
this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliver it
to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees for tak
ing, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.
Section 2727. If the property taken be claimed by any other per
80n tnan tue defendant, or his agent, and such person shall make affidavit of his title thereto, and right to the possession thereof, stating
thegroundsof such right and title, and serve the same upon thetheriff,
the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver it to the
plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on demand of him or his agent, shall in
demnify the sheriff against such claim by an undertaking, executed bj
two sufficient sureties, accompanied by their affidavits, that they are
each worth double the value of the property as specified in the affida
vit of the plaintifff, and are freeholders or householders of the county;
and no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or
his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff unless made as aforesaid;
and notwithstanding such claim when so made, he may retain the
property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity,
Section 2728. The sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with
the proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the
acti0n is pending, within twenty days after taking the property men
tioned therein. The undertakings required by this chapter shall,
after the justification of the sureties, or the waiver thereof, be deliv
ered by the sheriff to the parties respectively, for whose benefit they
are taken.
CHAPTER CXXIV.
■ OP ATTACHMENT.
Section 2729. Any creditor shall be entitled to proceed by attachment>
m the circuit court for the proper eonnty, against the property
of his debtor, whether a natural person or corporation, in the case?.
upon the conditions and in the manner prescribed in this chapter,
^ o writ of attachment shall be issued against a municipal corporation.
now ISSUED.
Section 2730. The writ of attachment shall be issued on the re
fc of the iaintjff) by t}ie cierfc 0f t^e w^ either at the time of
the issuing or the summons in the action j or at any time thereafter
before final judgment. It shall be directed by the style of "The
State of Wisconsin," to the sheriff, or other proper officer, of some
county in which the property of the defendant, so proceeded against,
may be supposed to be, and shall require him to attach and safely
keep all the property of such defendant within his county, or so muci
thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifffs demand, together
with costs and expenses. It shall be attested in the name of the pre
siding judge of the court, and be sealed with its seal.
Section 2731. Before any writ of attachment shall be executed,
the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall make and annex thereto
an affidavit, stating that the defendant named in such writ is indebted
to the plaintifff in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, and specifying the
amount of such indebtedness as near as may be, over and above all
legal setoffs, and that the same is due upon contract, express or implied, or upon judgment or decree, and containing a further statement
that the deponent knows, or has good reason to believe, either:
1. That the defendant has absconded, or is about to abscond, from
this state, or is concealed therein, to the injury of his creditors, or
keeps himself concealed therein, with intent to avoid the service of aw
r .
summons.
2. That the defendant has assigned, conveyed, disposed of or concealed,
or is about to assign, convey, dispose of or conceal his property,
or any part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors.
3. That the defendant has removed, or is about to remove, any of
his property out of this state, with intent to defraud his creditors; or
4. That the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt, or incurred
the obligation, respecting which the action is brought; or
5. That the defendant is not a resident of this state; or
6. That the defendant is a foreign corporation ; or if created under
the laws of this state, that all the proper officers thereof on whom to
serve the summons do not exist, are nonresidents of the state, or can
not be found; or
7. That the action is brought against the defendant, as principal
upon an official bond, to recover money due the state, or 6ome county
or other municipality therein.
Or an affidavit, showing that a cause of action sounding in tort exists
in favor of the plaintifff against the defendant named in such writ, that
the damages sustained and claimed exceed the sum of fifty dollars,
specifying the amount claimed, and the further statement, either:
1. That the defendant is not a resident of this state, or that his res
idence is unknown, and cannot with due diligence be ascertained; or
2. That the defendant is a foreign corporation.
Section 2732. Before the writ of attachment shall be executed, a
written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient surety,
shall be delivered to the officer, to the effect that if the defendant
recover judgment, the plaintifff shall pay all costs that may be awarded
to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain, by reason of
the writ of attachment, not exceeding the sum specified in the under
taking, which sum shall not be less than two hundred and fifty dollars.
The surety shall justify his responsibility, by affidavit, annexed to such
undertaking, stating that he is a resident, and householder or free
holder, within the state, and is worth the sum specified in the under
taking, in property within the state, over and above all his debts, and
exclusive of all property exempt from execution.
Section 2733. In case the defendant shall not be satisfied with the
amount specified in the undertaking, or with the sureties, he may, upon
not less than five days' notice to the plaintifff, apply to a judge of the
court for additional security, and such judge may, by order, require
the plaintifff to give and file another undertaking, to be approved by
him, in such sura as he shall deem proper, not exceeding the value of
the property attached, as appears from the appraisement. The surety
shall justify his responsibility as provided in the preceding section;
but if there be more than one surety, they may be accepted, if it ap
pear that they are jointly responsible for the required sum.
Section 2731. The writ of attachment, the affidavit and undertakino- therefore, shall be annexed together, but not to the summons in
the action; the officer executing the writ shall return thereon all his
proceedings under and by virtue thereof, and thereafter, and within
twenty days from receipt of the undertaking, shall file all said papers
with the clerk of the court. No action snail be maintained on any
guch undertaking until after final judgment in the action, unless the
same be discontinued or dismissed.
47
Section 2735. Alias writs of attachment in the 6ame action maj
issued to the sheriffs, or other proper officers, of different counties,
at any time before judgment. In such case a copy of the affidavit
annexed to the original shall be annexed, and such writ indorsed as
an alias. Such other writs shall be executed and returned in the same
manner as the original.
HOW EXECUTED.
Seotion 2736. The officer having the writ of attachment shall execute
^e same without delay, by seizing so much of the property of the
defendant, when the same can be found in his county, as will be sufficient
to satisfy the demand of the plaintifff, with costs and expenses,
an(] by making an inventory thereof; he shall cause all personal prop
erty attached by him to be appraised by two disinterested freeholders
of the county, who shall be first sworn by him to make a true ap
praisement thereof, which appraisement shall be signed by the ap
praisers, and the appraisement and inventory shall be returned with
the writ of attachment; he shall serve copies of the writ of attachment,
affidavit and undertaking annexed, and inventory, upon the defendant
in the same manner as a summons. In case of a nonresident or a
foreign corporation, the sheriff shall serve such copies on any agent
of such defendant in the county, if any be known to him.
Section 2737. To attach real estate, or any right or interest therein,
it shall not be necessary for the officer to enter upon or be within
view of the land. But he shall file in the office of the register of deeds
a copy of the writ of attachment, with his certificate indorsed or
affixed, that by virtue of the original writ, of which such copy is a
true copy, he has attached such real estate, or all the interest of the
defendant therein, describing the same with convenient certainty, as
the property of a defendant, naming him, in such writ. The real
estate, or the right or interest therein so attached, shall be bound, and
the attachment a lien thereon, from the time of so filing such copy
and certificate,
Seotion 2738. All the property in the state of the defendant named
jn ^e wrjt, not exempt from execution, shall be liable to be attached.
Rights or shares in the stock or property of any association or corpo
ration, with the interests and profits thereon, and other personal prop
erty, shall be attached in the same manner in which an execution may
be levied on the same, and the provisions respecting the levy of an
execution thereon shall be applicable to the execution of an attach
ment. Personal property shall be bound by the writ of attachment
from the time the same is attached thereby,
Section 2739. If in any case when an officer has a writ of attachment
against property, there is any reasonable doubt as to the owner8n*P °^ *ue ProPert.v> or a3 to ifcs liability so to be taken on the writ of
attachment, the officer may require sufficient security to indemnify
him for attaching such property.
Section 2740. When any property taken on a writ of attachment
received by the officer from any garnishee, in any civil action, in
cluding actions commenced before a justice of the peace, and appealed
to the circuit court, shall be likely to perish or to depreciate in value
before the probable end of the action, or the keeping thereof shall be
attended with much loss or expense, the court or a judge may, by
order, direct the same to be sold, in such manner and upon such time
and terms as the best interests of the parties demand, and the money
realized shall be held by the officer in lieu of the property sold.
Section 2741. The officer shall keep the property 6eized by him,
and the proceeds of such as shall have been suld, to answer any judgment which maybe recovered in such action; and shall, subject to the
direction of the court or judge, collect and receive into his possession
all the debts, credits and effects of the defendant. The officer may
also take such legal proceedings, either in his own name, or in the
name of such defendant, as may be necessary for that purpose, and
discontinue the same at such times and on such terms as the court or
judge may direct.
DISCHARGING, VACATING OK DEFENDING ATTACHMENTS.
Section 2742. The defendant may, at any time before judgment,
deliver to the officer having the writ, or an alias writ, on which property has been attached, an undertaking executed by at least two sureties,
to the effect that they will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the
amount of the judgment, with all costs, that may be recovered against
such defendant in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, with interest. Such sum shall be at least double the
amount alleged to be due in the affidavit annexed to the writ, or, at
defendant's option, at least double the value of the property attached
upon such writ, or alias writ, according to the appraisement; or, if real
estate, in a sum fixed by order of the court, or a judge, on notice. The
sureties shall justify their responsibility, as provided in section two
thousand seven hundred and thirty two, but may be accepted if it
appears that they are jointly responsible for the required sum.
Section 2743. The officer shall forthwith give to the plaintifff af
copy of such undertaking, with notice of the time when the same was
delivered to him ; and the plaintifff shall, within three clays after receipt
thereof, give notice to the officer that he excepts to the sufficiency of
the sureties, or he shall be deemed to have waived all objections to
them. When plaintifff excepts, the sureties shall justify in like man
ner as bail upon arrest, and the provisions of sections two thousand
seven hundred and four, two thousand seven hundred and five, and two
thousand seven hundred and six, shall be applicable thereto. The
officer shall be responsible for the sufficiency of such sureties, and may
therefore retain possession of the attached property until they shall so
justify, or objection be so waived. Thereafter the officer shall deliver
the property attached and held by him upon such writ to such defendant;
if real estate, a certificate of the discharge thereof, which may be
filed in the office of the register of deeds; and the action shall thence
forward proceed as if no writ of attachment had been issued; but if
the plaintifff recover, all his costs and disbursements thereon shall be
taxed and included in his judgment. At any time after judgment in his
favor, the plaintifff may maintain an action upon any such undertaking,
wid shall recover the amount of such judgment, with interest and costs,
aot exceeding the sum sj>ecificd in such undertaking.
Section 2744. The court, or the presiding judge thereof, may, at
my time before the trial of the action, or a release of the property
ichment,
inder the preceding section, vacate or modify the writ of atta
for irregularity or other sufficient cause, upon five days' notice of motion ;
ind the motion therefore may be combined with a motion to increase the
slaintiflf's security, under section two thousand seven hundred and
iurtv three.
Section 2745. At any time within ten days after notice of the
issuing of a writ of attachment against his property, or within the time
in which he may answer the complaint in the action, but before judgment, the defendant may by a special answer, verified, served and filed
as a pleading is required to be, deny the existence, at the time of the
making of the affidavit annexed to the writ of attachment, of any or
all the material facts stated therein, except the alleged liability, andtlie
amount thereof. The issue so raised shall be tried by the court, before
the trial of the action, if such issue be joined before such trial, and the
affirmative thereof be upon the plaintifff.
Section 274G. If the court, on the trial of such issue, find for the
defendant, the judge presiding shall tax the defendant's costs of such
trial, and an order shall be entered that the property attached be forth
with delivered up to the defendant; and if such trial be before the trial
of the action, the jury shall on the latter trial assess the damages sus
tained by the defendant by reason of the taking and detention, or sale,
of the property attached, or by reason of any injury thereto; and the
same, together with the costs so taxed, shall be applied by them as a
setoff to the plaintifff '6 demand, and if in excess of it, or the plaintifff
fail to recover, the verdict shall be for the defendant for the amount his
due. But if such trial be after the trial of the action, the court may
empanel a jury, or proceed itself, to assess such damages, and shall in
like manner apply the same when so assessed, with the costs so taxed,
as a setoff to the plaintifff's demand as established upon the trial, and
give judgment accordingly. If the court on the trial of such issue find
for the plaintifff, the presiding judge shall tax the plaintifff's costs of
such trial, and the amount so taxed shall, if he recover, be taxed by the
clerk as disbursements in the action; and if the defendant recover
judgment in the action, shall be applied toward payment thereof.
Section 2747. If on the trial of the action the jury find for the de
fen (lant, or the plaintifff be nonsuited, they shall specially assess the
damages sustained by him, by reason of the taking and detention or
sale of any property attached, or by reason of any injury thereto, and
the defendant shall have judgment therefore, in addition to any other
damages found in his favor. If the action be dismissed or discon
tinued, the court, on request of either party, shall empanel a jury to
assess such damages, and the defendant shall have judgment therefore
accordingly.
Section 2748. "Whenever the action shall be dismissed or discontinned, or the defendant in the writ of attachment shall recover jndgment,
all the money or property, held by any writ of attachment, shall
be delivered up to him, subject to the plaintifff's rights on appeal, anl
he may maintain an action on the plaintifff's undertaking for the dam
ages assessed, as sustained by reason of the writ of attachment and hi.*
costs,
Section 2749. "When the plaintifff shall have recovered judgment in
action, the sheriff or officer shall satisfy the same out of the pn>perty
attached, or received from any garnishee or otherwise, if sufficient
therefore:
i gy paying over to such plaintifff all money attached or receiri
upon sales of property, or from any garnishee, or upon any debts
credits, or so much thereof as shall be necessary.
2. By selling, under such execution as may be issued on such jud
ment, so much of the attached property, real or personal, as shall
necessary to satisfy the balance unpaid, according to the provisioi
regulating sales upon execution; except as provided in subdivision fo
hereof.
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shal
have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without having been soli
or converted into money, such sheriff shall repossess himself of the
same, and for that purpose shall have all the authority which he had to
seize the same under the writ of attachment; and any person who shall
willfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff, 6hall be
liable to double damages at the suit of the party injured.
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid, the sheriff
may proceed to collect the evidences of debt that may have been seized
or attached by virtue of the writ of attachment, or that may have been
delivered up by any person summoned as garnishee, and to prosecute
any bond he may nave taken in the course of such proceedings, and
apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of the judgment and costs.
When the judgment and all costs or the proceedings shall have been
paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall deliver over to the
defendant the residue of the property attached, or that may have been
received from any garnishee, or the proceeds thereof.
Section 2750. The actions herein authorized to be brought by the
sheriff or officer may be prosecuted by the plaintifff, or under his uirection, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff or officer of an undertak
ing, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintifff will in
demnify him for all damages, costs and expenses thereon, not exceeding
two hundred and fifty dollars in any one action; such sureties shall,
when required by the sheriff or officer, justify by making an affidavit
that each is a householder, and worth double the amount of the penalty
named in the undertaking, over and above all debts and exemptions.
Section 2751. If the property, money, credits or effects of any defendant
in an action shall be seized by a writ of attachment issued in
such action, and such defendant shall die pending the action, or after
judgment and before execution issued thereon, and satisfaction thereof,
the property, money, credits and effects so attached shall be applied to
the payment of the judgment rendered in such action, either before or
after the death of such defendant, and execution may be issued on such
judgment, and satisfied out of the property so attached, in the same
manner as if such defendant were living
CHAPTER CXXV.
OP GARNISHMENT.
Section 2752. Any creditor shall be entitled to proceed by earnishment,
in the circuit court of the proper county, against any person
(except a municipal corporation) who shall be indebted to, or have any
property whatever, real or personal, in his possession or under his control, belonging to such creditor's debtor, in the cases, upon the conditious
and in the manner prescribed in this chapter. The term plaintifff
is used in this chapter to embrace every judgment creditor, and the
term defendant a judgment debtor.
Section 2753. Either at the time of the issuing of the summons, or
at any time thereafter before final judgment, in any action to recover
damages founded upon contract, express or implied, or upon judgment
or decree, or at any time after the issuing, in any case, of an execution
against property, and before the time when it is returnable, the plaintifff,
or some person in his behalf, may make an affidavit, stating that he
verily believes that some person, naming him, is indebted to, or has.
property, real or personal, in his possession, or under his control, belonging to the defendant (or either or any of the defendants) in the
action or execution, naming him, and that such defendant has not prop
erty liable to execution, sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand.
And that the indebtedness or property mentioned in such affidavit is
to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person making such affi
davit, not by law exempt from seizure or sale upon execution. Any
number of garnishees may be embraced in the same affidavit, but if a
joint liability be claimed against any, it shall be so stated, and the
garnishees named as jointly liable, shall be deemed jointly proceeded
against; otherwise the several garnishees shall be deemed severally pro
ceeded against.
Section 2754. The plaintifff shall annex or subjoin to such affidavit a garnishee summons, which shall be substantially in the following
form:
Court, County.
A. B., plaintifff,
vs.
C. D., defendant,
E. F., garnishee.
The State of Wisconsin: — To the said garnishee:
You are hereby summoned, pursuant to the annexed affidavit, as gar
nishee of the defendant, C. T>., and required, within twenty days after
the service of this summons upon you, exclusive of the day of service,
to answer, according to law, whether you are indebted to, or have in
vour possession or under your control, any property, real or personal,
belonging to such defendant, and to serve a copy of your answer on the
undersigned at , in the county of ; and in case of your failure
so to do, you will be liable to further proceedings, according to law. Of
which the said defendant will also take notice.
L. M., plaintifff's attorney.
P. O. address, , county, "Wis.
Section 2755. Such garnishee summons and affidavit may be served
^y t]ie s]ierjff 0f the county, where any garnishee or defendant may be
found, or by any other person not a party to the action. The servief
shall be made and the same returned, with proof of the service, to the
person whose name is subscribed thereto, with reasonable diligence. The
person subscribing such garnishee summons may, at his option, by an
indorsement thereon, fix a time for the service thereof, and the service
shall then be made accordingly.
Section 2750. The garnishee summons and annexed affidavit shall
, -, , > ,,° , . , . . ,,
be served on each or the several garnishees named, m the manner provided
in sections two thousand six hundred and thirty six and twothousand six hundred and thirty seven, for service of a summons in an
action; and, except where service of the summons in the action is
made without the state, or by publication, also on the defendant to the
action, in like manner, either before, or within ten days after, service on
a garnishee. When the defendant shall have appeared in the action by
an attorney, such service may be made upon such attorney or upon
the defendant. Unless the garnishee summons be so served on the
defendant or his attorney, or the proof of service on the garnishee show
that after due diligence, such service cannot be made within the state,
the service on the garnishee shall become void and of no effect from
the beginning.
Section 2757. The plaintifff may in like manner subsequently proceed,
within the period limited, against other garnishees, or against the
same garnishees after they shall have once heen discharged, upon a
new affidavit, if he shall have reason to believe they nave subse
quently become liable; and he may summon garnishees resident in
other counties than that in which the action is pending; but if an issue
for trial shall be joined between the plaintifff and such garnishee, the
court may, on motion, change the place of trial of such issue to the
county of the garnishee's residence.
Section 2758. If the plaintifff shall not have filed in the clerk's
office, within ten days after service of a garnishee summons upon ap
farnishee, except in case of garnishment upon execution, his complaint
uly verified, showing the amount of the indebtedness of the defendant
in the action to him, the proceeding against the garnishee shall be dis
missed, on motion of the defendant or garnishee, with costs, unless the
court, or a judge, shall in discretion, and upon terms, permit the same
to stand.
Sfxtion 2759. Within twenty days from the service of such garnishee
summons, the garnishee may, if the truth warrant, file with the
clerk of the court in which the action is pending, and serve a copy
thereof upon the plaintifff, his affidavit in the following form, substan
tially:
Court. County.
A. B., plaintifff,
vs.
C. D. defendant,
and E. F., garnishee.
County, ss.
E. F., being first duly sworn, says, that on the day of
A. D., 18—, he was served with a garnishee summons in the above en
titled action; that he was then and is now in no manner, and upon no
account whatever, indebted or under liability to the defendant (nam
ing him), and that he then had and now has in his possession, or under
his control, no real estate and no personal property, effects or credits,
of any description whatever, belonging to said defendant, or in which
he Las any interest; and is in no manner liable as garnishee in this action.
Subscribed and sworn to before me this )day of A. D., 18—. \
Thereby the proceeding against such garnishee shall be deemed discontinued,
and the plaintifff shall pay the garnishee one dollar for his
costs, unless within twenty days thereafter the plaintifff serve notice on
such garnishee, that he elects to take issue on his answer to the garnishee summons and will maintain him to be liable as garnishee. ln8
which case the issue shall stand for trial as a civil action, in which the
affidavit on the part of the plaintifff shall be deemed the complaint, and
the garnishee's affidavit the answer thereto.
Section 2760. Unless the garnishee shall make the affidavit provided
for in the preceding section, he shall, within twenty days from
the service of the garnishee summons, file and serve in like manner, an
affidavit, in which he shall state:
1. "Whether he was, at the time of the service of the garnishee summons,
or has since become indebted, or under any liability to the de
fendant named in the garnishee summons, in any manner or upon any
account, specifying, if indebted or liable, the amount, the interest there
on, the manner in which evidenced, when payable, whether an absolute
or contingent liability, and all the facts and circumstances necessary to
complete understanding of such indebtedness or liability. When the
garnishee shall be in doubt respecting any such liability or indebted
ness, he may set forth all the facts and circumstances concerning the
same, and submit the question to the court.
2. Whether he held at the time aforesdd, or now holds, the title or
possession of any real estate, or any interest in land of any description,
or of any personal property, effects or credits, or any instruments or
papers relating to any such, belonging to the defendant, or in which he
is in any wise interested. And if lie shall admit any such, or be in
doubt respecting the same, he shall set forth a description of such
property, an/1 all the facts and circumstances concerning the same, and
the title, interest or claim, of the defendant, in or to the same.
3. If he shall claim any setoff, or defense, to any indebtedness or
liability, or any lien or claim to such property, he shall set forth
the facts and circumstances thereof fully.
4. lie may state any claim of exemption from execution, on the part
of the defendant, or other objection, Known to him, against the right
of the plaintifff to apply upon his demand, the indebtedness or prop
erty disclosed.
5. If he shall disclose any indebtedness, or the possession of any
property to which the defendant, and any other person as well, make
claim, he may set forth the names and residences of such other claim
ants, and, so far as known, the nature of their claims.
Section 2761. If any garnishee, having been duly summoned, shall
fail to serve his affidavit, as required in the preceding sections, the
court may render judgment against hirn for the amount of the judgment which the plaintifff shall recover against the defendant in the
action for damages and costs, together with the costs of such garnish^
action. Such garnishee may also be proceeded against, as for a con
tempt, according to the provisions of chapter one hundred and fifty.
Section 2762. In case the answer of the garnishee shall show into
the defendant, he may pay the amount thereof, less three
dollars for his costs, to the officer Laving a writ of attachment in the
action, if any, or otherwise to the clerk of the court; or, if the gar
nishment be in aid of an execution, to the sheriff having the execution;
and either such officer shall give him a receipt, specifying the facts,
and such receipt shall be a complete discharge of all liability to any
party for the amount so paid. If the answer disclose any money,
credits or other property, real or personal, in the possession, or under
the control of the garnishee, the officer having a writ of attachment, or
an execution, if any, may levy upon the interest of the defendant in
the same; otherwise the garnishee shall hold the same until the order
of the court thereon.
Section 2763. The answer of the garnishee shall, in all cases, be
conclusive of the truth of the facts therein stated, unless the plaintifff
shall, within twenty days, serve upon the garnishee a notice, in writing,
that he elects to take issue on his answer; in which case the issue shall
stand for trial as a civil action, in which the affidavit on the part of
the plaintifff shall be deemed the complaint, and the garnishee's affi
davit' the answer thereto. The plaintifff may in all cases move the
court, upon the answer of the garnishee, and of the defendant, if he
shall also answer, for such judgment as he shall be entitled to thereon,
but any such judgment shall be no bar beyond the facts stated in such
answers.
Section 2764. The answer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee,
may be made by any officer thereof; and of any other garnishee,
by any agent or attorney, in his behalf, who shall be acquainted with
trie facts.
Section 2765. The defendant mav, in all cases, by answer, duly
verified, to be served within twenty days from the service of the garnishee summons on him, defend the proceeding against any garnishee,
upon the ground that the indebtedness of the garnishee, or any prop
erty held by him, is exempt from execution against such defendant, or
for any other reason is not liable to garnishment; or upon any ground
upon which a garnishee might defend the same; and may participate in
the trial of any issue between the plaintifff and garnishee for the protec
tion of his interests. And the garnishee may, at his option, defend the
principal action for the defendant, if the latter does not, but shall be
under no obligation so to do.
"6
Section 2766. The proceeding against a garnishee shall be deemed
an action, by the plaintifff against the garnishee and defendant as parties
defendant, and all the provisions of law relating to proceedings in civil
actions at issue, including examination of the parties, amendments and
relief from default or proceedings taken, and appeals, and all provisions
for enforcing judgments, shall be applicable thereto ; but when the garnishment is not in aid of an execution, no trial shall be had of the gar
nishee action, until the plaintifff shall have judgment in the principal
action, although it may be noticed for trial ; and if the defendant have
judgment, the garnishee action shall be dismissed with costs. The court
shall render such judgment in all cases as shall be just to all the parties,
and properly protect their respective interests, and may adjudge the
recovery of any indebtedness, the conveyance, transfer, or delivery to
the sheriff, or any officer appointed by the judgment, of any real estate
or personal property disclosed, or found to be liable to be applied to the
plaintifffs demand; or by the judgment pass the title thereto; and may
therein, or by its order, when proper, direct the manner of making sale,
and of disposing of the proceeds thereof, or of any money or other thing
paid over or delivered to the clerk or officer. The judgment against u
garnishee shall acquit and discharge him from all demands by the derendant, or his representatives, for all money, goods, effects or credits,
paid, delivered or accounted for, by the garnishee, by force of such
judgment.
Section 2767. When the answer of the garnishee shall disclose
that any other person than the defendant claims the indebtedness or
property in his hands, and the name and residence of such claimant,
the court may, on motion, order that such claimant be interpleaded as
a defendant to the garnishee action; and that notice thereof, setting
forth the facts, with a copy of such order, in such form as the court
shall direct, be served upon him, and that after such service shall have
heen made, the garnishee may pay or deliver to the officer or the clerk
such indebtedness, or property, and have a receipt therefore, which shall
he a complete discharge from all liability to any party for the amount
so paid, or property so delivered. Such notice shall be served in the
manner required for service of a summons in a civil action, and may be
made without the state, or by publication thereof, if the order shall so
direct. Upon such service being made, such claimant shall be deemed
a defendant to the garnishee action, and, within twenty days, shall
answer, setting forth his claim, or any defense which the garnishee
might have made. In case of default, judgment may be rendered, which
shall conclude any claim upon the part of such defendant.
Section 27C8. From the time of the service of the summons upon
the garaishee, he shall stand liable to the plaintifff to the amount of the
property, monies, credits and effects in his possession, or under his con
trol, belonging to the defendant, or in which he shall be interested, to
the extent of his right or interest therein, and of all debts due or to
become due, to the defendant, except such as may be, by law, exempt
from execution. Any property, monies, credits and effects held by a
conveyance, or title, void as to the creditors of the defendant, shall t<
embraced in such liability.
25 Wis. 691; 28 id. 577; 28 id. 141; 29 Id. 589; 32 Id. 174; 38 Id. 283; 38 id. 139; 40 Id. 347.
Section 2769. No iudnrment shall be rendered upon a liability of
.1 . i • • .*i, ° r
the garnishee arising either:
1. By reason of his having drawn, accepted, made, indorsed or guarantied any negotiable bill, draft, note or other security.
2. By reason of any money, or other thing, received or collected by
him as sheriff, or other officer, by force of an execution, or other legal
process, in favor of the defendant.
3. By reason of any money in his hands, as a public officer, and for
which he is accountable to the defendant merely as such officer.
4. By reason of any money, or other thing, owing from him to the
defendant, unless before judgment against the defendant, it shall hare
become due absolutely and without depending on any future contin
gency. Judgment may be given for any money, or other thing owins;,
although it has not become payable, in which case the garnishee shall
not be required to pay or deliver it before the time appointed by the
contract.
Section 2770. "No action shall be commenced by the defendant, or
^.g a8Sjgneej ggajnst a garnishee upon any claim or demand liable to
garnishment, or to recover any property garnished, or execution be
issued upon a judgment in favor of defendant against such garnishee.
subsequent to the service of the garnishee summons upon him, until the
termination of the garnishee action; and, if an action shall have been
commenced or an execution issued, it shall be staved by the court, or 1
judge thereof, upon the garnishee's application ; except that upon cans
shown, the court, or a judge, may by order permit the commencement
of such an action, or the issue or an execution, or the further prosecction of one stayed.
Section 2771. The defendant may, .at any time after the complaint
is filed, and before judgment, file with the clerk of the court an undertaking,
executed by at least two sureties, resident freeholders of the
state, to the effect that they will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the
amount of the judgment, with all costs that may be recovered against
such defendant in the action, not exceeding a sum specified, which »u^
shall be not less than double the amount demanded by the complaint
on file, or in such less sum as the" court shall, upon application, direct.
The sureties shall justify their responsibility by affidavit annexed,
stating a sum which each is worth, in property within this state, over
and above all his debts and liabilities and property exempt from execu
tion, the aggregate of which sums shall be double the amount specified
in the undertaking. The defendant shall serve a copy of such under
taking, with a notice where and when the same was filed, on the plaint
iff. Within three days after the receipt thereof, the plaintifff shall
give notice to the defendant that he excepts to the sufficiency of the
sureties, or he shall be deemed to have waived all objections to them.
When the plaintifff excepts, the sureties shall justify in like manner as
bail upon an arrest, and the provisions of sections two thousand seven
hundred and four, two thousand seven hundred and five and two thou
sand seven hundred and six shall be applicable thereto. Thereafter all
the garnishees shall be discharged, and the garnishment proceedings
shall be deemed discontinued, and any money or property, paid or de
livered to any officer, shall be surrendered to the person entitled thereto
and the cos+s shall be taxable as disbursements of the plaintifff in
the action, if he recovers.
Section 2772. In case of the trial of an issue between the plaintifff
and- any garnishee, costs shall be awarded to the plaintifff and against
the garnishee, in addition to his liability, if the plaintifff recover more
than the garnishee admitted by his answer; and if he do not, the gar
nishee shall recover costs of the plaintifff. In all other cases, under this
chapter, not expressly provided for, the court may award costs in favor
of or against any party, in its discretion. When there is no issue for
trial, and any liability on the part of the garnishee is disclosed, the
costs of the garnishment proceedings shall be taxed for the plaintifff, if
he recovers, as disbursements in the principal action.
CHAPTER CXXVI.
OF INJUNCTIONS, OF WRITS OF NE EXEAT, AND OF RECEIVERS.
Section 2773. The writ of injunction is abolished. The injunction
provided bylaw is a command to refrain from a particular act. Itt
may be thefinal judgment in the action, or may be allowed as a pro
visional remedy; and when so allowed it shall be by order, in the
form prescribed by this chapter. The order may be made by the court
in which the action is brought, or by a judge, in the cases provided in
this chapter; and when made may be enforced as the order of the
court.
Section 2774. Where it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the judgment demanded, and such judgment, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance
of some act, the commission or continuance of which, during the litigation,
would produce injury to the plaintifff; or when, during the litigation,
it shall appear that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering some act to be done in violation of the plaintifff's rights, respecting the subject of the action, and
tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary injunction
may be granted to restrain such act. And when, during the pendency
of an action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defendant threatens,
or is about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to defraud
his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted, to restrain such
removal or disposition.
Section 2775. A temporary injunction may also be granted on the
application of the defendant, when it shall appear that the plaintifff is
doing, or threatens, or is about to do, o» is procuring or suffering to be
done, some act in violation of the defendant's rights, respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to his injury, or to render ineffectual
such judgment as may he rendered in his favor.
Section 2776. The injunction may be granted at the time of the
issuing of the summons in the action, or at any time afterward, before
judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, bj
the complaint or answer duly verified, or by the affidavit of the par.v
or any other person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore. A copy of
the pleading or affidavit, on which granted, must be served with the in
junction, unless previously served. In case of exigency, an injunction
may be granted, and by direction of the court or judge, may be served
on Sunday, or on a legal holiday.
Section 2777. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant shall have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show
cause; but in such case the defendant may be restrained until the de
cision of the court or judge granting or refusing the injunction,
Section 2778. Where no provision is made by statute as to security
.. . . *• • 3 in. . i
upon an injunction, the court or judge 6hall require a written under
taking on the part of the plaintifff, with or without sureties, to the
effect that the plaintifff will pay to the parties enjoined such damages,
not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason
of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintifff wa;
entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a reference,
QJ. 0tnerwjge> as the court shall direct. The undertaking shall be
attached to the affidavit or other pleading upon which it is granted,
and copies of such undertaking, affidavit or other pleading shall be
served upon the defendant, and the officer serving the same shall,
within fifteen days after such service, file the same in the office of the
clerk of the court from which it issued,
Section 2779. If the court or judge deem it proper that the deor
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting
the injunction, an order may be made, requiring cause to be shown, at
a specified time and place, why the injunction should not be granted.
ana the defendant may in the meantime be restrained,
Section 2780. An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary
business of a corporation shall not be granted except by the court or
presiding judge thereof; nor shall it be granted without due notice of
*ne application therefore to the proper officers of the corporation, except
where the state is a party to the proceedings, unless the plaintifff give
a written undertaking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be ap
proved by the court or judge, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay
all damages not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertak
ing, which such corporation may sustain by reason of the injunction, if
the court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was not entitled thereto.
The damages may be ascertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the
court shall direct.
Section 27S1. If the injunction be granted by a judge, without
notice, the other party at any time before trial, may apply, upon notice
to the court, or to the presiding judge thereof, in which the action is
brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be made
upon the papers on which the injunction was granted, or upon proofs
by affidavits, or otherwise, on the part of the moving party. If the
application be upon such proofs, but not otherwise, the opposite party
may oppose the same by like proofs, in addition to those on which the
injunction was granted. But an answer, duly verified, shall be given
only the effect of an affidavit in determining the right to an injunction.
No injunction shall be dissolved except by the court or presiding judge
thereof.
Section 27S2. The party enjoined may, upon notice, apply for additional security upon an injunction granted, or may combine such f
application with one to vacate or modify the same, and the presiding
judge may require a further undertaking, in a sum and with sureties
to be approved by him, as a condition of the continuance of the in
junction.
Section 2783. No injunction shall be granted to restrain the operaapplication therefore.
WRITS OF NE EXEAT.
Section 2784. The court, or a judge, may grant the writ of ne exeat
to prevent any person from going out of the state, until he 6hall give
security. The writ may be granted at the time of issuing the summons
in the action, or at any time afterward before judgment.
Section 2785. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted, unless it satisfactorily
appears to the court, or judge, by the affidavit of the plaintifff,
or some indifferent witness, that sufficient grounds exist therefore; and
the court or judge granting such writ, shall direct to be indorsed8
thereon, the penalty of the bond and security to be given by the de
fendant.
Section 27S6. If the defendant shall, by answer or otherwise, satisfy
the court or judge granting such writ of ne exeat, that there is no
reason for his restraint, or shall give security for the performance of
whatever judgment may be made in the premises, the writ may be
discharged.
appointment of receivers.
Section 27S7. A receiver may be appointed:
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when he establishes an apparent right to, or interest in property which is the subject
of the action, and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and
the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being lost, or
materially impaired.
2. By the judgment, or after judgment, to carry the judgment into
effect, or to dispose of the property according to the judgment.
3. After judgment, to preserve the property during the pendency of
an appeal; or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and
the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the
judgment, or in an action by a creditor under section three thousand 4
and twenty nine.
4. In cases provided by any statute, when a corporation has been
dissolved, or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has
forfeited its corporate rights.
5. In such cases as are now provided by law, or may be in accord
ance with the existing practice, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
CHAPTER CXXVII.
OF MISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS AND PRACTICE REGULATIONS.
SUBMISSION OF CONTKOVEKSY WITHOUT ACTION.
Section 27S8. Parties to a question in difference, which might be
the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a case
containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present
a submission of the same to any court which would have jurisdiction if
an action had been brought. liut it must appear by affidavit that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith to determine the
rights of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear and determine
the case at a general or special term, and render judgment thereon, as
if an action were pending. Judgment shall be entered in the judg
ment book, as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding prior
to the notice of trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the jndgmeut
shall constitute the judgment roll. The judgment may be en
forced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and
shall be subject to appeal in like manner.
OFFERS OF JUDGMENT AND DAMAGES.
Section 2789. The defendant may, in any action, at any time be£ore
tjie trial, serve upon the plaintifff an offer, in writing, to allow judg
ment to be taken against him for the sum, or property, or to the effect
therein specified, with costs. If the plaintifff accept the offer and give
notice thereof in writing, before trial, within ten days, he may file the
summons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of service of the notice
of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly.
If notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is deemed to be with
drawn, and cannot be given as evidence nor mentioned on the trial, and
if the plaintifff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he cannot re
cover costs, but must pay defendant's costs from the time of the offer.
Section 2790. In an action arising on contract, thb defendant may,
wit'1 his answer, serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, that, if he
fji.il in his defense, the damages be assessed at a specified sum, and if
the plaintifff signify his acceptance thereof, in writing, with or before
the notice of trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the damages 6hall be
assessed accordingly.
Seotion 279.1. If the plaintifff do not accept the offer, he shall prove
j1js damages as if it had not been made, and shall not be permitted to
give it in evidence, and if the damages assessed in his favor shall not
exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover lus
expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparations or
defense in respect to the question of damages; such expenses shall be
ascertained at the trial.
consolidating actions.
Section 2792. When two or more actions are pending in the same
conrt) which might have been joined, the court, or a judge, on motion,
shall, if no sufficient cause be shown to the contrary, consolidate them
into one, by order.
DEPOSIT AND DELIVERY OF PROPERTY.
Section 2793. "When it is admitted by the pleading or examination
)f a party, that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money
>r other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the lit
igation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs
w is due to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited
in court, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to
the further direction of the court.
Section 2794. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court
shall have ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money or
other property, and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience as for contempt, may make an order requiring the
sheriff to take the money or property, and deliver, deposit or convey it
in conformity with the direction of the court, or the court may pass
title to real estate, by its judgment, without conveyance.
PROCEEDINGS TO BIND JUDGMENT DEBTORS NOT ORIGINALLY SUMMONED.
Section 2795. "When a judgment shall be recovered against one or
more of several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, by proceeding as provided in section two thousand eight hundred and eighty four,
those who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint may
be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the
judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally sum
moned. The summons shall be subscribed by the judgment creditor,
his representatives or attorney, shall describe the judgment, and require
the person summoned to show cause, within twenty days after the
service of the summons, and shall be served in like manner as the origi
nal summons. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidavit of
the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not been satisfied to
his Knowledge, or information and belief, and specifying the amount
due thereon.
Section 279C. The party summoned may answer within the time
specified, and may make any defense which he might have originally
made to the action, and may deny the judgment, or make any defense
which may have arisen subsequently.
Section 2797. The party issuing the summons may demur or reply
to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply, and
the issues may be tried and judgment may be given in the same man
ner as in an action and enforced oy execution, or the application of the
property charged to the payment of the judgment be compelled by
attachment, if necessary
Section 2793. The answer and reply shall be verified in the like
cases and manner, and be subject to the same rules as the answer and
reply in an action.
Section 2799. "When judgment shall have been entered in an action
against any defendant, upon whom service was attempted under an
order for publication of the summons, but whereby jurisdiction was
not acquired, such defendant may be summoned to show cause why he
should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as if he had
been originally summoned. The summons shall be like that provided
in section two thousand seven hundred and ninety five, with a like
accompanying affidavit when the judgment is for a sum of money. It
may be served in any manner, as an original summons might be. Pro
ceedings thereon shall be had as prescribed in the three last preceding
sections, and judgment upon default, or otherwise, be entered, as the
nature of the case demands.
Section 2S00. An action does not abate by the occurrence of any
event, if the cause of action survives or continues.
Section 2801. In case of a transfer of interest, or devolution of
liability, the action may be continued by or against the original party,
or the court may direct the person to whom the interest is transferred.
or upon whom the liability is devolved, to be substituted in the action or
joined with the original party, as the case requires.
Section 2S02. When an action or special proceeding is lawfullj
brought by or in the name of a public officer, or by a receiver, or by
any trustee appointed by virtue of any statute, his death or removal
shall not abate the same, but it may be continued by his successor, who
may be substituted therefore by order of the court or a judge.
Seotion 2S03. In case of the death or other disability of a party,
if the cause of action survives or continues, the court, on motion, at
any time within one year thereafter, or afterwards, on a supplemental
complaint, may allow or compel the action to be continued bj or
against his representatives or successor in interest.
Section 2801. Where there are several plaintifffs or defendants in
any action, if any of them shall die, and the cause of action survives
to or against the others, the action may proceed, without interruption,
in favor of or against the survivors. If all the plaintifffs or defendants
shall die before judgment, the action may be prosecuted or defendel
by the executor or administrator of the last surviving plaintifff, or defondant, as the c;ise may be. But the estate of a party jointly liable,
upon contract with others, shall not be discharged by his death, and
'he court may, by order, bring in the proper representative of the de
ceased defendant, when it is necessary so to do, for the proper disposition of the matter; and where the liability is several as well as joint,
may order a severance of the action, so that it may proceed separately
against the representative of the decedent, and against the surviving
defendants,
Section 2S05. In case of the death of any of several plaintifffs or
defendants, if part only of the cause of action, or part, or some of two
or more distinct causes of action, survives to or against the others, the
action may proceed without bringing in the successor to the rights or
liabilities of the deceased party, and the judgment shall not affect him
or his interest in the subject of the action. But when it appears proper
the court may require or compel the successor, or a person who claims
to be the successor, to be brought in as a party, upon his own applica
tion, or that of any party to the action.
Seotion 2806. In all actions for the recovery of real property, if
the plaintifff, or any of several plaintifffs, shall die before final judgment, his heir, or his executor or administrator, for the benefit of the
heir or creditors may, within such time as the court shall allow, be ad
mitted to prosecute the action in his stead, with the same effect as if
the action had been so originally commenced,
Section 2807. If the interest of the deceased party passes to the
surviving plaintifffs, or if there be no motion for the admission of
another person as heir, executor or administrator, within the time
allowed by the court for that purpose, the surviving plaintifffs may
Erosecute the action for 60 much 01 the premises in question as may
e claimed by them,
Section 2S08. "When there are several defendants in any action for
the recovery of real property, and any of them shall die before final
judgment, the action may be prosecnted against the surviving defendants,
for so much of the premises as they shall hold or claim.
Section 2809. After an accepted offer to allow judgment to be taken,
or after a verdict, report of a referee, or finding by the court, in any
action, the action does not abate by the death of any party, but shall
be further proceeded with in the same manner as if the cause of action
survived by law; or the court may enter judgment in the names of the
original parties, if such offer, verdict, report or finding be not set aside.
But a verdict, report or finding, rendered against a party after his death,
is void.
Section 2810. Whenever any person shall be entitled to revive or
continue any action or proceeding, interrupted by the occurrence of
death, removal from a trust, or other disability, he may make and file
with the clerk a supplemental complaint, affidavit or petition, as the
action or proceeding may be, and thereupon a notice to the other party
or his proper representative, of the time and place of such filing, and
that unless he shows cause, if any he have, by answer or afhdavit,
within twenty days after service of such notice on him, exclusive of the
day of service, why such action or proceeding should not be revived or
continued, the same will stand revived or continued, according to such
supplemental complaint, petition or affidavit. Such notice shall be
subscribed by the party or his attorney, and be served in the same man
ner as a summons, and service thereof without the state, or by publica
tion, may be ordered in the same cases, and in like manner. Upon filing
such notice, with proof of service, and that no answer or afhdavit has
been received, the court, or a judge, shall make an order that the action
or proceeding stand revived or continued, accordingly. An answer, or
affidavit, showing cause against such revivor or continuance may be
served on the party subscribing such notice within the time specified, as
a pleading is served ; and, thereupon, the court shall make such order
as the circumstances may require.
Section 2S11. At any time after the death of the plaintifff, or after
the plaintifff's marriage, where it affects the rights of either party, the
court may, in its discretion, upon notice to such persons as it shall
direct, and on the application of the adverse party, or of a person whose
interest is affected, make an order that the action be dismissed, unless
continued by the proper parties, within a time to be therein specified,
not less than three months after the making thereof; and unless so con
tinued within such time, the same shall stand dismissed thereby, with
out further order.
MOTIONS AND ORDERS.
Section 2812. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered
in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.
Section 2813. An application for an order is a motion. Motions in
actions or proceedings, in the circuit court, must be made within the
circuit where the action is triable; in other courts, within their territorial
jurisdiction. Orders out of court, without notice, may be made
by the presiding judge of the court, in any part of the state; and theys
may also be made by a county judije, or court commissioner, of the
county where the action is triable. No order to stay proceedings, after
a verdict, report or finding, in any circuit court, shall be made by a
county judge or court commissioner, or in any county court by a court
commissioner. No 'stay of proceedings for a longer time than twenty
days shall be granted by a judge out of court, except upon previous
notice to the adverse party.
Section 2S14. An order made out of court, without notice, may l>
vaCilted or modified, without notice, by the judge who made it; or upon
motion, after notice by such judge, or by the court, but not otherwise.
No order made upon notice shall be vacated or modified but by the
court, except as otherwise expressly provided. No judge, out of court,
shall stay the execution or effect of any order previously made in the
action or proceeding by any other judge, except that the presiding judge
may suspend iu whole, or in part, the execution or effect of any order,
during the pendency of a motion to the court to vacate or modify the
same.
Section 2815. Where these statutes authorize an order or proceedjng
to ^e ma(je or taken by the court, it must be done by the court in
session; where by the court or a presiding judge thereof, no county
judge or court commissioner can act. Except as so provided, or other
wise expressly directed in particular instances, a county judge or court
commissioner may exercise within his county the powers, and shall be
subject to the restrictions thereon, of a circuit judge at chambers
according to existing practice and these statutes, in all actions or pro
ceedings in courts of record. But all such orders may be reviewed by
the court.
Section 2S16. Where a motion, whether on notice or order to show
cause, is made to be heard before the court or the presiding judge
thereof, in an action in which such judge has been of counsel for either
party, or is interested, the motion may be transferred by his order, on
the request of either party, or his own motion, to some other circuit
court, or to a court having concurrent jurisdiction of the subject of
the action, to be designated by him, or it may be so transferred by the
written stipulation of the parties. The court so designated shall hear
and decide the motion, and make the proper orders for the determina
tion thereof and carrying the same into execution, which shall be
entered in the clerk's office of the county where the action is pending,
and have the same effect as if made by the court from which it was
transferred.
Section 2S17. When a notice of motion is necessary, unless the
time be fixed by statute or the rules of court, it must be served eight
days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court or judge
may, by an order to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.
notices, and service of papers.
Section 2818. Notices shall be in writing. Notices, pleadings anO
otjier papers jQ anv acti0n or proceeding, may be served as provided ii
this chapter, where not otherwise provided bylaw. It shall not bt
necessary, in any action or proceeding, upon any motion, to serve copiei
of such papers, on which it is founded, as shall have been previously
£je(j or servej m t]ie game action or proceeding.
Section 2819. No copy of any notice, process, pleading, or paper,
• ma(je Dy letter press imprint, upon thin or tissue paper, shall be certi
fied or served in any action or proceeding by any officer, party or attor
ney; and the service of any such shall be void.
Section 2S20. The service may be personal by delivery of a copy
of the paper to be served to the party, or attorney, on whom the service
is to be made. Service may also be made, as follows:
1- 1^ upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office, by leaving such copy with his clerk therein/or with a person
having charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the office, by leav
ing it, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening,
in a conspicuous place in the office; or, if it be not open so as to admit
of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney's residence with some
person of suitable age and discretion.
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the copy at his resi
dence, between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the even
ing, with some person of suitable age and discretion.
Section 2821. Service by mail may be made, where the person
making the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in
different places, between which there is a regular communication by
mail. The copy of the paper to be served must be properly inclosed
in a post paid wrapper, and addressed to the person on whom it is to
be served at his proper post office address, without any direction to the
postal officers upon the wrapper for the return thereof in case of non
delivery to the person addressed, and must be deposited in the post
office, and left there to be carried.
Section 2822. Where a certain time before an act to be done is
required for the service of any paper, and where, after service of any
paper, a specified time is allowed a party to do an pet in answer to,
or in consequence of such service, if service be made by mail, the
time shall be double the time required or allowed in case of personal
service.
Section 2S23. When a party to an action or proceeding shall have
appeared by an attorney, the service of papers shall be made upon theo
attorney. When a defendant shall not have appeared in person or by
attorney, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings in an
action need not be made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want
of bail.
Section 2824. Where a plaintifff or a defendant, who has appeared
in person, and not by attorney, resides out of the state, service may be
made by mail; if his residence be not known, and he has designated
no place for service of papers on him in the action, service may be made
on the clerk of the court, for the party.
Section 2825. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
service of a summons, or other process, or of any paper to briug a party
into contempt.
Section 2826. Whenever, pursuant to these statutes, the sheriff may
be required to serve or execute any summons, order, or judgment, or to
do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in like manner as upon
process issued to him, and shall be equally liable in all respects for neg
lect of duty; and if the sheriff be a party, the coroner shall be bound
to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute process when the
sheriff is a party, and all the provisions of these statutes relating to
sheriffs shall apply to coroners, where the sheriff is a party.
Section 2S27. When service of a notice or paper in an .action or
proceeding is authorized to be made by the sheriff, his certificate of service
shall be evidence thereof.
filing papers and undertakings.
Section 2828. All affidavits and papers used on any motion shall
be filed with the clerk of the court, or with the judge by whom the
motion is heard, and the judge shall, after decision thereof, file all such
papers with the clerk. All undertakings given in actions or proceed
ings, must be filed with the clerk, unless otherwise directed by these
6tatutes, or the court expressly provides for a different disposition
thereof.
Section 2829. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which shall not affect
the substantial rights of the adverse party: and no judgment shall be
reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect.
14 Wis. 9; 15 id. 206, 270, 541 ; 18 id. 98; 21 id. 112; 80 id. GO! ; 83 id. 617; 36 id. 571; 37 id. 118.
Section 2830. The court may, upon the trial, or at any other stage
of the action, before or after judgment, in furtherance of justice, and
upon such terms as may be just, amend any process, pleading or proceediug,
by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case, or when
the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defense, by
conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved.
Section 2831. The time within which any proceeding in an action
after its commencement, except the time within which an appeal must
be taken, may, before its expiration, be enlarged, upon an affidavit
showing grounds therefore, by the court or a judge. The affidavit, or a
copy thereof, must be served with a copy of the order, or the order
may be disregarded. Except as aforesaid, and as otherwise specially
prescribed by law, the court or a judge may also, on motion and good
cause shown, in discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, allow
any such proceeding to be taken, after the time limited by or in pur
suance of the statute, or by any order of court, has expired,
Section 2832. The court, or a judge, may likewise, in discretion
aa-^ upon such terms as may be just, at any time within cue year after
notice thereof, relieve a party from a judgment, order or other proceeding
against him, through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or exeusaD^e
ncnlect' an^ may supply an omission in any proceedings; and whenever any proceeding taken by a party fails to conform, in any respect,
to the provisions of law, the court may, in like manner, and upon like
terms, permit an amendment of such proceeding so as to make it con
formable thereto.
34 Wis. 349, 585; 36 Id. 141, 171, 574, 626; 87 id. 262, 273, 614; 88 id. 236, 072; 89 id. 5T6 ; 40 id. 62, 308,
863, 330, 527, 571 ; 41 Id. 355, 458, 484.
Section 2S33. When service of the summons shall have been made
j™ publication, if the summons shall not have been personally served
1/ i . * 1 1 111*1 ill * /t»
on a defendant, nor received by such defendant through the postomee,
he, or his representative, shall, on application, and good cause shown,
at any time before final judgment, be allowed to defend the action; and,
except in an action for divorce or annulment of the marriage contract,
the defendant or his representative shall, in like manner, upon good
cause shown and such terms as shall be just, be allowed to defend after
final judgment, at any time within one year after actual notice thereof
and within three years after its rendition. If the defense be successful,
and the judgment, or any part thereof shall have been collected or
otherwise enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled, as the
court shall direct; but the title to property, sold under such judgment
to a purchaser in good faith, shall not thereby be affected.
Section 2834. In every action, the summons, or the summons and
complaint, may be amended, of course, without costs, and without pre
judice to the proceedings already had, by adding other persons as parties
defendant and making the proper allegations for such purpose. Ser
vice of the amended summons, together with the complaint, or a notice
of the object of the action, may be made upon such new defendants, as
prescribed in chapter one hundred and twenty. No further service
shall be necessary on the original defendants, but the action shall proceed
in the same manner, as if the new parties had been originally
joined.
Section 2835. If any original paper or pleading be lost or withheld
by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and
used instead of the original.
Section 2836. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the
action; but an affidavit made without a title, or with a defective title,
shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose as if it were duly en
titled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or proceeding in which it is
made.
CHAPTER CXXVIII.
OF ISSUES, TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
Section 2837. Issues arise npon the pleadings when a fact or conelusion
of law is maintained by one party and controverted by the
other; they are of two kinds:
1. Of law.
2. Of fact.
Section 2838. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer or reply, or to some part thereof.
Section 2839. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by the
answer; or
2. Upon a material allegation of any counterclaim in the answer,
controverted by the reply; or
3. Upon a material allegation of new matter, in the answer, not re
quiring a reply, unless an issue of law is joined thereon; or
4. Upon a material allegation of new matter in the reply, unless an
issue of law is joined thereon.
Section 2840. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action; in such cases the issue
of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.
Section 2841. Feigned issues have been abolished, and instead
thereof, in the case where the power formerly existed to order a feigned
issue, or when a question of fact not put in issue by the pleadings is
to be tried by a jury, an order for trial may be made, stating distinctly
and plainly the question of fact to be tried, and such order shall be the
only authority necessary for a trial.
Section 2842. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.
Section 2843. An issue of law is triable by the court. An issue
of fact in an action for the recovery of money only, or of specific real
or personal property, or for a divorce on the ground of adultery, must
be tried by a jury, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and
except that all issues arising on equitable defenses or counterclaims are
triable by the court. Every other issue must be tried by the court,
which, however, may order the whole issue or any specific question of
fact involved therein to be tried by a jury; or may refer an issue as
hereinafter provided.
Section 2S44. When in any action there shall arise issues triable
by a jury and other issues triable by the court, the court shall, in its
discretion, direct the trial of the one or the other to be first had, according
to the nature of the issues and the interests of justice, and
judgment shall be given upon both the verdict and the finding of the
court, when both shall be round. But no issue need be tried, the dis
position of which is not necessary to enable the court to render the
appropriate judgment. A separate trial between the plaintifff and any
of the several defendants may be allowed by the court, whenever in its
opinion justice will be thereby promoted.
NOTICE OF TRIAL, AND CALENDAR.
Section 2845. Notice of trial of any civil action, including all
actions pending on appeal, at any term of court at which the same is
triable, may be given after issue joined therein, by either party to the
other at lea^t ten days before such term. After notice by cither party,
a note of issue, containing the title of the cause, the names of the
attorneys respectively, the time when issue was joined, and briefly stat
ing whether the issue be an issue of law or of fact, and if the latter,
whether triable by the court or by jury, may be filed by either party
at least eight days before the term, and the clerk shall thereupon place
the action on the calendar; or if such note of issue be not filed, the
court may in its discretion direct the action when so noticed for trial
to be placed on the calendar for the term,
Section 2846. The clerk shall prepare a calendar for each term of
the circuit court, of all actions in which such notes of issue have been
so filed, containing the title of each such action, the names of the attor
neys, and the date of the issue, and arranged according to the dates cf
issue, in three classes:
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court.
3. Issues of law.
In which order the calendar shall be disposed of, unless for conven
ience of parties, the dispatch of business, or the prevention of injustice,
the court shall otherwise direct. In all actions pending on appeal, the
date of filing the return on appeal shall be deemed the date of issue.
Section 2847. Either party may bring all the issues in an action to
trial, at any term at which the same are triable, when a notice of trial
has been duly served by either, and unless the court for good cause
otherwise direct, may, in the absence of the adverse party, proceed with
his case and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment, as
the case may require. No inquest shall hereafter be taken in any
action.
Section 2S48. When, in any action noticed for trial, there shall be
,. , . it • .i . «
pending a demurrer to any pleading, or a morion to strike out a plead;n^
01. anv pfirt thereof, or to make it more definite and certain, and
the court shall think any such proceeding by either party may have
been taken for delay, or that for any reason justice requires a more
speedy disposition of the action, the demurrer or motion may be dis
posed of at the commencement of the term, and the action be tried at
the same term, short leave to amend or plead over being given when
necessary; and a continuance be granted only upon good cause shown,
which the court may in discretion require to be such as is usually re
quired to obtain a second continuance in other actions.
Section 2849 The court shall, on request of either party, examine
on oath, any person who is called as a juror therein, to know whether
he is related to either party, or has any interest in the cause, or has ex
pressed or formed any opinion, or is sensible of any bias or prejudice
therein, and the party objecting to the juror may introduce any other
competent evidence in support of the objection, and if it shall appear
■» the court that the juror does not stand indifferent in the cause
another shall be called and placed in his stead for trial of that cause.
Section 2S50. It shall oe no cause of challenge to a juror, that he
may have obtained information of the matters at issue through newsSapers or public journals, if he shall have received no bias or prejuice
thereby; or that he is an inhabitant of or liable to pay taxes in a
county interested in the action.
Section 2851. Each party shall be entitled to three peremptory
challenges from a full panel of jurors called in the action. The challenges
shall be made alternately by the part fes, one at a time, the plaintiff beginning; and when either party shall decline to challenge in his
turn, he shall be deemed to have waived each time one challenge.
Section 2852. The fury may, in any case, at the request of either
, . , • A • 1 • j.party, be taken to view the premises or place in question, or any prop
erty, matter or thing, relating to the controversy between the parties,
when it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a just
decision: provided, the party making the motion shall advance a sum
sufficient to defray the expenses of the jury and the officers who attend
them in taking the view; which expenses shall afterwards be taxed like
other legal costs, if the party who advanced them shall prevail in the
action.
Section 2S53. Upon the trial of every action, the judge presiding
shall, before giving the same to the jury, reduce to writing and give asw
written his charge and instructions to the jury, and all further and par
ticular instructions given them when they shall return after having
once retired to deliberate, unless a written charge be waived by counsel
it the commencement of the trial; and except that the charge or inrtructions may be delivered orally when taken down by the official pho
nographic reporter of the court. Each instruction asked by counsel to
t>e given the jury, shall be given without change or modification the
*ame as asked, or refused in full. If any judge shall violate any of the
foregoing provisions, or make any comments to the jury upon the law
er facts on the trial, in any action, without the same being so reduced
to writing or taken down, the judgment rendered upon the verdict
found on such trial shall be reversed upon appeal or writ of error upon
the fact appearing. The judge shall require the phonographic reporter
to take down all that he may say during any jury trial to the jury, or
to counsel in their presence, of or concerning such cause.
Section 285-t. As soon as any such charge shall have been given,
the same shall be placed and remain on file among the records and
papers of the case in which it was given. When delivered orally and
taken down by the reporter, he shall immediately transcribe the same
in long hand, and file the transcribed copy, without special compensa
tion therefore.
Section 2855. When a iurv, after dire and thorough deliberation
, i, •'.•'' .,, . , . ° 1
upon any cause, 6hiill return into court without having agreed on aj
verdict, the court may state anew the evidence, or any part of it, and
may explain to them anew the law applicable to the case, and may send
them out again for further deliberation; but, if they shall return a second time without having agreed on a verdict, they shall not be sent out
again without their own consent, unless they shall ask from the court
some further explanation of the law.
Section 2856. The plaintifff shall have no right to submit to a nonsuit after the argument of the cause to the jury upon the testimony
shall have been concluded or waived.
Section 2857. A general verdict is one by which the jury pronounce
generally upon all, or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury
find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court. Where, upon
tne tr'a^ tne case presents only questions of law, the court may, in its
discretion, direct the jury to render a verdict subject to the opinion of
the court.
22 Wis. 508; 26 id. 31; 27id. 478; 28 id. 655; 29 id. 463; SO id 200; 83 id. 133; 41 id. 423,541.
Section 2858. The court, in its discretion, may, and when either
party, at or before the close of the testimony and before any argument
to the jury is made or waived, shall so request, the court shall direct
tiie jur.v to fin^ a special verdict. Such verdict shall be prepared by
tue court in the form of questions, in writing, relating only to material
issues of fact and admitting a direct answer, to which the jury shall
make answer in writing. The court may also direct the jury, if they
render a general verdict, to find in writing upon any particular ques
tions of fact, to be stated as aforesaid. In every action for the recovery
of money only, or specific real property, the jury may, in their discre
tion, when not otherwise directed by the court, render a general or a
special verdict,
Section 2859. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a counter
claim is established beyond the amount of the plaintifff's claim as estab
lished, the jury must assess the amount of the recovery. The jury
may also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount of the
damages, where the court orders any judgment on the pleadings for
either party. In an action of replevin, if the property have not been
delivered to the plaintifff, or the defendant by his answer claim »
return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the property, if their
verdict be in favor of the plaintifff, or if they find in favor of tie
defendant that he is entitled to a return thereof, and may at the same
time assess the damages, if they are claimed in the complaint, or
answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reacon of the
detention, or taking and withholding such property,
Section 2860. Every verdict and special finding of facts shall be
"entered on the minutes and when in writing be filed with the clerk.
When a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with the general
verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give
judgment accordingly.
Section 2861. Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make an
entry on his minutes, specifying the time and place of the trial, the
names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and either the judgment
rendered thereon, or an order that the cause be reserved for argument
or further consideration. If a different direction be not given by the
court, the clerk must enter judgment in conformity with the verdict.
If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand
60 established, judgment for the defendant must be given for the excess;
or if it appears that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative,
relief, judgment must be given accordingly.
Section 2862. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties
to an issue of fact in actions on contract, and with the assent of the
court in other actions, in the following manner:
„ , i .i°
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.
Section 2863. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court, its
decision shall be given in writing, and filed with the clerk within
twentv davs after the court at which the trial took place. Judjnnent
upon the decision shall be entered accordingly, as of the term at
■which the cause was tried, and the judge shall state in his decision
i j • • iiii i !■ i « i
separately:
1. The facts found by him; and
2. His conclusions of law thereon.
10 Wis. 415: 11 Id. 11, 188; 12 id. 853; 13 id. 1, 256; 15 Id. 236, 593,581,503; 17 Id. 89,851; 80 Id.
60,350,564; Kid. 569; 83 id. 354; 86 Id. 41; 33 id. 858, 838, 402; 84 Wis. 560: 89 Id. 104
Section 2864. All or any of the issuss in the action, whether of fact
or of law, or both, may be referred, in the discretion of the court, upon
the written consent of the parties. When the parties do not consent to
the reference, the court may, upon the application of either party, or of
its own motion, direct a reference in the following cases:
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
a long account on either side; in which case the referee may be directed
to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific ques
tion of fact involved therein; or
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the informa
tion of the court, before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order
into effect; or
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleading, shall arise
upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the action.
Section 2865. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same power to
grant adjournments, and allow amendments to any pleadings, as the
court upon such trial, upon the same terms and with the like effect.
They shall also have the same power to preserve order, and punish all
violations thereof, upon such trial, and to compel the attendance of
witnesses before them by attachment, and to punish them as for a con
tempt for nonattendance or refusal to be sworn or testify, as is pos
sessed by the court; and they shall give to the parties or their attorneys,
at least eight days' notice of the time and place of trial; they must state
the facts found and conclusions of law separately, and report their
findings, together with all the evidence taken by them, and all exceptions taken on the hearing, to the circuit court; and the circuit court
may review such report, and, on motion, enter judgment thereon, or^
set aside, alter or modify the same, and enter judgment upon the same
so altered or modified, and may require the referees to amend their
report, when necessary. The judgment so entered by the circuit
court may be appealed from to the supreme court, in like manner as
from judgments in other cases, and the report of the referees may
be incorporated with the bill of exceptions. When the reference is to
report the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict.
Section 2S66. In all cases of reference, the parties, except when an
infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not
exceeding three, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly, and, if
the parties do not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referee,
not exceeding three, who shall be free from exception.
Section 2867. If in any action heard and decided by a referee, tha
prevailing party shall fail to cause the referee's report to be filed sd
move for a judgment thereon within one year from the date of wj
report, the action shall be dismissed, or a new trial ordered, on mon'oi
of the adverse party: provided, s;.-ch motion nhall not be made until is
least, two terms of court shall have been held subsequent to the daa
of such report.
Section 2S6S. Every referee, appointed for any purpose, before :
after judgment, in any action or special proceeding, by any court I
record shall have power to administer oaths in any proceedings befoi
him, and shall have generally the powers of a referee for the dischar^r
of the duty required.
EXCEPTIONS AUTJ NEW TBIAL8.
Section 2869. In any trial, by jury, if an exception be taken, it mij
he reduced to writing at the time, signed by the judge, without seal
and filed as part of the record ; or it may be entered in the judge's mit
"tes iind afterwards settled by the judge separately, in like manner, j
in a bill of exceptions. Either party may, at any time before thecloa
of the term of court at which the action is tried, except to any part &
the judge's charge to the jury, not given with his express consent, witi:
l'ie same effect as if done at the trial before the jury retired.
17 Wis. 0B5; 18 Id. 873; 21 id. 427; 81 Id. 207; 32 id. 217; S3 id. 133, 1S5; 37 id. 1,1, 376; 33 id CT J
id. 68; 40 id. 8*2.
Section 2870. In any trial by the court, an exception taken at ths
f r'ft' may ^e settled as in trials by jury under the preceding seciicm;:
and either party may except to any finding of facts or conclusions 4
law in the decision of the court, by filing written exceptions with tfe
clerk at any time before the expiration of ten days after service nj«*
him of a written notice of the entry of judgment thereon. All swi;
exceptions may be incorporated in the bill of exceptions, which maybe
thereafter settled.
23 Wis. 851; 27 id. 411; 80 id. 61, 159; 83 id. 252; 34 id. 349: 37 id 238.
Section 2871. In any trial by a referee, either party may take excePtl0ns
'n ^e 8arne manner as on trials by the court, and the referes
shall note, in his minutes, any exceptions so taken, as they are taken
The prevailing party shall serve upon the other a copy. of the refers';
findings of fact and conclusions of law, after the same shall have bea:
filed, with a notice of the time and place of such filing, and either party
may except to any finding of fact or conclusion of law by the refer*
by filing written exceptions with the clerk, at any time before the ex
piration of ten days after service of such copy and notice. All swi
exceptions may be incorporated with the bill of exceptions which imj
be thereafter settled. When the referee's findings of fact or conclu
sions of law arc set aside or modified by the court, no exceptions fhi!
be necessary to enable a full review of such orders upon appeal or wn|
of error.
Section 2872. "Written exceptions to orders, made before judgment
m^r nc fi]er] wjtn t]ie c]erk at any time before the expiration of te<
days after service of a copy of such order, with a written notice of th<
entry of the same, and incorporated with the bill of exceptions, whicl
may be thereafter settled. But no such exception shall be necessary
review an order properly a part of the judgment roll in the action.
Section 2S73. Either party to an action may, after a trial of an 1*
sue of fact therein, either by a jury, by the court or by referees, have
a bill of exceptions settled, as hereinafter provided, containing the evi1 • * 1 -1 II1* 1111 "
clcnce given on the trial, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to
show the exceptions taken, the rulings and decisions of the court or
referees, and a statement of exceptions taken, aiid such other decisions
or proceedings, not otherwise of record, as shall be material
to questions raised, or so much thereof as may be desired. The bill of
exceptions, when settled, shall be signed by the judge before whom88
the issue was tried, or the report reviewed, and shall thereby become
part of the record. It need not be sealed. It shall be filed with the
clerk, and be by him annexed to and be deemed part of the judgment
roll. If the judge who tried the issue, shall, from any cause have ceased
to be such judge, he shall, notwithstanding, settle and sign the bill of ex
ceptions, as the late judge, as if in office; and may be compelled, as if in
office, by mandamus, or otherwise, so to do.
Section 2874. The party desiring to settle a bill of exceptions must
prepare the same as proposed by him, and serve a copy thereof on the
adverse party. Within ten days thereafter, the adverse party may pre1 1 i. 4.1 4. T?-i, .. ■ i.f J *
pare and serve amendments thereto. Either party may then serve upon
the other a written notice, that the bill of exceptions will be settled by
the judge, at a time and place therein specified, the time to be not less
than four nor more than twenty days after service of such notice. But
if no amendments shall be served within the time aforesaid, the proposed
bill shall be taken as agreed to, and may be signed by the judge, without
notice to the adverse party, on proof made of its service, and that no
amendments have been served. If amendments be served and be ac
cepted, the proposed bill, as so amended, may be signed by the judge,
without notice to the adverse party, on proof made of its service, the
gervice of the amendments and their acceptance.
Section 2S75. When a bill of exceptions shall be served after trial
by the court, or by referees, the adverse party may, within ten days
after such service, file with the clerk written exceptions to the findings
of fact or conclusions of law, serve them as amendments, and have them,
with such of the testimony as shall be material, incorporated with the8
bill of exceptions. He may also have his objections and exceptions to
the admission of testimony on any trial, by jury or otherwise, likewise
incorporated.
Section 2876. After judgment is perfected, either party may serve
jpon the other, a written notice of the entry thereof; and service of a
proposed bill of exceptions, by either party, must be made within sixty
days after service of such a notice. If a bill of exceptions be proposed
with a view to an appeal from an order, it must be served within thirty
days after service of a copy of such order, and written notice of the entry
thereof.
Section 2S77. Whenever the judge, before whom the issues in an
action shall have been tried, shall die or remove from the state, after
judgment and before the expiration of the period limited for serving a
bill of exceptions in such action, the bill of exceptions may be settled
and made a part of the record by stipulation of the parties, with tiie
same effect as if duly settled and signed. But if the parties cannot
agree, or such judge, when removed from the state, will not attend within
the state and settle such bill, a new trial shall be ordered, upon the ap
plication of the party proposing the bill of exceptions, if made at the
first term in the county where the action was tried, succeeding the death
or removal of such judge, and accompanied by the affidavit of such
party, his agent or attorney, that such application is made in good faith
and not for the purpose of delay, upon condition, tli.it he pay all tlietaiable
costs of the opposite party, subsequent to and including service of
the notice of trial for the term at which the action was tried.
Section 2S78. The iudfre before whom the issue is tried may, in his
,. . . J ~p , ... «" . ,
discretion, entertain a motion to be made on his minutes, to set aside a
verdict and grant a new trial, upon exceptions, or because the verdict
*s contrary t0 law> or contrary to evidence, or for excessive or inadequate
damages; but such motion, if heard upon the minutes, can only
he heard at the same term at which the trial is had. When such motion
*8 heard an^ decided upon the minutes of the judge and an appeal is
taken from the decision, a bill of exceptions must be settled in the
usual form, upon which the argument of the appeal must be had.
28 Wis. 379, 648; 27 id. 535; 28 id. 238, 450, 611; 29 id. 642; 32 Id. 557; 34 id. 188; 36 Id. 92; 37 id, J.",
853, 376, 582; 88 id. 667; 41 id. 527.
Section 2879. A motion for a new trial, founded, in whole or in
part, upon newly discovered evidence, may be heard without a bill of
exceptions, upon affidavits and the papers in the action; if also based
upon the evidence, or part of it, taken on the trial, the notice of motion
may so state, and it shall be sufficient if the judge's minutes, or a traascribed
copy of the phonographic reporter's minutes be present for reference
at the hearing of the motion. The judge may, however, direct
that a bill of exceptions shall be settled for the hearing of the motion.
and continue the hearing until such bill is settled. In case of an ajpeal, the bill of exceptions must be settled as in the cases mentioned in
the preceding section. Such a motion may be made at any time within
one year from the verdict or finding.
Section 2880. A motion for a new trial on the record or a bill ol
exceptions, or otherwise, and an application for judgment on a specie
verdict or case^eserved for argument or further consideration, or to
set aside the report of referees, must be heard at a special or reguli'
term.
Section 2881. No irregularity in any writ of venire facias, or in the
, . . . ° . •> . J .. , ... . i_ 11 w,
drawing, summoning, returning or empaneling of petit jurors, shall t«
sufficient to set aside a verdict, unless the party making the objection
was injured by the irregularity, or unless the objection was made before
the returning of the verdict.
JUDGMENTS.
Section 2882. A judgment is the final determination of the rights
of the parties in the action.
1 Pin. 137; 9 Wis. 246; 10 id. 29:); 11 id. 94; 3G id. 29, 4G9, 518; 40 id. 28, 545.
Section 2883. Judgment may be given for or against one or more
of several defendants, and it may determine the ultimate rights of the
parties on each side, as between themselves, and may grant to the defondant
any affirmative relief to which he may be entitled. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render
iudiniient against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed
against the others whenever a several judgment may be proper. IDs
court may also dismiss the complaint, with costs, in favor of one or
more defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the
plaintifff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the
cause against the defendant or defendants served.
Section 2884. When the action is against two or more defendants.
and the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of them, the
plaintifff may proceed as follows:
■*■• ^ ^e acti°n °e aga'ust several persons, jointly indebted upon t
:ontract, he may proceed against the defendant served, unless the court
hall otherwise direct, and, if he recover judgment, it may be entered
n form against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as
hat it may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the sepa•ate property of the defendant served, and, if they are subject to arrest,
igainst the persons of the defendants served.
2. In any action against defendants severally liable, he may proceed
igainst the defendant, or defendants served, in the same manner as if
iuch defendant or defendants were the only parties proceeded against.
3. If all the defendants have been se> ved, judgment mav be taken
igainst any, or either of them, severally, when the plaintifff would be
:ntitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants, if the action
lad been against them, or any of them, alone.
Section 2SS5. When it shall appear on the trial of an action, on J
son tract or tort, against several defendants, sought to be charged as
ointly, or jointly and severally, liable, that some were liable and others
lot, judgment may be rendered against either, or any, of the defendtnts found liable to the plaintifff at the commencement of the action,
ind in favor of such as may be found not liable, and costs awarded in
he discretion of the court.
Section 28S6. The relief granted to the plaintifff if there be no
mswer, cannot exceed that which he shall have demanded in his complaint;
but in any other case the court may grant him any relief, con•istent with the case made by the complaint and embraced within the
issue.
56 Wis. IS; St id. 304, 495, 530.
Section 2887. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plaintifff may
claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any rate of damiges which he might have heretofore recovered for the same cause of
iction, except as provided otherwise in special cases.
Section 2888. In any action of replevin, judgment for the plaintifff
may be for the possession, or for the recovery of possession of the
property, or the value thereof in case a delivery cannot be had, and of
iainages for the detention; and when the property shall have been delivered to the defendant, under section two thousand seven hundred and
twenty two, judgment may be as aforesaid, or absolutely for the value
thereof, and damages for the detention at the plaintifff 's option. If the
property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and a defendant claim a
return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the
property, or the value thereof, in case a return cannot be had, and damiges for taking and withholding the same.
23 Wis. 681; 29 id. 815; 30 id. 570; 30 id. 115; 33 id. 200, 057; 40 id. 31.
Section 2889. When a judgment shall be entered against either
party in an action of replevin, it may be entered both against the
principal and the sureties who shall have signed a written undertaking
with him for a return or delivery of the property, as prescribed in
chapter one hundred and twenty three; and in eases where the officer,
to whom the execution thereon is directed, may collect the value of the
property, or any damages or costs of the principal, he shall, if he can
not find sufficient property of the principal to satisfy the same, collect
the whole, or any part of the judgment which may remain unsatisfied,
of the property of such sureties, and the party issuing execution shall
indorse a direction thereon to that effect.
Section 2890. In all actions brought for the breach of the condit;«ij, it. c c c
tons ot a bond, or to recover a penalty tor nonperformance of any coveimnt
or agreement, if the plaintifff recover, his damages shall be assessed and judgment entered for the amount thereof, and enforced as in
other actions upon contract. No such judgment shall conclude any
claim upon such bond, covenant or agreement not embraced in the
S leadings, or be a discharge of the penal sum beyond the amount of
amages recovered thereby. This section does not apply to actions
regulated by chapter forty four,
Section 2S91. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer
^ ^p]^,^ as f0Hows:
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money only,
the plaintifff may file with the cleric, with the summons and complaint,
proof of personal service of the summons on one or more of the defendants,
and that no answer or demurrer has been received, or if any such
nas Deen received, that the same has been struck out by order of the
oourt or a judge, and tnat no other answer or demurrer has been
received, and the time granted by any order therefore has expired. If
the complaint be duly verified, the clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount demanded in the complaint against such defend, # 1 • * 1 ° 1 3 (• 1 •
ant or defendants, or against one or more of the several defendants in
the cases provided for in section two thousand eight hundred and
eighty four. But if the complaint be not duly verified, and such action
is on an instrument for the payment of money only, the clerk, on its
production to him, shall assess the amount due to the plaintifff thereon;
and in other cases shall ascertain and assess the amount which the
plaintifff is entitled to recover in the action from his examination under
oath, or other proof, and enter the judgment for the amount so assessed.
In case the defendant shall have appeared in the action, he shall be
entitled to five days' notice of the time and place of such assess
ment,
2. In other actions, the plaintifff may, upon the like proof, apply to
the court for judgment, according to the demand of the complaint If
the taking an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable
the court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the
plaintifff may, with a view to such application, at any time after the
expiration of the time for answering, have an order of reference, by the
court or a judge, to take such account or proofs and report the same to
the court at any time, in the circuit, at which judgment may be ren
dered, and such reference may be executed in any county most con
venient therefore; or upon such application being made, the court may
take the account,' or hear the proof, or in its discretion order a refer
ence for that purpose. And when the action is for the recovery of
money only, or of specific real or personal property, with damages for
the withholding thereof, the court may order the damages to be assessed
by a jury. If the defendant shall have appeared in the action, he shall
be entitled to eight clays' notice of such application for judgment,
3. In actions where the service of the summons was made without
the state, or by publication, proof shall be made, as aforesaid, of the
demand mentioned in the complaint; and in case the defendant is a non
resident, the plaintifff or his agent shall be examined on oath as to any
tiayment that may have been made to such plaintifff, or to any one for
lis use on account of such demand, and the court may render judg
ment for the amount which he is entitled to recover; and before enter
ing judgment the court may in its discretion require the plaintifff to
cause to be filed satisfactory security to abide the order of the court
touching the restitution of any estate or effects which may be directed
by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of
any money that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment,
in case tlie defendant or his representatives shall apply and be admitted
to defend the action, and shall succeed in such defense.
Section 2892. In an action arising on a contract for the recovery
of money only, if the answer of the defendant, either expressly or by
not denying, admits any part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, or if
such answer sets up a counterclaim or setoff for an amount less than
the plaintifffs claim, and contains no other defense to the action, the
clerk, on the application of the plaintifff, shall enter judgment for the
amount so admitted, or for the amount claimed in the complaint, after
deducting the amount of the defendant's counterclaim or setoff; notice
of such application shall be given to the defendant at least five days
before the same is made. When the answer of the defendant in any
case, expressly, or by not denying, admits part of the plaintifffs claim
to be just, the court may on motion order such defendant to satisfy
that part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a judg
ment or provisional remedy.
Section 2893. When the plaintifff is entitled to judgment after trial
npon an issue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed in section two thousand eight hundred and ninety one, upon the failure of
the defendant to answer, where the summons was personally served, or
according to such order for judgment as the court may have made on
such trial. If the defendant be entitled to judgment after a like trial,
he may proceed according to such order therefore as may have been like
wise made; or, if none, he may apply to the court therefore, and there
upon the court may take any account, or hear proof, or order a refer
ence, or an assessment of damages by a jury, when necessary to enable
the court to complete the judgment, as may be done on application of
the plaintifff under the section aforesaid.
Section 2894. Judgmeut upon trial of an issue of fact by the court,
or by referees, or upon a failure to answer (except where the clerk is
authorized to enter the same by this chapter), must be entered by the
clerk upon the direction of the court.
Section 2895. A judgment upon a bond or note, with or without a
warrant of attorney, may be rendered without action, either for money
due, or to become due, or to secure any person against contingent liability
on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed in
the next section.
11 Win. 112; 13 Id. 339; 14 Id. 429; 15 id. 206; 16 id. 562; 17 id. 645; 23 id. 393; 28 id. 21.
Section 2896. The plaintifff shall file with his complaint an answer,
signed by the defendant, or some attorney in his behalf, confessing the
amount claimed in the complaint, or some part thereof, and in case such
answer is signed by an attorney, an instrument authorizing judgment
to be confessed, or entered, shall be produced to the court, or judge
signing the judgment, and shall be made a part of the judgment roll.
The plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall make and annex to the
complaint an affidavit, stating the" amount due or to become due on the
note or bond, or if such note or bond is given to secure any contingent
liability, the affidavit must state concisely the facts constituting such
liability, and must show that the sum confessed does not exceed the
same. 'No other affidavit shall be necessary, although more than a year
and a day may have expired since the date of the warrant, or instrument.
The judgment shall be signed by the court, or a judge, and shall be
thereupon entered and docketed by the clerk, and enforced in the same
manner as judgments in other cases.
Section 2897. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment book,
and shall specify clearly the relief granted, or other determination of the
action. All the orders of the court, or a judge, in an action shall bj
recorded in the proper books.
8 Wis. 302; 11 Wis. 91 ; 38 Wis. Sr2.
Section 2898. Unless the party or his attorney shall furnish a judg-ment roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the judgment, shall
attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the
judgment roll:
1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the
summons and complaint, or copies thereof, proof of service, and that
no answer lia8 Deen received, the report, if any, and a copy of the
judgment.
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof, and
a copy of judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the defend
ant, exception, case, and all orders and papers in any way involving the
merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.
DOCKETING AND LIEN OF JUDGMENTS.
Section 2899. At the time of filing the judgment roll, upon .
judgment directing, in whole or in part, the payment of money, the
clerk shall enter in a judgment docket, either arranged alphabetically
or accompanied by an alphabetical index, in books to be provided
by the county and kept by him, a docket of such judgment containing:
1. The name at length of each judgment debtor, with his place of
abode, title and trade or profession, if any such be stated in the reconi
2. The name of the judgment creditor, in like manner.
3. The name of the attorney for the judgment creditor, if stated in
the record.
4. The date of the entry of the judgment.
5. The day and hour of entering such docket.
6. The amount of the debt, damages, or other sum of money recov
ered, with the costs.
7. If the judgment be against several persons, such statement shall
be repented under the name of each person against whom the judgment
was rendered, in the alphabetical order of their names, resj>ectivelv,
when the docket is arranged alphabetically, or entered in the index under
the name of each such person, when the docket is kept with an alpha
betical index accompanying
Section 2900. 1 he clerk of the circuit court shall, upon the pnv
duction to him of a duly certified transcript of a judgment for more
than ten dollars, exclusive of costs, rendered by any justice of the
peace in his county, forthwith file the same, and docket such judg
ment in the docket of the court, in the manner prescribed in the next
preceding section. When the transcript shall show that execution was
staved in the justice's court, with the name of the surety therefore, th*
clerk shall docket the judgment against such surety, as well as tie
judgment debtor, and such surety shall be bound thereby as a judg
ment debtor, and his property be subject to lien and be liable thereoi.
to the same extent as his principal. Every such judgment, from the
time of such filing of the transcript thereof, shall be deemed the judg
ment of the circuit court, be equally under the control thereof, and be
carried into execution, both as to the principal judgment debtor and
his surety, if any, in the same manner and with like effect as the judg
ments thereof, except that no action can be brought upon the same as a
judgment of such court, nor execution issued thereon after the expira
tion of the period of the lien thereof on real estate provided by section
two thousand nine hundred and two.
Section 2901. "When a judgment shall have been docketed as provided
in the two preceding sections, it may be docketed in the like
manner in any other county, upon tiling with the clerk of the circuit
court thereof a transcript of the original docket, certified by the clerk
of the circuit court having custody thereof.
Section 29<~>2. Every such judgment, when so docketed, shall, for
a period expiring ten years from the date of the rendition thereof,
be a lien on the real property in the county where the same is docketed, except the homestead mentioned in section two thousand nine
hundred and eighty three, of every person against whom such judgmerit shall be rendered and docketed, and which he may have at the
time of docketing thereof in the county in which such real estate is sitnated, or which he shall acquire at any time thereafter within said
period of ten years. But when the collection of the judgment or the
sale of the real estate upon which the same may be a lien, shall be de
layed or prohibited by any injunction or other order or otherwise, by
law, and the judgment creditor shall have caused to be entered on the
docket, "enforcement suspended by injunction," or otherwise, as the
case may be, with the date of such entry affixed, the time of such delay
or prohibition after the date of such entry shall not be taken or counted
as any part of the said period of ten years. And whenever an appeal
from any judgment shall be pending, and duly perfected, and the un
dertaking requisite to stay execution thereon shall have been given, the
court in which such judgment was recovered may, on special motion,
after notice to the owner of such judgment, on such terms as it shall
see fit, direct an entry to be made by the clerk, on the docket of such
judgment, that the same is " secured on appeal," and thereupon it shall
cease during the pendency of such appeal to be a lien on the real prop
erty of the judgment debtor, as against purchasers and mortgagees in
good faith. Whenever such judgment shall lie affirmed on such appeal,
or the appeal dismissed, the clerk shall on the tiling of the remittitur
or judgment of affirmance or of dismissal of the appeal, enter on the
docket " lien restored by affirmance," or " lien restored by dismissal of
appeal," with the date of such entry, and the lien thereof shall be there
upon restored accordingly. Similar entries may be made with the like
effect upon the docket of such judgment in any other county, upon
filing with the clerk of the circuit court thereof a transcript of the docket
of the county in which the same was so first docketed.
Section 2903. Whenever any judgment which shall have been
docketed shall be reversed on appeal, and the remittitur or judgment of
Xtyvsal shall have been filed, the clerk shall enter on the docket thereof,
" reversed on appeal by," adding the name of the court which rendered
the judgment of reversal.
Section 2904. The books in which dockets of judgments shall be
entered, shall, during the usual hours of transacting business, be open
to the search and examination of all persons desiring the same.
Section 2905. Every clerk who shall neglect to docket any judgment
as soon as practicable, shall forfeit to the party injured two bundred and fifty dollars, in addition to all damages which such party may
have sustained by such omission or neglect.
Section 290G. An assignment of a judgment may be made by an
instrument in writing, duly acknowledged. When such an assignment
shall be filed with the clerk, he shall note the fact and the date thereof
and of filing on the docket. An assignment may also bo made by a
brief entry on the docket thus: " I assign this judgment to A. B,"
signed by the owner, with the date affixed, and witnessed by the clerk;
which shall have the effect to fully transfer all the rights of the owner
of such judgment to such assignee.
Seotion 21307. "When an execution issued upon any judgment
shall be returned satisfied, in whole or irj part, such judgment shall be
deemed satisfied to the extent of the amount so returned as having
been collected on such execution, unless such return be vacated by the
and upon any execution being so returned, th« clerk of theeonrt
shall enter in the docket of such judgment the fact, that the amount
stated in such return to have been levied, has been collected,
Section 2908. A judgment may be satisfied in whole or in part, or
^ ^ ftny Qr ajj uie ju(fo-ment debtors by an instrument in writing,
signed and acknowledged oy the owner thereof, or at any time within
nve years after the rendition thereof, when no assignment has been filed,
by the attorney of record of the judgment creditor, or by a brief ac
knowledgment of satisfaction, signed as aforesaid and entered on the
docket of the judgment in the county where first docketed, with the
date affixed, and witnessed by the clerk. Every satisfaction of a part of
a judgment, or as to some of the judgment debtors, shall state the
amount paid thereon or for the release of such debtors, naming them.
Section 2909. No satisfaction by an attorney shall be conclusive
upon the judgment creditor in respect to any person who shall have
notice of revocation of the authority of such attorney, before any pay
ment made thereon, or before any purchase of property bound by such
judgment shall have been effected.
Section 2910. On filing with him an instrument of satisfaction,
^jjy executed and acknowledged, the clerk shall file the same with the
papers in the case, and enter the same on the court record, if any, of the
case, and shall also enter a brief statement of the substance thereof, in
cluding, the amount paid, on the margin of the judgment docket, with
the date of filing the satisfaction,
Section 2911. When a judgment shall have been fully paid and
satisfied, or the instrument of satisfaction shall have been lost, the
court in which the same was recovered, may upon satisfactory proof,
authorize the attorney of the judgment creditor to satisfy the same, or
may by order declare the same satisfied, and direct satifaction to be
entered upon the docket,
Section 2912. When a judgment shall have been satisfied, in whole
in part, or as to any judgment debtor, and such satisfaction entered
upon the docket, as aforesaid, such judgment shall, to the extent of such
satisfaction, bo discharged and cease to be a lien; and if any execution
shall be thereafter issued thereon, it shall be indorsed, with a memo
randum of such partial satisfaction, and a direction to collect only the
residue thereof, or to collect only from the judgment debtors remain
ing liable thereon.
Section 2913. When any satisfaction of a judgment shall have been
entered on the docket, as aforesaid, in the county where the same was
first docketed, a certified transcript of such docket, or a certificate by
the clerk, under his official seal, showing such satisfaction, may be filed
with the clerk of the circuit court, in any other county where the same
may have been docketed, and such clerk shall thereupon make a simi
lar entry on the docket, of such judgment, in his county, which shall
have the same effect as in the county when the same was originally
entered,
Section 2914. The clerk shall give a certified transcript of any
judgment record in his office, when the same shall be demanded and
the legal fees tendered.
Section 2915. If any owner of any judgment shall, after full payment
thereof, refuse or neglect, for the space of 6even days after being
thereto requested and after tender of his reasonable charges therefore,
to satisfy the same in one of the modes aforesaid, he shall be liable to
the party paying the same, his heirs or representatives, in the sum of
fifty dollars damages and also for actual damages occasioned by such
neglect or refusal, to be recovered in an action.
Section 2916. No action shall be brought upon a judgment ren-4
dered in any court of this state, except a court of a justice of the
peace, between the same parties, without leave of the court, for a goodcause
shown, on notice to the adverse party.
Section 2917. No judgment heretofore rendered shall be opened or?
, , "i*? * j ■ i •
vacated upon the ground that any attorney of record in the action was
at any time a citizen of another state.
CHAPTER CXXIX.
OF COSTS AND FEES ALLOWED TO PARTIES IN CIRCUIT COURT.
Section 2918. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the plaintifff in
an action in the circuit court, upon a recovery in the following cases,
except when otherwise specially provided by law:
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a claim of
title to real property arises on the proceedings, or is certified by the
court to have come in question at the- trial.
2. In an action to recover the possession ot personal property, when
the value of the property recovered is fifty dollars or more.
3. In the actions of which a justice's court has no jurisdiction.
4. In an action for assault and battery, false imprisonment, libel,
slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, but
if in any such action the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages,
he shall recover no more costs than damages.
5. In other actions of tort for the recovery of money, when the plaintifff
shall recover fifty dollars or more.
6. In an action on contract, wherein real estate shall have been at
tached at the commencement thereof, without regard to the amount
recovered.
7. In an action on contract, when a justice of the peace has jurisdic
tion, wherein the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his complaint, duly
verified, shall exceed the sum of two hundred dollars, but in such actions
the plaintifff shall recover only such taxable costs as the court in its dis
cretion shall allow, when the recovery shall be less than fifty dollars.
But in all equitable actions, costs may be allowed or not to any party,
in the discretion of the court.
Section 2919. When several actions shall be brought on one bond,
recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in
writing, or in any other case, for the same cause of action, against several
parties who might have been joined as defendants in the same
action, no costs other than disbursements shall be allowed to the plaintifff
in more than one of such actions, which shall be at his election: proo
«
vided, the party or parties proceeded against in such other action or
actions, shall, at the time of the commencement of the previous action
or actions, have been within this state and not secreted.
Section 2920. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to the defendant
in the actions mentioned in the two preceding section6, unless the
plaintifff be entitled to costs therein, but where there are several de
fendants not united in interest, and making separate defenses by sep
arate answers, and the plaintifff recovers against one or more, but not
«.ll of such defendants, the court may award costs to such of the defend
ants as have judgment in their favor, or to any of them.
Section 2921. When allowed, cost3 shall be as follows:
For a retaining fee, three dollars; but no such fee shall be allowed to
the defendant's attorney upon confessing judgment, when no suit shall
have been actually brought.
A term fee for each term of court, during the progress of a cause,
not exceeding three terms in any one cause, two dollars.
Drawing all process and returns, admission of guardians, recogni
zances of bail in suits against the bail only, pleadings, adjournments,
suggestions, entries, special verdicts, bills of exceptions, demurrer to
evidence, and cases which shall be necessary, and all other necessary
entries, pleadings and proceedings in an action according to the prac
tice of the court, and for which no special provision is herein made, for
each folio, twenty five cents.
For engrossing or copying the same, including all records, writs,
returns, pleadings, instruments, and all other
inserted, for each folio, twelve cents.
writings necessarily
For every necessary ordinary motion, sixty two and a half cents; bnt
not to be allowed upon any confession of judgment, where no suit shall
have been actually brought, for any motion except for judgment.
For attending the execution of a writ of inquiry, or the assessment
of damages, by the clerk, one dollar and fifty cents.
For attending the trial of a cause, three dollars per day; attending the
judge out of term, upon petition, or upon special motion, one dollar.
lor arguing a demurrer, special verdict, bill of exceptions, certiorari,
habeas corpus, or a return to mandamus or prohibition, three dollars.
For a brief and copies, when actually made, three dollars.
Drawing a judgment, not less than seventy five cents.
Attendance before a referee, three dollars per day during the trial of
the cause before such referee; attendance on striking a jury, and on the
examination of witnesses out of court, fifty cents.
All the necessary disbursements and fees of officers allowed by law,
including suit tax, the compensation of referees, and in actions relating
to or affecting the title to lands, the costs of procuring an abstract ot
title to such lands. Such fees and disbursements shall be taxed against
and recovered from the adverse party, and be collected and paid over
as a part of the judgment: provided, that in actions at law, on con
tract, the costs, exclusive of disbursements, shall not in any one case
exceed twenty five dollars, and when the sum recovered is less than
two hundred dollars, the same shall not exceed fifteen dollars. And if
the defendant be entitled to recover costs therein, he shall recover the
same costs as the plaintifff would have been entitled to recover if the
demand of his complaint had been established.
When a judgment for damages for less than one hundred dollars is
entered upon confession, or upon a note or bond and warrant of attor
ney, no more than five dollars shall be recovered for costs, including
disbursements.
Section 2922. When the judgment is for the recovery of money,
interest from the time of the verdict or report, until judgment is finally
entered, shall he computed by the clerk and added to the costs of the
party entitled thereto.
Section 2923. "When an application shall he made to a court or
referee to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party of a sum
not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses, may be imposed
as the condition of granting the postponement.
Section 2924. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the discretion
of the court, or judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may he absolute,
or directed to abide the event of the action.
12 Wis. 136; 15 id. 134; 26 id. 648; 30 Id 611, 674; 32 Id. 136; 33 id. 430, 694; 41 Id. 85.
Section 2925. Inactions removed from justices' courts by appeal,
i i • , . . , ,, „ . •> . .» ., . , •> rr >
where there is no new trial in the appellate court, if tlie judgment be
affirmed, or the appeal dismissed, the respondent shall have costs; if
reversed, the appellant; if affirmed in part and reversed in part, the
court may award the costs, or such part thereof as shall seem just, to
either party. "Where there is a new trial, costs shall be awarded to the
successful party; but if the appeal be from a judgment below, in favor
of the appellant, he shall have costs only when he shall obtain a more
favorable judgment, and otherwise the respondent shall have costs. In
all such cases, full costs shall be ten dollars, and all disbursements
made for state tax, return of the justice, and officers' and witnesses' fees.
Section 2926. In all actions in the circuit court, brought by a writ
of certiorari, the same costs shall be awarded to the plaintifff in error,
or to the defendant in error, and in the same cases as provided by the
preceding section, in actions appealed from justices' courts, where there
is no new trial had.
Section 2927. The clerk shall tax, and insert in the entry of judginent,
and in the docket thereof, if the same shall have been docketed,
on the application of the prevailing party, upon two days' notice to the
other, the sum of the costs and disbursements, as above provided. The
disbursements shall be stated in detail and verified by affidavit, which
shall be filed with the clerk.
Section 2928. "When there shall be charges in a bill of costs, forD
the attendance of any witnesses, or copies, or exemplifications of documents or papers, or for any other disbursements, except to officers for
services rendered, such charges for witnesses shall not be taxed without an affidavit, stilting the distance they respectively traveled, and the
days they actually attended, and such charges for copies shall not be
taxed without an affidavit that such copies were actually and necessa
rily used, or necessarily obtained for use; nor shall such disbursements
be allowed without an affidavit, specifying the items thereof particu
larly, nor unless they appear to have been necessary and reasonable in
amount.
Section 2929. If, in any action, a recovery be had by one party and
costs be awarded to the other, the court may set off one against the0
other, and render judgment for the balance.
Section 2930. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to each
per day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties may
agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation.
Section 2931. "When costs are adjudged against an infant plaintifff,
the guardian by whom he appeared in the action shall be responsible
therefore, and payment may be enforced by attachment.
Section 2932. In an action prosecuted, or defended, by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, unless otherwise specially provided, costs shaD be
recovered, as in an action by, and against, a person prosecuting or defending in his own right; but such costs shall be chargeable only upon,
or collected of, the estate, fund or party represented, unless the court
shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff, or defendant, person
ally, for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defense.
Sectton 2933. In actions in which the cause of action shall, by aasignment,
after the commencment of the action, or in any other manner, become the property of a person not a party to the action, such
person shall be liable for the costs, in the same manner as if he were a
party; and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment,
Section 2934. Upon settlement, before judgment, no greater sum
shall be demanded from the defendant for costs, than at the rate pre
scribed in this chapter.
Section 2935. The term " folio," when used as a measure for com
puting fees or compensation, shall be construed to mean one hundred
words, counting every figure necessarily used as a word ; and any por
tion of a folio, when in the whole draft or paper there shall not be a
complete folio and when there shall be any excess over the last folio,
shall be computed as a folio.
Section 2936. No fee shall be taxed for services as having been
rencjere(i by any attorney, solicitor, clerk, sheriff, or other officer, in the
progress of a cause, unless such service was actually rendered, except
when otherwise expressly provided.
Section 2937. No record, writ, return, pleading, instrument, or
other writing, copied into any proceeding, entry, process, or suggestion,
shall be computed as any part of the draft or such proceeding, entry,
process or suggestion.
Section 2938. The legal fees paid for certified copies of the depo
sitions of witnesses,- filed in any clerk's office, and of any documents
or papers recorded or filed in any public office, necessarily used on the
trial of a cause, or on the assessment of damages, shall be allowed in
the taxation of costs,
Section 2939. In each action in the circuit court, and in the county
courts having civil jurisdiction, there shall be levied a tax of one dol
lar, which shall be paid to the clerk at the time of the commencement
thereof; which tax so levied shall be paid into the treasury of the state.
and form a separate fund, to be applied to the payment of the salary of
judges.
Section 2940. In all actions or legal proceedings, including crimina' actions, where a change of venue is ha(f or made by the order of any
court or of any judge, pursuant to law (except in cases where suci
change is made because the action was not brought in the proper county),
the county in which such action was commenced, shall pay to the county
in which the same shall be tried, the following expenses arising out of
such change of venue:
1. The per diem fees allowed by law to the clerk or his deputy or
deputies, all the taxable costs, disbursements and fees of such clerk on
any such proceeding or action.
2. The per diem fees allowed by law to the petit jurors actually in
attendance upon said court.
3. The per diem fees allowed by law to the sheriff, under sheriff and
deputies, in attendance upon said court.
4. All lawful charges for boarding the jury.
5. The legal fees of all witnesses in any criminal case or proceedings
which are a lawful charge against the county.
6. The fees or compensation allowed by law to the phonographic
reporter in attendance upon said court, and such other fees allowed to
such reporter in criminal proceedings, which are chargeable to the
county by law.
7. Such other lawful costs, charges, fees and disbursements, which, by
law, are chargeable to the county, and all lawful costs, disbursements
and charges which any such county may be lawfully subjected to, or may
incur in any such action or proceedings.
8. All lawful charges and fees for subpoenaing witnesses in any crim
inal case or proceedings, and which are a proper charge against the
county. The fees of such officers, jurors and phonographer to be esti
mated for each day and part of a day, not less than half a day, occupied
in trying or disposing of any such action; but no costs shall be paid to
such county to which a change of venue is had, which are not properly
chargeable against such county.
Section 2941. The clerk shall make out a correct bill of all the
expenses which shall accrue during any such trial, as aforesaid, and
have the same taxed and allowed by the judge of such court; and when
so taxed shall, without delay, transmit the same to the county clerk of
the county in which said action was commenced, and who, at the first
meeting of the board of supervisors of such county, after receiving such
bill, shall present the same to such board; and such board shall issue an
order therefore in favor of the county in which any such action or pro
ceedings were had, or tried, or its assigns.
SECURITY FOB COSTS.
Section 2942. Any court of record in which a civil action may be
pending, may, in all cases where it shall appear reasonable and proper,
require the plaintifff to give sufficient security for all such costs as may
be awarded against him therein.
Section 2943. When an action shall be commenced in any such
court:
1. For a plaintifff not residing within the jurisdiction of such court,
or for several plaintifffs who are all nonresidents; or
2. For or in the name of a foreign corporation, nonresident executor,
administrator, guardian or trustee; or
3. For or in the name of the trustees or assignees of any debtor; or
4. For or in the name of any person in execution for crime; or
5. In the name of any infant whose guardian has not given security
for costs; or
6. In every action against a garnishee in which the plaintifff shall take
issue upon the answer of the garnishee;
The defendant may require such plaintifff to file security for the pay
ment of costs that may be incurred by the defendant in such action or
proceediDg.
Section 2944. If, after the commencement of an action, the plaintifff
shall become a nonresident, or all the plaintifffs become nonresidents,
or be sentenced to state prison for any term less than for life, the de
fendant may also require such security to be filed.
Section 2945. Upon proof by affidavit, entitling the defendant
thereto, the court or judge shall make an order requiring the plaintifff
to file security for costs, in a sum therein mentioned, not less than two
hundred and fifty dollars, within twenty days after the service upon him
of a copy of such order, and that all proceedings on the part of such
plaintifff, be stayed until such security be filed.
Section 2946. Within the time required by such order, the plaintiff shall file with the clerk of the court, and give the defendant notice
thereof, an undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect
that the plaintifff will pay on demand all costs that may he awarded to
the defendant in Buch action in any court, not exceeding the sum men
tioned in such order. Such undertaking shall he of no effect unless it
be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, in which each surety
shall state that he is worth a certain sum mentioned, over and above all
his debts and liabilities, in property, within this state, not by law ex
empt from execution, which sums shall, in the aggregate, be double the
amount specified in the undertaking. Upon failure to file such under
taking, the court may, upon motion of the defendant, dismiss the plaint
iff 's action.
Section 2947. If any surety in any such undertaking shall remove
from the state, or be deemed at any time insufficient, the court or pre
siding judge, may require the plaintifff to give a new undertaking, and
every person becoming surety on any such undertaking, shall be liable
for all costs, from the commencement of the action, in like manner as
if he had been the original surety,
Section 2948. In any case in which the defendant, at the time of the
commencement of the action, shall by law be entitled to require secu
rity for costs, the attorney for the plaintifff shall be liable for such costs
to an amount not exceeding one hundred dollars, until security there
for be filed, as herein provided, whether such security shall have been
required by the defendant or not; but such attorney may relieve him
self from such liability, by filing an undertaking as hereinbefore pre
scribed, and giving notice thereof, without being required so to do by
the defendant.
COSTS IN THE SUPEESIE COUKT.
Section 2949. Costs shall be allowed in the supreraeeourtjirrespective
of any costs taxed in the case in the court below, to the prevailing
party in the supreme court, on any appeal or writ of error in any civil
action or proceeding, as follows : the fees of the clerk of the supreme court,
the fees of the clerk of the court below for transmitting and certifying
11 _/»111 * l» i • "» v
the record, and twenty five dollars attorney s fees besides necessary disbursements,
including the sum paid for a phonographer's minutes when
necessarily procured for the purpose of settling a bill of exceptions; but
w'hen the judgment of the court below shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part, or affirmed as to some of the parties and reversed as to
others, or modified, the costs shall be in the discretion of the court; and
when the judgment is reversed and a new trial ordered, the court mar
in its discretion direct that the costs or the prevailing party shall ab:ue
the result of the action. In all other actions, writs and proceeding;
therein, except criminal actions, costs may be allowed in the discretion of
the court not exceeding the amount aforesaid.
Section 2950. When a motion for a rehearing in the supreme court
s\yf{[] be denied, the prevailing party may be^allowed, as costs, attorney's
fees not exceeding twenty five dollars, as the court shall direct, together
with the clerk's fees and necessary disbursements, which shall be added
to the other costs taxed and inserted in the judgment; when such motion
shall be granted, the same costs may be allowed, and shall be directed to
abide the event of the action, and be taxed against the losing party as a
part of the costs in the action.
Section 2951. The supreme court may in its discretion adjudge to
the defendant in error or respondent in any writ of error or appeal in
any civil action on affirmance, damages for his delay in addition to
interest, not exceeding ten per cent, on the amount of the judgment
affirmed; and may also in its discretion award to him double costs.
S Pin. 203; SOWIb.81; 3013.534; 34 id. 470; S3 Id. 301; 40 id. 311.
Section 2952. The clerk of the supreme court shall tax and insert
in the entry of judgment, on the application of the prevailing party,
upon four days' notice to the other, in accordance with the order of the
conrt in respect thereto, the sum of the costs and disbursements as
above provided, together with the damages allowed, if any. The dis
bursements shall be stated in detail, aud verified by affidavit filed.
Section 2953. On request of the party entitled thereto, such clerk
shall issue execution for such costs so taxed and damages allowed, if
any, in the form heretofore used, directed to the sheriff of any county
designated by such party; and the sheriff, on receipt thereof, shall levy
and collect the same in the same manner as executions from the circuit
court, and pay over to said clerk his costs and the remainder to the
party entitled thereto, aud shall return the execution with his doings
thereon, to the said clerk within ninety days from its date. If such
execution be returned satisfied, the clerk shall enter satisfaction of the
judgment accordingly. Alias executions may in like manner be issued
from time to time, until such judgment be collected.
GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING OFFICEE8' FEES.
Section 2954. Every officer whose fees are fixed and limited by law,
shall publish and set up in some conspicuous place in his office, for the
inspection of all persons who have business in said office, a fair table
of such fees. Every such officer shall for each day he shall neglect to
so publish and set up the same, forfeit two dollars.
Section 2955. JNo judge, justice, sheriff or other officer whatever.
or other person to whom any fees or compensation shall be allowed by
law for any service, shall take or receive any other or greater fee or reward
for such service, than such as shall be allowed by the laws of this
state.
Section 2956. No fee or compensation allowed by law shall be demanded or received by any officer or person for any service, unless.
such service was actually rendered by him, except when such officer or
person is allowed by law to require payment for such service previous
to rendering the same, and except in case of prospective costs allowed
bv law.
Section 2957. Every officer or person violating any of the provisions
f the two preceding sections, shall be liable to the party aggrieved in
the sum of twenty five dollars damages, and also for the actual damages
sustained, to be recovered in an action.
Section 2958. Every officer upon recsiving any fees for any official
duty or service shall, if required by the person paying the same, make
out in writing, and deliver to such person, a particular account of such
fees, specifying for what they respectively accrued, and shall receipt
the same; and if he refuse or neglect to do so, he shall be liable to the
party paying the same for three times the amount so paid.
SEcnox 2959. When a fee is allowed to one officer, the same fee
shall be allowed to other officers for the performance of the same services, when such officers are by law authorized to perform such services.
Section 2960. Upon the settlement of an execution by a defendant,
or upon settling any action or demand, the sheriff or attorney claiming
any fees which shall not have been taxed, shall, upon being required by
the defendant, and on his paying the expenses thereof, have his fees
taxed by some proper officer authorized to tax costs in the court in
which the action may be pending, or from which the execution shall have
been issued.
Section 2961. No sheriff, attorney or other person shall collect anr
feeSj after naVring been required as aforesaid to have the same taxed,
without such taxation having been made.
Section 2962. Every officer authorized to tax costs in any court, for
services rendered in any proceeding authorized by law, shall examine
the bills presented to him for taxation, whether snch taxation be op
posed or not, and shall be satisfied that the items charged in such bill
are correct and legal, and shall strike out all charges for services which,
in his judgment, were not necessary to be performed.
Section 2963. The secretary of state, treasurer and attorney general, respectively, are authorized to require searches in the respective
officeg of each othe^ an(j jn the officeg Qf the clerk of tie s^Km&
court, of the several circuit courts, of the county courts, or registers of
deeds for any papers, records or documents necessary to the discharge
of the duties of their respective offices, and to require copies thereof and
extracts therefrom, without the payment of any fee or charge what
ever.
Section 2964. ~No fee shall be charged by any officer for administeriug the oath of office to any public officer, member of the legislature,
or any state, county, city, village or school district officer, or for any
oath required by law to be administered to any elector relative to hi
right to be registered or to vote.
CHAPTER CXXX.
OF EXECUTIONS.
Section 2965. The party in whose favor a judgment shall hare
been given, may proceed to enforce the same, by execution or otherwise,
in the manner provided by law.
Section 2966. "Where a judgment requires the payment of money
or fae delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced
in those respects by execution, as provided by law. "Where it require
the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may
be served upon the party against whom it is given, or the person or
officer who is required to obey the same, and if he refuse, he may be
punished by the court as for a contempt, and his obedience thereto en
forced.
Section 2967. There shall be three kinds of executions: One against
the property of the judgment debtor, another against his person, and
the third for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
or such delivery with damages tor withholding the same. They shall
be deemed the process of the court, and shall be sealed, subscribed and
in the form prescribed by section two thousand nine hundred and sixty
nine.
Section 2968. Upon any judgment which shall have been docketed
jQ any courj; 0f record, execution may be issued at any time within five
years after the rendition thereof, and when any execution shall hare
been so issued, and returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, alias executions
mav be issued thereon at any time thereafter. But if no execution shall have been issued thereon, within said five years, it shall only
be issued thereafter upon leave granted by the court, or a judge thereof,
when it shall be made satisfactorily to appear by the affidavit of the
party, his agent or attorney, that the judgment, or some part thereof,
remains unsatisfied and due; but in no ease shall an execution be
issued, or any proceedings had upon any judgment, after twenty years
from the time of the rendition thereof.
Section 29G9. The execution must be issued from and be sealed
with the seal of the court where the judgment roll, or the original
transcript of the justice's judgment, is filed, directed to the sheriff, or
coroner when the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the
party issuing it or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, statin^ the court, the county where the iudmnent roll or transcript
is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, if
it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon, and the time of
docketing in the county to which the execution is issued, and shall
require the officer, substantially as follows:
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, to satisfy
the judgment out of the personal property of such debtor, and if suffi
cient personal property cannot be found, out of the real property belong
ing to him on the day when the judgment was docketed in the county,
or at any time thereafter.
2. If real estate shall have been attached in the manner prodded
by law, in any action, and judgment shall have been rendered for the
plaintifff therein, the execution issued thereon may also direct a sale of
all the interest which the defendant had in such real estate at the time
it was so attached, or at any time thereafter.
3. If upon a judgment to enforce a lien upon specific real or personal
property, it may direct a sale of all the interest which the defend
ant had in such property at the time such lien attached thereto.
4. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or
trustees, to satisfy the judgment out of such property.
5. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, to arrest such
debtor and commit him to the jail of the county, until he shall pay the
judgment, or be discharged according to law.
6. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop
erty, to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it,
to the party entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the
officer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents and profits, recovered by
the same judgment out of the personal property of the party against
whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which the
judgment was recovered, to be specified therein; if a delivery thereof
cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
then out of the real property belonging to nim on the day when the
judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter, and shall in that
respect be deemed an execution against property. When a judgment
in replevin or upon appeal from a justice's judgment, shall be entered
against the principal and also against his surety as urovided in section
two thousand eight hundred and eighty nine, the party or his attorney,
issuing execution on such judgment, shall make the indorsement there
on, as required by said section.
J. When the debt for which judgment is rendered is not all due, the
execution may issue for the collection of such installments as have become due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall have indorse]
thereon, by the party or attorney issuing the same, a direction to die
sheriff to collect the amount then due, with interest and costs, statin'
the amount of each; notwithstanding the issue and collection of suci
execution, the judgment shall remain as security for the installment;
thereafter to become due, and whenever any further installments sliaL
become due, execution may in like manner be issued for the collec
tion of the same.
8. It shall be lawful to direct in every execution upon a judgmei:
for the recovery of money, in whole or in part, the collection of hitere:
on the amount recovered, from the date of the rendition thereof until
such amount be paid.
Section 2970. Every execution shall be made returnable, withia
sixty days after its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whom the
-judgment roll, or the original transcript of a justice's judgment, is fileJ,
but, if the officer having such execution shall have levied upon any
property previous to the expiration of said sixty days, he may retain
such execution in his hands until he shall have sold the property h
levied upon, in the manner prescribed by law.
Section 2971. When the execution is against the property of :L;
judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county where
the judgment is docketed. When it requires the delivery of real or
personal property, it must be issued to the sheriff of the county where
the property, or some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be
issued at the same time, to different counties.
Section 2972. Upon the receipt of any execution, the sheriff, or
Qfjjgj. officerj gkall indorse thereon the year, month, day and hour of the
day, when he received the same.
Section 2973. If the action be one in which the defeudant niipiit
jmve |jeen arrested, as provided in chapter one hundred and twenty two,
an execution against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued
to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after the return of aa
execution against his property unsatisfied, in whole or in part; but, if
the defendant be imprisoned, on execution, in another action, or up*
process in the same action, or shall have been surrendered, in exonera
tion of his bail in such action, an execution may issue against his boJj
in the cases, allowed by law, without any previous execution agaius;
his property.
Section 2974. When the body of a party shall have been arrestol
on an execution issued for that purpose, no other execution upon tk
same judgment can be issued against him or his property, except is
cases specially provided by law; out if any person whs ehall have been
arrested on an execution shall escape, he may be retaken by a new exe
cution against his body, or an execution against his property may ba
issued in the same manner as if the body of such prisoner had never
been taken in execution.
Section 2975. Every person arrested by virtue of an execution
issue(j Up0n any judgment of a court of record shall be safely kept in
secure custody in the maimer prescribed by law.
Section 2u7C. If any person arrested on execution shall die wLii«
so charged, a new execution may be issued against his property in the
same manner as if he had never been charged in execution; bnt sua
new execution shall not be levied upon any real estate, which the
deceased, after the judgment rendered against hiin, shall have sola
in good faith, nor upon any real estate which shall have been actually
sold under any other judgment against him.
Section 2077. "Whenever a judgment shall be recovered in any conrt
>f record against the sheriff of the county, either singly or with others,
nstead of directing the execution tliereon to the coroner of the county,
t may be directed and delivered to any person (except a party in, interest
n the action) who shall be designated by the court in term by an order
o be entered in the minutes, or by any judge thereof in vacation, by
in order to be indorsed on such execution; and such person shall, in
■espect to such execution, perform the duties of a sheriff and be liable
n all respects to all the provisions of law respecting sheriffs, ad far as
he same may be applicable.
Section 2978. After the expiration of one year from the death of a
sarty against whom a final judgment shall have been rendered, execu;ion thereon may l>e issued against any property upon which such judg■nent
shall have been a lien at. the time of the death of such party, and
nay be executed in the same manner and with the same effect as if he
ivere still living; but no such execution shall issue except upon an order,
nadc upon sufficient cause shown by the court or judge thereof. If
such judgment be against such deceased debtor, and others jointly, exe;ution may be issued in the usual manner against such of the judgment
lebtors as survive, without delay.
Section 2979. If the party, in whose favor anv final judgment shall
. 1 i i ii* !• i * • f • " i > ° •
nave been rendered, shall die before satisfaction thereof, an execution
may be issued in the name of such deceased person the same as though
he were living, or of an assignee of 6uch decea.sed, upon the assignments
being filed, or in the name of his executor, or administrator, if there
be oue, at any time within five years after the entry of such judgment.
Before an execution shall issue in the name of an executor or adminis
trator, such executor or administrator shall file with the clerk an affi
davit of the death of such party, with a copy of his letters testament
ary, or of administration, and the clerk shall attach such papers to the
judgment roll in such action, and enter at the foot of the judgment, in
the judgment book, the fact and the time of the death of such party,
the manner and date of appointment of such executor or administrator.
After the expiration of five years from the entry of any such judgment,
execution may issue in like manner in the name of the executor or
administrator, on leave of the court.
Section 29S0. When such execution shall be issued in the name of
such deceased party, the monies collected thereon shall be paid over to
his assignee, or to his executors or administrators, if any; but if there
be none, then the monies so collected shall be paid over to the county
judge to be disposed of according to law.
Section 2CS1. If any sheriff to whom any execution shall be delivered,
die or be removed from office before such execution be satisfied, his
under sheriff shall proceed thereon in the same manner as the sheriff
might have done, and if there be no such under sheriff, the court from
which the execution issued may, on application of the judgment cred
itor, appoint some suitable person to proceed on such execution and
complete the same. The person so appointed shall give such security
as the court may require, and shall have the same power in relation to
Bucli execution as the sheriff so dying or removed.
PROPERTY EXEMPT FROM EXECUTION.
Section 2982. No property hereinafter mentioned shall be liable to
seizure, or sale, on execution, or on any provisional or final process
issued from any court, or any proceedings in aid thereof, except as oth
erwise specially provided in these statutes:
1. The family bible.
2. Family pictures and school books.
^' The library of the debtor and every part thereof ; but this provision shall not be deemed to extend to circulating libraries.
4. A seat, or pew, in any house or place of public worship.
5. All wearing apparel of the debtor and his family; all beds, bodsteads
and bedding kept and used for the debtor and his family; nil
stoves and appendages put up or kept for the use of the debtor and hi;
family ; all cooking utensils, and all other household furniture not herein
enumerated, not exceeding two hundred dollars in value; and one gnu.
rifle or other firearm, not exceeding fifty dollars in value.
6. Two cows, ten swine, one yoke of oxen, and one horse or mule, or,
in lieu of one yoke of oxen and a horse or mule, a span of horses or a
span of mules, ten sheep, and the wool from the same, either in the raw
material or manufactured into yarn or cloth; the necessary food for aD
of the stock, mentioned in this section, for one year's support, either
provided or growing, or both, as the debtor may choose; also one
wagon, cart or dray, one sleigh, one plow, one drag and other farm
ing utensils, including tackle for teams, not exceeding fifty dollars ia
value.
7. The provisions for the debtor and his family, necessary for 6n«
year's support, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel necessarr
for one year.
8. The tools and implements, or stock in trade, of any mechanic,
miner, or other person, used or kept for the purpose of carrying on bis
trade or business, not exceeding two hundred dollars in value.
9. All sewing machines owned by individuals, and kept for the nee
of themselves or families.
10. Any sword, plate, books or other articles, presented or ^iven to
any person by congress, the legislature of either of the United States, or
by either body of congress, or of such legislature, whether presented bv
a vote or raised by subscription of the members of either of the afore
said bodies.
11. Printing materials, and press or presses used in the business of
any printer or publisher, to an amount not exceeding fifteen hundred
dollars in value.
12. Horses, arms, equipments and uniforms of all officers, noncom
missioned officers and privates, used for military purposes in the organ
ized militia of the state.
13. All books, maps, plats and other papers, kept or used by set
person for the purpose of making abstracts of title to land.
14. The interest owned by any inventor in any invention secured to
him by letters patent of the United States.
15. The earnings of all married persons and of all other persons, who
have to provide for the entire support of a family in this state, for sixty
days next preceding the issuing of any process of attachment, execution
or garnishment, or proceeding supplementary to execution.
16. All fire engines, apparatus and equipments, including hose, hose
carts and hooks and ladders, belonging to, or which may hereafter be
long to any town, city or village in this state, and which are or may be
kept and used for the protection of property in such town, city or vil
lage from fire, together with the engine houses and hooks and ladder
houses for the protection of the same, and the lot or lots on which such
engine and hook and ladder houses may be situated, when owned by any
Buch town, city, or village; and any lot or lots owned, used and occupied
by any such town, city or village, for corporate purposes.
17. All monies arising from insurance of any property exempted
from sale on execution, including the homestead, when such property
aas been destroyed by fire.
18. All private property shall be exempt from seizure and sale upon
my execution, or other process, issued to enforce any judgment or de
cree of any court, which shall have been rendered against any county
town, city, village or school district in this state.
19. All monies arising on any policy of insurance on the life of a
minor, payable to his father or mother, or both, shall be exempt against
:he creditors of such father or mother, but not against the creditors of
such minor.
20. Cemetery lots, owned by individuals, and all monuments therein,
the coffins, and other articles for the burial of any dead person, and the
tombstone or monument for his grave, by whomsoever purchased.
The exemptions provided for in subdivisions three, 6ix, seven, eight,
nine, eleven, thirteen, fourteen, seventeen aud nineteen, of this section,
shall extend only to debtors having an actual residence in this state,
ind when such debtors and their families, or any of them, shall be re
moving from one place of residence to another. And no property, ex
empted by the provisions of this section, shall be exempt from execution
3r attachment issued upon a judgment in an action brought by any per
son for the recovery of the whole, or any part, of the purchase money of
the same property. All articles exempted by the provisions of this section
may be selected by the debtor, his agent, clerk, or legal representative,
when necessary to distinguish the same.
Section 2983. A homestead, to be selected by the owner thereof,
eonsisting, when not included in any city or village, of any quantity of
land not exceeding forty acres, used for agricultural purposes, and when
included in any city or village, of any quantity of land not exceeding onefourth
of an acre and the dwelling house thereon and its appurtenances,
owned and occupied by any resident of this state, shall be exempt from
seizure or sale on execution, from the lien of every judgment, and from
liability in any form for the debts of such owner, except laborers', me-i<;
chanics' and purchase money liens, and mortgages lawfully executed,
and taxes lawfully assessed, and except as otherwise specially provided in
these statutes; and such exemption shall not be impaired by temporary
removal with the intention to reoccupy the same as a homestead, nor by
1 sale thereof, but shall extend to the proceeds derived from such sale
while held with the intention to procure another homestead therewith,
for a psriod not exceeding two years. Such exemption shall extend to
land, not exceeding, altogether, the amount aforesaid, owned by a husband
and wife jointly, or in common, and to the interest therein of a
tenant in common, or two or more tenants in common, having a homestead
thereon, with the consent expressed or implied, of the cotenants
and to any estate less than a fee held by any person by lease or oth-4
erwise.
Section 2984. "Whenever a levy shall be made upon the lands of
any person, such person may notify the officer making such levy, at any^
time before the 6ale thereof, that he claims a homestead in such lands,
giving a description thereof, and the remainder alone shall be subject
to sale under such levy, unle3s the plaintifff in the execution shall deny
the right to such homestead, or be dissatisfied with the quantity of
land so selected, in which latter case the officer making such levy shall
cause the same to be surveyed, beginning at a point to be designated
bv the owner, and set off in a compact for«m, including the dwelling
house and its appurtenances, the amount specified in the preceding section. The expenses of such survey shall be collected on the execution,
if it shall appear that the owner claimed as his homestead more land
than he was entitled to; otherwise such expenses shall be borne by the
person directing the same. If such survey be made, the remainder
not included in such survey shall be subject to sale under such levy.
But if any such person shall neglect or refuse to select his homestead
and notify such officer as aforesaid, such officer shall, upon request by
the plaintifff and may without such request, give notice to such person
that at a time and place to be therein named, he will proceed to survey
and locate the same; and unless such person shall, on or before the
time so fixed, select such homestead, 6uch officer shall proceed to sur
vey and locate the same in the mariner provided in this section for tie
survey of a homestead when the plaintifff is dissatisfied with that
selected by the defendant, except that the officer shall, if the owner
neglects or refuses to do so, select the starting point of such survey. A
homestead so selected and set apart shall be taken and considered to
be the homestead of such person to all intents and purposes. The costs
of such notice and survey shall be collected upon the execution. A
failure of the officer to set apart such homestead shall not invalidate or
affect such levy, except as to such homestead, nor shall the failure, neg
lect or refusal of such person to select his homestead, forfeit or impair
his right thereto, but only his right to select the same, when suchselection
sliall be lawfully made by such officer in the manner hereinbefore
provided.
THE LEVY UPON AND SALE OF PERSONAL PKOPEKTY.
Section 2985. Personal property shall be bound from the time it
js seized in execution.
4 Wia. 513; U id. 502; 18 id. 406.
Section 29SG. If in any case where an officer has an execution
against property, there is any reasonable doubt as to the ownership of
the property, or as to its liability to be taken on the execution, the offi
cer may require sufficient security to indemnify him for levying upon
such property,
Section 2987. Upon executions against property, the officer shall
levy upon any current money of the IJnited States, and shall pay and
return the same as so much money collected without exposing the same
for sale, and he may also levy upon and sell any bills, or other evidence*
of debt, issued by any moneyed corporation and circulated as money.
or a bond or other instrument for the payment of money, which was
executed and issued by any person, government, 6tate, municipal or
other corporation and is in terms negotiable or payable to the bearer
or holder.
Section 2988. "When goods and chattels shall be pledged or mortgaged for the payment of money, or the performance of any contract
or agreement, the right and interest in such goods of the person rmiking such pledge or mortgage may be sold on execution against him,
an(l tl'c purchaser shall acquire all his right and interest, and shall
^e entitled to the possession of such goods and chattels on comply
ing with the terms and conditions of the pledge or mortgage; but the
officer shall not take such property out of the possession of the pledgee
or mortgagee when the judgment debtor is not entitled to the posses
sion thereof, unless the judgment creditor or purchaser shall have first
complied with the terms and conditions of such pledge or mortgage.
Section 29S9. Any share or interest of a stockholder in any bank
doing business in this state, whether organized under the laws'of the
United States or of this state, or othpr stock corporation which shall
have been organized under the laws of this state, may be levied upon
by leaving an attested copy of the cxe ution with the clerk, treasurer or
cashier of the bank or corporation, it there be any such officer; other
wise with any officer or person who has at the time the custody of the
books and papers of such bank or corporation. The officer having
such execution may demand of any such officer or person, a certificate
of the number of sliares or the amount of the interest held by the
judgment debtor in such bank or other corporation, and such officer or
person shall give such certificate; and if he shall unreasonably refuse
so to do, or shall willfully give a false certificate, he shall be liable for
double the amount of all damages occasioned by such refusal or false
certificate, to be recovered in an action by the judgment creditor, unless
the judgment be satisfied by the original debtor.
Section 2990. Any share or interest so levied upon, with all the
dividends that shall thereafter accrue thereon, shall be held and sold to
satisfy the judgment in like manner as other property, and the officer
making such 6ale, 6hall execute and deliver to the purchaser duplicate
certificates, stating the name of such purchaser, and the interest or
number of shares by him purchased. Upon such purchaser delivering
one of such duplicate certificates to the clerk, treasurer, cashier or
other managing officer of such bank or corporation, the proper officer
thereof shall at once transfer to such purchaser the interest or shares
bo purchased, upon the books of such bank or corporation, or otherwise
as may be in accordance with the rules or by-laws thereof.
Section 2991. No sale of any goods or chattels shall be made by
virtue of any execution, unless previous notice of 6uch sale shall have
been given twenty days successively by fastening up written or printed
notices thereof, in three public places of the town where such sale is to
be had, specifying the time and place where the same is intended to be had.
Every such sale shall be made at public vendue between the hour of
nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun, and no such
property shall be exposed for sale unless the same be present and in
view of those attending the sale, except in the case of the sale of the inter
est of the judgment debtor in property in the possession of a pledgee or
mortgagee, or shares in a bank or corporation. It shall be offered for
sale in such lots and parcels as shall be calculated to bring the highest price.
THE SALE OF KEAL ESTATE ON EXECUTION.
Section 2992. Lands, tenements, and real estate holden by any one
in trust, or for the use of another, shall be liable to debts, judgments,
executions and attachments against the person to whose use they are
holden.
Section 2993. The time and place of holding any sale of real estate,
pursuant to any execution, shall be publicly advertised previously for
six weeks successively, as follow*:
1. A written notice thereof, describing the real estate to be sold, by
setting forth the name of the township or tract, and the number of the
lot, if there be any, and if there be none, by some other appropriate
description, shall be fastened up in three public places in the town
where such real estate shall be sold ; and if such sale be in a town dif
ferent from that in which the premises to be sold are situated, then
such notice shall be fastened up in three public places of the town in
which the premises are situated.
2. A copy of such notice shall be printed once in each week in a
newspaper of such county, if there be one.
3, If there be do newspaper published in such county, and the prem-ises to be sold are not occupied by any person against whom the execu
tion is issued, or by some person holding the same as tenant or pur
chaser under such person, then such notice shall be published in a paper
printed at the seat of government, once in each week.
Section 2994. Every sale of real estate by virtue of any execution
shall be at public vendue, between the hour of nine o'clock in the fore
noon and the setting of the sun.
Section 2995. When real estate offered for sale by virtue of any
executjonj shall consist of several known lots, tracts, or parcels, sue!
lots, tracts or parcels shall be separately exposed for sale; and if am
persor claiming to be the owner of any portion of such estate, or of suci
fotS) tracts or pai.Cels of them or either of them, or claiming to be en
titled by law to redeem any such portion, shall require such portion to
be exposed for sale separately, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to ex
pose the same for sale accordingly. No more of any real estate shall
be exposed for sale than shall appear necessary to satisfy the execution.
Section 2990. Any officer who shall sell any real estate upon exedition
without having given the previous notices above directed, or
otherwise than in the manner above prescribed, shall be liable to the
party injured in the sum of one thousand dollars damages, and also for
the actual damages sustained, to be recovered in an action.
Section 2997. If any person shall take down or deface any notice
Q£ ft gaje Up0Q executiori, 0f real or personal property, put up by any
officer, previous to the day of sale therein specified, unless upon satis
faction of the execution by virtue of which such notice shall have been
given, or upon the consent of the party suing out such execution and
of the defendant therein, such person shall be liable to the party in
whose favor such execution was issued, in the sum of fifty dollars, to
be recovered in an action,
Section 2998. The omission of any sheriff or other officer to give
the notice of sale herein required, or the taking down or defacing of
any such notice when put up, shall not affect the validity of any sale
made to a purchaser in good faith, without notice of any such omission
or offense,
Section 2999. The sheriff or "other officer to whom any execution
^j he directed, and the deputy of such sheriff or officer holding any
execution, and conducting any sale of property in pursuance thereof,
shall not directly or indirectly purchase any property whatever at anv
sale by virtue of such execution; and every purchase made by such
sheriff, officer, deputy, or to his use, shall be void,
Section 3000. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of any e»
cution, the officer making the same shall make out and subscribe dupucate certificates of such sale, containing:
1- -A- particular description of the premises sold,
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole consideration money paid.
4. The time when such sale will become absolute, and the purchaser
will be entitled to a conveyance pursuant to law.
One of the said duplicate certificates shall, within ten days after such
sale, be filed in the office of the register of deeds of the county, and
the other shall be delivered to the purchaser. If there be two or more
purchasers, a certificate shall be delivered to each.
redemption fkom sale.
Section 3001. Within one year from the time when such sa
"
have been made, the real estate so sold, or any distinct lot, tract o
portion that may have been separately sold, may he redeemed by th
payment to the purchaser, his personal representatives or assigns, or t
the then sheriff of the county where such real estate is situated, for th
use of such purchaser, of the sum of money which was bid on the sal
of such lot or tract, together with the interest on that sum from th
time of the sale, at the rate of ten per cent, a year.
Section 3002. Such redemption may be made:
1. By the person against whom the execution was issued, and whose
right and title was 6old in pursuance thereof; or,
2. If such person be dead, by his devisee of the premises sold, if the
same shall have been devised, and if the same shall not have been de
vised, by the heirs of such person ; or,
3. By any grantee of such person who shall have acquired an abso
lute title by deed, sale under mortgage, or under an execution, or
by any other means, to the premises sold, or to any lot, tract, parcel, or
portion which 6hall have been separately sold.
Section 3003. Any heir or devisee of the person against whom the
execution was issued, and any grantee of such person, who shall have
acquired an absolute title to a portion of the estate sold, or a portion of
any lot, tract or parcel that shall have been separately sold, may re
deem the lot, tract or parcel so sold, on the same terms and in the same
manner as if he were grantee of the whole lot, tract or parcel, and shall
have the same remedy to enforce contributions from those who shall
own the residue of such tract, lot or parcel, as if the sum required to
be paid by him to effect such redemption had been collected by a sale
of the portion belonging to such grantee, heir or devisee.
Section 3004. Ii there be several persons having undivided shares
as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, in the premises sold, or in
any particular lot or tract sold, each person having such title may re
deem the share or interest belonging to him, by paying to the pur
chaser, or officer, as herein directed, a sum that will bear the same pro
portion to the whole purchase money bid for such premises, or for such
particular lot or tract, as the share proposed to be redeemed bears to
the whole number of shares in snch premises, or lot, or tract, together
with the interest on such sum at the rate often per cent, a year.
Skctton 3005. Upon such payment being made, by any person so
entitled to redeem any real estate so sold, the sale of the premises, BO
redeemed, and the certificates of such sale, as far as they relate thereto,
shall be null and void.
Section 3006. In case the persons entitled, as hereinbefore provio>1,
shall omit to redeem the premises so sold or any part of them,
within the year above prescribed, then the interest vested in the pur
chaser, by such sale, may be acquired within three months after the ex
piration of such year, by the persons and on the terms hereinafter pre
scribed.
Section 3007. Any creditor of the person against whom such execntion
issued having in his own name, or as assignee, representative,
trustee, or otherwise, a judgment rendered, or a mortgage duly recorded,
at any time before the expiration of fifteen months from the
time of such sale, and which shall be a lien and charge upon the prem
ises sold, by paying the sum of money which was paid on the sale of
Bueh premises, together with interest thereon at the rate of ten per
cent, a year, from the time of such sale, shall thereby acquire all the
rights of the original purchaser, subject to be defeated in the manner
hereinafter mentioned.
Section 3008. If such judgment or mortgage be a lien on any lot
tract or parcel that shall have been separately sold, or on a specific portion of any such lot, tract or parcel, the creditor having the same, by
i)aying as before provided the sum which shall have been bid for such
ot, tract or parcel, with interest as above mentioned, shall thereby
acquire all the rights of the original purchaser, subject to be defeated
in the manner hereinafter mentioned.
Section 3009. Any such creditor, having such judgment or mort, . , . ,. * ,. .', , , ° ,J t> . .
gage w'llcn 18 a "ea upon any undivided share or interest in any real
estate sold under any execution, may, within the same time, on the same
terms and in the same manner, acquire the title of the original pur
chaser to such share or interest, by paying such part of the whole pur
chase money of such real estate as shall be in a just proportion to the
amount of such share or interest,
Section 3010. Whenever any such creditor shall have acquired the
title of the original purchaser, pursuant to the foregoing provisions, any
other creditor who might have acquired such title according to the said
provisions, may become a purchaser thereof from the first creditor who
acquired the same, upon the following conditions:
1. By reimbursing to such first creditor, his personal representatives
or assigns, the sum which may have been paid by him to acquire such
title, together with interest thereon, at the rate of ten per cent, a year,
from the time of such payment to the time of such reimbursement.
2. If the judgment or mortgage, by virtue of which the first cnxiitor
acquired the title of the original purchaser, be prior to the judgment or
mortgage of such second creditor, then such second creditor shall also
pay to such first creditor the amount due on his judgment or mortgage.
3. But if such judgment or mortgage of the first creditor, at the time
of his acquiring the title of the original purchaser, shall have ceased to
be a lieu as against such second creditor, it shall not be necessary to pay
the amount thereof.
Section 3011. In the same manner any third or other creditor, who
might, according to the foregoing provisions, acquire the title of the
original purchaser, may become a purchaser thereof from the second,
third, or other creditor who may have become such purchaser from any
other creditor, upon the same terms and conditions specified in th.ela.-t
section.
Section .3012. If the original purchaser of any premises so soli
shall also be a creditor of the defendant, against whom the execution
issued, and as such might acquire the title of any purchaser accordin:
to the preceding provisions, he may avail himself of his judgment or
mortgage, in the same manner and on the same terms herein prescribed.
to acquire the title which any creditor may have obtained.
Section 3013. The judgment creditor, under whose execution any
estate shall have been sold, shall not be authorized to acquire the
^]e 0f t\ie original purchaser or of any creditor to the premises so sold,
by virtue of the judgment on which 6uch execution issued; but if he
have any other judgment or mortgage which would entitle him to acquire
such title according to the preceding provisions, he may avail himself
of such other judgment or mortgage, in the same manner and on the
same terms as any other creditor.
Section 3014. The sums so required to be paid to acquire the title
the original purchaser, or to become a purchaser from any creditor,
may be paid to such purchaser or creditor, his representative or assigns,
or to the then sheriff of the county where the real estate is situated, for
the use of the purchaser or creditor entitled to the same; upon such
payment being made, the title of the original purchaser shall ho thereby
transferred to the creditor acquiring the same, pursuant to the foregoing
provisions, and from such creditor to any other creditor becoming a
purchaser thereof, as hereinbefore provided.
Section 3015. To entitle any creditor to acquire the title of the original
purchaser, or to become a purchaser from any other creditor, he shall
exhibit to such purchaser or creditor, or to the sheriff, the following evidences
of his right:
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment, duly certified by the clerk
of the court of the county in which the same is docketed, or of the
mortgage, duly certified by the register of deeds of the county where
' the same is made.
2. A copy of all assignments of such judgment or mortgage which are
necessary to establish his claim, verified by his affidavit or the affidavit
of some witness to such assignments.
3. A copy of the letters of administration, or letters testamentary,
when an administrator or executor applies to be substituted as a pur
chaser.
4. An affidavit of such creditor, or his assignee, representative or attor
ney, or agent, stating the true sum due on such judgment, or the true sum
dne or to become due on such mortgage, at the time of claiming such
right to purchase, over and above all payments. Within three days after
making snch redemption or purchase, such creditor shall file such evi
dences of his right in the office of the register of deeds of the county
where the original certificate of sale is filed.
Section 3016. The right and title of the person against whom the
execution was issued, to any real estate which shall oe sold thereby,
shall not be divested by such sale until the expiration of fifteen months
from the time of such sale; and if such real estate shall not have been
redeemed as herein provided, and a deed shall be executed in pursuance
of a sale, the grantee in such deed shall be deemed vested with the legal
estate from the time of the sale on 6iich execution, for the purpose of
maintaining an action for an injury to such real estate.
Section 3017. If, after the expiration of fifteen months from the
time of the sale of any real estate upon execution, any part of the premises sold shall remain unredeemed by the judgment debtor, or by any
other person entitled by law to redeem the same within one year from
the time of snch sale, the then sheriff of the county in which such real
estate is situated shall, on demand, complete such sale, by executing a
proper conveyance of the premises so remaining unredeemed, to the per
son or persons entitled thereto, which conveyance shall be valid and ef
fectual to convey all the right, title and interest, which was sold upon
such execution. If any part of said premises remains unredeemed by
a creditor, the same shall be conveyed to the purchaser upon such sale,
or to his assignee, in case he shall have assigned the certificate of sale;
and if said premises, or any part or parts thereof, shall have been re
deemed by a creditor, the premises so redeemed shall be conveyed to
the last creditor redeeming the same, or to his assignee, in case he shall
have assigned his right thereto.
Section 3018. In case the person, who, by the provisions of the preceding sections, woul d be en ti tl ed to a con veyance of any real estate sola by
virtue of an execution, shall die, previous to the delivery of such con
veyance, the sheriff shall execute and deliver such conveyance to the ex
ecutors or administrators of the person so deceased. The real estate so
conveyed shall be held in trust for the use of the heirs of such deceased
person, subject to the dower of his widow, if there be any, but may be
sold for the payment of his debts, in the same manner as lands whereof
such deceased person died seized.
Section 3019.. If the purchaser of any real estate sold by virtue of
an execution, his heirs or assigns, shall be evicted from the possession
of such real estate, or if in an action for the recovery thereof, judgment
shall be rendered against him in consequence:
1. Of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning such sale; or
2. Of the judgment, upon which such execution issued, being vacated
or reversed;
Such purchaser, his heirs or assigns, may recover of the party for
whose benefit such real estate was sold, the amount paid on the pur
chase thereof, with interest,
Section 3020. The party for whose benefit such real estate was soli
and his personal representatives, upon such recovery being had against
him in consequence of any irregularity in the proceedings concerning
6uch sale, may have further execution upon the judgment by virtue of
which such sale was made, to levy the sum paid on snch sale, with in
terest; and such judgment shall be deemed valid and effectual for that
purpose against the defendant therein, his personal representatives, heirs
and devisees; but not against any purchaser in good faith, or any in
cumbrancer by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, whose title or whose
encumbrance shall have accrued before the levy of such execution,
Section- 3021. When lands and tenements in the hands of several
persons shall be liable to satisfy any judgment, and the whole of snch
judgment, or more than a due proportion thereof shall be levied upon
the lands of any one or more of such persons, the persons so aggrieved,
or their personal representatives, may compel a just and equal contri
bution by all the persons whose lands and tenements ought to contrib
ute to the satisfaction of such judgment.
Section 3022. Such lands and tenements shall be liable to such
contribution, in the following order:
1. If they were conveyed by the defendant in the execution, thev
shall be liable in succession, commencing with the lands last conveyed.
2. If they were sold under execution against the defendant, thev
6hall also be liable in succession, commencing with the lands sold un
der the last and youngest judgment.
3. If there be lands so liable, which were conveyed by the defend
ant in execution, and also lands which have been sold under execution
against such defendant, they will respectively be liable in succession,
according to the order herein prescribed.
Section 3023. If an action be brought to compel such contribution,
the court in wliich such action is brought, shall, in a proper case, permit
the plaintifff to use the original judgment, and issue execution thereon,
to levy the amount which ought to be contributed by the lands subject to
the lien of such judgment, and for that purpose such original judgment
shall remain a lien upon such lands, when preserved as provided in the
next section, for the term of ten years from the date of the rendition
or entry thereof, to the extent of the sum which ought to be so contrib
uted, notwithstanding such sum or any part thereof may have been
paid by the party seeking such contribution; but in all cases such liens
shall continue for the purposes above stated, to the end of tliree fall
years after any levy and sale under which contribution is claimed.
Section 3024. In order to preserve the lien of the original judgment uPon sucn lauJs iind subject them to sale on execution, the per
son aggrieved sh;r11, within twenty days after the payment of any sum
of money, for which he shall claim a contribution, file an affidavit with
tbe clerk of the court, in which the original judgment was rendered,
stating the sum paid, and his claim to use such judgment for the reimbursement
thereof; and, on filing such affidavit, the clerk shall make an
entry in the margin of the docket of such judgment, stating the sum
so paid, and that such judgment is claimed to be a lien to that amount.
If it be desired to preserve such lien upon property situated in some
other county than the one in which the original judgment was rendered,
a similar affidavit and notice must be filed with the clerk of the court,
and a like entry be upon the docket of such judgment in such county.
The clerk's fee therefore shall be one dollar.
Section 3025. Whenever a title shall have been perfected in any
person to any real estate sold by virtue of an execution, or to any part
thereof, or interest therein, and the person against whom 6uch execution
issued, or any other person, claiming under him by title, accruing sub
sequently to the docketing of the judgment upon which it issued,
shall be in possession of any such real estate, or part thereof, or interest
therein, and upon demand of the person, his agent or attorney, in
whom such title shall have been perfected, shall refuse to surrender the
possession thereof to him, he may apply to the court from which the
execution issued, or the presiding judge thereof, by petition, duly veri
fied, setting forth the facts, for a writ of assistance to remove such per
son from the possession of such real estate, and to deliver the possession
thereof to him. A copy of such petition, with a notice of the time
and place wdien and where the same will be presented, must be served
upon the person against whom the writ is prayed for, at least ten days
before the same is presented; such petition may be served as a sum
mons in an action in the circuit court. The court, or such judge, may
direct such writ to issue, and the same shall be executed and return
made in like manner as upon a sale made upon a judgment for fore
closure of a mortgage.
Section 3026. When any judgment debtor, or person claiming
under him, shall have redeemed, as hereinbefore provided, the lands or
any part thereof, or interest therein so sold, the person or officer to
whom the redemption money Bhall have been paid shall execute,
acknowledge and deliver, to the person so redeeming, a certificate,
attested by two witnesses, stating the fact of such redemption, the
date thereof, the amount of money paid, with a description of the
lands or interests therein so redeemed. Such certificate so acknowledged
may be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county in
which the lands so redeemed are situated, and shall be presumptive
evidence of the redemption of the lands therein described from such
sale, and from the lien of the judgment by virtue of which such sale
was made.
Section 3027. All 6ales of real estate heretofore made, by virtue of
any execution, shall be redeemed, and when not redeemed, be conveyed,
within the time and in the manner heretofore prescribed by law.
CHAPTER CXXXI.
OF REMEDIES SUPPLEMENTARY TO EXECUTION.
Section 3028. After the issuing of execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the sheriff the
amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessaiy to satisfy
the execution, and the sheriffs receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for
the amount so paid. . ^
Section 3029. Whenever any execution against the property of any
judgment debtor shall have been issued upon a judgment for the pajment
of money, and shall have been returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part, the judgment creditor may commence an action against sncl
judgment debtor, and any other person, to compel the discovery of any
property or thing in action, belonging to such judgment debtor, and of
any property, money or thing in action due or held in trust for him,
S £ r J ' ,-, » » H i . ..i ^i •
and to prevent the transfer of any such property, money or other thing
action, or the payment or delivery thereof to such judgment debtor,
except where such trust has been created by, or the fund so held in
trust has proceeded from, some person other than the defendant himself.
Section 3030. When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same judgment,
issued to tne sheriff of the county where he resides, or if he do not reside
in the state, to the sheriff of a county where a judgment roll or
transcript of a justice's judgment is filed, is returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return
is made, is entitled to an order from the judge of the court, or a county
judge or court commissioner of the county to which the execution was
issued, requiring such judgment debtor to appear before him and aiswer concerning his property, at a time and place, specified in the order.
within the county to which the execution was issued,
Section 3031. After the issuing of an execution against property
an^ before the return thereof, upon proof by affidavit, to the satisfactjon 0f a judge of the court, or a county judge or court commissioner
of the county to which the execution was issued, that any judgment
debtor residing in the county where such judge resides, has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment, such judge may make an order requiring the judgment debtor to
appear at a specified time and place to answer concerning the same.
Section 3032. Instead of making an order requiring the attendance
oi the judgment debtor, as provided in the two preceding sections, the
judge, upon proof, by affidavit to his satisfaction, that there is danger
of the judgment debtor's leaving the state or concealing himself, and
that there is reason to believe that he has property which he unjustly
refuses to apply to such judgment, may issue a warrant requiring the
sheriff of any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and
bring him before such judge, to answer concerning his property.
Section 3033. Upon his appearing or being brought before the
such judgment debtor may be examined on oath, and witnesses
may be required to appeal- and testify on the part of either party, in
the same manner as upon the trial of an issue. The judge, in his
discretion, may appoint a referee to take and report such examinations,
and require the judgment debtor and witnesses, or any of them, to attend
and be examined before him. No person shall, on such examination,
be excused from answering any question on the ground that his exam
ination or answer will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud,
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal
action or proceeding.
Section 3034. If it shall appear upon or pending any such examination,
that there is danger of the debtor's leaving the state, and that
he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judg
ment, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more
sureties, that he will from time to time attend before the judge as he
shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency of the proceed
ings, dispose of any portion of his property not exempt from execu
tion. In default of entering into such undertaking, he may be com
mitted to prison, by warrant of the judge, as for a contempt.
Section 3035. The judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor in the hands either of himself or any other person, or due to
the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, to be applied toward
the satisfaction of the judgment; but if it appear that any person.
alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or to be indebted to
him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action
against such person by the receiver; but the judge may by order for
bid a transfer or other disposition of such property, or interest, till a
sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the action
and prosecute the same to judgment and execution, and may modify or
dissolve such order at any time, on such security as he shall direct.
Section 3036. Before appointing any receiver, the judge shall ascertain,
if practicable, by oath of the party or otherwise, whether anyc
other supplementary proceedings are pending against the judgment
debtor, and if there be any, the plaintifff therein shall have notice to
appear before him, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent
proceedings in relation to such receivership, and no more than one such
receiver shall be appointed. The judge may also, at any time, by order,
forbid any transfer or other disposition of, or interference with, the
property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution.
Section 3037. If any person, partv or witness, shall disobey an order
of the judge or referee, duly served, "he may be punished by the judge
as for a contempt; and in all cases of commitment under this chapter,
the person committed may, in case of inability to perform the act required
or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged by the judge committing him, or the court in which the judgment was rendered, on such
terms as may be just.
Section 3038. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to
any party so examined, whether a party to the action or not, witness
fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addition, not exceeding
twenty five dollars, as costs, and require their payment by order.
CHAPTER CXXXII.
OF WRITS OF ERROR AND APPEALS TO THE SUPREME COURT.
LIMITATIONS.
Section 3039. The time within which a writ of error may he issued,
or an appeal taken, to obtain a review by the supreme court of any judg
ment or order in any civil action or special proceeding, in a court of ree
ord> is limited to two years from the date of the entry of such judgmed
or 01'der, except as hereinafter provided, and except that if the person
against whom a judgment is rendered is, at the time of the rendition
thereof, either under the age of twenty one years, or insane, or impris
oned on any criminal sentence for less than for life, the time during which
such disability shall continue, not, however, exceeding ten years of dis
ability, shall not be reckoned a part of said two years.
Section 3040. No discontinuance, or dismissal of a writ of error or
appeal, shall preclude the party from suing out another writ of error,
or taking another appeal in the same cause, within the time limited by
law, except when dismissed by the court for want of prosecution.
Section 3041. The time within which an appeal may be taken from
go much of a judgment of divorce as dissolves the marriage bond, or so
much of a judgment as annuls a marriage, is limited to six months from
the date of the entry of such judgment; except in cases where the de
fendant does not appear, and was not served with the summons, and did
not actually receive a copy of the summons or complaint by mail, or
otherwise, before judgment.
Section 3042. The time within which an appeal may be taken directly
from au or(jer> [B fulther limited to thirty days from the date of the service by either party upon the other of a copy of such order, with a writter.
notice of the entry of the same.
87 Wis. 87; 88 id. 533; 41 id. 79.
WRITS OF EBROR.
Section 3043. "Writs of error may issue of course out of the supreme
qq^j.^ m vacation as well as in term, returnable to that court, to review
final judgments in actions triable by jury, except actions for divorce
The proceedings and judgment upon such writs shall be according to
^ie cour8e °f tne common law, and the rules and practice of the supreme
court, except as modified by this chapter.
B Wis. 188,143: 7 Id. 407, 514; 12 Id. 5B1, 570; 13 id. 368, 44»; 14 id 439, 598, 653; 16 id. 546; 17 id. 69;
18 id. Mil; It) id. 348; 20 id. 231; 81 id. 241; 22 id. 421, 453; 24 id. 483; 25 id. 477; 37 id. 204; 40U.I1;
41 id. 59.
Section 3044. No writ of error shall be effectual for any purpose
un]ess tne plaintifff in error shall, at or before the time of filing the re
turn thereof, file in the office of the clerk of the supreme court, a bond
executed on his part to the defendant in error, by at least two sureties,
in the sum of at least two hundred and fifty dollars, conditioned that
the plaintifff in error wrill pay all costs and damages which may be
awarded against him on the writ of error, or shall deposit that sum of
money with such clerk to abide the event of such writ, or file the boud
mentioned in the next section; unless such bond or deposit be waived
in writing by the defendant in error. The sureties shall justify theii
responsibility in the same manner as to an undertaking on appeal.
Section 3045. No writ of error shall operate to stay or supersede
the execution in any civil action, unless the plaintifff in error, or some
person in his behalf, shall give bond to the defendant in error, in double
the amount of the judgment of the court below, with one or more suffi
cient sureties, conditioned that the plaintifff in error shall prosecute his
action to effect, and pay all costs and damages which may be awarded
against him therein, and in case the judgment of the court below is
affirmed, will pay the amount thereof with costs; unless such bond be
waived, in writing, by defendant in error. The sufficiency of such bond,
or sureties thereto, shall be determined in any case by any justice, or the
clerk of the supreme court.
Section 3046. The bond mentioned in the preceding section, if any
is given, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the supremo court,
for the use of the defendant, and no execution shall be issued there
after upon the judgment complained of, during the pendency of the
writ of error, and if execution shall have been already issued, the
clerk shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of the writ of
error, and the filing of the bond, and after notice of such certificate to
the officer holding the execution, all further proceedings thereon shall
be stayed.
APPEALS.
Section 3047. Appeals to the supreme court may be taken from the
circuit courts, and also from county courts having civil jurisdiction,
except in cases where express provision is or may be made by law for
an appeal to the circuit court from county courts, and from any court
of record having civil jurisdiction, when no other court of appeal is provided hv law
viueu o\ law.
37 Wis. 125,225,568; 38 id. 636.
Section 3048. No writ of error shall be necessary to bring up any
judgment for review before the supreme court, but any judgment, or
any order, defined in section three thousand and sixty nine, may be
reviewed, upon an appeal, by any party aggrieved. The party appeal
ing is called the appellant, the other, the respondent.
Section 3049. An appeal must be taken by serving a notice, in
writing, signed by the appellant or his attorney, on the adverse party,
and on the clerk of the court, in which the judgment or order appealed
from is entered, stating the appeal from the same, and whether the
appeal is from the whole or some part thereof; and if from a part only,
specifying the part appealed from. The appeal shall be deemed taken
by the service of the notice of appeal, and perfected on service of the
undertaking for costs, or the deposit of money instead, or the waiver
thereof, as hereinafter prescribed. When service of a notice of appeal
and undertaking cannot, in any case, be made within this state, the
court may prescribe a mode of serving the same.
Section 3050. Upon an appeal being perfected, the clerk of the
court from which the appeal is taken shall, at the expense of the appellant,
forthwith transmit to the supreme court, if the appeal is from a
judgment, the judgment roll; if the appeal is from an order, he shall
transmit the order appealed from, and the original papers used by each
Earty on the application for the order appealed from. The court may,
owever, in each case, direct copies to be sent in lieu of the originals.
The clerk shall also, in all cases, transmit to the supreme court the
notice of appeal, and the undertaking given thereon; and he shall annex
to the papers so transmitted, a certificate under his hand and the seal
of the court, from which the appeal is taken, certifying that they are
tho original papers, or copies, as the case may be, and that they are
transmitted to the supreme court pursuant to sucli appeal. Ko further
certificate or attestation 6hall be necessary.
Section 3051. "When the appellant is required, under any provision
of this chapter, to give an undertaking, he may, in lieu thereof, deposit
with the clerk of the court in which the judgment or order appealed
from is entered (who shall give a receipt therefore), a sum of money
equal to the amount for which such undertaking is required to be given,
and in lieu of the service of such undertaking, serve notice of the mat
ing of such deposit. Such deposit and notice shall have the same effect
as the service of the required undertaking, and be held to answer tie
event of the appeal upon the terms prescribed for the undertakes, in
]jeu 0f which the same is deposited. Any such undertaking and de
posit may be waived in writing by the respondent for whose benefit
the same is required to be made, and such waiver shall have the same
effect as the giving of the undertaking would have had.
Sixtion 3052. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, an
undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant by at
least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs and
damages which may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding tw0 ilundred and fif ty dollars.
Section 3053. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judgment unless
an undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least tvo
sureties, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part
thereof, be affirmed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be
paid by the judgment, or the part of such amount as to which the judg
ment shall be affirmed, if it be affirmed only in part, and all damages
which shall be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal,
Section 3054. If the judgment appealed from direct the assignment or delivery of documents or personal property, the execution of
the judgment shall not be delayed by the appeal, unless the thing:
required to be assigned or delivered be brought into court or placed in
the custody of such officer or receiver, as the court or presiding judge
thereof shall appoint, or unless an undertaking be entered into on the
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in such sums as the court
or presiding judge thereof shall direct, to the effect that the appellant
will obey the order of the appellate court on the appeal.
Section 3055. If the judgment appealed from direct the execution
Qj ft COnveyance, or other instrument, the execution of the judgment
shall not be stayed by the appeal, unless the instrument shall nave been
executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the judgment i*
entered, to abide the judgment of the appellate court,
Section 3056. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale or
de];vei.y 0f possession of real property (except in actions for the fore
closure of a mortgage), the execution of the same shall not be stayed
unless an undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, in such sum as the court, or the presiding judge
thereof, shall direct, to the effect that, during the possession of sncli
property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be com
mitted, any waste thereon; and that if the judgment be affirmed, he
will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from the
time of the appeal until the delivery of possecsion thereof, pursuant to
the judgment,
Section 3057. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale of
mortgaged premises, the execution thereof shall not be stayed by the
appeal, unless an undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, conditioned for the payment of any deficiency
which may arise on such sale, not exceeding such sum as shall be fixed
by the court or the presiding judge thereof, to be specified in the undertaking,
and all costs and damages which may be awarded to the respond
ent on such appeal.
Section 3058. If the judgment appealed from direct the abatement or restrain the continuance of a nuisance, either public or private,
the execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal,
unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant, by at
least two sureties, in such sum as the court, or the presiding judge thereof,
shall direct, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages which
the opposite party may sustain by the continuance of such nuisance.
Section 3059. If the judgment appealed from direct the doing of
any other particular act or thing, and no express provision is made by
statute in regard to the undertaking to be given on an appeal therefrom, the execution thereof shall not be stayed by an appeal therefrom,
unless an undertaking be entered into on the part of the appellant, in
such sum as the court, or the presiding judge thereof, shall direct, and
by at least two sureties, to the eifect that the appellant will pay all
damages which the opposite party may have sustained, by the not doing
the particular act or thing directed to be done by the judgment appealed
from, and to such further effect as such court or judge shall in dis
cretion direct.
Section 3060. "When the appeal is from an order, the execution or
performance thereof shall not be delayed, except upon compliance
with such conditions as the court, or the presiding judge thereof, shall
direct, and when so required, an undertaking shall be executed on the^
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in such sum, and to such
effect, as the court, or the presiding judge thereof, shall direct; such
effect shall be directed in accordance with the nature of the order
appealed from, corresponding to the foregoing provisions in respect to
appeals from judgments, where applicable, and such provision shall be
made in all case? as shall properly protect the respondent; and no ap
peal from an intermediate order before judgment snail stay proceedings,
unle-s the court, or the presiding judge thereof, shall, in his discretion,
so specially order.
Section 3061. "When a party shall give immediate notice of appeal
from an order vacating or modifying a writ of attachment, or from an
order denying, dissolving or modifying an injunction, he may within
three days thereafter serve an undertaking executed on his part, by at
least two sureties, in such sum as the court, or the presiding judge thereof,
shall direct, to the effect that if the order appealed from, or any part
thereof, be affirmed, the appellant will pay all costs and damages which
may be' awarded against him on the appeal, and all which the adverse
party may sustain by reason of the continuance of the attachment, or
the granting or continuance of the injunction, as the case may be. Upon
the giving of such undertaking, such court or judge shall order the
attachment to be continued, and, in his discretion, may order the injunc
tion asked to be allowed, or that before granted to be continued,
until the decision of the appeal unless the respondent shall, at any
time pending the appeal, give an undertaking, with sufficient surety, in
a sum to be fixed by such court or judge, to abide and perform any
final judgment that shall be rendered in favor of such appellant in the
action; but may at any timo subsequently vacate such order, if the
appeal be not diligently prosecuted.
Section 3062. When the state, or any state officer, or state hoard,
*n a Pll,*ebT official capacity, or any municipal corporation within the
state, shall take an appeal, service of the notice of appeal shall perfect
the appeal and stay the execution or performance of ihe judgment or
order appealed from, and no undertaking need be given. I3ut the
* * . .. • ° •. j. c* ■ ■ i
supreme court may, on motion, require security to be given in such
form and manner as it shall in its discretion prescribe, as a condition
of the further prosecution of the appeal.
Section 3063. The supreme co art, upon satisfactory proof that ant
oi the sureties to any undertaking, given under this chapter, has become
insolvent, or that his circumstances nave become so precarious that there
is reason to apprehend that the undertaking is insufficient security, may
in its discretion, require the appellant to file and serve a new undertak
ing, with such surety and within such time as shall be prescribed, and
that in default thereof, the appeal shall be dismissed or the stay of pro
ceedings vacated, and the execution or performance of the judgment or
order be allowed to be enforced without further delay.
Section 3064. The undertakings required by this chapter may be
jn Qjjg instrument, or several, at the option of the appellant; the
original must be filed with the notice or appeal, and a copy, showing
*ne resi^ence °f the sureties, must be served with the notice of appeal
When the sum, or effect, of any undertaking is required under the
foregoing provisions, to be fixed by the court or judge, at least twenty
four hours' notice of the application therefore shall be given the adverse
party. When the court, or the judge thereof, from which the appeal
.g ^j^ or desired to be taken, shall neglect or refuse to make any
order or direction, not wholly discretionary, necessary to enable the
appellant to stay proceedings upon an appeal, the supreme court, or
one of the justices thereof, shall make such order or direction,
Section 3065. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no effect
unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, in which each
surety shall state that he is worth a certain sum mentioned in such
affidavit, over and above all his debts and liabilities, in property within
this state not by law exempt from execution, and which sums, so sworn
to by such sureties shall, in the aggregate, be double the amount speci
fied in said undertaking. The respondent may, however, except to
the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days after notice of the
appeal, and unless they or other sureties justify in the manner pre
scribed in sections two thousand seven hundred and four, two thousand
seven hundred and five and two thousand seven hundred and six, within
ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no undertaking
had been given. The justification shall be upon a notice of not less
than five days,
Section 3066. Whenever an appeal shall have been perfected, and
the proper undertaking given, or other act done, pi escribed by this
chapter, to stay the execution or performance of the judgment or order
appealed from, all further proceedings thereon shall be thereby staved
accordingly, except that the court below may proceed upon any other
matter included in the action, not affected by the judgment or order
appealed from, and except that the court or presiding judge thereof
may order perishable property, held under the judgment or order ap
pealed from, to be sold, and the proceeds paid into court to abide the
event.
Section 3067. When the amount of damages to be paid by the
appellant, on affirmance of the judgment or order appealed from, pur
suant to any undertaking, is not fixed by the judgment or decision of
the supreme court on the appeal, the circuit court may, after the
remittitur of the record from the supreme court is filed, order a reference
to ascertain such damages, the expense of which shall be included
and recoverable with such damages. In all cases, a neglect for the
space of thirty days after the affirmance on appeal of a judgment
directing the payment of money, to pay the amount directed to be paid
on such affirmance, shall be deemed a breach of the undertaking on such
appeal. A neglect, for the space of thirty days after the confirmation
of the report of a referee, to whom a reference has been ordered for the
purpose of ascertaining the damages to be paid, on the affirmance of
any other judgment or order appealed from, to pay the amount of dam
ages so ascertained, and the costs of such reference, shall be deemed a
breach of the undertaking on such appeal. The dismissal of an appeal
or writ of error by the appellant or plaintifff in error, or by the court
for want of prosecution, unless the court shall, at the time, otherwise
expressly order, shall render the sureties upon any undertaking or bond,
given under this chapter, liable in the same manner, and to the same
extent, as if the judgment or order appealed from, or the judgment
brought up on error, had been affirmed.
Section 3068. "When a party shall in good faith give notice of
appeal, and shall omit, through mistake or accident, to do any other act
necessary to perfect the appeal or make it effectual, or to stay proceedings,
the court, from which the appeal is taken, or the presiding: judge
thereof, or the supreme court, or one of the justices thereof, may permit
an amendment, or the proper act to be done, on such terms as may
be just.
WI1AT ORDERS REVIEWABLE.
Section 3069. The following orders, when made by the court, may
be carried by appeal to the supreme court:
1. An order affecting a substantial right, made in any action, when
such order, in effect, determines the action and prevents a judgment
from which an appeal might be taken.
2. A final order affecting a substantial right made in special proceedings, or upon a summary application in an action after judgment.
3. VV hen an order grants, refuses, continues or modifies a provisional remedy; or grants, refuses, modifies or dissolves an injunction;
when it sets aside or dismisses a writ of attachment for irregularity;
when it grants or refuses a new trial; or when it sustains or overrules
a flpmnrier
a uemurier. ...... ,
4. *V hen it involves the merits of an action, or some part thereof;
when it orders judgment on application therefore, on account of the
frivolousness of a demurrer, answer or reply, or strikes off such demurrer, answer or reply, on account of the frivolousness thereof.
5. From orders made by the circuit court, vacating or refusing to
set aside orders made at chambers, where, by the provisions of this
chapter, an appeal might have been taken, in case the order so made
at chambers had been granted or denied by the circuit court in the
first instance. For the purposes of an appeal f rom an order, either
party may require the order to be entered by the clerk of record, and
it shall be entered accordingly.
86 Wl*. 571, 612,636: 37 Id. 231; 89 Id. 308; 40 Id. 344, 357; 41 id. 28, 79, 197, 657: 42 Id. 185.
DETERMINATION ON APPEAL.
Section 3070. Upon an appeal from a judgment, as well as upon a
writ of error, the supreme court may review any intermediate order or
determination of the court below, which involves the merits and necessarily
affects the judgment, appearing upon the record transmitted or
returned from the circuit court, whether the same were excepted too;
not; nor shall it be necessary in any case to take any exception or settie
any bill of exceptions, to enable the supreme court to review anj
alleged error, which would, without a bill of exceptions, appear upon
the face of the record. Any questions of fact or of law, decided upon
trials by the court or by referees, may be reviewed, when exceptions to
tne findings of fact have been duly taken by either party and returned
38 Wle. 203, 216, 894, 533; 41 Id. 837, 657.
Section 3071. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, or upon
n. writ of error, the supreme court may reverse, affirm or modify the
judgment or order, and as to any or all of the parties; and may, if
necessary or proper, order a new trial ; and if the appeal is from a part
°^ a judgment or order, may reverse, affirm or modify as to the part
apjjealea from. In all ca^es the supreme court shall remit its judgment
or decision to the court from which the appeal or writ of error was
taken, to be enforced accordingly; and if from a judgment, final judg
ment shall thereupon be entered in the court below, in accordance therewith, except where otherwise ordered. The clerk of the supreme court
shall remit to such court the papers transmitted to the supreme eonrt
on the appeal or writ of error, together with the judgment or decision
of the supreme court thereon, within sixty days after the same shall
have been made, unless the supreme court, on application of either of
the parties, shall direct them to be retained, for the purpose of enabling
suc]j purty to move for a rehearing. In case such motion for a rehear
ing is denied, the papers shall be transmitted within twenty days after
such denial. The clerk of the supreme court shall, in all cases, excep:
when the order or judgment is affirmed, also transmit with the papers
so returned by him, a certified copy of the opinion of the supreme
court, and his fees for such copy shall be taxed and allowed with his
other fees in the case.
Section 3072. Incvery case in error, or on appeal, in which the snpreme court 6hall order a new trial, or further proceedings in the court
below, the record shall be transmitted to such court, and proceeding
nad thereon, within one year from the date of sxich order in the sopreme
court, or in default thereof, the action shall be dismissed, unlea
upon good cause shown, the court shall otherwise order.
CHAPTER CXXXIII.
OF ACTIONS OF EJECTMENT.
Section 3073. Actions for the recovery of specific real property or
of the possession thereof, with damages for the withholding thereof,
are styled actions of ejectment, and may be commenced and proceeded
in as other civil actions are, except as hereinafter provided in this
chapter.
Section 3074. No person can recover in such action, unless he has
at the time of commencing the action, a valid subsisting interest in thel
premises claimed, and a right to recover the same, or to recover the possession thereof, or of some share, interest or portion thereof, to be
proved and established in such action.
14 WU. 609; 19 Id. 459. 587; 30 Id. «: 21 Id. BOS; 23 id. 150, 153; 24 Id. 217, 441; 25 id. 613; 26 Id. 883,
614, 624; 27 id. 558; 59 id. 333; 31 id. 195; 83 id. 551 ; 35 id. 27.
Section 3075. If the premises for which the action is brought are
actually occupied by any person, such actual occupant shall be named
defendant in the complaint; if they are not so occupied, the action must
be brought against some person exercising acts of ownership on the
premises claimed, or claiming title thereto or some interest therein, at
the commencement of the action.
Section 3076. The plaintifff may join as defendant any person
claiming title to such premises, with any actual occupant thereof^ or of
some part or parcel thereof, holding as tenant under such person so
claiming title or otherwise. If upon trial it shall appear that distinct
parcels of the premises are occupied by different defendants in severalty,
or jointly, and any defendant shall make it appear by affidavit that lie
has a defense in such action separate and distinct from that of his codefendants,
the court may award a separate trial as to any of the defend
ants, as the justice of the case may require; and several judgments may
be rendered upon the verdicts in such separate trials, and new trials had
as hereinafter provided, according to the rights and interests of the par
ties; but otherwise the trial may proceed against all the defendants, and
a joint or separate verdict may be found, and separate judgments may
be rendered on such verdicts, according to the rights and interests of
the parties,
Section 3077. The complaint in such actions 6hall set forth that
foe plaintifff has an estate or interest in the premises claimed, describing them by designating the number of the lot or township, if any, in
which they are situated, and, if none, by stating the names of the last
occupants of lands adjoining the same, if any, or by metes and bound*,
or in some other way so that, from the description given, possession or
the premises claimed may be delivered ; and shall particularly state the
nature and extent of such estate or interest, whether in fee, dower, for
hfe or for a term of years, specifying such life or lives, or the duration
. . , . ' v ; * J o . »
of such term, and that he is entitled to the possession of such premises,
and that the defendant unlawfully withholds the possession thereof from
him, to his damage such sum as he claims, and may include a claim for
special damages for injuries to the freehold by waste, or otherwise, and
shall contain a demand for the judgment he claims. The plaintifffs, or
any one of them, may recover under such complaint any individual share
or interest in the premises claimed, or any separate parcel thereof whieli
may be established in the action.
Skotion 3078. The defendant may demur to or answer the cornplaint, as in personal actions; he may also, in his answer, set up any
matter as a defense which would have heretofore formed an equitable
defense, in which case the answer shall contain a demand for such iudgi_ i • Jo
ment as he claims.
21 Wis. 511; 83 id. 224; 24 id. 878; 23 id. 27, 525, 672: 26 id. 84: 27 id. 119, 108: 28 id. 678; 2914 18;
SO id. 1«, 303; 32 Id. 201,831; Slid. 480; 35 id. 27; 37 id. 033; 38 Id. U36; 39 id. 345.
Section 3079. It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to prove, or
for the defendant to confess, lease, entry and ouster or either of them,
except as provided in the next section; nor for the plaintifff to prove an
actual entry under title, nor the actual receipt 01 any profits of tie
premises demanded, but it shall be sufficient for him to show a right to
the possession of such premises at the time of the commencement of the
action, as heir, devisee, purchaser, or otherwise,
Section 3080. If the action be brought by one or more tenants in
coiainon^ or joint tenants, against their cotenants, the plaintifff, in addi
tion to all other evidence which he may be bound to give, shall be
required to prove, on the trial of the cause, that the defendant actually
ousted such plaintifff, or did some other act amounting to a total denial
of his right as such cotcnant.
Section 3081. If the action be brought against several defendants,
an(^ ft -j^ possession of all be proved, the plaintifff shall be entitled to
a verdict against all, whether they shall have answered separately or
jointly,
Section 30S2. The plaintifff may also recover damages for the rents
and profits of the premises recovered, during the time that the same are
unlawfully withheld, not exceeding six years prior to the commencement
of the action, and also any special damages claimed in the complaint
^or inj11^68 to the freehold by waste, or otherwise, which damages shall
be assessed by the same jury by which the action is tried. In estimatingsnch
damages, the value 01 the use of any improvements made by
tbe defendant, or those under whom he claims, shall not be allowed to
the plaintifff. _
Section 3083. An executor or administrator may proceed by action,
pursuant to this chapter, for the recovery of speci lie real property, or
of the possession thereof, with damages for the witholding of the same,
belonging to the estate represented by him. In stating the interest
claimed, the complaint shall set forth the nature and extent of the in
terest which the heirs, devisees or successors in interest of the deceased
have in the premises claimed, and also that the plaintifff, as such exe
cutor or administrator, is entitled to the possession thereof.
Section 30S4. In such actions the verdict shall be rendered as follows:
1. If it be shown on the trial that all the plaintifffs have a right to
recover the possession of the premises, the verdict in that respect shall
be for the plaintifffs generally.
2. If it appear that one or more of the plaintifffs have a right to the
possession of the premises, or any share or interest therein, and that
one or more have not such right, the verdict 6hall specify for which
plaintifff the jury find, and as to which plaintifff they find for the de
fendant
3. If the verdict be for any plaintifff, and there be several defendants,
the verdict shall be rendered against such of them as were in possession
of the premises, or as claimed title thereto, at the commencement of the
action.
4. If the verdict be for all the premises claimed, as specified in the
complaint, it shall in that respect be for such premises generally.
5. If the verdict be for a part of the premises described in the com
plaint, the verdict shall particularly specify such part, with the same
certainty, hereinbefore required in the complaint, in the description of
the premises claimed.
6. If the verdict be for an undivided share, or interest, in the premises
claimed, it shall specify such share or interest, and, if for an undivided
share in part of the premises claimed, it shall specify such share and
shall describe such part of the premises as hereinbefore required.
7. The verdict shall specify the estate which shall have been estab
lished on the trial by the plaintifff, if rendered in his favor, whether it
be in fee, dower, for life or for a term of years, specifying such life, or
lives or the duration of such term.
Section 30S5. If the right or title of a plaintifff in such action expire
after the commencement of the action, the verdict shall be according to the fact; and the damages for rents and profits shall be assessed
up to the time that such right or title expired, and judgment therefore
only shall be rendered in favor of such plaintifff.
Section 30S6. The judgment, after trial, shall be in accordance
with the verdict or decision of the court; and, if judgment be for the
plaintifff by default, according to the description of the premises and
the estate therein, alleged in the complaint or proved, with costs.
Section 3087. In all such actions, when the plaintifff is entitled to
recover by reason of a defect or insufficiency of any tax deed under
which tbe defendant claims title, or in the proceedings prior to the sale
upon which such tax deed was issued, unless it shall be made to ap
pear affirmatively by the plaintifff that the premises claimed were not
liable to taxation for the tax for which they were sold, or that such
tax was paid prior to the sale, or the land was redeemed from such
sale, the court shall ordor that the amount for which such land waa
sold, if the defendant, or those under whom he claims, were the pur
chaser at the sale, or the amount paid by him, or them, to the proper
officer in the purchase of the certificate of sale, upon which such tax
deed issued, and the costs of executing and recording such tax deal,
and the amount paid by him for taxes assessed upon said premises sub
sequent to said sale, with interest on all such sums at the rate of seven
per centum per annum from the time so paid, until the date of verdict,
shall be set off against the damages awarded to the plaintifff by the ver
dict, and that if there be any excess, that the plaintifff as a condition of
judgment shall pay the same with interest froin the date of the verdict,
within ninety days, and that, in default thereof, the defendant shall
have judgment in the action.
Section 3088. Every judgment rendered in any such action, shall
be conclusive as to the title established therein, upon the party against
whom it is rendered; and upon all persons claiming from, through or
under him, by title accruing after the filing of a notice of the pendency
of the action in the office of the proper register, of deeds, subject to the
exceptions hereinafter contained.
Section 3089. Every such judgment, rendered upon the defendant's
failure to answer, shall, from and after two years from the time
0f its rendition, be conclusive as to the title established therein, upon
the party against whom it is rendered, and all persons claiming from.
through or under him, by title accruing after the filing of a notice of
the pendency of the action in the office of the proper register of deeds;
but within such two years, on the application of the defendant, his
heirs, devisees or assigns, and upon the payment of all costs recovered
thereby, the court shall vacate such judgment and allow the dofendant,
his heirs, devisees or assigns to answer therein, in which case he may
aver and show any matters in bar of a recovery which he might show
to entitle him to recover possession of the premises if he were plaintifff
in the action.
Section 3090. If the defendant in such action, at the time of the
rendition of such judgment, be either:
1. Within the age of twenty one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on any criminal charge or in execution upon convicjon of a criminal offense for any term less than life, the time during
which such disability may continue is no part of the two years men
tioned in the preceding section; but such defendant, his heirs, devisees
or assigns, may apply to so vacate such judgment, or bring an action
for the recovery of the premises claimed, within two years after such
disability shall be removed, but not afterwards.
Section 3091. If the defendant in the action mentioned in the two
preceding sections shall die during the continuance of such disability,
and no determination or judgment has been had of or upon his right,
title or action so to him accrued, his heirs, devisees or assigns, may apply
to vacate such judgment, or bring such action, after the time above lim
ited, and within two years after his death,
Section 3092. The court in which any such judgment shall have
^een ren(Jere(J) otherwise than upon failure to answer, shall, upon application of the party against whom the same was rendered, his heirs,
devisees or assigns, within one year from the rendition thereof, vacate
jue judgment and grant a new trial, upon condition that all costs recov
ered thereby, or awarded on affirmance of such judgment on appeal,
or writ of error, be paid, and that the applicant execute and file an un
dertaking, with sufficient sureties, in such sum as the court shall direct,
to the effect that he will pay all costs and damages which may be
finally awarded the other party. The sureties shall justify their respon
sibility in the same manner as bail on arrest. The time during which
the action may be pending on an appeal or writ of error from such
judgment, either in the supreme court, or the supreme court of the
United States, or both, from the taking of the appeal or issuing the
writ of error to the filing of the remittitur or mandate in the court be
low, shall not be reckoned a part of such one year. But one such new
trial shall be granted.
Section 3093. When the plaintifff has taken possession of real prop, . . . . , * . ,. . . fT, . ,, r r,
erty, by virtue of any judgment awarding him the possession thereof,
eiich possession shall not be in any way affected by the vacating of such
judgment as herein provided ; and if the defendant thereafter recover
judgment in the action, it shall be for the restitution of the possession
of such property, and execution may issue for the delivery thereof to
him, as if he were plaintifff.
Section 3094. If the action be to recover dower which has not been
admeasured, no execution shall issue except as hereinafter provided,
but such dower shall be assigned as follows:
1. Upon entering judgment, the court shall appoint three disinter
ested freeholders commissioners for the purpose ot making admeasure
ment of the dower out of the premises claimed, who shall proceed in
like manner and possess the like powers, unless otherwise directed by
the court, as commissioners appointed under chapter one hundred and
sixty six. /
2. The court may confirm or modify the report, as may be just.
3. Upon the confirmation of the report, execution may issue to the
sheriff of the proper county, describing the premises assigned for dower,
and commanding the sheriff to put the plaintifff in possession thereof.
The costs and expenses of such admeasurement 6hall be subject to the
order of the court.
Section 3095. No action of ejectment for the recovery of mortgaged premises shall be maintained by a mortgagee, his assigns or rep
resentatives.
RECOVERY FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
Section 3096. In every case where a recovery shall be had of any
land, on which the party in possession, or those under whom he claims,
while holding adversely by color of title asserted in good faith, founded
on descent or any written instrument, shall have made permanent and
valuable improvements, or shall have paid taxes assessed, such party,
for liimself and for the benefit of those under whom he claims, shall
be entitled to have from the plaintifff, his heirs or assigns, if he insist
upon his recovery, the value of such improvements at the time the verdiet or decision against him is given, and the amount paid for taxes,
with interest from the date of the payment, to be assessed and recov
ered as hereinafter provided, and for the payment thereof shall have a
lien on the real estate so recovered. When such recovery is of- any es
tate less than a fee, or of any share or interest less than the whole, the
claim for such improvements and taxes shall be proportioned to the
benefits derived thereby to the estate, share or interest recovered. But
the plaintifff shall be entitled to set off against such claim for improve
ments and taxes, any claim for rents and profits ci joyed by the de
fendant, or those under whom he claims, during any period occurring
prior to and terminating six years before the commencement of such
action of ejectment, and which he might have recovered but for the
limitation by law thereon; and also any such rents and profits, enjoyed
by the defendant since the verdict in the ejectment action and prior to
the assessment of the value of such improvements.
Section 3097. Such claim for improvements and taxes may be tried,
and the amount exceeding the setoffs aforesaid, assessed and recovered
as follows:
1. The defendant may set forth his claims by way of counterclaim
in his answer to the complaint in ejectment, and have the same tried
and the amount assessed by the same jury by which the action of eject
ment is tried, but a separate verdict shall, in all cases, be rendered
thereon; or
2. After a verdict for the plaintifff, and at the same term, or within
such further time as may be granted by the court, when no such coun
terclaim shall have been made, the court shall, on the application of
the defendant, cause an issue to be made up between the parties, in
which such defendant shall be plaintifff and the plaintifff in the eject
ment action shall be defendant, and such issue shall stand for trial by
a jury at the same or any subsequent term to which it shall be con
tinued; in which case no judgment shall be entered in the action of
ejectment until the trial of such issue.
3. If neither of the foregoing modes be pursued, the defendant may
recover such taxes and interest, and the value of such improvements,
with interest from the date of the verdict in the ejectment action, and
enforce his lien therefore, by an independent action after judgment in
the ejectment action, which must be commenced within one year from
the date of the execution of such judgment. Such action may be
maintained in the circuit court, notwithstanding the action of ejectment
may have been tried in any court of the United States.
Section 3098. When the right of a defendant to recover for such
. _ 1 11 i ii*iiii
improvements and taxes shall be established, and the amount thereof
assessed in either of the two first modes aforesaid, such assessment, with
the costs of the trial of such issue, shall be set off against the sum
awarded for costs and damages to the plaintifff in the action of ejectment, and if there remain any excess, the judgment in such action shall
provide that the plaintifff shall pay the amount thereof, with interest
from the date of the verdict in the ejectment action, within three years
from the date of such assessment, as a condition of execution, and shall
have no claim for rents and profits while the same remains so unpaid
after assessment, and that, in default of such payment, he shall be
deemed to have abandoned his claim of title to the premises in ques
tion, and, together with all persons claiming under him, shall be for
ever barred of a recovery, and of claim ot title, and the title to the
premises in question shall be deemed absolutely vested in the defend
ant, and the defendant shall recover his costs of any separate trial of
the value of such improvements; but that upon payment as aforesaid,
the plaintifff shall have execution for the premises recovered.
Section 3099. At the expiration of the three years limited in any
such judgment, the court may make an order upon the foot of the
judgment, upon application of the defendant, after notice and upon
satisfactory proof of the fact, declaring that the plaintifff hai failed to
make the payment required thereby as a condition of execution, and
that the judgment has become absolute in favor of the defendant,
Section 3100. If the defendant in any action of ejectment be, at
the time of the rendition thereof, under either disability mentioned in
section three thousand and ninety, the time during which such disabilitj shall continue, shall not be reckoned any part of the year mentioned
in the third subdivision of section three thousand and ninety seven:
but the action may be brought within one year after the removal or
such disability.
CHAPTER CXXXIV.
OF ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS FOR PARTITION.
Section 3101. All persons holding lands as joint tenants, or tenants
in common, may have partition thereof by civil action in the manner
provided in this chapter. Such action may be maintained by any person who has any estate in possession of the lauds of which partition
is sought, but not by any one who has only an estate therein in remain
der or reversion.
Section 3102. The complaint in such action shall particularly describe the lands sought to be partitioned, and shall set forth the rights
and titles of all persons interested therein, so far as the same are known
to the plaintifff, including the interest of any tenant for years, for life,
by the curtesy or in dower, and of the persons entitled to the rever
sion, remainder, or inheritance, after the termination of any particular
estate therein; and of every person, who by any contingency, contained
in any devise, grant or otherwise, or as having an inchoate right of
dower, may be or become entitled to any beneficial interest in the
1>remi6es; but in case any such person, or his share, or interest, be un
known to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership
of the inheritance shall depend upon an executory devise, or the remain
der shall be a contingent remainder, so that such person, or his interest,
cannot be named or set forth, the same shall be stated in the complaint,
bat no person, whose title or interest appears of record, or who is in
the actual possession or occupancy of any of such lands, shall be con
sidered or proceeded against as an unknown owner. The complaint
shall demand judgment for a partition of the premises according to
the respective rights of the parties interested therein, and for a sale
thereof, if it shall appear that partition of the land cannot be made
without great prejudice to the owners thereof; and when the complaint
does not pray partition of all the lands owned by the parties, either of
them may have the complaint so amended as to affect all the lands so
owned. Every person having an interest, as aforesaid, whether in
possession or otherwise, and every person entitled to dower in such
premises, if the same has not been admeasured, may be made a party
to such action.
Section 3103. The plaintifff need not in the first instance, but may,
at his election, make any creditor having a lien upon the premises, or
any part thereof, or any undivided interest or estate therein, a defend
ant. If such lien is upon an individual interest or estate therein, the
complaint shall set forth the nature of such lien, and specify the share
to which it attaches. If partition is made, such lien upon an undivided
interest or estate shall thereafter be a charge only on the share assigned
to the party against whom it exists, which share shall be charged with
its just proportion of the costs in preference to such lien, but in no
other case shall such partition alter, affect or impair the lien of any
such creditor.
Section 3104. The general guardians residing in this state of all
minors, or other persons under guardianship, who should be parties to
any such action, upon giving the bond herein provided shall represent
their wards therein; and the court shall appoint guardians for the pur
poses of the action of all such minors who have no such general guard
ian, and the acts of all such guardians shall be binding upon their
wards. Every such guardian shall give bond to the state, to be filed
with the clerk of the court, in such sum and with such surety as the
court shall direct, and to be by it approved, conditioned for the faith
ful performance of his duties as guardian, and that he will render a
just and true account of his guardianship in all courts and place;
when thereunto required, and that he will observe all the orders of the
court in relation to his trust. If such general guardian, or guardian
so appointed, fail to give and file such bond, the clerk of the court
shall be appointed such guardian, in which case the court may dis
pense with his giving such bond.
Section 3105. Any defendant may deny the joint tenancy, or tenancy
in common, of any codefendant, and any issue of fact between
tne parties may be tried by a jury, as in other cases.
Section 3106. Either before or after the trial of such issue, the
court may permit the complaint and all subsequent proceedings to be
amended, so as to represent truly the rights claimed by any party, or
so as to make any person a defendant who shall have appeared in the
course of the proceedings to be interested in the premises, and who
might originally have been made a defendant if his interest had then
existed or been known; but no person shall be so made a defendant,
unless by his consent, without eight days' notice of the motion to this
effect being personally served on him, or published once in each week,
successively, for one month, in such paper as the court may direct
Section 3107. After such amendment, any party whose rights are
Qr m&^ ^e affected thereby, may serve an answer, or amended answer,
to the complaint, within such time as shall be fixed by the court, no:
less than twenty days, and may maintain his claim or defense, as the
circumstances of the case may render proper.
Section 3108. In case any or all the defendants fail to answer the
complaint, proof shall be made of the allegations thereof, and if any
issues are made, after trial thereof, the court, upon the proofs made in
either case, shall determine the rights of the parties, and by order
declare the rights, titles and interests of the several parties to the
premises, and direct that partition be made between such of them as
shall be proved to have any right, title or interest therein, according
to such rights, titles and interests,
Section 3109. If the right or interest in such premises of any
Party, who has not appeared or answered, whether known or unknown,
shall not be made to appear by the proofs so taken, the court shall
order that partition be made, so far as the rights and interests of the
parties who are known, and who have appeared or answered, have been
ascertained, and the residue of the premises shall remain for the par
ties whose interests have not been ascertained, subject to partition
among them at any future time,
Section 3110. Such order for partition shall contain a clause
referring it to a proper person to inquire into the situation of the prem
ises, and to report whether the premises, or any part of them, are so cir
cumstanced that a partition thereof among the parties interested cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, and also to inquire
and report whether the interest of the parties will be promoted by
platting the property sought to be partitioned, or any part thereof.
Section 3111. If, upon the coming in of such report, the court
shall be satisfied that the partition of the premises can be made without great prejudice to the owners, it shall, by order, appoint three dis
interested freeholders, commissioners to make the partition so ad
judged, and according to the rights and interests of the parties as 60
ascertained; and in such order, the part or shares, if any, which shall
remain undivided for the owners whose interests have not been ascer
tained, shall be designated; and if, also, upon the coming in of said
report, the court shall be satisfied that the interests of the parties will
be promoted by platting the premises, or any parti thereof, it shall, by
the same order, direct such commissioners to make and acknowledge
a plat of such premises, or a part thereof to be designated, laying out
streets, roads and alleys therein as they may deem most beneficial to
the owners; which plat, when made, approved by the court and
recorded as other plats are required to be recorded by law, shall have
the same effect and validity, as if duly made by the parties to the
action pursuant to chapter one hundred and one. "When such plat is
so made, approved and recorded, partition or sale if ordered may be
made in accordance therewith.
Section 3112. If either of the persons so appointed commissioners
shall die, resign, or neglect or refuse to serve, the court may, from
time to time, appoint others in their places. Before proceeding to
the execution of their duties, they shall be severally sworn honestly
and impartially to make partition as directed by the court, which oath
shall be filed with the clerk of the court on or before the coming in
of their report.
Section 3113. In making partition, they shall divide the said real
estate, and allot the several portions or shares thereof to the respect
ive parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, according to
the respective rights and interests of the parties as so declared in said
order of the court, designating the several shares and portions by
posts, stones or other permanent monuments; and, if necessary, they
may employ a surveyor, with necessary assistants to aid them in the
discharge of their duties.
Section 3114. All the commissioners must meet together in the
performance of any of their duties, but the acts of a majority so metr
shall be valid. They shall report in writing, under the hand of any
two of them, specifying the manner of executing their trust, and
describing the land divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with
convenient certainty, and the items of their charges. Their expenses,
including those of a surveyor and assistants, shall be subject to the
approval of the court, and, with the compensation allowed by the
court for their services, shall be paid by the plaintifff, and allowed as
part of the costs to be taxed.
Section 3115. On good cause shown, the court may set aside theK
, • ,, ° . , . . . • . .
report and refer the case to the same, or appoint uew commissioners,
as often as may be necessary, who shall proceed in like manner as
hereinbefore directed.
Section 3116. Notice of the application to confirm said report
shall be given to all the parties that have appeared, and upon confirmation thereof, judgment shall be entered that the partition so
ordered and made, be firm and effectual forever, and such judgment
shall be final and conclusive:
t
1. On all the parties to such action and their legal representative!
except as hereinbefore provided and as provided in the next section
2. On all persons interested in the premises who may be unknown,
who shall be served in such action as provided by law.
3. On all persons claiming, or to claim from such parties or persons,
or c't'ier °f them, subsequent to the filing of the notice of the peudency
of the action.
A copy of such report and judgment, certified to be such in the
manner required by law to make them evidence, shall be recorded in
each county in which any part of the premises are situated, and the
expense of such copy and record shall be taxed in the costs,
Section 3117. buch judgment shall not affect any tenants, or per
sons having claims as tenants, in dower, by the curtesy, for life, or for
years, in the whole of the premises; nor shall it preclude any person,
except those mentioned in the preceding and not excepted in this sec
tion, from claiming any title to such premises, or from controverting
the title or interest of the parties between whom partition is made,
Section 3118. Such judgment must direct that eachof thepa^
ties, who is entitled to the immediate possession of a distinct parte!
allotted to him, be let into the possession thereof immediately, or
after the determination of a particular estate, as the case may require.
If any party, or his legal representatives, withhold possession thereof
from the party adjudged to be entitled thereto, or his legal represent
atives, he may be punished for his disobedience as for a contempt, and
the court may make an order, or issue a writ of assistance, directing
the sheriff to put such party or his legal representatives in possession
thereof, which order shall be executed as if it were an execution.
Section 3119. If the person to whom the reference is made, as
provided iu section three thousand and ten, shall report that the
premises, or any distinct portion thereof, are so situated that parti
tion thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners,
the court, if satisfied that such is the fact, may make an order direct
ing the sheriff or a referee to sell the premises so situated, at public
auction, to the highest bidder. Such order shall direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for any portion of the purchase money,
of which the court shall think proper to direct the investment, or as
is required by the provisions hereinafter contained to be invested for
the benefit of any unknown owners, infants, nonresidents or tenants
for life, years, dower or by the curtesy.
Section 3120. Before making such order of sale, if any creditor
having lien, by judgment, mortgage or otherwise, upon the undivided
interest or estate of any of the parties, has not been made a party, the
court shall direct the complaint to be amended so as to make him a party
and in such order of sale shall direct the sheriff to pay to the clerk of the
court the portion of the monies arising from the sale of the interest
or estate to which such lien attaches, after deducting its proportion of
the costs of such sale, which proportion shall be fixed by the
court.
Section 3121. Whenever the estate of any tenant in dower, by the
curtesy, for life or for years, in the whole, or any part or share, of the
premises, has been ascertained by the court, and is existing at the
time of the order for suvh sale, and the person entitled to such estate
is a party to the action, the court shall determine whether, under all
the circumstances of the case, such estate ought to be excepted from
such sale, and may so provide in such order. If a sale of the prem
ises, including such estate, is ordered, such estate shall pass thereby,
and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns, shall have the same discharged
from all claim hy virtue of such estate.
Section 3122. The sheriff or referee shall give notice of such sale
for the same time, and in the same manner, as is required hy law for
sales of real estate on execution. The terms of sale shall be made
known at the time thereof, and if the premises consist of distinct
lots, tracts or parcels, they shall be sold separately. Neither the
sheriff or referee, nor any person for his benefit, shall purchase at
such sale, or be interested directly or indirectly in any purchase of the
premises 6old; nor shall any guardian of a ward purchase or be
interested in any way in the purchase of any of the premises except
for the benefit or on behalf of such ward; and all 6ales to the con
trary hereof shall be void.
Section 3123. The portions of the purchase money for which credit
shall be allowed, shall always be secured, at interest, by a mortgage
of the premises sold, by the bond of the purchaser, and by such other
security as the court shall prescribe; and the sheriff or referee may
take separate mortgages and other securities, for such convenient
shares or portions of the purchase money as are directed by the court
to be invested, in the name of the clerk of the court where the action
is pending, and his successors in office, and for such shares as any
known owner of full age shall desire to have so invested, in the name
:>f such owner. Upon such sales being confirmed, as hereinafter
mentioned, such sheriff or referee shall deliver such mortgages and
jther securities to the clerk, or to the known owners whose share was
so invested.
Section 3124. After completing such sale, the sheriff or referee
shall report the same to the court, with a description of the differjut parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name of such pur
chaser, and the price bid by him, which report shall be filed in the
court.
Section 3125. If the sale is confirmed by the court, judgment
>hall be entered directing the sheriff or referee to execute conveymces
pursuant thereto, and also directing the application of the pro
ceeds of such sale. Such judgment, and conveyances executed pur
suant thereto, are binding upon the persons named in section three
housand one hundred and sixteen, and shall effectually bar each of
:uch persons from all right, title and interest in the property sold,
lot purchased by him.
Section 3126. Unless the court otherwise direct, the costs of
ivery party to the action must be deducted from the proceeds of the
ale and paid to his attorney; but the court may, in its discretion,
lircct the costs and expenses of any trial, reference or other proceedng
in the action, to be paid out of the share of any party in such
>roceeds, or may render judgment against any party therefore.
Section 3127. The proceeds of every sale shall be paid into court
)y the sheriff or referee with his report, and after deducting costs,
shall be divided among the parties whose rights or interests have been
sold, in proportion to their respective rights in the premises. The
nun chargeable upon any share to satisfy the lien of any creditor shall
» paid to him as hereinafter provided, and, except as thus provided,
:he share of such of the parties as shall be of full age shall be paid
x> them when not hereinafter otherwise provided.
Section 312S. Anv creditor, beinjy a party to the action, bavins:
... -,. ., , , ° . *■ J. . ., .' . P
inch hen upon any undivided snare or interest in the premises sold,
w aDy party owning such share, may apply to the court to order the
amount due such creditor to be paid, which application shall be accompanied
with:
1. An affidavit stating the amount actually due upon such incum
brance or lien, and the name and residence of the owner thereof, to be
made by the party applying, his agent or attorney.
2. An affidavit showing service of a notice of such application by
the party applying, upon the other party, either personally or by leav
ing a copy of it at his residence, if absent therefrom, with some per
son of his household of proper age at least fourteen days previously.
If the party to be served with such notice reside out of the state, the
notice may be served personally, or published in such newspaper as
the court may direct, three weeks successively, once in each week, im
mediately previous to such application, of which publication proof
must be filed.
Section 3129. Upon such application and proof of notice, the conn
6nan proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the parties; and if
any question of fact shall arise, which, in the opinion of the court,
cannot be satisfactorily determined without a trial by jury, the conn
shall direct an issue to be made, which shall be tried as in other cases,
and the costs of such trial shall be paid by the party failing, which
payment shall be enforced as in other cases.
Section 3130. "When the amount of the existing unsatisfied incumbrances or liens upon any undivided shares shall have been ascer
tained, the court must order a distribution of the money pertaining
to such shares to be made among the creditors having such incum
brances or liens, according to the priority thereof, respectively; ani
the clerk of the court shall procure satisfaction thereof to be acknow.edged,
as required by law, and cause such encumbrance or lien to le
duly satisfied and canceled of record, and the expenses thereof shall
be paid by or out of the money belonging to the party by whom such
encumbrance was payable.
Section 3131. The proceedings to ascertain and settle the amount
0j encumbrances, as herein provided, shall not affect any other party
in such action, nor delay the paying over or investing the monies to
or for the benefit of any party upon whose estate in the premises
there shall not appear to be any existing encumbrance.
Section 3132. Where any known party is an infant, the court may,
in its discretion, direct his share to be paid to his general guardian, or
to be invested in permanent securities, at interest, in his name and for
(his benefit.
Section 3133. When a party, whose interest has been sold, is absent from the state, without legal representatives in this state, and has
not appeared in the action, or is unknown, or not named in the pro
ceedings, the court shall direct his share to be invested in permanent
securities, at interest, for his benefit, until claimed by him or his legal
representatives,
Section 3134. When the proceeds of a sale belonging to any tenant jQ dower, or by the curtesy, for life or for years, shall be brought
into court as hereinbefore provided, the court shall direct the same to
be invested in permanent securities, at interest, so that such interest
shall annually be paid to the parties entitled to such estate during
their lives, respectively, except as otherwise provided in the next sec
tion.
Section 3135. Any party to the action who has a right of dower,
vested or inchoate, or is a tenant in dower, by the curtesy, for life or
for years, shall be entitled to receive from the proceeds of the sale »
jrose sum, to be fixed according to the principles of law applicable to
mnuities, in satisfaction of his or her estate or interest. ±he written
sonsent, sealed, witnessed and acknowledged as a conveyance of such
)<irty to receive such gross sum, must be filed at or before the tiling of
he report of sale; otherwise the court shall direct that out of the proseeds
of sale one-third, in case of a dowress whose right is vested, and
n case of estates by the curtesy or for life, the entire proceeds, or in
sase of an inchoate right of dower, its proportionable value according
o the principles of law applicable to annuities and survivorships, and
n case of an estate for years, such proportionate part thereof as fairly
•epresents the interest of the holder of the estate, shall be invested
'or his or her benefit; and if any person entitled to any such estate is
mknown, the court shall provide for the protection of his rights, in
he same manner as if he was known and had appeared. In all cases,
;he proper proportion of expenses shall be deducted from the proceeds
>f sale.
Section 313G. The court may, in its discretion, require all or any
)f the parties, before they shall receive any share of the monies arisng
from such sales, to give security to the satisfaction of such court,
;o refund the said share, with interest thereon, in case it shall there
after appear that such party was not entitled thereto.
Section 3137. When any security is directed to be taken by the
jonrt or any investment to be made, or any security shall be taken by
i sheriff or referee on the sale of any real estate, as heretofore directed,
?xcept where provision shall be made for taking the same in the name
)f any known owner, the bonds, mortgages, or other evidences thereof
shall be taken in the name of the clerk of the court in whose office
:he original complaint was filed, and his successors in office, who shall
Mid the game by virtue of his office, and shall deliver them to his
successor.
Section 3138. Such clerk shall receive the interest or principal of
iny 6ums as they become due, and apply or reinvest the same accordng
to the circumstances of the case, as the court shall direct, and
shall, once in every year, render to the court an account in writing
md on oath, of all monies received by him and of the application
:hereof.
Section 3139. All investments or reinvestments, under the prorisions
of this chapter, shall be made on bond and mortgage upon
inincumbered real estate, of at least double the value of such investnent,
exclusive of buildings, or in other equivalent security; and no
such security, bond, mortgage or other evidence of such investment,
shall be discharged, transferred or impaired by any act of the clerk,
without the order of the court, duly entered of record.
Section 3140. Any person interested in such investment may,
kritb the leave of the court, prosecute the same in the name of the
Jxisting clerk, and no action shall be abated by the expiration of office,
ieath, removal from office, or resignation of the clerk to whom such
securities or evidences were executed, or of any of his successors.
Section 3141. Whenever partition shall be adjudged in any action,
if it shall appear that it cannot be made equal between the parties
without prejudice to the rights or interests of some of them, the court
may provide, in its judgment, that compensation be made by one party
to the other for equality of partition, according to the equity of the
ease; and where any party has, with the knowledge or assent of the
others, or any of them, made improvements upon lauds partitioned,
&e portion of such lands, upon which such improvements have been
made, may be allotted to such party without computing in their value.
the value of such improvements,
Section 3142. The judgment confirming the partition made shall
adjudge that each of the parties, other than the plaintifff, pay to him a
proportion of the costs and charges of the proceedings, to be ascer
tained by the court; and the proportion of such costs and charts,
adjudged to be paid by the unknown owners, shall be adjudged to be
a charge upon the part remaining undivided. Execution may issm
for such costs as in other cases, and may be levied upon the proper!!
of the parties respectively charged therewith, and a sale of the premises
allotted to such unknown owner, upon such execution, shall be as valid
as if he had been named in the proceedings and in such execution. Ii
the complaint be dismissed, or the action discontinued, the plaintifff
shall be adjudged to pay costs as in other cases. He shall also psj
the costs when the defendant does not appear, unless the complaint
asks partition or sale of all the lands owned by the parties of whici
partition may be had, or unless the defendant is personally served in
the action,
Section 3143. Any of the parties to an action for the partition or
ga|e Q£ any prem;se8j nn<jer the provisions of this chapter, and anj
party interested in the premises, though not named in the proceeding?.
may jointly or separately, and without the consent of any coplaintiff
or codefendant, appeal from any judgment or order of the court, npc-c
any such proceedings, within the same time, and under the like regu
lations as in other cases.
Section 3144. Whenever the general guardian of any infant or the
husband of any married woman, who is an infant and lias no general
or *ne guardian resident, nonresident or foreign, of any
idiot, lunatic, spendthrift, or person mentally incapable of managing
his own ad'airs, residing in or out of this state, shall apply in writing
to the circuit court of the county in which the lands of his ward, oij
such infant married woman, lie, stating that such ward or infant mar-i
ried woman owns interests in lands in such county, which woaH|
authorize such ward or infant married woman to be made a party If
an action for a partition thereof, and that the interest of such person,
or of any other person interested in such lands, requires a partiti;a|
thereof, such court shall refer such application to some person to u>
quire into and report upon the circumstances stated; and upon th^
coming in of the referee's report, and after a hearing and examina
tion of the matter the court may authorize such guardian, or t!«
husband of such infant married woman, to agree upon a partition of
a sale of the whole interest of such ward, or infant married worna*
in such lands, or of such part thereof as, in the opinion ol the conn
shall be capable of partition, or as shall be most for the interest «f
such ward, or infant married woman, to have sold. In case of sna
application by a nonresident or foreign guardian, it shall be accoB«
panied with a duly certified copy of his appointment and bond, if anji
Section 3145. Such guardian or husband shall report to the conn
on oath, the partition or sale so agreed to be made by him, and the;
conveyances agreed to be made by the other parties interested, to sua
ward or infant married woman, whereupon the court may, by ordrf
in its discretion, and if, in its judgment, the interest of said ward*
infant married woman will be promoted thereby, confirm such reporl
and authorize such guardian or husband to execute conveyances i
such parts of such lands as have been agreed to be sold, and to exi
cute all conveyances of the right and interest of such ward or infa
married woman, necessary to effectuate the partition agreed upon,
and as shall fall to the share of the other persons having rights and
interests in such lauds, and to receive from such persons conveyances
agreed to he made by them.
Section 3146. Such conveyances shall be as valid and effectual to
convey the share and interest of such ward or married woman, as if the
same had been duly executed and acknowleged by them respectively,
after arriving at full age, and of such idiot, lunatic, spendthrift, or per
son mentally incapable of managing his own affairs, as if the samenad
been duly executed and acknowledged by them, respectively, when of
sound mind and understanding, and not subject to or under guardian
ship. In case of the sale of any part of such real estate, belonging to
an infant, the court may make all necessary orders for securing, invest
ing, and applying the proceeds of the sale, and for requiring security
from his guardian for that purpose.
Section 3147. "When any lands shall be held by the state and by
individuals, as tenants in common, proceedings for the partition
thereof, may be had against the state in the circuit court, in the same
■nanner as against individuals, and the like orders and judgments shall
be had therein, and the proportion of the costs and expenses of such
partition, adjudged to be paid by the state, shall be certified by the
attorney general, and paid out of the state treasury on the warrant of
the secretary of state. The summons, and all notices required to be
served, shall be served on the attorney general, who shall appear in
behalf of the state, and attend to its interests.
Section 3148. This chapter shall not authorize the revival or prosecution of any claim to lands which would, or otherwise might, be
barred by the statute of limitation, or by the acquiescence of any party
having any such claim.
PARTITION OF WATER POWERS.
Section 3149. In case of disagreement between owners of water
powers, holding as joint tenants or tenants in common, in respect to
the use of the waters thereof, or the repairs of dams or other structures
required to operate the same, either party may bring an action in the
circuit court, as hereinafter provided, for a partition of such water
between the respective owners thereof, and for an apportionment be
tween them of the expenses of such repairs, according to the rights of
the respective owners.
Section 3150. Such action shall be brought, and the persons par,. , i ii i i .ti ** . • r i.
ties thereto, shall be served with process therein, as in proceedings
under this chapter for the partition of lands, and when so served, or
having so appeared, upon its being shown to be necessary in order to
determine the rights of the parties, the court may, by order, appoint
not less than three commissioners, and empower and direct them to
examine into any matters complained of, and upon reasonable notice
to the owners or occupants of the water powers, to enter upon and take
eoutrol of the mills, machinery, flumes, gates, wheels and other appur
tenances of said water power, and to exercise such reasonable control
of the same as will enable them to ascertain the respective rights of
the parties, and to determine the manner of using, applying and pre
serving the same.
Section 3151. Said commissioners shall, before entering upon their
duties, take and file in said court an oath, faithfully to perform their
duties as such; shall proceed with reasonable dispatch to investigate
the matters complained of; shall examine witnesses touching such
matters; shall apply such tests as the nature of the case may require,
to ascertain and determine the rights of the parties, and the manner
of using and exercising such rights, interrupting as little as may be
the operations of the owners or occupants of such water power in the
use thereof; shall determine the rights of the parties, and the manner
of the use of such water power, and apportion the expense of repairs
thereof by the owners; and shall report their determination, with all
the facts, and a full statement of their experiments, and the evidence
taken by them, to the court, which determination shall be binding
upon the parties until changed or modified by the court.
Section 3152. Upon the coming in of the report of such commissioners,
and upon hearing the parties, the court before which the pro
ceedings are pending, shall make such order and enter such judgment
as the respective rights of the parties shall require, confirming or
modifying the determination of said commissioners, or for the pur
pose of more fully determining the rights of such parties, may con
tinue such commissioners, and upon reasonable notice, on the applica
tion of either part}7 interested, order a reexamination of the matteri
complained of, and, from time to time, modify its judgment, until the
rights of the parties, and the manner of exercising the same, shall be
fully settled and defined. Any issue of fact in any snch action mar
be tried by jury, with like cffcct as in other cases; and any judgment
or order therein, falling within the class of appealable orders provided
by law, may be reviewed by the supreme court as in other cases,
Section 3153. The court before which such proceedings are pending,
may, in its discretion, from time to time, make such orders as
may be necessary for the payment of the commissioners herein pro
vided for, and the other costs and disbursements therein, and may
apportion the same among the respective owners, in the ratio of their
respective interests.
CHAPTER CXXXV.
OF ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES.
Section 3154. In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages upot
reaj ggtate, if the plaintifff recover, the court shall render judgment of
foreclosure and sale as hereinafter provided, of the mortgaged premises,
or gucjJ part thcreof as may be sufficient to pay the amount adjudged
to be due upon the mortgage and obligation secured thereby, with costs.
Section 3155. The proceeds of every sale made under such judg
ment shall be applied to the discharge of the debt adjudged by such
court to be due, and the costs awarded ; and if there shall be any sur
plus, it shall be brought into court for the use of the defendant, or of
the person who may be entitled thereto, subject to the order of the
court. If such surplus, or any part thereof, shall remain in the said
court for the term of three months, without being applied for, the court
shall direct the same to be put out at interest for the benefit of the de
fendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them by the order
of such court.
Section 3156. In all such actions, the plaintifff may in his complaint,
unite with his claim for a foreclosure and sale a demand for judgment
for any deficiency which may remain due to the plaintifff, after sale of
the mortgaged premises, against every party who may be personally
iable for the debt secured by the mortgage, whether the mortgagor or
other persons, if upon the same contract which the mortgage is given
to secure; and judgment of foreclosure and sale, and also for any such
leticiency remaining after applying the proceeds of sale to the amount
. . - f ii~p . r *. •* , " r , . ,
adjudged to be due for principal, interest and costs, may in such case
be rendered. Such judgment for deficiency shall be ordered in the
original judgment, and separately rendered against the party liable, on
or after the coming in and confirmation of the report of sale, and be
docketed and enforced as in other cases.
Section 3157. Whenever an action shall be commenced for the
foreclosure of any mortgage, upon which there shall be due any interest,
or any portion or installment of the principal, and there shall be other
portions or installments to become due subsequently, the action shall be
dismissed upon the defendant's bringing into court, at any time before
judgment, the principal and interest due, with the costs. If after judg
ment is entered in such case, the defendant shall bring into court the
principal and interest due, with the costs, proceedings on the judgment
shall be stayed; but the court may enforce the judgment by a further
order, upon a subsequent default in the payment of any portion or in
stallment of the principal, or of any interest thereafter to grow due
Section 3158. If, in the cases mentioned in the last preceding section,
the defendant shall not, before judgment, bring into court the
amonnt so due, with costs, the court, before rendering judgment, shall
direct a reference to some proper person, to ascertain and report the situation of the mortgaged premises, and whether they can be sold in
parcels without injury to the interests of the parties; and if it shall
appear that they can be so sold, the judgment shall direct a sale in pareels,
specifying them, or of so much thereof as will be sufficient to pay
the amount then due for principal, interest and costs; and such judg
ment shall remain as security for any subsequent default.
Section 3159. If, in the case mentioned in the preceding section,
there shall be any default subsequent to such judgment, in the payment of any portion or installment of the principal, or of any interest
due upon such mortgage, the court may, upon petition of the complain
ant, by a further order, founded upon such first judgment, direct a sale
of so much of the mortgaged premises, to be made under the said judg
ment, as will be sufficient to satisfy the amount so due, with the costs
of such petition and the subsequent proceedings thereon; and the same
proceedings shall be had as often as a default shall happen.
Section 3160. If, in any of the foregoing cases, it shall appear tow
the court, that the mortgaged premises are so situated that they cannot
be sold in parcels without injury to the interests of the parties, or that
the sale of the whole will be most beneficial to them, the court may
adjudge the sale of the whole accordingly, in which case the proceeds
of sale, after deducting the costs of the action and of sale, shall be ap
plied to the payment of the sums then due and also to become due
thereafter; deducting from all sums not due, which do not bear interest,
interest from the time of payment to the time when the same are pay
able; or the court may direct the balance of the proceeds of sale, after
paying the sum then due, with such costs, to be placed at interest for
the benefit of the plaintifff, to be paid to him as such subsequent pay
ments or installments shall become due, with the interest thereon. The
surplus, after paying the amount due the plaintifff, and such costs, shall
in all cases, be paid to the defendant, his representatives or assigns, or
to the party equitably entitled thereto, on the order o-f the court
Section 3101. In any action for the foreclosure of a mortgage,at
any time after judgment, and before a sale pursuant thereto, the plain
tiff may be granted leave to amend the summons, complaint and all
the proceedings in the action, by making as defendant any person who
is a proper or necessary party thereto. Such person so made a party
shall be served with the summons in like manner as if originally a
party, and may answer and defend, and all matters and proceedings as
to him shall be had and taken, in like manner as if he had been origin
ally made a party thereto. After such person has been thus made a
party and served, and his rights adjudicated upon, the original judgment
may be so amended as to bar and foreclose him thereby, or to make any
provisions in regard to his rights and interests, in like manner as it could
have done had he been made originally a party.
Section 3162. In all such actions, if tiie plaintifff shall recover, the
judgment shall fix the amount of the mortgage debt then due, and also
•the amount of each installment thereafter to grow due, and the sever.,
tiines when they will become so due, and shall adjudge that the mortgage(l
premises be sold for the payment of the amount adjudged to be
twen ^ue> anc^ °^ *^ installments which shall thereafter grow due
before the sale, or so much thereof as may be sufficient to pay such
amount for principal, interest and costs, including costs of sale, and
when demanded in the complaint, an order directing that judgment he
rendered for any deficiency against the parties personally liable there
for; but no such sale shall be made until the expiration of one year
from the date of such judgment or order of sale; and when judgment
is for installments due and to grow due, and payment shall be made
within the year of the installments found due at the date of the judg
ment, with interest and costs, no sales shall be made upon any install
ment growing due after the date of the judgment, until the expiration
of one year after the same shall become due; but in all cases the par
ties may, by stipulation in writing, to be filed with the clerk, consent
to an earlier sale. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
judgments of foreclosure and sale of mortgages given by any railroad
corporation, but such sales may be made immediately after the rendi
tion of the judgment.
Section 3163. If any defendant appear and answer that any portion
of the mortgaged premises is a homestead, the court shall ascertain
whether such be the fact, and if so, whether the part of the mortgaged
premises, not included in the homestead, can be sold separately therefrom
without injury to the interests of the parties, and in that case shall
direct in the judgment that the homestead shall not be sold until all the
other mortgaged lands have been sold,
Section 3164. The amount adjudged to be due in the judgment
^^ <jraw interest, at the rate of ten per centum per annum, from itt
date until the date of sale or payment, and all installments which shall
become due after the date of such judgment, shall draw interest at
the same rate from the time the same shall become due. The court
may also, in the judgment, enjoin the defendants, and all persons claim
ing under them, from committing any waste, or doing any act that
may impair the value of such premises at any time after the date of
the judgment.
Section 3165. The mortgagor, his heirs, personal representatives,
assignSj may redeem the mortgaged premises from the effect of said
judgment, and the lien of the mortgage thereon, at any time before the
sale of such premises, by paying to the clerk of the court in which the
judgment was rendered, or to the plaintifff therein, or any assignee
thereof, or to his attorney, the amount of such judgment, interest
thereon as aforesaid, and costs, and any costs subsequent to euch judg
ment, and any sums paid by the plaintifff subsequent to the judgment,
for, or in redemption of, taxes, assessed upon the mortgaged premises,
with interest thereon from the date of payment, at the same rate. On
payment to such clerk as aforesaid, or on filing the receipt of the
plaintifff, or his assigns or attorney, for such payment, in the office of
said clerk, he shall thereupon discharge such judgment, and a certifi
cate of such discharge, duly recorded in the office of the register of
deeds, shall discharge such mortgage of record, to the extent of the sum
so paid.
Section 3166. Incase the mortgagor, his heirs, representatives or
assigns shall desire to pay a portion 01 such judgment, taxes, interest
and costs, so as to relieve any distinct lot or parcel of the premises
which can be sold separately under such judgment from the lien
thereof, and of such mortgage thereon, the court, on application of
such person, and on notice to the parties to the action may, if the
amount to be paid therefore is not agreed upon, ascertain and adjudge
the proportion of such judgment, taxes, interest and costs to be paid
for the purpose aforesaid; and when the amount so adjudged shall be
paid as aforesaid, it shall relieve such distinct lot or parcel from such
judgment and the lien of such mortgage thereon, and shall satisfy
such judgment to the amount so paid. Any heir, devisee, grantee or
assignee of the mortgagor, owning an undivided interest in the mort
gaged premises, subject to the lien of the mortgage, may redeem such
undivided interest from such judgment and the lien of the mortgage
thereon, by paying as aforesaid a sum that will bear the same projxjrtion
to the whole of such judgment, taxes, costs and interest as
the interest proposed to be redeemed bears to the whole of the mort
gaged premises.
Section 3167. Any person having a lien, acquired at any time before
the sale, upon the mortgaged premises, or any part thereof, or interest
therein, subsequent to the lien of any such mortgage, may also, at any
time before such sale, pay to the clerk of said court, or the plaintifff in
such judgineut, or any assignee thereof, or to his attorney, the amount
of such judgment, taxes, interest thereon as aforesaid, .and costs, and
any costs subsequent to such judgment, and shall thereupon be subro
gated to all the rights of the plaintifff as to such judgment, with full
power to enforce the same, unless the same shall have been paid by the
mortgagor, or person personally liable for the mortgage debt, as provided
in the preceding section.
Section 3168. The sheriff or referee who makes sale of mortgaged
premises, under a judgment therefore, shall give notice of the time and
place of sale, in the manner provided by law for the sale of real estate
upon execution, or in such other manner as the court shall in the judg
ment direct. He shall, within ten days thereafter, file with the clerk
of the court, a report of the sale, and immediately after the sale, shall
pay to the parties entitled thereto, or their attorneys, the proceeds of
the sale, after deducting the cost thereof, unless otherwise ordered by
the court.
Section 3169. Upon any such sale being made, the sheriff, or referee
making the same, on compliance with its terms, shall make, execute and
deliver to the purchaser a deed of the premises sold, setting forth each
parcel of land sold to him, and the sum paid therefore, which deed.npon
the confirmation of such sale, shall vest in the purchaser all the right,
title and interest of the mortgagor, his heirs, personal representatives,
and assigns, in and to the premises sold, and shall be a bar to all claim,
right, or equity of redemption therein, of and against the parties to
such action, their heirs, and personal representatives, and also against
all persons claiming under them subsequent to the filing of the notice
of the pendency of the action in which such judgment was rendered;
and the purchaser, his heirs and assigns shall be let into the possession
of the premises so sold, on production of such deed, or a duly certified
copy thereof, and the court may, if necessary, issue a writ of assistance
to deliver such possession.
CHAPTER CXXXVI.
OF WASTE.
Section 3170. The circuit courts have jurisdiction of actions for
waste, and may grant injunctions to stay or prevent waste.
13 Wis. 472; 15 id. 635; 23 id. 161, 337; 25 Id. 646,679; 83 id. 358; 89 id. 515.
Section 3171. If any guardian, or any tenant by the curtesy, tenant
in dower, or for a term of life or years, or the assigns of any such
tenant, shall commit or suffer any waste, during their several terms or
estates, of the houses, gardens, orchards, lands or woods, or of any
other thing belonging to the tenements so held, without having a lawful
license in writing so to do, they shall respectively be liable to an ac
tion for such waste.
Section 3172. In case any such tenant shall let or grant his estate,
an(j gtjQ ret:ain possession thereof, and commit waste, the party entitled
to the reversion of the tenements, may maintain his action for 6uci
waste against such tenant,
Section 3173. If one joint tenant, or tenant in common, shall comm^ wagte 0f tlie estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, he shall be
subject to an action for such waste, at the suit of his coteuant or cotenants.
Section 3174. An heir, whether of full age or not, after coming
into possession of the inheritance, may maintain an action for waste
done in the time of his ancestor, as well as in his own time, unless a
recovery shall have been had therefore by the executor or administrator
of such ancestor.
Section 3175. Such action may be brought by the person having
the next immediate estate in fee, or for life, or years, in the premises in
question ; or by any person who has the remainder, or reversion in fee.
or for life, after an intervening estate for life or years; and each of
them shall recover damages according to his estate in the premises.
Section 3176. If the plaintifff in such action prevail therein, he
shall have judgment for double the amount of damages found by the
jury.
Section 3177. The purchaser or hi s assigns holding any certificate
°f sa^e °* Tea^ estate duly issued upon any sale for taxes, or npon execution,
or by virtue of a power of sale in a mortgage, may have an ac
tion to restrain the commission of waste during the period of redemption,
and if no redemption shall be made, and a deed shall be issued
pursuant to such certificate, the grantee, or his assigns, may in such ac
tion, or by a subsequent action, recover damages against any person for
any waste committed by such person on the premises after such sale.
But no person lawfully entitled to the possession of any premises so
sold, shall be liable to any such action for doing either of the acts au
thorized in the next section.
Section 3178. Any person entitled to the possession of lands sold as
mentioned in the preceding section, may, until the expiration of the
time given by law for the redemption thereof, use and enjoy the same
without being liable to an action of waste therefore, as follows:
1. He may use and enjoy the premises sold, in like manner and for
the like purposes in and for which they were used and applied prior to
such sale, doing no permanent injury to the freehold.
'2. If the premises sold were buildings, fences, or any other erections,
he may make necessary repairs thereto, but he shall make no alterations
in the form or structures thereof, so as to impair or lessen their value.
3. He may use and improve the land so sold in the ordinary course
of husbandry or mining, and he shall be eutitled to any crop growing
thereon at the expiration of the period of redemption.
4. He may apply any wood or timber on such land to the necessary
repairs of any fences, buildings or erections existing thereon at the time
of such sale.
5. If the land sold is actually occupied by such person, he may take
the necessary fire wood therefrom, for the use of himself or family.
Section 3179. If, after the commencement of any action for waste,
or to restrain waste, or any action for the recovery of land or the possession or partition thereof, or after any real estate has been levied upon
by execution, any party to such action or execution shall commit waste,
or shall threaten or make preparations to commit waste upon the lands,
tenements, or anything appertaining thereto, he may be restrained by
injunction from committing any waste, or further waste thereto. Such
injunction may be issued in any of said actions, or in cases of the levy
above mentioned, by the court from which the execution issued.
CHAPTER CXXXVII.
OF ACTIONS FOR PRIVATE NUISANCES.
•
Section 3180. Tiie circuit courts have jurisdiction of actions to recover damages for and to abate private nuisances, or a public nnisance
from which any person suffers a private or special injury, peculiar to
himself, so far as necessary to protect the rights of such person, and to
grant injunctions to prevent the same.
6 Wis. 291: 10 Id. 513; 17 Id. 155; 18 id. 63, S3, 118; 81 id. 667: 23 id. 861 ; 24 id. 658 ; 26 id. 546; 27 Id.
856; SO id. 363, 492; 31 id. 495; 34 id. 450, 555; 85 id. 536, 675; 3o id. 50; 37 id. 84; 88 id. 21; 40 id. 402.
Section 3181. In such actions, when the plaintifff prevails, he shall,
in addition to the usual judgment for damages and costs, also have
judgment that the nuisance be abated and removed, unless the court in
which such action shall be tried, shall certify, in the minutes of such
trial, that the abatement thereof is unnecessary.
Section 3182. In case of judgment that the nuisance be abated and
removed, the plaintifff shall have execution in the common form for bis
damages and costs, and a separate warrant to the proper officer, requir
ing him to abate and remove the nuisance at the expense of the
defendant.
Section 3183. The court may, on the application of the defendant,
order a stay of such warrant, for such time as may be necessary, not
exceeding six months, to give him an opportunity to remove the nui
sance, upon his giving satisfactory security to do so within the time
specifiea in the order.
Section 3184. The expense of abating and removing such nuisance
pUrsuant fa sucn warrant shall be collected by the officer in the same
manner as damages and costs are collected upon execution ; and such
officer may sell any material of any fences, buildings or other things,
abated or removed as a nuisance, in the same manner that persona;
property is sold upon execution, and apply the proceeds of sale to par
the expenses of such abatement and removal, paying the residue, if anj,
to the defendant on demand, and if insufficient to pay such expenses,
he shall collect the residue as above provided.
Section 3185. A purchaser from the United States, his heirs, assigns
jjiji- j j • , , J
or grantees, of land lying on a meandered river, may proceed by action
and injunction against any person illegally obstructing the flow of water
of such river over land lying between the meandered line and middle of
such river, in cases where such person shall have no legal or equitable
right or title to 6uch land so lying between such meandered line and
the middle of such river. He may also, in such cases, have the remedy
herein given for abatement of such obstructions, and may recover for
damages sustained thereby.
CHAPTER CXXXVIII.
OF GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING ACTIONS RELATING TO REAL
ESTATE.
Section 3186. Any person having the possession and legal title to
]an(j may institute an action against any other person settiner up a claim
-i «i» i i • •/* i n i i_i i ■ i • . r
thereto, and it the plaintifff shall be able to substantiate his title to such
land, the defendant shall be adjudged to release to the plaintifff all claim
thereto, and to pay the costs of such action, unless the defendant shall,
by answer, disclaim all title to such land, and trive a release thereof to
J . ,' .1*1 iin i i ■ in
the plaintifff, in which case he shall recover costs, unless the court shall
otherwise order. It shall be sufficient to aver in the complaint in such
action the nature and extent of the plaintifff's estate in such land, describmS
'* as accurately as may be, and that he is in possession thereof, and
that the defendant makes some claim thereto, and to demand judgment
that the plaintifff's claim be established against any claim of the defendai,t>
and that he be forever barred against having or claiming any right
or title to the land, adverse to the plaintifff; and the defendant, if he do
not so disclaim and release, may answer any matter in denial of the
plaintifffs claim, title, or possession, or which, if proved, will establish
his own, and judgment shall be rendered according to the rights of the
parties. And any person not having such title or possession, but being
the owner and holder of any lien or encumbrance on land, shall also
have the same right of action as the owner in fee in possession, to test
the legality and validity of any other claim, lien or encumbrance on such
land or any part thereof.
Section 31S7. In an action affecting the title to real property, the
plaintifff, at the time of filing the complaint, or any time afterwards
before judgment, may file in the office of the register of deeds of eacli
county where the property, or any part thereof, is situated, a notice of
the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties, the
object of the action and a description of the property in that county
affected thereby. If the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment, and must contain
the date of the mortgage, the names of the parties thereto, and the
time and place of recording the same. The defendant may, at the time
of filing his answer, or at any time afterward before judgment, where he
sets up an affirmative cause of action therein, and demands an affirm
ative judgment affecting the title to real property, file in such register's
office a like notice. From the time of such filing, in either case, the
pendency of such action shall be constructive notice thereof to a pur
chaser or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby; and every pur
chaser or encumbrancer whose conveyance or encumbrance is not re
corded or filed, shall be deemed a subsequent purchaser or incum
brancer, and shall be bound by the proceedings in the action to the same
extent and in the same manner as if he were a party thereto.
Section 3188. Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the
county where the premises, or some part thereof, are situated, by the
sheriff of that county, or a referee appointed by the court for that purpose,
and deeds executed upon such sales shall be effectual to pass the
title, rights and interest of the parties in the premises adjudged to be
sold, and of all purchasers or encumbrancers thereof, whose conveyance
or encumbrance is made, executed, recorded, perfected, or obtained sub
sequent to the filing of the notice of the pendency of the action in which
6nch real property is adjudged to be sold, unless the judgment shall
otherwise direct.
Section 3189. In all cases of sales of real estate adjudged to be made,
if the sheriff, or referee, who makes the sale, die, depart from the state,
"r become otherwise incapacitated to make the report thereof, or to
make, execute and deliver the deed thereon, before making such report
or deed, such report may be made by the under sheriff, or a deputy of
f.uch sheriff, or by the plaintifff, or any party to the action, interested in
having such report made, his agent or attorney, upon oath; and such
deed may be made by a referee appointed by the court for that purpose.
Such reports may be confirmed by the court, as in other cases, and such
reports and deeds shall have the same effect as if made by such sheriff,
or original referee.
Section 3190. If any tenant for life, or years, in dower, or by the
curtesy, be impleaded in respect to any lands, the person, to whom the^
remainder or reversion thereof appertains, may, upon his own applica
tion, be made a party to the action at any time before judgment, with
leave to defend the same; and he shall not be barred of his action to
recover such lands by the surrender, neglect, default, or other act of such
tenant.
Section 3191. All recoveries had by agreement of parties, or by
fraud, against any tenant for life, in dower, or by the curtesy, of any
lands, tenements or hereditaments, shall be void as against all persojs
to whom any reversion or remainder of such lands shall appertain, and
as against their heirs, unless the appearance of the person having the
reversion or remainder shall have been duly entered in the court where
such recovery shall be had.
Section 3192. Where several persons are entitled to real estate by
jiejr8i1jpj tenancy in common, joint tenancy, or otherwise, they may
bring a joint action for the recovery thereof, or either may bring i
several action for his respective share or interest,
Section 3193. In all actions relating to real property, the court
may by order give any* party thereto leave to make any survey of any
premises affected by such action, or of any boundary line of such prem
ises, or between the lands of any of the parties and the lands of other
persons, when satisfied that such survey is necessary or expedient to
enable either party to prepare his pleadings in the action. The order
for such survey shall specify the premises or boundary lines to be but
veyed, and a copy thereof shall be served upon the owner or occnpant,
before any entry is made to make such survey. After such service, th»
party obtaining such order may, with the necessary surveyors and assist
ants, enter the premises specified in such order, and make such survey,
without being liable to any action therefore, except for injury or dam
ages unnecessarily caused thereby.
Section 3194. Whenever any action for the recovery of lands or
tenements, or for the recovery of the possession thereof, shall be com
menced against any person in possession of the premises in question, or
in the receipt of the profits thereof, such action shall not be barred or
delayed by reason of any alienation or conveyance made by such per
son to any other, either before or after the commencement of such
action.
Section 3195. If the defendant, in an action of ejectment, ehafl
alien the land in suit, during its pendency, and have no property
whereof the damages recovered can be collected, every person to whom
such lands shall have come shall be liable, in an action for such dam
ages, for the time that he shall have possessed the premises.
Section 3196. In any action relative to real estate, if any person
who is a necessary or proper party thereto is unknown, he may be pro
ceeded against and made a party thereto, as an unknown owner, and the
summons may be served upon him as is provided by law for service of i
summons upon unknown owners, but no person whose title or interest
appears of record, or who is in actual possession or occupancy of such
real estate, shall be considered or proceeded against as an unknown
owner.
ACTION8 BY PERSONS HAVING CLAIMS UPON UNITED STATES LANDS.
Section 3197. Any person settled upon any of the public lands
belonging to the United States, including claimants of homesteads in
such lands under the laws of the United States, may maintain actions
of ejectment for such lands so settled upon, or claimed as a homestead,
or for any injuries done thereto, or the possession thereof, or for a
forcible entry, or unlawful or forcible detainer thereof.
Section 3198. In such actions the possession or possessory right of
the plaintifff shall extend to the boundaries of the premises embraced
by his claim, and no actual inclosuro thereof need oe made or proved
to enable him to maintain his action.
Section 3199. In order to maintain such action, the land claimed
shall be staked or otherwise marked out so that its boundaries may be
readily traced and the extent of the claim easily known, and no such
action shall be maintained unless the plaintifff shall occupy such land,
or has made improvements thereon to the value of fifty dollars, or where
the land claimed exceeds one hundred and sixty acres, located in one
body or in different parcels, or where for six months next preceding
the commencement of the action the plaintifff has neglected to occupy
or cultivate the land claimed.
CHAPTER CXXXIX.
OF ACTIONS AGAINST THE STATE.
Section 3200. It shall be competent for any person, deeming himself
aggrieved by the refusal of the legislature to allow any inst claim
against the state, to commence an action against the state, By filings
complaint, setting forth fully and particularly the nature of such claim.
with the clerk of the supreme court, either in term time or vacation.
He shall at the same time file an undertaking, with two or more sureties, to be approved by the state treasurer, to the effect that he will
indemnify the state against all costs that may accrue in such action, and
to pay to the clerk of said court all costs, in case the plaintifff shall fail
to prosocute his action, or to obtain a judgment against the state, not
exceeding one thousand dollars; and thereupon the action shall be
placed upon the calendar.
Section 3201. The plaintifff, within ten days after having filed such
complaint and undertaking, shall serve a copy of the complaint upon
the attorney general, together with a notice to answer or demur thereto,
within a period of time not less than thirty days from the time of such
service; and the attorney general shall thereupon be required to answer
or demur within the time expressed in such notice.
Section 3202. The supreme court shall proceed to hear and determine
such action. If an issue of fact shall be made in such action
which the court shall deem necessary to be tried by a jury, it shall certify
such issue of fact to the circuit court of some county, and such
court shall proceed at the next regular term to try the same by a juryl
as in other cases; and the verdict rendered, together with the papers in
the action received from the supreme court, shall be sealed up and re
turned to the clerk of the supreme court, with all convenient speed.
At the request of either party, a bill of exceptions may be settled, as
in other trials by jury, and returned with the verdict; ana thereupon the
supreme court may enter judgment thereon, or again certify the same
question of fact to the same or any other circuit court, to be tried and
returned as above provided, and may grant a new trial of any issue of
fact, as often as it shall be satisfied that there is good cause therefore.
The judgment rendered by the supreme court in such action shall be
conclusive and final.
Section 3203. No execution shall issue ngninst the state on any
judgment, but whenever a final judgment against the state shall havet
been obtained in any such action, the clerk shall make and furnish to
the secretary of state a duly certified transcript of such judgment; and
the secretary of state shall thereupon audit the amount of damages
and costs therein awarded, and the same shall be paid out of the state
treasury.
CHAPTER CXL.
OF ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST CORPORATIONS AND
COMPANIES.
Section 3204. Actions and proceedings by or against corporations,
may be commenced in the same manner that personal actions and proceedings are commenced by or against natural persons, and the proceedings
in such actions shall be the same as in actions by natural persons.
Section 3205. In an action by or against a corporation, the complaint
must aver that the plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be, isp
a corporation. If it was incorporated under any law of this state, that
fact must be averred; if it was not so incorporated, an averment that
it is a foreign corporation is sufficient. The complaint need not set
forth or specially refer to any act or proceeding by or under which,
the corporation was made.
Sectton 3206. In actions or proceedings by or against any corporation, a mistake in the naming of such corporation shall be stated in the
defendant's verified answer, together with the true name of such corpo
ration; otherwise such mistake shall be deemed to have been waived.
Section 3207. A corporation created by or under the laws of any
other state, or country, or of the United States, may prosecute or defend
an action or proceeding in the courts of this state, in the same manner
as corporations created under the laws of this state, except as otherwise
specially prescribed by law. But such foreign corporation cannot main
tain an action founded upon an act, or upon any liability or obligation,
express or implied, arising out of, or made, or entered into, in consid
eration of any act which the laws of this state forbid a corporation or
any association of individuals to do, without express authority of law.
Section 3208. An action for the recovery of money may be commenced
and prosecuted to judgment against a corporation created by or
under the laws of any other state or country or of the United State,
although such corporation may have ceased from any cause whatever to
act m wj10ie or m part a8 a corporation, in the same manner as thoot;b
it had not so ceased to act; and satisfaction of the judgment may be
enforced out of any property in this state, which such corporation ownor
has any interest in, or would own or have an interest in had the same
not ceased to act as aforesaid, whether held or controlled by such corporation
or by a trustee, assignee, agent or other person, for the use and
benefit in whole or in part or such corporation or the creditors thereof
or both; and any attaenment issued in such action may be executed on
any snch property.
Section 3209. The plaintifff in such action shall, to the extent of the
final judgment therein, nave a lien upon all such property and interest:
aforesaid, from the time of the filing of the complaint in such action,
unless such corporation 6hall file with the clerk an undertaking in
double the amount claimed to be due to the plaintifff executed by two or
more sureties in its behalf resident freeholders of this state, to the effect
that the corporation will satisfy the final judgment that may be re
covered in favor of such plaintifff in such action within sixty days from
the rendition thereof. Such undertaking shall be of no effect unless
accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, as provided in section three
thousand and sixty five, and such sureties upon being excepted to most
justify in like manner as there directed.
HOW ACTIONS BKOUGHT AGAINST COMPANIES NOT INCORPORATED.
Section 3210. Any joint stock company, heretofore formed under
the laws of this state, consisting of seven or more shareholders or associ
ates, may sue, and shall be sued, in the name of the president thereof
for the time being, and all actions or proceedings so prosecuted by or
against any such company, and the service of all process in such actions
and proceedings on such president, shall have the same force and effect
as regards the joint rights, property and effects of such company, as if
such actions and proceedings were prosecuted in the names of all the
shareholders or associates. If such president cannot be found within
the state, then all process in such actions or proceedings may be served
personally on any authorized agent of such company within this state
with like effect as if served upon such president,
Section 3211. No action or proceeding so commenced shall abate
by reason of the death, removal or resignation of such president, or the
death or legal incapacity of any shareholder or associate during the
pendency thereof; but the same may be continued by the successor of
such president, or against such successor, if there be one, and if not, in
the name of the president against whom the action or proceeding was
commenced.
Section 3212. If judgment shall be recovered in any such action
proceeding against any such company, the execution issued thereon
shall be satisfied out of the property of such company or that which is
owned jointly or in common by all the shareholders ui associates; and
if such execution be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, actions
may be brought against any or all the shareholders or associates indi
vidually, but no more than one action shall be brought against such
shareholders or associates at any one time, nor until the same shall
have been determined, and execution issued thereon returned unsatis
fied in whole or in part.
Section 3213. Ihe death, removal, resignation of officers, or shareholders, or sale or transfer of stock, shall not work a dissolution of
any such joint stock company or association as against the parties
suing or being sued as herein provided, or as against any creditor or
person having any demand against such joint stock company or asso
ciation, at the time of such death, removal, resignation, sale or transfer.
TRANSPORTATION COMPANIES, HOW 8UED.
Section 3214. Every association or company formed for the purpose
of the transportation of passengers or property, either by boats,
vessels, stages or other means, shall make a statement of the names of
the persons comprising such association or company, and file a copy of
the same in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of each county,
through or into which it may transact business. All persons, companies
and corporations engaged in any such business, shall be deemed common
carriers.
Section 3215. Until such statement shall be so filed, any action
brought against such association or company shall not abate for the
reason that all the members of the same are not joined in such action;
and after such statement shall have been so filed, any action brought
against the persons named therein, shall not be abated or defeated for
the reason that other owners may have become interested, or that any
persons named in such statement have ceased to be interested therein,
unless thirty days previous to the commencement of such action, a
further statement shall have been filed, as provided in the preceding
section, showing the change in the several persons composing such
association or company, and the time when such change took place.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST INSOLVENT CORPORATIONS.
Section 3216. Whenever a judgment shall be obtained against any
corporation incorporated under the laws of this state and an execution issued thereon shall have been returned unsatisfied in whole or
in part, upon the petition of or by an action commenced by the person obtaining such judgment or his represei-itatives, the circuit court
within the proper county may sequestrate the stock, property, things in
action, and effects of such corporation, and may appoint a receiver of
the same.
Section 3217. In the final order in any such action, the court shall
direct a just and fair distribution of the property of such corporation
and of the proceeds thereof to be made among the fair ana honest
creditors of such corporation, in proportion to their debts respectively,
who shall be paid in the same order as provided in section three thou
sand two hundred and forty five.
Section 3218. Whenever any corporation having banking powers, or
having the power to make loans or pledges or deposits, or authorized by
law to make insurance, shall become insolvent or unable to pay its
debts or shall neglect or refuse to pay its notes or evidences of debts on
demand or shall nave violated any of the provisions of its act of incorporation
or of any other law binding on such corporation, any court
having jurisdiction may, by injunction, restrain such corporation andits officers from exercising any of its corporate rights, privilege* or fran
chises, and from collecting or receiving any debts or demand.-, and from
paying out, or in any way transferring or delivering to any person, any
of the monies, property or effects of such corporation, until such court
shall otherwise order,
Section 3219. Such irmmction may be issued upon the commence» » ,, « * *i • Ai r >_ t i
ment of an action for the purpose of closing up the business of such
corporation, by the attorney general in the name of the state, or by any
creditor or stockholder of such corporation, or at any time thereafter
upon proof of the facts required to authorize the issuing of the same.
The court may in any stage of such action appoint one or more re
ceivers to take charge of the property and effects of such corporation,
and to collect, sue for and recover the debts and demands that may lie
due and the property that may belong to such corporation, who shall in
all respects possess the powers and authority conferred and be subject
to all the obligations imposed upon receivers in other cases, and in all
respects be subject to the control of the court,
Section 3220. Whenever such injunction shall issue against a bank
any violation of its charter on the application of any creditor, the
court shall proceed to final judgment in such case, and adjudge a for
feiture, if the proof be sufficient, notwithstanding such creditor may
settle with such corporation; and in all such cases the attorney general
under the direction of the governor or any creditor, shall have *he
right to appear and prosecute such action ; and such action shall not be
discontinued if either of them so appear and prosecute such action to
final judgment,
Section 3221. If such action be commenced by a creditor of any
corporation whose directors, trustees or other officers or stockholders
are made liable by law for the payment of such debt, in any event or
contingency, such directors, trustees or other officers or stockholders
or any °^ tnem ma}r ',e ma(ie parties to the action, either at the com
mencement thereof or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, when
ever it shall become necessary to enforce such liability,
Section 3222. If any creditor of such corporation desires to make
such directors, trustees or other officers or stockholders, parties to the
action after a judgment therein against the coqx>ration, he may do so
by filing a supplemental complaint against them founded upon snch
judgment; and if such judgment was rendered in an action instituted
by the attorney general, such creditor may on his own application h
made plaintifff therein, and may in like maimer make the directors,
trustees or other officers or stockholders sought to be charged, defend
ants in such action.
Section 3223. "Whenever any creditor of any corporation shall seek
^ c]iarge the directors, trustees or other officers or stockholders thereof,on account of any liability created by law, he may commence and maintam an action for t]iat purpose in the circuit court, and may at his elec
tion join the corporation in such action.
Section 3224. The court shall proceed therein as in other cases.
and when necessary shall cause an account to be taken of the property
and debts due to and from such corporation, and shall appoint one or
more receivers, who shall possess all the powers conferred and be sub
ject to all the obligations imposed on receivers by the provisions ol
section three thousand two hundred and nineteen; but if, upon the
filing of the answer or upon the taking of such account, it shall appear
that the corporation is insolvent, and that it has no property or effects
o satisfy such creditor, the court may proceed without appointing any
eceiver to ascertain the respective liabilities of such directors, trustees
r other officers and stockholders, and enforce the same by its judgment
s in other cases.
Section 3225. Upon a final judgment being rendered in any action
o restrain a corporation or against the directors, trustees, officers, or
tockholders, the court shall cause just and fair distribution of the propxty
of such corporation and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among
ts creditors, in the order prescribed in section three thousand two hun
lred and forty five.
Section 3226. In all cases in which the directors or other officers
)f a corporation or the stockholders thereof, shall have been made paries to an action in which judgment shall be rendered, if the property
)f such corporation shall be insufficient to discharge its debts, the court
;hall proceed to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due and
■emaining unpaid on the shares of stock held by him, or so much
thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the debts of the corporation. If
the debts of the corporation, or any part thereof, shall still remain un
satisfied, the court snail proceed to ascertain the respective liabilities of
the directors or other officers and of the stockholders, and adjudge the
imount payable by each, and enforce the judgment as in other cases.
Section 3227. Whenever any action shall be commenced against
any corporation, its directors, trustees or other officers or its stockholders,
according to the provisions of this chapter, the court may, by injimction, on the application of either party and at any stage of the proceed
ings, restrain all proceedings by any other creditor ajrainst the defend. ■ u i- j i° -i 1 11 °
ants m such action ; and whenever it shall appear necessary or proper,
may order notice to be published in such manner as the court shall
direct, requiring all the creditors of such corporation to exhibit their
claims and become parties to the action, within a reasonable time not
less than six months from the first publication of such order, and in
default thereof to be precluded from all benefit of the judgment which
shall be made in such action and from any distribution which shall be
made under such judgment.
Section 3228. In every such action, the court may compel such
corporation to discover any stock, property, things in action or effects,
alleged to belong or to have belonged to it, the transfer and disposition
thereof and the consideration and all the circumstances of such dispo
sition. Every officer, agent or stockholder of such corporation, and
every person to whom it shall be alleged that any transfer of property
or effects of such corporation has been made, or in whose possession or
control the same is alleged to be, may be compelled, in the discretion
of the court, to testify in relation thereto, and to answer any questions
touching the transfer or possession of such property or effects, although
such answer may expose the corporation of which he is a member, to a
forfeiture of its corporate rights or any of them, or such witness to a
prosecution for a criminal fraud; but such answers shall not be used as
evidence upon any information, indictment or other criminal prosecu
tion or proceeding against him.
EXECUTIONS AGAINST CORPORATIONS RECEIVING TOLL.
Section 3229. When any judgment shall have been recovered
against any turnpike or other corporation authorized to receive toll, the
franchises of such corporation with all the rights and privileges thereof,
together with all their corporate property both real and personal, may
be taken on execution, and sold at public auction.
Section 3230. The officer having such execution against such corporation
shall, thirty days at least before the day of sale of the franchise or other corporate personal property, give notice of the time and
place of sale, by posting up a notice thereof in any town in which the
clerk, treasurer or any one of the directors of such corporation may
dwell, and also by causing an advertisement of the sale, expressing the
name of the creditor, the amount of the execution and the time and
place of sale to be inserted three weeks successively in some newspaper
published in any county in which either of the aforesaid officers may
dwell, if any such there be, and if no newspaper be published in any
such county, then in the newspaper published nearest thereto; and he
may adjourn the sale from time to time, as may be necessary, until the
sale shall be completed.
Section 3231. In the sale of the franchise of any corporation, the
person who shall satisfy the execution with all legal fees and expenses
thereon, and shall agree to take such franchise for the shortest period
of time, and to receive during that time all such tolls as the said cor
poration would by law be entitled to demand, shall be considered the
highest bidder.
Section 3232. The officer's return on such execution shall transfer
to the purchaser all the privileges and immunities which by law bejonge(j
t0 8Ucn corporation, so far as relates to the right of demanding
toll; and the officer shall immediately after such sale deliver to the pur
chaser possession of all the toll houses and gates belonging to such cor
poration in whatever county the same may be situated; and the pur
chaser may thereupon demand and receive all the toll which may accrue
during the time limited by the terms of his purchase in the same man
ner and under the same regulations as such corporation was before
authorized to demand and receive the same.
Section 3233. Any person who shall purchase under these provisjoQg
tjie franch;ses 0f anj 8ncn corporation, and his assignees, may
recover any penalties imposed by law for an injury to the franchise, or
for any other cause, and which such corporation would have been en
titled to recover, during the time limited in the said purchase of the fran
chise; and during that time the corporation shall not be entitled to
prosecute for such penalties.
Section 3234. The corporation, whose franchise shall have been
gQj^ ag aforesai(]j 8],an jn a]] other respects retain the same powers, and
be bound to the discharge of the same duties, and liable to the same
penalties and forfeitures, as before such sale.
Section 3235. Such corporation may, at any time within one year
after such sale, redeem the franchise by paying or tendering to the pur
chaser thereof the sum that he shall have paid therefore with twelve per
cent, interest thereon, but without any allowance for the toll which he
may have received; and upon such payment or tender, the said fran
chise and all the rights and privileges thereof 6hall revert and belong
to said corporation as if no such sale had been made.
SUPERVISORY POWER OVER CORPORATIONS.
Section 3236. In an action for that purpose commenced by the attorney
general in the name of the state in any circuit court against a
corporation, such court may restrain such corporation by injunction from
assuming or exercising any franchise, liberty or privilege, or transacting any business, not authorized by its charter; and in the same manB
J , » •T-jie ■ • • 1 ..
ner, may restrain any individuals trom exercising any corporate rights,
privileges or franchises not granted to them by any law of this state;
and such court, pending such action, may issne snch injunction and
continue the same until final judgment shall have been rendered
therein.
Section 3237. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction over directore, managers, trustees, and other officers of corporations:
1. To compel them to account for their official conduct in the management and disposition of the funds and property committed to their
charge.
2. To order and compel payment by them to the corporation whom
they represent and to its creditors of all sums of money and of the
value of all property which they may have acquired to themselves or
transferred to others, or may have lost or wasted by any violation of
their duties as such directors, managers, trustees or other officers.
3. To suspend any such director, trustee or other officer from exer
cising his office, whenever it shall appear that he has abused his trust.
4. To remove any such director, trustee or officer from his office,
npon proof or conviction of gross misconduct.
5. To direct if necessary new elections to be held by the body or
board duly authorized for that purpose, to supply any vacancy created
by such removal.
6. In case there be no such body or board or all the members of such
board be removed, then to report the same to the governor, who shall
be authorized to till such vacancies.
7. To set aside all alienations of property made by the directors,
trustees or other officers of any corporation contrary to the provisions
of law, or for purposes foreign to the lawful business and objects of
such corporation, in cases where the person receiving such alienation,
knew the purposes for which it was made; and
8. To restrain and preve.it any such alienation in cases where it may
be threatened or there may be good reason to apprehend that it is in
tended to be made.
Section 3238. When any visitorial powers over any corporation are
u ii i iii , , i • i_ j r, .. ffi
or shall be vested by statute in any corporate body or public orncer,
the provisions of the preceding section shall not be construed to divest
or impair the powers so vested; nor shall the visitorial powers of such
body or officer be exclusive unless expressly so declared.
Section 3239. The jurisdiction conferred by section three thousand
two hundred and thirty seven shall be exercised in an action prosecuted
by the attorney general in the name of the state, or by any creditor of
such corporation, or by any director, trustee or officer thereof having
a general superintendence of its concerns, as the case may require, or
as the court may direct.
PROCEEDINGS TO ANNUL COEPORATIONS.
Section 3240. An action may be brought by the attorney general
in the name of the state, whenever the legislature shall direct, against
a corporation created by or under the laws of this state for the purpose
of vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing
its corporate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was pro
cured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material
fact by the persons incorporated or by some of them, or with their
knowledge and consent.
Section 3241. An action may be brought by the attorney general,
or by any private party, in the name of the state, on leave granted therefor by the supreme court upon cause shown, for the purpose of vacating
the charter, or annulling the existence of any corporation created by or
under the laws of this state, except a municipal corporation, wkenevei
such corporation shall:
1. Offend against any of the provisions of any law, by or under which
it shall have been created, altered or renewed; or
2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such corporation shall
have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises by fail
ure to exercise its powers; or
4. "Whenever it shall have done or omitted any act which amounts :o
a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges or franchises; or
5. Whenever it shall exercise franchises or privileges not conferred
upon it by law.
Section 3242. "Whenever the attorney general shall liave reason to
believe that any of the acts or omissions specified in the preceding secj.jon can he-established by proof, he shall apply for leave, and upon leave
granted, bring such action in every case of public interest, and in even
other case in which satisfactory security shall be given to indemnify the
state against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby. In case the
attorney general on application shall refuse to bring such action, leave
to bring the same by a private party shall be granted only on notice to
the attorney general and the proposed defendant; and the court or
granting leave in such case may require the prosecutor to give adequate
security to the 6tate to indemnify it and the defendant against all tax
able costs therein.
Section 3243. Upon an application by the attorney general to brinj
, .. ,, r , rr. .. ,. * .. ,. ,J * . . , "
any such action, the court may in its discretion direct notice of suchapindication
to be given to the officers of the corporation previous to the
learing, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto,
Section 3244. "Whenever an action shall be brought by the attornej
geuer.j m the name of the state for the purpose of vacating the charter
or annulling the existence of a corporation, the summons shall be served
personally upon some officer of such corporation, if to be found withh.
the state. If any sheriff to whom any such summons shall be delivered foi
service, shall make return thereon that no officer of such corporation car.
after due diligence be found within the state, the attorney general shall
cause a copy of such summons to be published in the official state paper
once in each week for four successive weeks; and upon filing proof of
such publication with the clerk of the court, the service of the summons
shall be deemed complete, and the court shall proceed as though personal
service had been made on such corporation,
Section 3245. If in any such action it shall be adjudged that a eoi
poration has forfeited it corporate rights, privileges and franchises, jndg
ment shall be rendered that such corporation be excluded from sucncoiporate rights, privileges and franchises, and be dissolved; and thereupon
the affairs of such corporation shall be wound up by and under the di
rection of a receiver, to be appointed by the court, and its property sold
and converted into money; and the proceeds, after paying the costs and
expenses, shall be distributed in the following order:
1. For the payment of taxes and debts due the United States, the state
of Wisconsin, and any county, city, town or village therein.
2. For the payment of the legal and equitable hens upon the propers}'
of such corporation, in the order of their priority.
3. For the payment of the other just debts of the corporation.
4. The residue of such monies, if any, shall be distributed among
the stockholders thereof.
When any corporation shall be adjudged to have exercised a fran
chise or privilege not conferred on it by law, the court may, in its diacretion
instead of rendering a judgment as above provided in this 6ection, render a judgment that such corporation be excluded from exer
cising such franchise or privilege and that the plaintifff recover costs,
and may also in either ca*e in its discretion fine such corporation in a
sum not exceeding two thousand dollars, to be collected and paid into
the state treasury.
Section 3246. If such action be pending in the circuit court, such
receiver shall be appointed in and by the judgment of dissolution, or by
a subsequent order founded thereon. If it shall be ponding in the
supreme court, then, upon the entry of such judgment of dissolution,
the attorney general shall forthwith commence an action in the proper
circuit court for the appointment of such receiver and the winding up
of the affairs of such corporation ; and such corporation shall, notwith
standing such judgment of dissolution, be deemed to exist until a receiver
sliall.be appointed, qualified and duly invested with the property of
such corporation, but shall not be able to do any act or thing other
than to make over and transfer its assets to such receiver.
Section 3247. The provisions of the two preceding sections, so far
as they relate to the distribution of the property of the corporation
and actions to appoint receivers therefore, shall apply to any corporation
whose charter shall be repealed by act of the legislature, or otherwise
annulled thereby.
Section 3248. The necessary costs and disbursements, incurred in
bringing and prosecuting such action by the attorney general, in the
name of the state, shall, when certified to by him, be audited by the
secretary of state, and paid out of the state treasury. The receiver in
any such action, or the attorney general in case such monies shall be
delivered to him by such receiver, shall repay to the state treasurer
any money advanced by the state on account of such costs and disburse
ments.
Section 3249. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a corporation, or for vacating or annulling of letters patent, the attorney
general shall cause a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in
the office of the secretary of state.
Section 3250. No special directions in these statutes to the attorney
, ,, r , , . ~, . , . «
general or any other public othcer, concerning corporations, not contamed
in this chapter, shall be deemed exclusive nor shall anything in
this chapter be deemed to repeal any other remedies given by these
statutes to or against corporations, their officers, stockholders or credit
ors.
Section 3251. The provisions of this chapter shall not extend to
. _i vv i -xx t • i.'
any incorporated library or lyceum society, to any religious corporation,
or any incorporated academy or select school, uor to the proprietors of
any burying ground incorporated under the laws of this state.
CHAPTER CXLI.
OF ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS, ADMIN
ISTRATORS, HEIRS, NEXT OF KIN, LEGATEES AND DEVISEES IN
CERTAIN CASES.
Section 3252. For wrongs done to the property, rights or interests
of another, for which an action might he maintained against the wrongdoer, an action may be brought by the executors or administrators of
the person injured after his death, against such wrongdoer, and after his
death, against his executors or administrators. But this section shall
not extend to actions for slander, libel, assault and battery or false imprisonment; nor to actions for injuries to the person of the testator or
mtestate of such executor or administrator.
14 Wis. 238, 279; 15 Id. 415; 18 Id. 115, 1C9; 20 Id. 831; 23 Id. S51; 28 Id. 103; 88 id. 247, 230; 40 Id.
427.
Section 3253. No executor or administrator shall beheld to bail
m anv action against him in his representative character, unless such
action be brought to charge him with waste,
Section 3254. In actions or proceedings against several executors
or administrators, they shall all bo considered as one person represent
ing their testator or intestate, and those who are first served with proc
ess, or who shall first appear, shall answer the plaintifff. Judgment
shall be rendered as if all had appeared, and in case where the execu
tion may be issued against the property of the testator or intestate, it
may issue against all in like manner as if all had appeared. But this
section shall not deprive the plaintifff of the right to bring into court all
the executors or administrators against whom the action is brought.
Section 3255. No executor or administrator shall be made personn11y
jiufile fof ftny. deljt Qr damages, by reason of his having made any
^a'se allegation hi pleading.
Section 325G. The real estate which belonged to any deceased pcrgon gnaij not ])e bound, or in any way affected, by any iudmnent against
Ins executors or administrators, nor shall it be liable to be 6old bv vir
tue of any execution issued upon such judgment, except as provided is
section two thousand seven hundred and fifty one.
Section 3257. When administration of the effects of a deceased person'
wu'cn Blm" hsive been left unadministered by any previous executor
or administrator of the same estate, shall be granted to any person, snch
person shall have execution upon any judgment that may have been
recovered by any such previous executor or administrator, at any time
within five years from the time of docketing the same, without reviving
the same or giving any notice to the defendant in such judgment. H«
may bring a writ of error or appeal upon any judgment obtained against
such previous executor or administrator or against the testator or intes
tate, and shall defend any writ of error or appeal brought upon anj
such judgment, and have the same remedies in the prosecution or de
fense of any action by or against such previous executor or administers,
tor, and to collect and enforce any judgment, as they would have tao
by law.
Seution 3258. An executor of an executor shall have no authority
tQ cominence or maintain any action or proceeding relating to the estate.
effects or rights of the testator of the first executor, or to take any
chance or control thereof as such executor.
Section 3259. No person shall he liable to an action as executor of
his own wrong for having received, taken or interfered with the property of a deceased person ; hut shall ho responsible as a wrongdoer in
the proper action to the executors or general or special administrators
of such deceased person for the value of any property or effects so re
ceived or taken, and for all damages caused by his acts to the estate of
the deceased.
Section 3260. "When the executor or administrator of a trustee, carrier or other person; who claimed only a special property in any goods to
hold them for the use and benefit of another, shall recover such goods
or the value thereof, or damages for the taking or detention thereof, or
for any injury done to the same, the goods or money so recovered shall
not be considered assets in his hands, but shall, after deducting the costs
and expenses of the action, be paid over and delivered to the person for
whose use or benefit they were so claimed or held by the deceased
person.
Section 3261. When judgment for a return in an action to recover
the possession of personal property shall be rendered against an executor
or administrator, the goods returned by him shall not be con
sidered assets in his hands; and if they shall have been included in the
inventory, it shall be sufficient discharge for the executor or admin
istrator to show that they have been returned in pursuance of such
judgment.
Section 3262. "Whenever an action shall be brought by any legatee
against an executor or administrator, and the want of assets to pay all
the debts of the deceased and all the legacies bequeathed by him or any
of them shall be alleged in the defendant's answer, the court shall proceed to examine the accounts of the defendant, and hear the proofs and
allegations of the parties in respect to such answer; or the cause may
be referred to a referee, as in actions involving the examination of a
long account.
Section 3263. If the plaintifff in any such action shall recover only
part of his demand for the want of assets in the hands of the defendants,
and assets shall afterwards come to their hands, he shall have a new ac
tion for the recovery thereof, or for the proportionate share thereof to
which he may be entitled; and the same proceedings in all respects shall
be had in such action.
Section .3264. In all cases, the costs of the action or of either
party, shall be paid as the court may direct, out of the estate of the
deceased, or by the defendants personally, if their refusal to pay such
legacy, or their defense of the action, shall appear to have been unrea
sonable.
Section 3265. In any action against executors or administrators, in
which the fact of their having administered the estate of their testator
or intestate or any part thereof shall come in issue, and the inventory
of any property of the deceased made and filed by them shall be given
in evidence, the plaintifff or defendant may rebut the same by proof:
1. That any property or effects have been omitted in such inventory
or were not returned therein at their true value.
2. That such property has perished or been lost without the fault of
such executor or administrator, or that it has been fairly sold by them
at private or public sale at a less price than the value so returned, ol
that since the return of the inventory such property has deteriorated or
enhanced in value.
Section 3266. In every such' action the defendant shall not be
charged for any demands or rights in action specified in their inventory,
unless it appear that such demands or rights have been collected, oi
. , , r\ .. , .,, , .... »
might nave been collected with due diligence.
Section 3267. When an executor or administrator shall have beeD
duly appointed in any other state, territory or country, on the estate of
any person not a resident of this state at the time of his death, and no
executor or administrator shall have been appointed in this state, such
foreign executor or administrator, upon filing his original appointment
or a C0Py thereof duly authenticated, as required to make the same re
ceivable in evidence in any county court in this state, may thereafter
exercise any power over such estate including sales and assignments of
the same or any part thereof, and prosecute and defend any action and
proceeding relating thereto, and have all the rights, remedies and de
fenses in regard to the property, real and personal, and interest, legal
and equitable, and to collect any demands of such estate, which an ex
ecutor or administrator duly appointed by any county court of this state
can have or exercise in relation thereto.
Section 3268. Whenever any executor or administrator shall have
purchased at any foreclosure or other judicial sale, under a judgment
in an action in which he, as such executor or administrator, is plaintifff,
real estate so sold, or shall have redeemed any real estate from a fore
closure or judicial sale made at the suit of any other person, and have
received a deed therefore, he may sell and convey the same without li
cense therefore, upon such terms as he shall deem best; and the proceeds
arising from such sale, shall be held by him for the benefit of the estate
he represents, the same as he would have held the money due upon the
debt by virtue of which he so purchased or redeemed such real estate.
ACTIONS AGAINST LEGATEES AND NEXT OF KIN.
Section 3269. Actions against the next of kin or legatees of any
deceased person, to recover the value of any assets that may have been
paid to them by any executor or administrator, may be brought against
all of the next of kin jointly, or one or more of them, or against all of
the legatees jointly, or one or more of them.
Section 3270. If such action be brought against the next of kin,
^ {Jamtjff must show t)lat ^ ]ms Deen or wj(i ^ unaDle, with duf
diligence, to collect his debt or some part thereof by proceedings in the
proper county court or from the personal representatives of the deceased;
and in such action, the plaintifff may recover the value of all the assets
received by all the defendants in the action, if necessary to sntisfy his
demand, and the amount of the recovery shall be apportioned among
the defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets, or the amount
of the legacies, received by each of them; and the costs of the action
shall be apportioned in like manner; but no allowance or deduction
shall be made from such amount, on account of there being other next
of kin or legatees to whom assets or legacies have also been delivered
or paid. The judgment shall express the amount recovered against erui
defendant for damages and costs, and shall be docketed and enforced
against each of them separately, in like manner and with like effect as
if they were separate judgments.
Si'.ction 3271. Any of the next of kill, against whom recovery shall
'JC 1«m1 pursuant to the preceding sections, may maintain an action
against the other relatives of the testator, to whom any such assets may
have been paid, jointly, or against any of them separately, for a jnst
and equal contribution; and shall be entitled to recover of each defend
ant, such an amount as shall be in the same proportion to the whole
sum collected of the plaintifff, as the value of the assets delivered to such
defendant bore to the value of all the assets delivered to all the rela
tives of the deceased.
Section 3272. If the action be brought against a legatee, or against
all the legatees, the plaintifff shall not be entitled to recover, unless he
show in audition to the facts required to be shown in an action against
the next of kin:
1. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator of
the deceased to his next of kin ; or
2. That the value of such assets have been recovered by some other
creditor; or
3. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demands of the
Elaintiff ; and in the last case he shall be entitled to recover the deciency;
4. If the action be brought against a preferred legatee, or a class of
preferred legatees, the plaintifff must also show the same matters as to the
legatee, or class of legatees, to whom the defendant or defendants are
preferred, as is above required to be shown as to the next of kin. And
any legatee, against whom recovery shall be had, pursuant to the preceding sections, may maintain an action for contribution against other
legatees of the same class, as next of kin may among themselves.
Section 3273. In case of any indgment ajrainst several relatives, or
against several legatees, the payment or satisfaction of the amount
recovered against any one of the defendants shall discharge such defend
ant from the judgment and from execution thereon.
ACTIONS AGAINST HEIKS AND DEVISEES.
Section 3274. The heirs and devisees of any deceased person shall
respectively be liable for the debts of any such person, arising upon
contract, subject to the limitations in sections three thousand two hun
dred and seventy seven and three thousand two hundred and seventy
eight, to the extent of the estate, interest and rights in the real estate
which shall have descended to them from, or been derived to them by,
such person, and the remedy of the plaintifff shall not be delayed or
suspended by reason of the infancy of any such heir or devisee.
Section 3275. An action against heirs or devisees to charge them
under the provisions of this chapter, must be brought jointly against
all the heirs to whom any real estate descended, or jointly against all
the devisees, as the case may be; but if all the persons so jointly liable
shall not be made defendants in the action, the action shall not therefore
be dismissed or barred, but the court may order the proper persons to
be made defendants, and may allow such amendments as may be neces
sary to make them defendants, on such terms as shall be just.
Section 3276. The complaint in such action must describe with
reasonable certainty the real estate which shall have so descended, or
been devised, to each of the defendants, and specify its value.
Section 3277. When such action is brought against heirs, the
plaintifff must show, either: .
1. That the personal assets of the deceased within the state were not
sufficient to pay the plaintifff 's debt, in addition to the expenses of
administration, and debts of a prior class; or
2. That the plaintifff has been or will be unable, with due diligence,
to collect his debt or some part thereof, by proceedings in the proper
county court, or from the personal representatives of the deceased, or
from his next of kin or legatees. The account of the executor or
administrator, when rendered to and settled by the proper county court,
may be used in any action brought under the provisions of this chapter
as presumptive evidence of any matter of feet stated therein,
Section 3278. When such action is brought against devisees, the
plaintifff must show, in addition to the matters specified in the last
section, that the plaintifff has been, or will be, unable, with due dili
gence, to collect his debt, or some part thereof, by an action against the
heirs.
Section 3279. "When the personal assets applicable to the plaintifffs
debt are sufficient to pay a part thereof, or a part thereof has been
collected from the executor or administrator, or from any of the next
of kin or legatees, the plaintifff can recover only the residue remaining
unpaid or uncollected; and when the action is against the devisee, he
shall recover only such part thereof as shall not be recoverable froE
the heirs.
Section 32S0. ^Nothing in this chapter shall affect or impair the
liability of heirs or devisees, for any debt of their decedent, when suet
was by his will expressly charged exclusively upon the real property
descended to such heirs, or devised to such devisees, or made payabi*
exclusively out of the real estate so descended or devised, before resort
ing to the personal estate, or to any other real estate descended or devised,
or when any particular personal property, or any legatee, shall be made
exclusively liable for any such debt,
Section 32S1. In such action any heir may show that at the time
^ ^e commencement thereof he had nothing by descent or devise, or
that he had not sufficient to satisfy the plaintifffs demand,
Section 3282. If any real estate has descended to such heir, or been
devised to such devisee, the court shall ascertain the value thereof, either
by a reference or by awarding an issue for that purpose,
Section 3283. If any real estate which descended or was devised to
defendant, shall not be aliened by him before the filing of a notice
of the pendency of the action, the court shall adjudge that the debt of
the plaintifff, or the portion thereof which he is entitled to recover
against such defendant, shall be levied out of such real estate so de
scended or devised, and not otherwise,
Seotion 3284. In such action, the sum which the plaintifff is entitled
to recover for damages and costs, must be apportioned among all the
defendants, in proportion to the value of the real property descended
or devised to such defendants, and such proportion only shall be recov
ered of each heir or devisee. The judgment shall express the amount
recovered against each defendant for damages and costs, and it may be
docketed and enforced against each defendant separately, in like man
ner and with like effect as if they were separate judgments. Each
such judgment shall have preference as a lien on the real estate de
scended or devised to any defendant, to any other judgment rendered
and docketed against such heir or devisee, for any deb£ or demand uf
his own.
Seotion 3285. No real estate descended to any heir, or devised to
any devigee, which shall have been aliened in good faith and for value
by him before a notice of the pendency of the action was filed, or if
no such notice be filed, before the final judgment is docketed in the
county, shall be liable to execution on any such judgment or any wav
affected thereby.
Section 328G. When it appears that, before the filing of a notice ^
tue pendency of such action, the defendant has aliened the real estate
descended or devised to him, or any part thereof, he shall be personam
liable for the value of the estate so aliened, and the plaintifff may talce
i'udgment against him for not exceeding such value, as in an action for
lis own debt.
Section 32S7. When the next of kin, legatees, heirs or devisees, are
liable for demands against the decedent as prescribed in this chapter,
they shall be given preference in the payment of the same, and shall
be liable therefore in the following order:
1. Debts entitled to preference under the laws of the United States.
2. Judgments docketed against the decedent, according to the priority
thereof, respectively.
3. All other debts arising or growing out of any contract.
Section 3288. No preference shall be given by any next of kin,
legatee, heir or devisee, to any debt, over other debts of the same class,
except those specified in the second class of the preceding section; nor
shall a debt, due and payable, be entitled to a preference over debts not
due; nor shall the commencement of an action against any next of kin,
legatee, heir or devisee, for the recovery of any debt, entitle such debt
to any preference over others of the same class.
Section 3289. The next of kin, legatee, heirs and devisees, may
show that there are debts of a prior class unsatisfied, or thai there
are unpaid debts of the same class with that on which the action is
brought ; and if it appear that the value of the personal property deliv
ered to them, or of the real estate descended or devised to them, does
not exceed the debts of a prior class, judgment shall be rendered in
their favor.
Section 3290. If the personal property delivered to such next of
kin or legatee, or if the real estate descended or devised to such heirs
or devisees, exceed the amount of debts which are entitled to a prefer
ence over the debt for which the action is brought, judgment shall be
rendered against them only for such a sum as shall be a just proportion
to the other debts of the same class, with that on which the action is
brought.
Section 3291. If any debt of a prior class to that on which the
action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been paid by any
next of tin, legatees, heirs or devisees, they may give evidence of such
payment, and the amount of debts so paid shall be estimated in ascer
taining the amount to be recovered, in the same manner as if such
debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the two last sec
tions.
Section 3292. A child born after the making of a will, who is
entitled to succeed to a portion of the real or personal property or
both of the testator, or a witness to a will, who is entitled to recover
any portion of such property from the legatees or devisees, shall have
the same rights and remedies to compel a distribution of the personal
property and partition of the real estate, or to recover of the legatees
or devisees such portion of the property as belongs to him, or to com
pel a contribution from other persons interested in the estate, or to gain
possession of the property, as any other persons who are entitled to any
part of such estate, and shall be equally liable to the creditors of the
decedent, under the provisions of this chapter.
Section 3293. It any of the heirs, devisees, legatees or next of kin
shall die without having paid his just share of the debts of his decedent,
his estate shall be liable therefore, as for his own debt, to the extent
to which he would have been liable, if living.
CHAPTER CXLII.
OF THE COLLECTION OF FORFEITURES.
Section 3294. In all cases, not otherwise specially provided for bj
law, where a forfeiture shall be incurred by any person, and the actor
omission for which the same is imposed shall not also be a misdemeanor,
such forfeiture may be sued for and recovered in a civil action,
When such act or omission is punishable by fine and imprisonment,
or by fine or imprisonment, or is specially declared by law to be t
misdemeanor, it shall be deemed a misdemeanor within the meaning
of this chapter. The word forfeiture, as used in this chapter, skit
include any penalty, in money or goods, other than a fine.
Section 3295. Every such action, unless otherwise specially provided,
shall be brought in the name of the state of Wisconsin, and
t]ie gummonS) pleadings and proceedings therein, shall be the same as
in civil actions. In such actions it shall be sufficient to allege in the
complaint, that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff in the aniouat
of the forfeiture claimed, according to the provisions of the otatnte
which imposes it, specifying the section and chapter containing such
statute. And when such section imposes a forfeiture for several
offenses or delinquencies, it shall specify the particular offense or
delinquency for which the action was brought, with a demand for
judgment for the amount of such forfeiture. In case the defendant
is a nonresident of the state, an attachment may be issued in such
action, in like manner as may be done in ordinary civil actions against
nonresidents. Any such action may be brought for, and the judg
ment therein may include, as many forfeitures as the defendant maj
have incurred prior to its commencement,
Section 3296. In an action brought to recover any goods or other
(.j^^g forfej teci by the provisions of any statute, it shall be sufficient
to allege in the complaint, that such goods or other things have beet:
forfeited, specifying the section and chapter containing such statute,
with a demand of judgment for the delivery of such goods or other
things, or of the value thereof,
Section 3297. In case any portion of any forfeiture shall, when
recovered, belong, or by law shall be payable to any person, and not
^ faQ state, such person may join with the state as a party plaimif
to the action; and in such cases, if judgment be rendered for the
defendant, the judgment for costs shall be rendered against such per
son solely. Such person may be compelled to give security for costs,
as in ordinary civil actions.
Section 329S. No such action, other than those in which the person mentioned in the preceding section shall join as plaintifff, sba;>
be brought before any justice of the peace, except by direction of the
attorney general, district attorney of the county, mayor or alderman
of a city, president or trustee of a village, or supervisor of a town, in
which the forfeiture is incurred, or other officer specially directed by
statute; and no appeals shall be taken, in the actions mentioned in
this section, to the circuit or supreme court, from a judgment against
the state, unless directed b}T the attorney general, or district attorney.
Section 3299. When a forfeiture is imposed, not exceeding a
specific snm, or when it is not less than one sum or more than another,
the action may be brought for the highest sum specified; and judgment mav be rendered for such sum as the court or jury shall assess
i • i • i ev *
or determine to be proportionate to the offense.
Section 3300. All forfeitures imposed by chapter eighty nine may
be sued for by the district attorney of the county in which the insurance
company, or any of its agents mentioned in said chapter, may be
located or reside, or by the attorney general. If the action be brought
by the district attorney, one-half of the forfeiture, when recovered,
shall be paid into the county treasury of his county, and the other
half to the informer of such violation who sues jointly with the state
therefore, and otherwise the whole shall be paid into such county treas
ury. If the action is brought by tha attorney general, the sum recov
ered shall be paid into the state treasury.
Section 3301. Where any property has been seized and detained
pursuant to section one thousand five hundred and eighty, in case of
the recovery of judgment for the forfeiture provided in section one
thousand five hundred and seventy six, and nonpayment thereof, the
court may issue its warrant directed to the sheriff, or other proper
officer of the county, commanding him to cause such judgment, with
the costs, to be forthwith collected by sale of the property so seized,
and that if sufficient property be not found whereof to collect the
same, to commit the defendant to the jail of the proper county, there
to he imprisoned not exceeding six months, or until otherwise dis
charged pursuant to law.
Section 3302. In all cases where judgment is recovered pursuant
to this chapter, it shall also include the costs of the action, and it shall
direct that if the same is not paid, the defendant shall be committed
to the county jail of the proper county, there to be imprisoned for a
specified time, not exceeding six months, which period shall be fixed
by the court, in view of all the circumstances of the case, or until
otherwise discharged pursuant to law. In such cases a commitment
shall issue, as in ordinary criminal actions, and such defendant shall
not be entitled to the liberties of the jail. Tiiis section shall not pre
vent the issue of an execution to collect such judgment, at any time
within one year from its rendition.
Section 3303. All forfeitures imposed by any bylaw, ordinance
or regulation of any town, city or village, or of any corporation organized
under the laws of this state, where special provision is not otherwise made by law for their recovery, or punisnmetit, provided for
the act or omission for which they are imposed, may be sued for and
recovered, pursuant to this chapter, in the name of such town, city,
village or corporation. It shall be sufficient to allege in the com
plaint, that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff in the amount of
the forfeiture claimed, specifying the by-law, ordinance or regulation
which imposes it. And when such by-law, ordinance or regulation
imposes a penalty or forfeiture, for several offenses or delinquencies, it
shall specify the particular offense or delinquency' for which the action
is brought, with a demand for judgment for the amount of such forfeitare. All monies collected on such judgments shall be paid to the
treasurer of such town, city village or corporation.
Section 3304. The chairman of the town shall cause an action to
be commenced under this chapter for the recovery of any forfeiture,
which he shall know, or have reason to believe, has been incurred in
his town, if the same is recoverable before a justice of the peace, and
every other town officer knowing or having reason to believe, that
any forfeiture has been incurred, shall forthwith notify such choirman
thereof,
Section 3305. Such chairman shall forthwith notify the district
attorney of his county of every forfeiture which he knows, has rea-oa
*° De^eve» or which he bas been so informed, has been incurred in bis
town, which cannot be recovered before a justice of the peace, who shall
forthwith cause an action to be commenced for the recovery there')!
as well as for the recovery of every forfeiture which he shall otherwise
know, or have reason to believe, has been incurred; and such district
attorney shall attend to and conduct any action so commenced by such
chairman, when requested by him so to do.
Section 3306. All monies collected on account of any judgmec;
.q favor 0f tue Btate for forfeiture, pursuant to this chapter, eicept
the portion to be paid by law to any person who sues jointly with :m
state therefore, shall be paid by the officer who collects the same, ex
cept justices of the peace and town and city treasurers, to the treas
urer of the county within which such forfeiture was incurred, withn
twenty days after its collection or receipt by him; and in case of slt
neglect or failure in such payment, such county treasurer may sue
and collect the same of such officer by action, in his name of offis
and upon the official bond of such officer, if any he has given, with
interest at the rate of twelve per centum per annum, from the time
when it should have been so paid.
Section 3307. Every town, village and city treasurer shall demand
and recover from each justice of the peace of his town, village w
aity, respectively, all monies received by such justice upon judgments
rendered by him in actions under this chapter, and every such justice
shall, on demand of either such treasurers, produce to him his dock;:
for examination, and all process and papers concerning, or in such
actions. In case of refusal or neglect by such justice to pay over
promptly such monies upon such demand, such treasurer shall caiw
an action to be instituted for the recovery thereof against such jcttice
and his sureties upon his official bond.
Section 3308. On or before the first Monday of February in each
every such town, village and city treasurer shall pay to tketreas-i
urer of his county, all monies so collected by him accruing to the
state, taking a receipt therefore; and at the same time shall filewii
the county clerk of his county a statement, upon oath, containing tbt
names of the justices of the peace of his town, village and city, re
spectively, the amount of monies so collected from each, the date of
collection, the name of the defendant in each case, the cause of actio-and
date of the summons and judgment.
Section 3309. If any treasurer of any town, village or city shall
neglect or refuse to perform any of the duties required of him bj
this chapter, he shall, upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment
in the county jail, not less than three nor more than six months, of
by fine not less than fifty nor more than three hundred dollars, or bj
both, in the discretion of the court; and the county treasurer shall
forthwith bring an action upon the bond of such treasurer, againsl
him and his sureties, for the recovery of any monies which he hai
neglected or refused to pay over as required by this chapter,
Section 3310. Every county treasurer shall, on the first day of tin
annual meeting of the county board of his county, submit to sucl
uoarci a statement in writing, verified by him, of all monies receive*
by him during the year next preceding, from such town, village an<
cjty treasurers, under this chapter, containing the names of sue!
:reasnrers, the amount received from each, and date of receipt. Upon
■eceipt of such statement, said county hoard shall deduct all expenses
ii irred by the county in recovering such forfeitures from the aggrejate
amount so received, and the county clerk shall immediately cer:ify to the county treasurer the amount of clear proceeds of such for
feitures, so ascertained, who shall pay the same to the state treasurer,
is required by law.
Section 3311. If any justice of the peace shall, of his own will,
iismissany action brought before him under this chapter, or release or
iischargeany property seized or detained under section one thousand
five hundred and eighty, unless by order of the district attorney, or at
torney general, or the person joined as plaintifff with the state, or
render a less judgment therein than is prescribed by law, or release
Dr discharge any such judgment, or part thereof, without payment or
collection, he and his sureties shall be liable, in an action upon his
bond, for the full amount of the forfeitures imposed by law, or of the
forfeiture imposed by him, as the case may be, or for an amount equal
to the amount in which he shall release or discharge any such judg
ment, or any part thereof; and if he shall give time or delay to any
person, against whom any such judgment is rendered by him, or tike
any bond or security for its future payment, he and his sureties shall
also be liable for the payment of such judgment upon his bond.
Section 3312. "Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property,
real or personal, shall be forfeited to this state, or to any officer for its£
use, an action for the recovery of such property, alleging the grounds
of the forfeiture, may be brought by the proper officer iu the circuit
court.
Section 3313. In all actions, brought under the provisions of section three thousand three hundred and three, the town, city, village
or corporation, in whose name such action is brought, shall be liable
for the costs of prosecution; and, if judgment be for defendant, for
all the costs of the action, and judgment shall be entered accordingly.
In all other actions, brought under the provisions of this chapter, ex
cept as provided in section three thousand two hundred and ninety
seven, the county in which the forfeiture was incurred, shall be liable
for the costs of the prosecution, and, if judgment be for defendant,
for all the costs of the action.
CHAPTER CXLIII.
OF LIENS.
Section 3314. Every person, who as principal contractor perforras
any work or labor, or furnishes any materials, in or about the
erection, construction, repairs, protection or removal of any dwelling
house, or other building, or of any machinery erected or constructed,
so as to be or become a part of the freehold upon which it is situated,
or of any bridge, or in the filling up of any wT».ter lot, or the construetion
thereon of any wharf or permanent erection, or in the dredging of
the channel in front of such water lot, or in digging or constructing1
any well or fountain, or in building or repairing any fences upon land,
or doing manual labor thereon, shall have a lien thereupon, and upon
^e >nterests of the owner of such dwelling house, building, machiuery,
bridge, wharf, erection thereon, well, fountain or fence, in aad
to the land upon which the same is situated, or of the person causing
sucn manual labor to be done, and upon the water lot so filled or in
front of which such dredging is done, not exceeding forty acres, or if
within j.])e lixnits of an incorporated city or village, upon the pieceor
fiarcel of land used, or designed for use in connection with such duel
ing house, building, machinery, bridge, wharf, erection thereon, we!!,
fountain or fence, or upon such water lot or land on which such manes)
labor is done, not exceeding one acre. Such lien shall be prior tour
other lien which originates subsequent to the commencement of the
construction, repairs, removal or work aforesaid, of or upon sneb
dwelling housebuilding, machinery, bridge, wharf, or erection there
on, well, fountain, fence, water lot or land, and may be enforced as pro
vided in this chapter. In case any person shall order or contract for
the purchase of any machinery to be placed in or connected to or with
any ouilding or premises, and such person not having an interest in
such building or premises in or connected with which such machinery
is placed, sufficient for a lien as provided for in this chapter, to se
cure payment for said machinery, the person furnishing such ma
chinery shall have and retain a lien upon such machinery, and sha!l
have the right to remove from such building or premises such ma
chinery, in case there shall be default in the payment for such ma
chinery when due, leaving such building or premises in as good con
dition as the}' were before such machinery was placed in or on the same.
Section 3315. Every person who, as subcontractor of a principal
. ri i i r t • i r „ ■ i
contractor, performs any work or labor for or furnishes any material)
to a principal contractor, in any of the cases mentioned in the pre
ceding section, shall be entitled to the lien and remedy given by this
chapter, if within thirty days after performing such work or laborer
furnishing such materials, he shall give notice in writing to the owner,
or his agent, of the property to be affected by such lien, setting forth
that he has been employed by such principal contractor to furnish and
has furnished such work, labor or materials, with a statement of the
labor or materials furnished, and the amount due therefore from sncii
principal contractor, and tliat he claims the lien given by this chap
ter; but the claim of such subcontractor shall not constitute such lien,
except so far as such owner shall, at the time of giving such notice,
be or shall thereafter become indebted to such principal contractor
for work done or materials furnished under the principal contract;
nor shall this section give any lien to any subcontractor of a subcon
tractor. In no case shall the owner be compelled to pay a greater
sum for or on account of such house, building or other improvement
than the price or sum stipulated in the original contract or agreement:
grovided, if it shall appear to the court that the owner and contractor
■audulently, and for the purpose of defrauding subcontractors, fixed
an unreasonably low price in their original contract for the erection,
or repairing of such building, then the court shall ascertain how much
of a difference exists between a fair price for labor or material used
in said building or other improvement and the sum named in said
original contract. Said difference shall be considered a part of the
contract, and be subject to a lien; but in no case shall the original
contractor's time or profits be secured by this lien, only so far a* the
sum named in the original contract or agreement.
Section 3316. All claims for liens and rights of action to recover
therefore under this chapter, shall be assignable so as to vest in the
assignee all rights and remedies herein given, subject to all defenses
thereto that might be made, if 6uch assignment had not been made.
Notice in writing of such assignment, together with a copy thereof,
shall be served upon the owner of the property affected by such claim
for lien within fifteen days after soch assignment is made; and all
payments made by such original owner, before service of such notice
of assignment, shall discharge his original debt to the amount so paid.
Section 3317. The taking of a promissory note or other evidence
of indebtedness for any such work, labor or materials, done or fur
nished, shall not discharge the lien therefore hereby given, unless
expressly received as payment therefore, and so specified therein.
Section 3318. No lien hereby given shall exist, and no action to
enforce the same shall be maintained, unless within six months from
the date of the last charge for performing such work and labor, or of
the furnishing of such materials, a claim for such lien shall be filed,
as hereinafter provided, in the office of the clerk of the circuit court
of tbe county in which the lands affected thereby lie, nor unless such
action be brought within one year from such date. Such claim for
lien may be filed and docketed within such six months, notwithstand
ing the deatli of the owner of the property affected thereby, or of the
person with whom the original contract was made, with like effect as
if he were then living.
Section 3319. Every clerk of the circuit court shall keep a sepa
rate docket, to be entitled "lien docket," in which shall be entered
the proper entries, under the appropriate headings herein specified,
relative to each claim for lien filed with him, immediately upon its
filing, opposite the names of the persons against whom the lien is
claimed, which names shall be entered therein alphabetically, or an
alphabetical index thereof shall be kept, as judgment dockets are
required by law to be kept. Each page of such docket shall be
divided into eight columns, with written or printed headings to the
respective columns, as follows:
• «••><••••■*••■
&
hod
8.1 a
"£ o b QJ
3<« o-S
I
to
°a
<s> o
a
■5
o< .
'C >?
§■£
Such docket shall be presumptive evidence of the correctness of the
entries therein made.
Section 3320. Such claim for lien shall contain a statement of the
contract, or demand upon which it is founded, the name of the per
son against whom the demand is claimed, the name of the claimant
or assignee, the last date of the performance of labor or furnishing
of materials, a description of the property affected thereby, a statement
of the amount claimed, and all other material facts in relation
thereto. It shall be signed by the claimant, or by his attorney, and
"2
s
i
•43
1
C/J
need not be verified, and may be amended, in case of action brought,
by order of tbe court as pleadings may be.
Section 3321. Any person Laving so filed such claim for alien
may foreclose tbe same by action in the circuit court, or any comity
court having jurisdiction thereof. All persons having filed sue'a
claims for liens, for work done, or materials furnished, in theconstrcction, repair, protection or removal of or upon the same dwelling boose
or other building, or the same machinery, bridge, wharf, well, foun
tain, fence or water lot, may join as plaintifffs; and if any do not so
join, or refuse to so join, they may be made parties defendant. Ali
persons having liens upon the premises by mortgage, judgment or
otherwise, subsequent to the lien sought to be foreclosed, and all pur
chasers of the premises subsequent to such lien, may be joined a
parties defendant. In case any person who has filed such claim for
lien, prior to the commencement of such action, or who has such
subsequent lien, or who is snch subsequent purchaser, is not made >
party to such action, he may, upon application, at any time before
judgment, be made a party defendant thereto; and any person, who shall
file such claim for lien after the commencement of such action, or who
uhall obtain such subsequent lien, by mortgage, judgment or other
wise, or become such subsequent purchaser, after the filing of the
notice of the pendency of such action, may, at any time before judg
ment, upon application, be made a party defendant thereto. If such
action be brought by a subcontractor, the principal contractor may
also be made a party defendant thereto,
Section 3322. The complaint in such action shall be sufficient, ii
it set forth the contract in substance, under which such work was done
or materials furnished, with the last date of doing or furnishing tie
same, and the assignment of the claim, if any; and allege that the
plaintifff or his assignee has filed a claim for a lieu therefore as required
C
by law, giving the date of such filing, that such work was done or
materials furnished for some of the purposes mentioned in section
three thousand three hundred and fourteen, stating for what particular
purpose, the amount claimed to be due to the plaintifff or plaintifffs,
respectively; and give a description of the premises claimed to '^
affected by such lien; as to defendants who have filed claims for liens
on said premises under the provisions of this cha- ter, that tber hare
filed such claims, giving the date of filing and the amount claimed by
each; as to defendants having subsequent liens, or being subsequent
purcbasers, that they have or claim to have some lien upon the prem
ises, subsequent and subject to the lien of the plaintifff; and shall de
mand judgment that the demands of all persons having filed claimfor
liens upon snch premises, whether plaintifffs or defendants, be ascer
tained and adjudged; and that the interest of the person owning such
premises at the time of the commencement of the construction, repairs,
removal or work of or upon the dwelling house, building, machinery,
bridge, wharf, or erection thereon, well, fountain, fence, water lot or
land, on account of which such liens are claimed, or which he oran|
other person claiming under him has since acquired, be sold to satisfr
the amount of the liens so ascertained and adjudged, with the costs of
the action. If the action be brought by a subcontractor, the complaint
shall also set forth in substance the contract between him and tbe con
tractor, and allege that he gave the notice required by section three
thousand three hundred and fifteen, and the date of the service
thereof.
Section 3323. Any issue of fact in such action shall on demand
of either party be tried by a jury, whose verdict thereon shall be conelusive
as in other cases.
Section 332+. The judgment in such action shall adjudge the
amount due to the plaintifff, or in case several claims for liens are em
braced in the action, the amount due to each claimant who is a party
to the action. It shall direct that the interest of the owner in thei
premises at the time of the commencement of the construction, repairs,
removal, or work of or upon the dwelling house, building, machinery,
bridge, wharf, or erection thereon, well, fountain, fence, water lot or
land, on account of which such liens are claimed, or which he, or any
person claiming under him, has 6ince acquired, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, be sold to satisfy the amount of the lien of the
plaintifff, or of the several liens embraced in the action, with the costs
of such action, including the costs of filing the claims for lien; and
that after satisfying the same, together with such costs, that the resi
due of the proceeds be brought into court, with the report of sale, to
abide the order of the court. If the premises can be sold in parcels
without injury to, or to the advantage of, the parties, the court may
idjudge that the sale be so made. If the plaintifff in any such action
fail to establish his lien upon the premises described in his complaint
and claim for lien, but establish a right to recover upon contract for
his alleged work and labor done, or materials furnished, he may have
a personal judgment in the action against the party liable for the
amount due him, with or without costs, to be taxed in his favor or in
favor of the defendant, in like manner as if the action wore for the
rsooverv of money only.
Section 3325. From the proceeds of such sale, the several claimants,
whose liens were established and adjudged in the action, shall bec
paid equally and alike, without priority among themselves; and if the
sum realized at such sale shall be insufficient, after paying the costs
of the action and the costs of making the sale, to pay the full amount
adjudged to be due all such claimants, then the same shall be distrib
uted and paid to each of them in the proportion which the sum ad
judged to each bears to the whole amount adjudged to all, and the
judgment shall so direct.
Section 332G. All sales under such judgments may be made by
the sheriff, or a referee appointed by the court for that purpose, whoi
shall give notice thereof in the manner provided by law tor the sale of
real estate upon execution, unless the court shall order other or differ
ent notice to be given, and shall be absolute and without redemption;
and the deed given thereon, in case such sale is confirmed, shall be
effectual to pass to the purchaser all the interest in the premises di
rected to be sold. Such sheriff or referee shall, within ten days after
making such sale, file with the clerk of the court in which the judg
ment is rendered, a report of the sale for confirmation thereof, and
shall, immediately after the sale, pay to the parties entitled thereto
the amounts adjudged to them respectively, after deducting the costs
thereof, unless otherwise ordered by the court. If any deficiency
arise upon such sale in the payment of the sums adjudged to be due
to any such claimant of a lien given by this chapter, the sheriff or
referee shall specify the amount of such deficiency in his report, and
if demanded in the complaint, or in the answer of any such lien
claimant, the court, upon confirming such sale, may render judgment
therefore against the defendant legally liable to pay the same, which
judgment may be docketed and enforced in the same manner that
ordinary judgments are.
Section 3327. Every person who has received satisfaction or tenof
his debt, with the costs of any action brought thereon, ot
, » . . j* , . - _ _ jst j ,
of any judgment recovered thereior, for which he has nledanvsnci
claim for lien, shall, at the request of any person interested in the
premises affected thereby, or in having such lien removed, on par
ment of the costs of satisfying the 6ame, execute and deliver by him
self or his attorney the necessary acknowledgment of satisfaction
thereof; on filing which with the clerk of the court with whom suci
lien is docketed, such clerk shall enter satisfaction of such claim; or
the lien claimant may enter the same satisfied on the docket of such
lien. On failure to so execute and deliver such acknowledgment of
satisfaction, or to so satisfy 6uch lien on the docket, the person refus
ing shall be liable to pay to the person requiring such acknowledg
ment, a sum equal to one-half of the sum claimed in his claim for
lien, to be recovered by action.
ACTIONS BY SUBCONTRACTORS AGAINST COUNTIES, ETC.
Section 3328. Any subcontractor who has done work or labor, o:
materials to any principal contractor, for the construction,
repair or removal of any building or machinery for any county, town,
city, village, or school district, may maintain an action therefore in the
county in which such work, labor or materials were done or furnished,
against such principal contractor, and such county, town, city, village,
or school district, jointly, for the recovery thereof; but no judgment
shall be rendered against any defendant therein, other than such prin
cipal contractor, for any amount greater than the amount due from
it to such principal contractor at the time of the commencement o!
such action. Such county, town, city, village, or school district,
ivhen served with the summons in any such action, may give notice
thereof to such principal contractor, and on so doing, need not far
ther defend such action. On rendition of judgment in such action
against such principal contractor, the court may also render judgment
againt such county, town, city, village, or 6chool district, for the
amount due from it to such principal contractor, at the time of the
commencement of such action, or to a sufficient amount to pay the
judgment recovered against the principal contractor, and payment
thereof shall discharge its indebtedness to such principal contractor
to the amount so paid. Such principal contractor may, in suck ac
tion, file in the court in which it is commenced, a bond, in such sun
and with such sureties as the judge of such court shall approve, con
ditioned for the payment of any judgment that may be rendered h
such action, and thereupon the liability of such county, town, city.
village, or school district hereunder, shall cease, and the action as to
it shall be discontinued without costs to it.
LIENS UPON LOGS AND TIMBER.
Section 3329. Any person who shall furnish any supplies, rafting
or other materials, or do or perform any labor or service, in cutting,
felling, hauling, running, driving, rafting, booming, cribbing or towt • i i t i P -r-v Q\ i ]i
ing, any logs or timber in the counties of Ashland, Barron, Bayfield,
Brown, Burnett, Chippewa, Clark, Door, Douglas, Eau Claire, Fond
^U kac> Jackson, Kewaunee, La Crosse, Lincoln, Manitowoc, Marathon,
Oconto, Outagamie, Pierce, Polk, Portage, Shawano, Saint Croix, Taylor,
Waupaca, Winnebago or Wood, shall have a lien upon such logs
or timber for the amount due for such supplies, materials, labor or
services, which shall take precedence of all other claims or hem
thereon; and such liens for labor and services shall take precedence
of such liens for supplies or materials: provided, that in the counties
of Chippewa and Taylor, there shall also he such lien for the services
of men and teams, in hauling supplies for those engaged in such busi
ness; but there shall be no such lien in said counties for any 6uch
supplies or materials furnished.
Section 3330. The word " supplies," as used in the preceding section,
as applicable to all the counties therein named, except the coun
ties of Fond du Lac, Outagamie, Shawano, Waupaca and Winnebago,
and such portions of Brown and Oconto wherein such logs or timber
are got out upon, or for the purpose of running down, or are run down,
ths Wolf river, or any of its tributaries, shall be construed to mean
feed used for teams, and the food necessarily used in camp to support
the men, and no other thing; and in the counties and parts thereof
above excepted, the words "supplies, rafting or other materials," shall
be construed to mean and include all rafting or other materials used
by the men and teams in and about the cutting, felling, hauling, driv
ing, running, rafting, cribbing or towing any such logs or timber, and
which are usually used by men or teams when so employed, includ
ing food for bothy and all materials and articles usually or necessarily
used in rafting, booming or cribbing logs or timber; and all groceries
and provisions, clothing and other ordinary articles used by a laboring
man or his family, and which may be furnished by an employer to an
employe or his family, while doing any such labor or services upon
any such logs or timber, when the same is furnished to, and does apSly
in payment for the labor and services on such logs and timber, and
oes not exceed the value of such services and labor; but shall not
include horses, cattle, teams, bobsleighs, sleds, wagons, harnesses, beds
or bed clothing.
Section 3331. No debt or demand for such supplies, materials,
labor or services shall remain such lien, unless a claim therefore in writing
shall be made, signed by the claimant or his attorney, and veri
fied by the claimant, or some one in his behalf, in the same manner
that pleadings in civil actions may he verified, setting forth the nature
of the debt or demand for which a lien is claimed, the amount claimed
to be due, a description of the logs or timber against which the lien is
claimed, and that the claimant claims a lien thereon pursuant to this
chapter. Such petition, except for supplies or materials furnished, or
labor or services done, in the counties hereinafter mentioned, shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which
the supplies or materials were furnished, or the labor or services done;
and for such supplies, materials, labor or services furnished or done
in the counties of Shawano, Waupaca, Outagamie, Winnebago and
Fond du Lac, or in such parts of the counties of Brown, Oconto and
other counties wherein such logs or timber are got out upon the Wolf
river, or any of its tributaries, or for the purpose of being run down
such river, or its tributaries, such claim for lien shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the city of Oshkosh. If the supplies or ma
terials are furnished, or the labor or services are done between the
first day of November and the first day of May, the claim for lien
shall be filed on or before the first day of June next thereafter, but if
furnished or done after the first day of May and before the first day
of November, within thirty days after the last day of so furnishing
or doing the same. Such clerks shall receive twenty five cents for
filing each such claim for lien, and for certified copies thereof the fees
allowed by law for certified copies of papers to clerks of circuit courts.
Section 3332. All actions to enforce such lien may be brought in
*^e c'rcil't c01irt 0I" the proper county, when the amount stated in
the affidavit for the attachment, over and above all legal setoffs, ex
ceeds one hundred dollars, or before any justice of the peace having
jurisdiction of the amount claimed and or the parties. Actions may
be commenced to enforce such liens, if the same be due, immediately
after the filing of snch petition or statement, and such lien claim
shall cease to be a lien on the property named in such petition or
statement, unless action be commenced within four months after the
tiling of such petition or statement. In all such actions the person,
company or corporation liable for the payment of such debt or claim
shall be made the party defendant. Any person claiming to be the
owner of any such logs or timber may be made a party defendant on
application to the court having jurisdiction of the action, at any time
before final judgment therein.
Section 3333. The plaintifff in such actions may have the remedy
by attachment of the property upon which the lien is claimed, provided
by law in personal actions, and such attachments may be issued and
be served and returned, and like proceedings had thereon, including
^g re]ease 0f anv attached property, upon giving security, as in civil
actions. The affidavit for the attachment must state that the defendant, who is personally liable to the plaintifff therefore, is indebted to him
in a sum named, over and above legal setoffs, for such supplies or materials furnished or labor or services done, as entitles the plaintifff to
a lieu thereon under this chapter, describing such logs or timber, and
that the plaintifff has filed his claim for a lien pursuant thereto; and
no other matter need be stated in such affidavit. No undertaking upon
sncij attachment, or security for costs in'actions hereunder before jus
tices of the peace, need be given, unless upon application of some
defendant in the action, showing by affidavit that he has a good and
valid defense to the plaintifffs claim, and to how much thereof, and
if it be only to a part of such claim, unless the residue be paid to the
plaintifff at the time of the application, which payment, if made, shall
not affect the jurisdiction of the court; and no order shall be made
requiring the giving of such undertaking, or security for costs except
upon ten days notice to the plaintifff. The attachment shall direct
the officer to whom it is issued, to attach the property named in the
affidavit, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the snm
claimed to.be due therein, and to hold the same subject to further
proceedings in the action. The officer executing the attachment shall
pay any boomage due upon the property attached, and the amounts
so paid shall be taxed as a part of the costs of the action.
Section 3331. The attachment issued by any justice of the peace
gjia|j De retQrned as an ordinary summons, and may be in the follow
ing form:
County, ss.
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said
county:
You are commanded to attach the following goods and chattels,
(here insert a description of the property described in such affidavit),
or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the sum of
with interest and costs, and disbursements of suit, in whosesoevei
hands or possession the same may be found in your county, ai d so
provide that the same, so attached, may be subject to further proceed
ings thereon, as the law requires; and also to summon , if to be
found, to be and appear before me at my office in said , on the
■ day of , A. D., 18—, at o'clock in the noon, to
answer to , to his damages two hundred dollars or under.
Given under iny hand at , this day of , A. D., 18 —.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3335. The taking of a promissory note, or other evidence
of debt, for any such supplies or materials furnished, or labor or services done, shall not discharge the lien therefore, hereby given, unless
expressly received in payment therefore, and so specified therein.
Section 3336. "When more than one person has a claim for a lien
given hereunder upon the same logs or timber, any person having
such claim may purchase and take an assignment of the debts or
claims of the others, subject to all defenses and setoffs to such claim
against the original owner, may file a claim for lien for all such debts,
and bring an action to collect the same in his name; but such claim
for lien, and the complaint in the action, shall allege such purchase
or assignment.
Section 3337. "Whenever two or more persons own logs or timber
on the Wolf river, or any of its tributaries, which are so intermixed
that they cannot be conveniently separated for floating or driving
them to the place of destination, and either owner shall refuse or
neglect to make the necessary provision, or to furnish the necessary
labor and materials for floating or driving the same to such place, any
other owner may drive all such logs or timber to such place, and shall
receive reasonable compensation for so driving the portion thereof
belonging to such owner so neglecting or refusing from 6uch owner,
and shall have a lien for such compensation, and may enforce the
same by action, as herein provided for the enforcement of liens upon
logs or timber.
Section 3338. Every company incorporated for the improvement
of rivers and streams, whose charter authorizes it to collect tolls on
logs, lumber or timber, for such improvements, or for any other work
done on or about the same, shall have alien thereon, with the remedies
herein given to enforce the same, to the same extent and in the same
manner, that liens are hereby given for labor and services in respect
to logs or timber.
Section 3339. The complaint in any action hereunder to enforce a
lieu upon logs or timber shall, in addition to the other ordinary alle-o/
Sations in actions upon contracts, allege the filing of the claim for
en as hereinbefore provided, and such allegation shall be taken to be
true, uuless expressly denied by the defendant, or by some one in his
behalf, in a sworn answer or affidavit; and shall also allege a descrip
tion of the property upon which a lien is claimed.
Section 3340. The court, or jury, which tries any action hereunder,
shall, in addition to finding the sum due to the plaintifff, find, if
Buch be proven, that the same is due for the supplies or materials fur
nished or labor or services done, or some part of them, alleged in the
complaint, and that the same is a lien upon the property, or some
part thereof, described in the complaint, and the judgment shall be
in accordance with the findings, with costs to be taxed and allowed
as in personal actions. The execution, in addition to the directions
and commands of ordinary executions upon judgments for money,
shall direct that such logs or timber, describing them, or so much
thereof as may be necessary for that purpose, be sold to satisfy said
judgment, cost, and costs of sale. If tne court, justice, or jury, shall
find that the amount found due the plaintifff is not a lien upon any
part of such logs or timber, they shall be released from the attachment, if they have been attached, but the plaintifff shall have judgmem
for the amount so found due, with costs, as in ordinary civil
actions; but he 6hall not recover, but shall pay the costs of executing
the attachment.
Section 3341. Any person performing manual labor upon any
, , . ... • r.. V, . , ° ,. , ■, ■, ' ., J
lumber, or in cutting, peeling, piling or hauling any hemlock or other
.bark, for or on account of the owner, agent, or assignee thereof, at
any place within this state, or performing any such labor on any logs
or timber in any other counties than those mentioned in section three
thousand three hundred and twenty nine, for such owner, agent, or
assignee, shall have a like lien upon such lumber, bark, logs or timber,
as is given in this chapter for work and services upon logs and tim
ber; and he may avail himself of the provisions of this chapter in
relation to the lien upon logs and timber, to enforce such lien. The
notice of such lien shall, in all cases, be filed in the office of the clerk
of the circuit court of the county in which such work was done,
within the time prescribed in section three thousand three hundred
and thirty one, and the action to enforce the same may be com
menced without any notice given to the owner, or any other person,
of his claim.
Section 3342. Appeals' may be taken from all judgments ren
dered by justices of the peace, and the judgments of circuit and
county courts hereunder, may be reviewed Dy the supreme court as in
ordinary civil actions.
OEETAIN LIENS ON PERSONAL PEOPEETT.
Section 3343. Every mechanic who shall make, alter, or repair, any
art;c]e 0f personal property at the request of the owner or legal pos
sessor of such property, shall have a lien thereon for his just and
reasonable charges therefore, and may retain possession of such prop
erty until such charges are paid.
Section 3344. Every innkeeper, and every keeper of a boarding
house shall have a lien upon and retain the possession of the baggage an^ effects of any guest or boarder for the amount which
may be due him for board from such guest or boarder, uutil such
amount is paid; and every keeper of a livery or boarding stable, and
every person pasturing or keeping any horses, carriage, harness,
mules, cattle or stock, shall have a lien upon and may retain the pos
session of any such horses, carriage, harness, mules, cattle or stock,
for the amount which maybe due him for the keeping, supporting and
care thereof, until such amount is paid.
Section 3345. Every consignee of property shall have a lien there0Q
jQJ. any moncv advanced, or negotiable security given by him to
or for the use of the person in whose name the shipment of such
property is made, and for any money or negotiable security received
by such person for his use, unless he shall, before advancing any such
money, or giving such security, or before it is so received for his use,
have notice that such person is not the actual owner thereof.
Section 3o46. Every* factor, broker or other agent, entrusted bv
, . , , J ', , .,, ., ,. ° ' .
the owner with the possession or any bill of lading, custom house per
mit, warehouse receipt or other evidence of the title to personal prop
erty, or with the possessiou of personal property for the purpose of
sale, or as security for any advances made or liability by him in
curred in reference to such property, shall have a lien upon such per
sonal property for all such advances, liability incurred, or commissions
or other monies due him for services as such factor, broker or agent.
and may retain the possession of such property until such advances,
commissions or monies are paid, or such liability is discharged.
Section 3347. Every person having a lien given by either of theL
four last sections, or existing in favor of any bailee for hire, carrier, f
warehouseman or pawnee, or otherwise, by the common law, may, in
case such debt remain unpaid for three months, and the value ofg
the property affected thereby does not exceed one hundred dollars, M
sell such property at public auction, and apply the proceeds of such
sale to the payment of the amount due him, and the expenses of such
sale. Notice, in writing, of the time and place of 6uch sale, and of
the amount claimed to be due, shall be given to the owner of such
property personally, or by leaving the same at his place of abode, if
a resident of this state, and if not, by publication thereof, once in each
week, for three weeks successively, next before the time of sale, in
some newspaper published in the county in which such lien accrues,
if there be one, and if not, by posting such notice in three public
places in such county. If such property exceed in value one hundred
dollars, then such lien may be enforced against the same by action in
any court having jurisdiction.
CHAPTER CXLIV.
OP LIENS AGAINST SHIPS, BOATS AND VESSELS.
Section 3348. Every ship, boat or vessel, used in navigating the waters
of this state, shall be liable for, and the claims or demands hereinafter mentioned shall constitute a lien on, such ship, boat or vessel, which
shall take precedence of all other claims or liens thereon:
1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent or consignee
thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of such ship, boat
or vessel, or on account of work done, or services rendered, on board of
such ship, boat or vessel, or on account of labor done, or materials furnished by mechanics, tradesmen or others, in and for building, repairing,
fitting out, furnishing or equipping such ship, boat or vessel, or on ac
count of any indebtedness for insurance effected upon such ship, boat
or vessel, the engines, machinery, sails, rigging, tackle, apparel or furni
ture thereof, against any lire or marine risk.
2. For all sums due for wharfage, towage or anchorage of such ship,
boat or vessel, within this state.
3. For all demands or damages accruing from the nonperformance or
malperformance of any contract of affreightment, or any contract touch
ing the transportation of persons or property, entered into by the master,
agent, owner or consignee of the ship, boat or vessel on which such con
tract is to be performed ; and
4. For all damages arising from injuries done to persons or property
by such ship, boat or vessel ; but no person employed as master, or other
wise, on board of any such ship, boat or vessel, to collect or receive
freights or passage money, shall have any lien as provided in this chapter,
or be entitled to his action in accordance with its provisions. Such lien
may be enforced by proceedings in admiralty, or in the qases herein men
tioned as prescribed in this chapter.
Section 3349. The receiving of the note or other evidence of indobledness
of the owner, master, agent or consignee of such ship, boat orvessel, for any such claim or demand, shall not affect the right of the partrto his- lien under this chapter, unless expressly received in payment therefor, and so specified therein.
Section 3350. The owner or owners of any such ship, boat or ves
e j ■/» j ..i r- r
sel, shall be personally liable for the payment of every debt, and for
every demand and claim arising under the provisions of subdivisions one
and two of section three thousand three hundred and forty eight Suet
liability shall not in any way impair or affect the liability that may exisi
against the master, agent or consignee for the same debt or demand
Section 3351. In all cases where the owner of any ship, boat or vessel
personally liable for any claim mentioned in section three thousand
three hundred and forty eight, the claimant, his personal representatives or
assigns may, in an action against such owner for the recovery of such claim.
have a writ of attachment, by virtue of which all the right and title
such owner had in such ship, boat or vessel at the time such claim ac
crued, or at any time thereafter, may be attached to secure the payment
thereof. Before any such attachment shall issue in any such action,
the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall make and annex thereto an
affidavit, 6tating:
l That the defendant in such action is indebted to the plaintifff, or
has a claim or demand against him, in a sum named, over and above
aU„le^ set°ff3\ ,,'.,,
2. Ihat such indebtedness is due for, or accrued or arose out of, or upon
one or more of the causes specified in the first section of this chapter,
specifying it.
3. The name of the ship, boat or vessel, if it have any name, and if
not then a description of the same as near as may be.
4. That the action in which such attachment is applied for was com
menced within three months after such debt, demand or claim accrued
or became payable, and no other or further affidavit shall be required
for that purpose; and except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the
proceedings upon such attachment, in an action in the circuit court,
shall be the same as provided in chapter one hundred and twenty four;
but no attachment shall be issued out of the circuit court in any such
action, unless the amount claimed in such affidavit shall exceed the sum
of one hundred dollars.
Section 3352. In case the plaintifff 's claim arises out of, or is founded
Up0n^ any Q£ j.]ie causes set forth in the first subdivision of section three
thousand three hundred and forty eight, he shall not be required to give
the undertaking required by section two thousand seven hundred and
thirty two, unless required so to do by an order of the court or judge;
and no such order shall be made unless the defendant, or some one in
his behalf, shall make an affidavit, showing, that he has a good and valid
defense, in whole or in part, to the claim or demand of the plaintifff,
setting forth the nature of the defense; and where the defense is only
to a portion of the claim, before any such order shall be made the de
fendant shall pay, or tender to the plaintifff, that portion of the claim
to which there is no defense; such payment or tender shall not affect
the jurisdiction of the court, or prevent a recovery by the plaintifff of
the same costs, disbursements and charges as he would have been enti
tled to, had not the amount of his claim been reduced by such payment.
No such order shall be made except upon one day's notice to the plain
tiff, accompanied by copies of the affidavits and other papers upon which
it is founded.
Section 3353. Such writ of attachment, when issued by the circuit
court, shall command the officer to whom the same is directed to attach
and safely keep the ship, boat or vessel named or described in the affidavit,
her tackle, apparel and furniture, if to be found within his county,
to satisfy the plaintifff 's demand, with costs and expenses. The issuing
of such writ or attachment shall not exclude the right to an attachment
against the other property of the defendant, under the provisions of
chapter one hundred and twenty four.
Section 3354. Justices of the peace within their respective counties
shall have jurisdiction of all cases arising under this chapter, where the
claim shall not exceed two hundred dollars, and when the owner of such
ship, boat or vessel, is personally liable therefore, the claimant may pro
ceed by attachment against such ship, boat or vessel, in an action against
such owner, in a justice's court, in the manner prescribed in chapter one
hundred and fifty eight, so far as the same can be made applicable thereto
and not herein otherwise provided. Before any such attachment shall
be issued in a justice's court, the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf,
must make and file with theJustice an affidavit, setting forth the same
facts as are required in the affidavit mentioned in section three thousand
three hundred and fifty one, and no other or further affidavit shall be
required for that purpose
bEcrnoN 3355. The attachment issued by any justice of the peace
shall be returned as an ordinary summons, and may be in the following
form:
county.
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
You are commanded to attach the (here insert the name of the ship,
boat or vessel, or in case she has no name, a description thereof as near
as may be), together with her tackle, apparel and furniture, to satisfy
the sum of , with interest and cost of suit, in whosesoever hands
or possession the same may be found in your county, and so provide
that the same so attached may be subject to further proceeJings thereon,
as the law requires, and also to summon , if to be found, to
be and appear before me, at my office, in the county of , on
the day of , A. D. 18—, at o'clock in the noon of
that day, to answer to , to his damage two hundred dollars or
under.
Given under my hand at , county of this day of
, A. D. 18—. J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3356. Whenever any ship, boat or vessel, its tackle, apparel or furniture hr.s been seized by virtue of any attachment issued
under the provisions of this chapter, the defendant or any other person
in his behalf, may file with the court from which the same issued, at
any time before a final judgment, an undertaking with at least two
sureties, to the effect that the defendant will pay to the plaintifff on de
mand any judgment that may be rendered in his favor, not exceeding
double the amount claimed by the plaintifff in his affidavit. Such un
dertaking shall be of no effect unless accompanied by the affidavit of
the sureties, in which each surety shall state that he is worth a certain
sum, mentioned in such affidavit, over and above all his debts and lia
bilities, in property within this state, not by law exempt from execu
tion, and which sum so sworn to. by such sureties shall, in the aggre
gate, amount to the sum specified in such undertaking; and such sure
ties shall, upon notice, justify in like manner as upon bail on arrest.
Upon filing such undertaking, the clerk of the court or justice of the
peace, shall make an order discharging the property attached, and upon
delivery to the officer having such ship, boat or vessel in his custody, of
a certified copy of such order, he shall deliver the property attached to
the person obtaining such order.
Section 3357. In all actions under this chapter unless the defendant, or some one in his behalf, shall have given the undertaking pre
scribed in the preceding section, the court or jury who shall try the
same or make an assessment of damages therein, shall find whether or
not such debt or damages are due for, or accrued, or arose out of, or
upon, any of the causes mentioned in section three thousand three hun
dred and forty eight, and specify such cause and the date when the
same became due, or accrued, in the verdict or finding. If such conrt
or jury shall find that such debt or damages are for any of the cans«
specified in such section, and that the defendant is liable to the plaintifff
therefore, then the court shall render judgment accordingly, and that
the amount of such debt or damages so found, together with the cost-,
charges and disbursements, are a lien upon such ship, boat or vessel, to
the extent of the interest of the defendant therein, at the time the same
became due or accrued, or at any time thereafter, and the execution
issued thereon may, in addition to the directions contained in other ex
ecutions against the property of a defendant, direct that such interes:
of the defendant in such ship, boat or vessel, her tackle, apparel and
furniture, be sold to satisfy such judgment, and the same shall be sold
accordingly; but if the conrt or jury shall find that the amount due
the plaintifff for such debt or damages is not for any cl the causes men
tioned in said section, or if the defendant shall have given such under
taking, the plaintifff shall only be entitled to judgment as in other civil
actions.
CHAPTER CXLV.
OF FORCIBLE ENTRY AND UNLAWFUL DETAINER.
Section 3358. In the following cases, any tenant or lessee at will,
or by sufferance, or for any part of a year, or for one or more years, of
any real property, including a specific or undivided portion of a hon*
or other dwelling, and the assigns, undertenants or legal representative
°^ sucn tenant or lessee, may be removed therefrom in the manner prescribed
in this chapter:
1. "When such person holds possession after the expiration of the term.
by lapse of time, or after such tenancy at will or sufferance has been
terminated by either party, in the manner provided in sections two
thousand one hundred and eighty three and two thousand one hundred
and eighty four, and without the permission of the landlord.
2. When such person holds over without such permission after any
default in the payment of rent pursuant to the agreement under which
he holds, and three days' notice in writing requiring, in the alternative,
the payment of the rent or the possession of the premises, has been
served in behalf of the person entitled to 6uch rent on the person in
possession of the same, in the manner provided in this chapter for the
service of a summons.
3. When such person holds over without such permission, contrary
to any other conditions or covenants of the agreement under which be;
holds, after three days' notice requiring the delivery of the possession
of the premises has been served, as above required, on the person holding^ such possession.
Section 3359. In the following cases, any person who holds posses6ion of real property after demand of the possession thereof has been
lnade, and the assigns, tenants or representatives of such person may bo
removed in like manner:
1. "When the property has been duly sold upon the foreclosure of a
mortgage under the provisions of chapter one hundred and fifty two,
which was executed by such person, or any person under whom he
claims by title, subsequent to the date of the recording of such mort
gage, and the title under such foreclosure has been duly perfected.
2. When such person occupies or holds the property under an agi^-8
ment with the owner to occupy and cultivate the same upon shares, or
for a share of the crops, and the time fixed in the agreement for such
occupancy has expired.
Section 33G0. No person shall make any entry into real property,
but in cases where entry is given by law, and in such cases, not with
strong hand, nor with a multitude of people, but only in a peaceable
manner. Any person who shall make such unlawful or forcible entry
and detain the same, or who, having peaceably entered upon any property,
forcibly holds the possession thereof, may be removed therefrom
and fined, in the manner provided in this chapter.
Section 3361. The preceding section shall not extend to any person, who has or shall have continued in possession three years after the
termination of the time for which the premises were demised or let to
him or those under whom he claims, or to any person who continues
in possession three years, quietly and peaceably, by disseisin.
Section 3362. The party complaining shall proceed by action, before
a justice of the county, or if the premises be within a city, then before
a justice of such citv, and shall file a complaint, in writing, signed by
i.J ,. . •' . . ., . r ■, '. .. . S' ° • J
turn, his agent or attorney, giving therein a description of the premises
of which possession is claimed, stating the facts which authorize the
removal of the person in possession, naming him and praying for his8
removal. The justice shall thereupon issue a summons, directed to
the sheriff, or any constable, of the county, commanding him to sum
mon the person, against whom such complaint shall have been made,
to appear before him on a day and place in such summons named,
which shall not be less than three nor more than ten days from the
day of issuing the same. Such summons may be in the following, or
an equivalent, form :
SUMMONS.
State of Wisconsin, county of : ss.
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of the county
aforesaid:
Whereas, , of , hath exhibited unto , a
justice of the peace in and for said county aforesaid, a complaint against
, of , for that the said , on the day of
, at , (here insert the substance of the complaint with legal
certainty).
Therefore, you are hereby commanded to summon the said
. if to be found in the said county, to appear before me at ■,
on day of , at of the clock, in the noon, then and
'here to make answer to anil defend against the complaint aforesaid,
and further to be dealt with according to law, and make due return la
me of this summons, with your doings thereon.
Dated at , this day , in the year one thousand eigic
hundred and .
, Justice.
Section 3363. Such summons shall be served upon the penes
against whom the same is issued, by delivering a copy thereof to sad
person, at least three days before the return day thereof; but in ca«
such person is either absent from, or cannot be found in the county, the
summons may be served on such person, by leaving a copy thereof A
his last and usual place of abode, at least 6ix days before the return <b
thereof, with some member of the family, or some person residing st
such place, of suitable age and discretion, to whom the contents thereof
shall be explained by the officer. The officer shall make a special retcn
of the time and manner of serving such summons.
Section 3364. After the return of the summons served as abov?
provided, and at the time and place named therein, if the defendant
appear he may answer the complaint; and all matters in excuse, justi
fication or avoidance of the allegations of the complaint, most be
answered specially; and thereupon the justice shall proceed to hear and
determine the action, unless he shall adjourn the trial as provided in
the next section ; but either party may demand a trial by jury The
proceedings in such action shall be the same as in other civil actions in
a justice's court, except as in this chapter otherwise specially provided
Section 3365. The justice may, in his discretion, adjourn any snet
trial, but not beyond six days after the return day of the summon;
unless all the parties thereto agree to a longer adjournment; but in all
cases brought against any person named in section three thousand three
hundred and fifty eight, ir the defendant, his agent or attorney, shall
make the oath required by section three thousand six hundred and
thirty one, and give an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to be
approved by the justice, to the effect that the defendant will pay to the
plaintifff all rent which may accrue to him, during the pendency of such
action, upon the real estate described in the complaint, and all costs and
damages which the plaintifff may recover against him in such action.
the said justice shall adjourn said cause for such reasonable b'meae
may appear necessary, not exceeding ninety days from the return daj
of the summons.
Section 3366. If upon the trial of any such action the justice or
jury shall find the defendant, or any of several defendants, guilty
°^ ^ne legations in the complaint, the justice shall thereupon enter
judgment for the plaintifff to nave restitution of the premises, and t&i
the costs for the plaintifff, and when the action is brought under the
provisions of section three thousand three hundred and sixty, shall
impose a fine, not exceeding one hundred dollars, against such defendant,
as under all the circumstances he may deem just. Such justice sliall
issue execution in favor of the plaintifff, for such costs as in other
actions in tort, and also issue a writ of restitution. If any fine be
imposed upon a defendant, the justice may commit the person, against
whom it is imposed, to the common jail of the county until such tine
be paid, or, in his discretion, direct the amount thereof to be collected
upon the execution, issued in favor of the plaintifff in such action, or
upon a separate execution, so issued for the collection of such fine only,
and in such case, the officer having the execution shall pay the amount
of such fine, when collected, to the justice, for the use of the school
fund. If the justice, or jury, shall find that the defendant is not guilty,
is aforesaid, such justice shall cuter judgment for the defendant, and
ax the costs againt the plaintifff, and issue execution therefore. The
nstice shall tax, as a part of the costs to the prevailing party, ten dolars
attorney fees, whenever an attorney or a. court of record has
ippeared in such action on behalf of such party.
Section 3307. If the plaintifff shall recover, in any action brought
mder the provisions of this chapter, except when brought for the nonjayment
of rent, he shall be entitled to recover treble damages, with
josts of suit, against the person found guilty, in a separate action for
my injury he shall have sustained by reason of any unlawful or forci
ble entry, or detainer, or for holding any unlawful possession of the
premises by such defendant.
Section 3368. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the judgment
•endered in such action, he may appeal, within ten days, to the circuit
wiirt, as in other cases tried before justices of the peace; but no such
ippeal by a defendant shall stay proceedings on such judgment, unless
:he appellant shall, within said ten days, execute and file with the jus:ice
his undertaking to the plaintifff, with two or more sureties, to be
ipproved by the justice, to the effect that the appellant will pay all
;osts of such appeal, which may be awarded against him, and abide the
Drder of the court therein, and pay all rent and other damages justly
looming to the plaintifff during the pendency of such appeal. Upon
-iking such appeal and filing such undertaking, all further proceedings
in the case shall be thereby stayed, and the appellate court shall there
after issue all needful writs and processes to carry out any judgment
which may be rendered thereon in such appellate court.
Section 3369. If a writ of restitution shall have hecn issued previous
to the taking of any appeal, by which proceedings are stayed, the justice
■hall forthwith give the appellant a certificate of the allowance or such
ippeal, and upon the service of such certificate upon the officer having
•neli writ, the said officer shall forthwith cease all further proceedings
:hereon; and if such writ shall not have been completely executed, the
lefendant shall remain in possession of the premises until the appeal
ihall be determined.
Section 3370. In all cases of appeal from a judgment in an action
wonght under this chapter, a new trial shall be had in the appellate
loiirt, and the case shall be tried in the same manner as cases originally
)ronght there, and such court shall not dismiss or quash the proceedi
ngs for want of form only.
Section 3371. When a final judgment shall be rendered in favor of
he plaintifff in any such action, brought against a person for holding
iver after default in the payment of rent, either in justice's court or in
he appellate court, he may 6tay all proceedings on such judgment by
laying all rent due at the date of the judgment and the costs of the
iction, or by filing with the justice, or after judgment in the appellate
»urt, with the clerk, his undertaking to the plaintifff, with such sureies as such justice or clerk shall approve, to the effect that he will pay
inch rent and costs within ten days; at the expiration of which time a
vrit of restitution may issue, unless he produce to the justice or clerk
atisfactory evidence of such payment.
Section 3372. The verdict of the jury, or the finding of the court,
n favor of the plaintifff in an action under the provisions of this chaper, shall be substantially in the following form:
At a court held at , on the day of , 18—, before
, a justice of the peace in and for the county of , in an action
setween — , plaintifff, and , defendant, the jury (or if
the action be tried without a jury, the court) find that the facts alle;H
in the complaint are true, and that the said , defendant, is
guilty thereof, and the said , plaintifff, ought to have restitu
tion of the premises therein described, without delay.
If the verdict or finding be for the defendant, it shall be sufficient to
find the defendant not guilty.
Section 8373. A writ or restitution may be substantially in the foilowing
form:
State of "Wisconsin, )
County of . j '
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of the conn:;
aforesaid:
Whereas, , plaintifff, of , in an action for an unlawful
or forcible entry and detainer (or for an unlawful detainer, as the ca*
may be), at a court held at , in the county aforesaid, on the —
day of , 18—, before , a justice of the peace in and for
the county aforesaid, by consideration of the conrt, recovered a judg
ment against , of , to have restitution of (here descrik
thepremises as in the complaint).
Therefore, you are hereby commanded that, talcing with you the force
of the county, if necessary, you cause the said to be immedi
ately removed from the aforesaid premises, and the said to
have peaceable restitution of the same. You are also hereby com
manded, that of the goods and chattels of the said within
said county, yon cause to be levied, and the same disposed of according
to law, to be paid to the said the sum of , being
the costs taxed against the said , for the said . at
the court aforesaid, together with twenty five cents for this writ, and
also the sum of dollars, adjudged as aforesaid, to be returned to
the undersigned, and thereof, together with this writ, make due return
within thirty days from the date hereof, according to law.
Dated at , this day of , one thousand eight hundred
and .
CHAPTER CXLVI.
OF MILLS AND MILL DAMS.
Section 3374. Any person may erect and maintain a water mil
an(j & ^&m to rajge water for working it, upon and across any stream
that is not navigable, upon the terms and conditions, and subject to the
, . . i ^ «•' ' j J
regulations hereinafter expressed.
8 Wis. 401, G03; 4 id. 387; 5 Id. 112,291: 10 Id. 351, 871; 15 id. 101: 18 Id. 150. 661 : 17 Id. 862, 416. «*
18 id. 520: 19 id. 417, 449; 22 Id. 607: 23 id. SB! ; 26 id 582; 27 Id. 433: 31 id. 816; SS Id. 335.
Section 3375. No snch dam shall be erected to the injury of any
mjp, lawfully existing, either above or below it on the same stream.nor
to the injury of any mill site on the same stream, on which a mill or
mill dam shall have been lawfully erected and used, or is in the pro
, Justice,
cess of erection, unless the right to maintain a mill on such last mentioned
site shall have heen lost or defeated by abandonment or otherwise, nor to the injury of any such mill site which has been occupied as
such by the owner thereof, if such owner, within a reasonable time
after commencing such occupation, completes and puts in operation a
mill for the working of which the water of such stream shall be applied ;
nor shall any mill or dam be placed on the land of any person without
such grant, conveyance or authority from the owner, as would be neces
sary by the common law, if no provisions relating to mills and mill
dams had been made by statute.
Section 3376. The height to which water may be raised, and the
length or period of time for which it may be kept up in each year, shall
be liable to be restricted and regulated by the verdict of a jury, as pro
vided in this chapter.
Section 3377. Any person whose land is overflowed, or otherwise
injured by any such dam, may obtain compensation therefore in a civi 1
action as provided in this chapter, against the owner thereof, or the
owner and occupant jointly, in the circuit court for the county where
the land or any part thereof lies, but in no other manner; but no compensation for any damages sustained more than three years before the
commencement of such action shall be recovered therein; except as
otherwise prescribed in this chapter the proceedings shall be in all re. .r .1 . .1 .. r r °
spects as in other civil actions.
Section 3378. The complaint in such action shall contain a description of the land alleged to be flowed or injured, and of the interest of
the plaintifff therein, and such statement of the damages and demand
for judgment that the record of the case shall show with sufficient certainty
the matter that shall have been heard and determined.
Section 3379. The defendant may, in his answer, deny that the
plaintifff has any interest in the land alleged to be flowed or injured, or
allege that the defendant has a right to maintain his dam for an agreed
price or without any compensation, or any other matter which may
show that the plaintifff cannot maintain his action or is not injured by
such dam.
Section 3380. If the defendant shall not appear, or no answer or
demurrer be filed, the court shall order a jury to be empaneled to hear
and determine the matters of the complaint.
Section 3381. If, upon the trial 01 any issue of fact, in such action,
or upon a default, the jury shall find that the plaintifff is entitled to recover
any damages, they shall assess the amount of such damages sustained within three years next preceding the commencement of such
action and down to the time of rendering the verdict, or if the title of
the plaintifff shall have accrued within such three years, then from the
date of the accruing of such title; they shall also find what sum, if any,
to be paid annually to the plaintifff, would be a just and reasonable
compensation for the damages which will be thereafter occasioned by
the dam, so long as it shall be used in conformity with the verdict; also
what sum in gross would be a just and reasonable compensation for all
the damages to be thereafter occasioned by such use of the dam, and
for the right of maintaining and using the same forever in the manner
aforesaid; and if it be alleged in the complaint that the dam is raised
to an unreasonable height, or that it onght not to be kept up and closed
during the whole year, the jury shall also decide how much, if any, the
dam shall be lowered, and also whether it shall be left open any part
of the year, and if any, what part, and state such decision as a part of
their verdict.
Section 33S2. The jury, in estimating the damages to the land c!
^ne phiintiff, shall take into consideration any damage occasioned toliii
Ian a by the dam, as well as the damage occasioned to the land overflowed,
and they shall also allow, by way of setoff, the special benefit, i!
anv> occasioned by such dam to the plaintifff in relation to his said land.
28 wis. 88, 322; 35 Id. 185; 27 id. 433; 38 id. 21.
Section 3383. If the jury find for the plaintifff, judgment shall be
entered in his favor accordingly, and for the costs and disbursements of
the action, irrespective of the amount of damages assessed, except as
provided in the next section, and execution shall issue thereon for the
amount of damages assessed for the injury sustained to the time of tie
rendition of the verdict, together with 6uch costs; and such judgment
shall be a lien on the mill and mill dam and their appurtenances, ami
the land under, and adjoining the same and used therewith, from the
time of the date of the filing of the notice of the pendency of snch ac
tion; if the plaintifff shall discontinue his action, become nonsuited, or
the jury shall find for the defendant, judgment shall be entered forme
defendant for his costs and disbursements of the action and execution
shall issue therefore.
Section 33S4. Tn every such action the defendant may bring into
court and there tender any sum that he shall think proper to he paid to
the plaintifff for the damages incurred up to the time of such tender,
and may also offer to pay any certain annual compensation for the damage
that may be thereafter occasioned by the dam in question; ami if
the plaintifff shall not accept tlie same, with his costs up to the time,
but shall proceed in the action, he shall be entitled to his costs only up
to the time of the tender, and the defendant shall be entitled to recover
his costs afterwards, unless the plaintifff shall recover greater damages
or greater annual compensation than was so offered.
Section 3385. If the plaintifff shall accept the amount so offered
for pagt dam;lgCS an(j the future annual compensation, he shall have
judgment accordingly, and also for his costs up to that time, and the
judgment shall have the same effect as if it had been rendered upon the
verdict of a jury empaneled according to the provisions of this chapter;
or the plaintifff may accept cither the sum tendered for past damages,
or the offer for future annual compensation, and proceed to trial on the
residue of the complaint, under the same liability for costs as before
provided.
Section 33S6. If, in any such action, the jury shall decide that the
piainfjfj ;s not entitled to any annual compensation for future damages,
the judgment therein shall be no bar to a new action for damages al
leged to have arisen after the former verdict, and for the compensation
for damages that may be thereafter sustained.
Section 3387. The plaintifff in such action, at any time within three
months after the verdict is rendered therein, may elect to take the snm
in gross so awarded by the jury, for the right to maintain and use the
dam forever, instead of receiving the annual compensation therefore; and
if he shall make such election, lie shall, within the said three months,
cause the same to be entered on the record of the case in the clerks
if the plaintifff shall so elect, the defendant shall, within three
months after such election is entered of record, pay to the plaintifff, or
secure to his satisfaction, the sum due for the perpetual right to main
tain the dam, with interest from the date of the verdict; after the ex
piration of said three months, such defendant shall lose all benefit "*
the provisions contained in this chapter, until the payment of said dam
ages and interest.
Section 3388. If the plaintifff shall not, within the said three months,
cause an entry of his election to be made upon the record, as before
provided, he, and all persons claiming under him, shall be entitled to
demand and receive from whoever shall be the owner or occupant of the
mill, the annual compensation so established by the jury, so long as the
dam shall be kept up and maintained, unless the sum due in that be
half shall be increased or diminished, in a new action, as hereinafter
provided.
Section 3389. The person who shall be entitled to receive the said
annual compensation, or gross damages, shall have a lien therefore, from
the time of tiling the notice of the pendency of the original action, on
the mill and mill dam, with their appurtenances, and the land under
and adjoining the same, and used therewith; but such lien shall not
extend to any sum due more than three years before the commence
ment of an action therefore. Such person may maintain an action in
the circuit court for such annual compensation, or gross damages,
against the person who shall own or occupy the mill or dam when the
action is brought, and may therein recover the whole sum due and
unpaid for three years then last past, whoever may have owned or occu
pied the mill or dam during that time, with costs of the action, irre
spective of the amount recovered.
Section 3390. The execution issued on such judgment, if not otherwise
satisfied, may at any time within ninety days after the judgment
is rendered, be levied on the premises so subject to the lien, and the
same may be sold by virtue thereof, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such execution, and all costs and charges thereon.
Section 3391. The officer making such sale shall make and subscribe, file and deliver, duplicate certificates thereof, in the form prescribed
upon the sale of real estate upon executions, in other civil
actions, except that he shall insert therein that the time when such sale
will become absolute, and the purchaser will be entitled to a convey
ance thereof, will be one year from the date of such sale.
Section 3392. Any person entitled to the premises sold may redeem
the same at any time within one year after such sale, upon paying to
the purchaser, his personal representatives or assigns, or to the sheriff
of the county, for his use, the sum paid therefore, with interest thereon
at the rate of twelve per cent, per annum.
Section 3393. If the premises so sold shall not bo redeemed within
said year, the officer making the sale or the then sheriff of the county,
shall complete such sale by executing a conveyance to the purchaser,
his personal representatives or assignee; which conveyance shall be valid
and effectual, to convey all the right, title and interest of all persons
having or claiming title to such premises, at any time within the time
covered by such lien.
Section 3394. When either party shall be dissatisfied with the annual
compensation established by any verdict of a jury under the provisions
of this chapter, a new action may be brought for the increase or dimi
nution of such annual compensation, or for ascertaining the gross
amount of damages, and all the proceedings in such action shall be
conducted substantially in the manner before provided in the case of
an original action; but when any plaintifff shall have declined to accept
the amount of gross damages awarded him, no jury shall again deter
mine the amount of gross damages until the expiration of ten years
thereafter.
Section 3395. Such new action may be maintained by and against
either of the parties to the original action, or by or against any person
lawfully holding under either of them, respectively, as the case may
require.
Section 3396. No such new action shall be brought within one
month after the payment of tho then last year shall have fallen dne;
and either party may, within the said month, make an offer of tender
to the other, as provided in the next section.
Section 3397. The owner of the mill or dam may offer in writing
to the owner of the land injured, any increase of the annual compensa
tion as fixed by the last verdict, and if the owner of the land does not
agree to accept the same, but brings a new action to obtain an increase
thereof, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay costs to the adverse
party, unless he shall obtain a verdict for a greater annual compensation than was offered to him. The owner of the land injured may offer
in writing to the owner of the mill or dam to accept any smaller sum
than that last established as the annual compensation, and if the owner
of the mill or dam does not agree to pay such reduced compensation,
but brings a new action to obtain a diminution thereof, he shall not be
entitled to costs, but shall pay costs to the adverse party, unless the
annual compensation shall be reduced by the verdict to a sum less than
that which was offered him.
Section 3398. Such offer may be made by or to the respective tenants
or occupants of the land, and of the mill or dam in question, in
like manner and with the like effect, as if made by or to the respective
owners, except that no agreement founded thereon shall bind the own
ers, unless it be made with their consent
Section 3399. If the offer so made by either party is agreed to scd
accepte(j by the other, it shall establish the annual coinpens ation to be
thereafter paid in like manner as if it had been established by a ver
dict and judgment in a new action: provided, that a memorandum of
such offer and acceptance, and of the agreement thereupon, be made
and signed by the respective owners of the mill or dam and of the land,
or by persons duly authorized by them, and filed and recorded in the
clerk's office of the court in which the former judgment was rendered,
with a note of reference on the record of the former judgment, to the
book where the agreement is recorded.
Section 3400. The verdict in any action under this chapter mav be
* * w
set aside and a new trial ordered as in other cases, and an appeal may
be taken from any final judgment rendered therein, in like manner and
with like effect as in other civil actions.
Section 3101. No such action shall abate by reason of the death of
any pj^jy thereto, but the same may be prosecuted or defended by the
surviving plaintifffs or defendants, or by the executors or administrators
of the deceased; and if any such action shall be abated or otherwise
defeated for any matter of form or failure to acquire jurisdiction, the
plaintifff, or any person claiming from, by or under him, may bring &
new action for the same cause, at any time within one year after such
abatement or other determination of such original action, and may in
such new action recover such damages as shall have been sustained
during the three years before the commencement of such original action
or at any time afterwards.
Section 3402. The provisions of this chapter shall extend to all
cases where compensation has not been made for damages sustained by
reason of the erection or maintenance of any such mill dam; to all
cases where the owner or occupant of a mill or dam makes any ma
terial change, by raising the dam or altering the machinery, or the
manner of using the water, so as to cause additional damage to the
land of another, and to all cases of new action brought for the purpose
nf increasing or diminishing the annual or gross damages which may
have been heretofore determined by a jury under the provisions of law.
JOINT OWNERS OF MILL DAMS, BOOMS AND PIERS MAT COMPEL REPAIRS.
Section 3403. "Whenever two or more persons shall own jointly, or
as tenants in common, or in severalty, either legally or equitably, any
mill dam or booms or piers necessary to the enjoyment of any mill
to which they are appendages, in the absence of any written agree
ment between the owners thereof providing for keeping in repair and8
maintaining the same, such owners shall keep in repair and maintain
the same proportionably to their interests, or such portion thereof as
belongs to them respectively in severalty; and whenever in the opinion
of any such owner, any such mill dam, boom, or piers need repairs,
and such coowner shall neglect or refuse, after five days' notice in writ
ing, to commence such repairs and prosecute the same with reasonable
diligence, the party giving such notice may make such repairs and
recover of the party so neglecting or refusing to make the same, in the
manner hereinafter provided, unless the owners upon whom such notice
is served shall, within five days after the service thereof, notify, in
writing, the owner, giving such notice that they have abandoned such
dam, piers or booms, and claim no further interest therein; in which
case the owners receiving such notice of abandonment, may take full
possession of and make the necessary repairs to such dams, booms or
piers, and thereafter hold and enjoy the same as their sole property.
Such notices may be served in the same mariner as a summons in a civil
action in a court of record.
Section 3404. When any such owner shall neglect or refuse to make
such repairs, after the giving of such notice, and shall not have given
such notice of abandonment, the owner or owners giving such notice
and offering to do their portion of such needed repairs, may apply to
a justice of the peace of the county in which such dam, boom or piers
are situated, by complaint in writing, duly verified, setting forth the
interests of the different owners in such dam, boom or piers, and the
notice given any defaulting owners, and thereupon such justice shall
issue a summons in favor of such complainants, as plaintifffs, and against
such other owners as defendants, directed to the sheriff or any consta
ble of the county, commanding him to summon such defendants, and
ilso six disinterested freeholders of the county as a jury, to meet at
inch dam. boom or piers on a day and hour therein named, not less than
hree nor more than six days from the time of the service of such sumnons upon the defendants, and make due return thereof to the justice
vho issued the same.
Section 3405. At the time and place mentioned in said summons,
aid jurors shall appear, and the justice shall also be present, and in
ase any person summoned as such juror shall not appear, or shall be
nterested or incompetent to act from any other cause, the justice shall
Bsue a special venire to the sheriff or a constable of the county, requirng
him to summon forthwith a sufficient number of disinterested freeiolders of the county to make up such jury. When a jury shall have
ppeared, they shall be sworn by the justice faithfully to discharge their
luties as such jurors, and thereupon they shall examine such dam,
looms or piers, and may hear the parties and any witnesses offered by
hem, and shall determine what, if any, repairs are deemed necessary
p be made, the time within which the same shall be commenced and
ompleted, and a fair estimate of the costs and expenses of making such
repairs, and the proportions thereof to be made by each of the parties
named in such summons, all of which shall be reduced to writing and
signed by the said jury and delivered to the justice. In case the jnrj
shall have determined that any repairs on such dams, booms or piers
are necessary, and that any portion thereof ought to be made by the
defendants, the justice shall render judgment against such defendants,
requiring them to make such repairs in the manner and within the time
fixed by said jury, and for the costs of the action to be taxed as in
other cases. If the jury shall have determined that no such repairs an
necessary, judgment shall be rendered against the plaintifff for the costs
of the action to be so taxed; and in either case execution shall issne
thereon for such costs.
Section 3106. If any party against whom a indcrment shall hart
j , . . ^ f . ^ . ° , . J ° , ,
been rendered, requiring him to make repairs upon any such dam.
boom or pier, shall neglect to make the same as recpiired by such
judgment, the other party may make such repairs and recover of the
party so neglecting the full amount of the cost and expense thereof as
estimated by the jury, and in addition thereto the sum of twenty the
Eer cent, per annum upon the amount of such estimate and expense, to
e computed from the time when such repairs shall have been directed
to be completed by the determination of such jury.
CHAPTER CXLVII.
OF 'HE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.
WHO ENTITLED TO.
Section 3407. Every person imprisoned or otherwise restrained of
ais liberty, except in the cases specified in the next section, may prose
cute a writ of habeas corpus, as prescribed in this chapter, to obtain
relief from such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall prove to b
unlawful.
17 Wis. 681; 19 Id. 274: 25 id. 890, 563; 34 id. 177; 37 id. 431, 377; 39 id. 35; (13 Wall. 397).
Section 3408. No person shall be entitled to prosecute such writ
who shall have been committed or detained by virtue of the final judg
ment or order of any competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdufr
tion. or by virtue of any execution issued upon such order or judg
ment; but no order of commitment for any alleged contempt, or npcproceedings
as for contempt, to enforce the rights or remedies of an
party, shall be deemed a judgment or order, within the meaning o
this section; nor shall any attachment or other process issued upo
any such order, be deemed an execution within the meaning of tbi section.
HOW ISSUED.
Section 3409. Application for such writ shall be by petition, signe
either by the party for whose relief it is intended, or by some person i
his behalf, and may be made to the supreme court, or to the circui
court of the county, or to any justice or judge of the supreme, circui
or county court, or any court commissioner, being within the count
where the prisoner is detained; or if there be no such officer withi
such county, or if he be absent, or for any cause be incapable of acting,
or shall have refused to grant such writ, then to some officer
having such authority, residing in an adjoining county; but every such
application, made by or on behalf of a person confined or sentenced to
imprisonment in the state prison, must be made to the supreme court
or to one of the justices thereof, and shall be made returnable only to
that court.
Section 3410. Such petition must state in substance:
1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is imprisoned
or restrained of his liberty, the officer or person by whom lie is
so confined or restrained, and trie place where, naming both parties, if
their names are known, or describing them if they are not.
2. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue of any
process, judgment, order or execution specified in section three thou
sand four hundred and eight.
3. The cause or pretense of such confinement or restramt, according
to tbe best of the knowledge and belief of the party.
4. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant, order
or process, a copy thereof must be annexed; or it must be averred that,
by reason of such prisoner being removed or concealed before the ap
plication, a demand of 6uch copy could not be made, or that such de
mand was made, and the legal fees therefore tendered to the officer or
person having such prisoner in his custody, and that such copy was re
fused.
5. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition must also
state in what the alleged illegality consists.
6. It must be verified by the oath of the party making the applica
tion.
Section 3411. Whenever application for any such writ shall be made
to any officer not residing within the county where the prisoner shall
be detained, he shall require proof, by the oath of the party appearing,
or by other sufficient evidence, that there is no officer in such county
authorized to grant the writ, or if there be one, that he is absent, or has
refused to grant such Writ, or for some cause, to be specifically set forth,
is incapable of acting; and if such proof be not produced the application
shall be denied.
Section 3412. The court or officer empowered to grant any such writ
to whom such petition shall be presented shall grant the same without delay,
unles3 it shall appear from the petition itself, or from the documents
annexed that the party applying therefore is, by the provisions of this
chapter, prohibited from prosecuting the same.
FORM OF.
Section 3413. Every such writ issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be substantially in the following form
In the name of the state of Wisconsin: To the sheriff, etc. (ors
^ py V
You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by you im
prisoned and detained, as it is said, together with the time and cause of
suck imprisonment and detention by whatever name, the said C. D. shall
be called or charged before E. F., judge of the circuit court (or county
court, or court commissioner, as the case may be), at etc., on etc. (or im
mediately after the receipt of the writ), to do and receive what shall
then and there be considered concerning the said C. D. And have you
then and there this writ.
Witness, etc
Every such writ may be made returnable forthwith, or at a day certain,
as the case may require; and when not issued- by the circuit court
or supreme court, shall be indorsed with a certificate that the same has
been allowed, with the date of 6uch allowance, signed by the officer al
lowing the same.
o
Section 3-il-i. Such writ shall not be disobeyed for any defect in
form. It shall be sufficient:
1. If the person having the custody of the prisoner be designated, either
by his name of office, if he have any, or by his own name, or if both sucL
names be unknown or uncertain, he may be described by an assume]
appellation; and any one who may be served with the writ shall be
deemed the person to whom it is directed, although it may be directed
to him by a wrong name or description, or to any other person.
2. If the person who is directed to be produced, be designated bj
name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may be described in
any other way so as to designate the person intended.
Section 3415. If anv officer authorized by the provisions of this
chapter to grant writs or* habeas corpus shall willfully refuse to gram
such writ, when legally applied for, he shall be liable to the party ag
grieved in the sum of one thousand dollars, to be recovered in an ac
tion.
HOW SERVED.
Section 3416. Such writ can only be served by an elector of some
county within the state, and shall be served as follows:
1. By delivering the same to the person to whom it is directed.
2. It such person cannot be found by being left at the jail or other
place in which the prisoner may be confined, with any under officer or
other person of proper age having charge, for the time, of such prisoner.
3. If the person on whom the writ ought to be served conceal himself
or refuse admittance to the party attempting to serve the same, by affix
ing the same in some conspicuous place on the outside, either of his
dwelling house or other place where the party is confined.
Section 3417. Every officer allowing such writ directed to any per
son other than a sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal, may in his discretion,
require as a duty to be performed, in order to render the service
thereof effectual, that the charges of bringing up such prisoner shall be
paid by the petitioner, and in such case he shall, in the allowance of the
writ, specify the amount of such charges so to be paid, which shall nut
exceed the fees allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services.
Section 3418. The service of such writ shall not be deemed complete
until the party serving the same, tenders to the person in whose custody
the prisoner may be, if such person be a sheriff, coroner, constable or
marshal, the fees allowed by law for bringing up such prisoner, nor un
less, when required by such officer, he shall also give him a bond in double
the amount of the sum for which such prisoner may be detained, if be
be detained for any specific sum of money, and if not, then in die sum
of one thousand dollars, conditioned that such pei-son will pay the
charges of carrying back such prisoner, if he shall be reminded, and
that he will not escape by the way either going to or returning from
the place to which he is to be taken; and if such prisoner be not in the
custody of any sheriff, coroner, constable or marshal and the officer
allowing such writ shall have required that the charges of bringing up
such prisoner shall be paid by the petitioner, then until such charge
shall have been tendered to the person in whose custody such prisoner
may be; no fees or charges need be paid or bond given when service is
made as provided in the third subdivision of the second preceding section.
WHEN AND HOW RETURN TO BE MADE.
Section 3419. "Whenever a complete service of such writ shall have
been made, as above provided, the sheriff, coroner, constable, marshal, or
other person upon whom such writ shall be served, having the custody
of the prisoner, whether such writ be directed to him, or not, shall obuy
and return such writ, according to the exigency thereof. If the writ be
returnable at a day certain, such return shall be made, and such prisoner
shall be produced at the time and place specified therein; if it be return
able forthwith, and the place be within twenty miles of the place of ser
vice, such return shall be made, and such prisoner shall be produced
witlun twenty four hours, and the like time snail be allowed tor every
additional twenty miles.
Section 3420. Such officer or person, upon whom any such writ
shall have been served, shall state in his return, plainly and unoquivocaU^:
1. Whether he have, or have not, the party in his custody or under
his power or restraint.
2. If he have the party in his custody or power or under his restraint,
the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or restraint, setting
forth the same at large.
3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant or other
written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return, and
the original shall be produced and exhibited, on the return of the writ to
the officer before whom the same is returnable.
4 If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served shall
have had the party in his power or custody or under his restraint at any
time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but have transferred
such custody or restraint to another, the return shall state particularly
to whom, at what time, for what cause and by what authority, such
transfer took place. The return must be signed by the person making
the same, and except where such person shall be a sworn public officer
and shall make his return in his official capacity, it shall be verified by
his oath.
Section 3421. The person or officer on whom the habeas corpus
shall have been served shall also bring the body of the person in his
custody, according to the command of such writ, except in the case of
the sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.
PROCEEDINGS ON RETURN OF WRIT.
Section 3422. If any officer or person upon whom such writ shall
have been duly served, shall refuse or neglect to obey the same by producing the party named in such writ, and making a full and explicit
return thereto, within the time above required, and no sufficient excuse
shall be shown for such refusal or neglect, the court or officer before
whom such writ shall be made returnable shall upon due proof of the ser
vice thereof forthwith issue an attachment against such person, directed
to the sheriff of any county, commanding him forthwith to apprehend
such person, and to bring him immediately before such court or officer;
and on such person being so brought he shall be committed to close
custody in the jail of the county in which such officer shall be, until he
shall make return to such writ, and comply with any order that may
he made by such officer, in relation to the person for whose relief such
writ shall have been issued.
Section 3423. If a sheriff of any county shall have neglected to
return such writ, the attachment may be directed to any coroner, or
, , -i • i.i • *i ini r i\ J
other person to be designated therein, who shall have full power to exe
cute the same; and such sheriff, upon being brought up, may be com
mitted to the jail of any county other than his own.
Section 3424. The officer by whom any such attachment may be
" issued may also, at the same time or afterwards, issue a precept to the
san sheriff or other person to whom such attachment shall have beea
directed, commanding him to bring, forthwith, before such officer, the
party for whose benefit such writ shall have been allowed, who shall
thereafter remain in the custody of such sheriff or other person, until
he shall be discharged, bailed or remanded, as such officer shall direct
Iu the execution of such attachment, precept, or either of them, the
sheriff or other person to whom they shall be directed, may call to hi;
aid the power of the county, as in other cases.
Section 3425. The party brought before any court or officer on the
return of any such writ may deny any of the material facts set forth in
the return, or allege any fact to show either that his imprisonment or
detention is unlawful or that he is entitled to his discharge, which
allegations and denials shall be verified by the oath of the parry; and
such court or officer shall proceed in a summary way to examine into
the facts contained in the return, and to hear the allegations and proofs
of the parties, in support of such imprisonment or detention, or against
the same, whether the same shall have been upon commitment for any
criminal or supposed criminal matter or not
Section 3426. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment
. i» , • , * i • i , n i
or restraint, or for the continuance thereof, the court or judge shall make
a ^na^ or(^er discharging such party from the custody or restraint under
which he is held.
16 Wle. 433, 443; 17 Id. 681 ; 87 id. 877.
Section 3427. The court or judge must make a final order to
remand the prisoner, if it shall appear that he is detained in custodj
either:
1. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the United
States, in a case where such court or judge has exclusive jurisdiction; or
2. By virtue of the final judgment or order of any competent court
of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution issued upon such
judgment or order; or
3_ For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in the commit
ment by some court, officer or body having authority to commit for the
contempt so charged; and
4. That the time during which such party may be legally detained
has not expired.
Section 3428. If it appear that the prisoner is in custody by virtue
of civil process of any court legally constituted, or issued by any officer
m j.]ie course 0f judicial proceedings before him authorized by law,
such prisoner can only be discharged in one of the following cases:
!• "here the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been exceeded,
either as to matter, place, law or person.
2. Where, although the original imprisonment was lawful yet by
some act, omission or event which has taken place afterward, the party
has become entitled to be discharged.
3. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance re
quired by law, rendering such process void.
-4. When the process, though in the proper form, has been issued in
a case not allowed by law.
5. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner under such
process is not the person empowered by law to detain him; or
6. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment or order of
any court, nor by any provision of law.
But no such court or officer, on the return of any such writ, shall
have power to inquire into the legality or justice of any judgment, order
or execution specified in the next preceding section.
Section 3429. If it appear that the party has been legally committed for any criminal offense, or if he appear, by the testimony offered
with the return upon the hearing thereof, to be guilty of such an
offense, although the commitment be irregular, the court or officer before
whom such party shall be brought shall proceed to let such party
to bail, if the case be bailable and good bail be offered, or if not, shall
forthwith remand such party.
Section 3430. If the party be not entitled to his discharge, and be
not bailed, the officer shall remand him to the custody, or place him
under the restraint, from which he was taken, if the person under whose
custody or restraint he was be legally entitled thereto ; if not so entitled,
lie shall be committed by such officer to the custody of such court or
officer or person as by law is entitled thereto.
Section 3431. Until judgment be given upon the return, the court
or officer before whom such party shall be brought may either commit
snch party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in which such
court or officer shall be, or place him in such care or under such custody
as his age and other circumstances may require.
Section 3432. When it appears from the return to any such writ,
that the party named therein is in custody on any process under which
any other person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or
restraint, no order shall be made for his discharge, until it shall appear
that the party so interested, or hie attorney if he have one, if to be round
within the county, shall have had sufficient notice of the time and place
at which such writ shall have been made returnable.
Section 3433. When it shall appear from the return that such party
is detained upon any criminal accusation, such court or officer shall
make no order for the discharge of snch party, until sufficient notice of
the time and place at which such writ shall have been returned, or
shall be made returnable, shall be given to the district' attorney of the
county in which such court or officer shall be, if to be found within the
county.
Section 3434. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the person
directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, such person
cannot without danger be brought before the court or officer before
whom the writ is made returnable, the party in whose custody he is
may state that fact in his return to the writ verifying the same by his
oath; and if such court or officer be satisfied of the truth of such allega
tion, and the return be otherwise sufficient, he shall proceed to decide
upon such return, and dispose of the matter. The prisoner, in such
case, may appear by attorney, and plead to the return as if he were present;
and if it appear that the person detained is illegally imprisoned or
restrained of his liberty, the court or officer shall make a final order
commanding those having such person in their custody to discharge
him forthwith; but if it appear that such person is legally detained or
imprisoned, and is not entitled to be bailed, such court or officer shall
cease all further proceedings thereon.
Section 3435. Obedience to any final order discharging or directing the discharge of any person, made pursuant to the provision of this
chapter, may be enforced by the court or officer making the same, by
attachment, in the same manner as herein provided for a neglect to
make a retnrn to a writ of habeas corpus, and with the like effect in all
respects; and the person guilty of such disobedience shall be liable to
the party aggrieved, in the sum of one thousand two hundred and fifty
dollars damages, in addition to any special damages such party may
have sustained, to be recovered in an action.
Section 34-36. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to any civil
action for obeying any final order discharging, or directing the dis
charge, of any prisoner in his custody; and if any action shall be brough:
against such officer for suffering any person committed to his custody
to go at large, pursuant to any such order, he may set forth the same in
his answer in bar of such action.
Section 3437. No person who has been discharged by the final
order of any court or officer, upon a writ of habeas corpus issued pnrsuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be again imprisoned, re
strained or kept in custody for the same cause; but it shall Dot be
deemed the same cause:
J, If he shall have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal charge and be afterwards committed for the same offense, by the
legal order or process of the court wherein he shall be bound by recogni
zance to appear, or in which he shall be informed against, indicted or
convicted for the same offense; or
2. If, after a discharge for defect of proof or for any material defect
in the commitment in any criminal case, the prisoner be again arrested
on sufficient proof and committed by legal process for the same
offense; or
3. If, in a civil action, the party has been discharged for any illegal
ity in the judgment or process hereinbefore specified, and is afterward
imprisoned by legal process for the same cause of action; or
4. If, in any civil action, he shall have been discharged from commit
ment on mesne process, and shall be afterward committed on execution
in the same cause, or on mesne process in any other cause after sncl
first action shall have been discontinued.
WHEN A WARRANT MAT BE ISSUED TO BRING UP A PRISONER.
Section 3438. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof that
any one is held in illegal confinement or custody, and that there is good
reason to believe that he will be carried out of the state, or suffer some
irreparable injury, before he can be relieved by the issuing of a habeas
corpus, any officer authorized to issue such writs may issue a warrant,
under his hand and seal, reciting the facts, and directed to any sheriff,
constable or other person, commanding such officer or person to take
such prisoner and forthwith to bring him before such officer, to be dealt
with according to law.
Section 3439. "When the proof mentioned in the last section shall
n\so °e sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having such prisoner
in ]us custody, as for a criminal offense, committed in the taking or
detaining of such prisoner, the warrant shall also contain an order for
the arrest of such person for such offense,
Section 3440. Any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be
directed shall execute the same by bringing the prisoner therein named,
and the person who detained him if so commanded by the warrant, be
fore the officer issuing the same; and thereupon the person detaining
such prisoner shall make return in like manner, and the like prowea
ings shall be Lad as if a writ of habeas corpus had been issued in the
first instance.
Section 3441. If the person having such prisoner in his custody
shall be brought before srich officer as for a criminal offense, he shall be
examined, committed, bailed or discharged by such officer, in like man
ner as in other criminal cases of the like nature.
PENALTIES.
Section 3442. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a copy
of any order, warrant, process or other authority, by which he shall detain any person, to any one who shall demand such copy, and tender
the fees therefore, shall be liable to the person so detained, in the sum of
two hundred dollars damages, to be recovered in an action.
Section 3443. If any person shall knowinidv recommit, imprison or
t i_- l-L i_ v. ° J 'ii j • • j
restrain of his liberty, or cause to be recommitted, imprisoned or
restrained of his liberty, for the same cause, except as provided in sec
tion three thousand four hundred and thirty seven, any person so dis
charged, or shall knowingly assist or aid therein, shall be liable to the
5>arty aggrieved in the sum of one thousand two hundred and fifty dolars
damages, to be recovered in an action, and shall also be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Section 3444. Anyone having in his custody or under his power
any person who, by the provisions of this chapter, would be entitled to
a writ of habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of his detention, who
shall, with the intent to elude the service of any such writ or to avoid
the effect thereof, transfer any such prisoner to the custody or place
him under the power or control of another, or conceal him, or change
the place of his confinement, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Section 3445. Any one having in his custody or under his power
any person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall have been
duly issued, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter who, with intent
to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, shall
transfer such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power or
control of another, or conceal him, or change the place of his confine
ment, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Section 3446. Every person who shall knowingly aid or assist in
the violation of either of the last two preceding sections, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Section 3447. Every person convicted of any offense under either
of the four last sections shall be punished by fine or imprisonment, or
both, in the discretion of the court in which he shall be convicted;
but such fine shall not exceed one thousand dollars nor such imprison
ment six months.
Section 3448. The provisions of the common law, in regard to the
writ of habeas corpus treated of in this chapter, are abrogated, except
so much and such parts thereof as may be necessary to carry into full
effect the provisions herein contained; and the authority of courts and
officers to award such writs, or to proceed thereon, by the common law,
shall be exercised in conformity to the provisions of this chapter, in all
cases therein provided for.
Section 3449. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of habeas corpus,
when necessary to bring before them any prisoner for trial, in any
criminal case lawfully pending in the same court; or to bring any
prisoner to be examined as a witness in any action or proceeding, civil
or criminal, pending in such court, when they shall think the personal
attendance and examination of the witness necessary for the attainment
of justice.
CHAPTER CXLVIII.
OF WRITS OF MANDAMUS AND PROHIBITION.
Section 3450. Whenever any writ of mandamus shall be issued
01lt Qj ^ 6Upreme court, or any circuit court of this 6tate authorized
to issue tue same) t^e person, body or tribunal to whom the same shall
be directed and delivered, shall make return to the first writ of man ■
damus at a time therein specified, to be fixed by the court, and for
neglect so to do, shall be proceeded against as for a contempt.
Section 3451. Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ,
the person prosecuting the same may demur or answer all or any of the
material facts contained in the same return; and the like proceedings
shall be had thereon for the determination thereof, as might have been
Uftd> ^ tne person prosecuting such writ had brought his action for a
fal8e return.
20 Wis. 87, 104; 22 Id. 397; SI Id. 600; 34 id. 169.
Section 3452. Issues of fact in any such proceeding instituted in
the supreme court, shall be tried in the circuit court in the county
within which the material facts contained in the relation for the mandamus
shall be alleged to have taken place; or in such other county as
the supreme court for cause shown shall in its discretion order; and
the circuit court before which such issue of fact is ordered to be tried,
may try the 6ame at a special as well as a general term, and shall have
power to summon a jury for that purpose, when necessary, and pre
scribe the manner of summoning the same. And when such writ of
mandamus shall be issued by any circuit court, any issue of fact therein
may in like manner be tried at a special or general term; and the court
may summon a jury in like manner for the trial thereof.
Section 3453. In case a verdict shall be found for the person suing
- ■ .*.-. . . . ».. *
such writ, or if judgment be given for him upon demurrer, or by
default, he shall recover damages and costs, in like manner as he might
have done in such action for a false return as aforesaid ; and a peremp
tory mandamus shall be granted to him without delay.
Section 3454. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter
agamst any party who shall have made a return to a writ of mandamus,
shall be a bar to any other action against the same party for the mak
ing of such return.
Section 3455. The supreme court, or any justice thereof, or a circujt
C()urtj g]iai] ]iave (-]ie same power to enlarge the time for making a
return, and answering thereto, as in personal actions.
Section 3456. Whenever a peremptory mandamus shall be directed
to any public officer, body or board, commanding them to perform any
public duty specially enjoined upon them by any provisions of law. if
it shall appear to the court that such officer, or any member of such
body or board, has without just excuse refused or neglected to perform
the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine, to be paid to the
state treasurer, not exceeding five thousand dollars, upon every such
officer or member of such body or board, or sentence to imprisonment
in any jail in this state, for a term not exceeding five years, every such
officer or member of such body or board, or either of said penalties, in
the discretion of the court.
Section 3457. "Writs of 'prohibition shall only be issued out of the
supreme court; and such writs shall be applied for upon relation or
affidavits filed, in the same manner as for writs of mandamus; and if
the cause shown shall appear to the court to be sufficient, a writ shall
be thereupon issued, which shall command the court and party to whom
it shall be directed, to desist and refrain from any further proceedings
in the action or matter specified therein, until a day therein named to
be fixed by the court and the further order of such court thereon ; and
then to show cause why they should not be absolutely restrained from
any further proceedings in such action or matter.
Section 3458. Such writ shall be served upon the court and party
to whom it shall be directed, in the same manner as a writ of mandamus; and a return shall in like manner be made thereto by such
court, which may be enforced by attachment.
Section 3459. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall
have been directed shall, by an instrument in writing to be signed by
him and annexed to such return, adopt the same return, and rely upon
the matters therein contained as sufficient cause why such court should
not be restrained, as mentioned in the said writ, said party shall thence
forth be deemed the defendant in such matter; ana the person prose
cuting such writ may take issue, or demur, to the matters so relied upon
by such defendant; and the like proceedings shall be had for the trial
of issues of law or fact, joined between the parties, and for the render
ing^ of judgment thereupon, as in personal actions.
Section 3460. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition shall
be directed shall not adopt such return, as above provided, the party
prosecuting such writ shall bring on the argument of such return, as
upon a rale to show cause, and he may, by'his own affidavit and other
proofs, controvert the matters set forth in such return.
Section 3461. The court, after hearing the proofs and allegations of
the parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohibition absolute,
restraining the said court and party from proceeding in such action or
matter, do issue, or a writ of consultation, authorizing the court and
party to proceed in the action or matter in question.
Section 3462. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibition
shall be directed, shall adopt the return of the court thereto, as above*
provided, and judgment shall be rendered for the party prosecuting
such writ, a prohibition absolute shall be issued; but if judgment be
given against such party, a writ of consultation shall be issued, as
above provided.
CHAPTER CXLIX.
OF ACTIONS AND WRITS OF QUO WARRANTO AND SCIRE FACIAS.
Section 3463. The remedies heretofore obtainable by writs of scire
facias and quo warranto, and by proceedings by information in the natnre of quo warranto, may be obtained by civil action, and it shall not
De necessary to sue out such writs in form; but this section shall not
prevent the nse by the supreme court of writs and proceedings in the
forms hitherto used in such cases in such court.
1 Pin. 380; 1 Wis. 817; 14 Id. 115; 38 Id. 71.
Sicction 3464. Actions of quo warranto and scire facias shall be tried
&^ special as well as at general terms of the circuit court, and the court
shall have power to summon a jury for the purpose, and prescribe the
manner of summoning the same.
Section 3465. When an action shall be brought by the attorney
genera] by virtue of this chapter, on the relation or information of a
Eerson having an interest in the question, the name of such person shall
e joined with the state as plaintifff,
Section 3466. An action may be brought by the attorney general
the name of the state, upon his own information or upon the complaint of any private party, against the parties offending, in the following
cases:
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or
exercise any public office, civil or military, or any franchise, within
th'8 state, or any office in a corporation created by the authority of
this state; or
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done or suffered
an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a forfeiture of
l.:a 0flipp. or
uls OJi^' °r . . , , , „ .....
3. When any association or number of persons shall act, within this
J ,. .., , , . , , *. * J
state, as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.
Such action may be brought in the name of the state, by a private
person on his own complaint when the attorney general refuses to act,
or when the office usurped pertains to a county, town, city, village or
school district.
85 Wis. 03, 393; 36 id. 213, 4GS; 38 id. 71, 547.
Section 3467. Whenever such action shall be brought against a
persou for 1JSUrpiiig an office, the attorney general or person complain
ing, in addition to the statement of the cause of action, may also set
forth in the complaint the name of the person rightfully entitled to the
office, with a statement of his right thereto; and in such case, upon
proof by affidavit that the defendant has received fees or emoluments
belonging to the office and by means of his usurpation thereof, an order
may be granted by a judge of the circuit court or by a justice of the
supreme court, if the action be pending therein, for the arrest of such
defendant, and holding him to bail; and thereupon he shall be arrested
and held to bail, in the manner and with the same effect, and subject
to the same rights and liabilities as in other civil actions when the de
fendant is subject to arrest,
Section 3468. In all actions brought to determine the right to any
office, it shall be necessary for the plaintifff or relator in every case
where the defendant is in possession of the office in controversy, under
a certificate of election issued by the proper officer or board of canvassers, to state in his complaint in what respect such certificate was
improperly or illegally issued; and in case it is claimed that the relator
received a majority 01 legal votes cast for the office, at any legal elec
tion to fill such office, he shall also state in such complaint the actual
number of legal votes cast for the relator and for the defendant for such
office respectively, and also the number of votes cast for the relator and
for the defendant respectively for such office as determined by the legal
canvass of such election, and shall also state the names of the persons
whom such relator shall claim voted illegally at such election for the
defendant, which were canvassed, and in what such illegality consists,
.and the'election district where such illegal votes were cast; and the
plaintifff and relator shall upon the trial ot any such action he confined
and restricted to proof as to the illegality of such alleged illegal votes
so specified, and shall not be permitted to give evidence of any other
illegal votes than those so specified.
Section 3469. In all such actions brought to determine the right
to an office in the circuit courts, if the defendant shall demur to the
complaint, the issue raised by such demurrer shall have preference upon
the calendar and be tried before the other issues thereon; if such de
murrer be sustained, the plaintifff or relator shall amend his com
plaint, if he desire to amend, within twenty four hours; and if it be
overruled, the defendant shall serve his answer to the complaint in the
like time, unless upon cause shown, further time therefore shall be
granted to either party by the court. The issue as finally made shall
stand for trial at the same term ; and no continuance of any such cause
shall be granted upon the defendant's application, unless he shall show
the absence of a witness or other testimony, and the facts which he
expects to prove by such witness or other testimony, and they shall be
deemed material by the court. The plaintifff or relator may traverse,
or offer counter evidence to the facts set forth in such application for a
continuance.
Section 3470. In every such case such judgment shall be- rendered
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so
alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the defendant, as justice
shall require. When the action shall not be terminated during the
term of the office in controversy, it may notwithstanding be prosecuted
to completion and judgment rendered, which shall determine the right
which any party had to the office.
Section 3471. If the judgment be rendered upon the rights of the
person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office and executing
such official bond as may be required by law, to take upon himself the
execution of the office; it shall be his duty immediately thereafter to
demand of the defendant in the action all the books and papers in his
custody, or within his power, belonging to the office from which he shall
have been excluded.
Section 3472. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver
over such books or papers pursuant to the demand, he shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedings shall be had, and with the
same effect, to compel the delivery of such books and papers, as are
provided by law.
Section 3473. If the judgment be rendered, upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled in favor of such person, he may recover
by action the damages which he shall have sustained by reason of the
usurpation by the defendant of the office from which such defendant
has been excluded.
Section 3474. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, one action may be brought against all such
persons, in order to try their respective rights to such office or fran
chise.
Section 3475. When a defendant against whom such action shall
have been brought shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding
into or unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise or privi
lege, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be excluded from
such office, franchise or privilege, and also that the plantiff recover
costs against such defendant. The court may also in its discretion fine
such defendant a sum not exceeding two thousand dollars, which fine.
when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the state.
Section 3476. An action may be brought by the attorney general
m tne name of the state, for the purpose of vacating or annulling let
ters patent, granted by this state, in the following cases:
1. When he Bhall have reason to believe that such letters patent were
obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of
material fact, made by a person to whom the same were issued or made
with his consent or knowledge;
2. When he shall have good reason to believe that such letters pat
ent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact; or
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee or those
claiming under him, have done or committed an act in violation of the
terms and conditions on which the letters patent were granted, or have
by any other means forfeited the interest acquired under the same.
• CHAPTER CL.
OF PROCEEDINGS TO PUNISH CONTEMPTS TO PROTECT THE RIGHTS
OP PARTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section 3477. Every court of record shall have power to punish bv
fine and imprisonment, or either, any neglect or violation of duty or
any misconduct, by which the rights or remedies of a party in an action
or proceeding depending in such court, or triable therein, may be defeated,
impaired, impeded or prejudiced, in the following cases:
i. All attorneys, counselors, cierks, registers, sheriffs, coroners, and
all other persons in any manner duly elected or appointed to perform
any judicial or ministerial services, for any misbehavior in such office
or trust, or for any willful neglect or violation of duty therein ; for disobedience of any process of such court, or of any lawful order thereof,
or of any lawful order of a judge of such court, or of any officer authorized to perform the duties of such judge;
^- T>art'es to actions, for putting in fictitious bail or sureties, or for
any deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court;
3. Parties to actions, attorneys, counselors and all other persons, for
the nonpayment of any sum of money ordered by such court to be
{>aid, in cases where by law, executions cannot be awarded for the ej
ection of such sum; and for any other disobedience to any lawful order,
judgment or process of such court. And the powers of such court to
punish, as in this chapter provided, for nonpayment of money, may be
exercised by the judge or judges thereof in vacation;
4. All persons for assuming to be officers, attorneys or counselors of
any court and acting as such without authority; for rescuing anv prop
erty or person which shall be in the custody of any officer, by virtue of
firocess issued from such court or judge or judges thereof in %-acation;
or unlawfully detaining any witness or party to an action, while owing
to, remaining at or returning from the court where such action shall be
noticed for trial; and for any other unlawful interference with the process
or proceedings in any action;
5. All persons summoned as witnesses or garnishees, for refusing or
neglecting to ohey such summons or to attend or to be sworn or to answer
as such witnesses or garnishees;
6. Persons summoned as jurors in any court, for improperly convers
ing with any party to an action to be tried at such court, or with any
person in relation to the merits of such action; for receiving commu
nications from any such party or from any other person, in relation to
the merits of such action, without immediately disclosing the same
to the court;
7. All inferior magistrates, officers and tribunals, for disobedience of
any lawful order or process of a superior court, or for proceeding in any
action or proceeding contrary to law after such action or proceeding,
shall have been removed from their jurisdiction ; and,
8. All other cases where attachments and proceedings as for con
tempts have been usually adopted and practiced in courts of record, to
enforce the civil remedies of any party or to protect the rights of any
such party.
Section 3478. "When any such misconduct shall be committed in
the immediate view and presence of the court, it may be punished summarily
by fine or imprisonment or both, as hereinafter provided. For
that purpose an order must be made by the court stating the facts which
constituted the offense and bring the case within the provisions of this section, and particularly and specifically prescribe the punishment to be
inflicted therefore.
Section 3479. When any order of the court or a judge shall have
been made requiring the payment of costs, or any other sum of money,
and proof by affidavit shall be made of the personal demand of such
sum of money and of a refusal to pay it, the court or judge may issue
a warrant to commit the person so disobeying to prison, until such sum
and the costs and expenses of the proceedings shall be paid.
Section 3480. In a case specified in either of the two last sections,
,i_ ..... ^
tne court may, in its discretion, and in all other cases, the court shall,
upon being satisfied by affidavit of the commission of the misconduct,
either make an order requiring the accused party to show cause at some
reasonable time to be therein specified, why he should not be punished
for the alleged misconduct, or shall issue an attachment to arrest such
party and to bring him before such court to answer for such miscon
duct. Such order to show cause may be made, or attachment may be
issued by any judge in vacation, but must be made returnable to the
court.
Section 3481. Such an order to show cause can only be made in an
action or special proceeding in the same court, but it may be made
either before or after the judgment in the action, or the final order in
the special proceeding, and is equivalent to a notice of motion; and
the subsequent proceedings thereon shall be taken in the action or
special proceedings, as upon a motion made therein. When an attachment shall be issued it shall be deemed an original special proceed
ing against the accused, in behalf of the state upon the relation of the
complainant.
Section 3482. When an attachment shall be issued according to the
.. , , . , . ..... °.
provisions of this chapter, the court or judge issuing the same may in
its or his discretion direct by indorsement thereon the sum in which the
defendant may give an undertaking for his appearance to answer.
56
Section 3483. Upon arresting any person upon an attachment to
answer f°r any alleged misconduct, the officer shall keep such person
in his actual custody, and bring him personally before the court to
which the same is returnable, and keep liim in his custody until such
court shall have made some order in the premises, unless such defend
ant entitles himself to be discharged as prescribed in the nest sec
tion. But when, from sickness or any other cause, the defendant is
unable to attend court, that fact shall be a sufficient excuse for not bring
ing him before the court. The officer need not in any case confine
any person so arrested in any prison, or otherwise restrain him of his
liberty, except so far as shall be necessary to secure his personal at
tendance.
Section 3484. Such defendant shall be discharged from arrest upon
such attachment, when there is an indorsement thereon as presented
in the last section but one preceding, upon executing and celkering
to the officer making the same at any time before the return of the
writ an undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, in the sum indorsed
upon such attachment, to the effect that the defendant will appear on
the return of such attachment and abide the order and judgment of
the court thereupon,
Section 34S5. If the party charged with misconduct be in the costody of any officer by virtue of an execution against his body, or by
virtue of any process for any other contempt or misconduct, instead of
issuing an attachment, the court or judge may award a writ of habeas
corpus to bring the defendant before the court to answer for such mis
conduct; and upon the delivery of such writ to the officer having the
custody of the defendant, he shall bring him on the return day of
such writ before the court to which the 6ame is returnable, and detain
him at the place where the court is sitting until the further order of
the court.
Section 3486. Upon the return day of an attachment, or of such
writ of habeas corpus, the officer executing the same shall file the same
and the undertaking, if any, taken by him of the defendant, together
with a written return stating the manner in which he has executed such
attachment or writ.
Section 3487. The officer to whom any such attachment shall be
delivered shall return the same by the return day specified therein ;
and in case of default, an attachment may be issued against him of
course, upon being allowed by the court or judge, upon proof of such
default. The officer to whom such last mentioned attachment shall be
delivered, shall execute the same by arresting and keeping the defend
ant in his custody, bringing him personally before the court and detain
ing him in such custody until the further order of the court without
admitting him to bail,
Section 34S8. When any defendant shall have been brought into
court by virtue of an attachment, or on such writ of habeas corpus, or
» ill!
shall have appeared upon the return of an attachment, the court suaiL
unless he admits the offense charged, cause interrogatories to be filed
specifying the facts and circumstances alleged against the defendant
and requiring his answers thereto; to which the defendant shall make
written answers on oath within such reasonable time as the court shall
allow; and the court may receive any affidavits or other proofs, con
tradictory of the answers of the defendant, or in confirmation thereof,
and upon the original affidavits, such answers and such subsequent
proof shall determine whether the defendant has been guilty of the mis
conduct alleged.
Section 3489. If, upon the hearing of an order to show cause or in
snch proceedings in case of an attachment, the court shall adjudge the
defendant to have been guilty of the miscond net alleged, and that the
misconduct was calculated to or actually did defeat, impede or prejudice
the rights or remedies of any party in an action or proceeding pending
9 . .. , ,, J f . J. n I ■ • 6 ri- 6
in such court, it shall proceed to impose a nne or to imprison him or
both, as the nature of the case shall require. A warrant of commitment must be issued accordingly.
Section 3490. If an actual loss or injury has been produced to any
party by the misconduct alleged, the court shall order a sufficient sum
to he paid by the defendant to such party to indemnify him, and to
satisfy his costs and expenses, instead of imposing a fine upon such de
fendant; and in such case the payment and acceptance of such sum
shall be an absolute bar to any action by such aggrieved party to re
cover damages for such injury or loss. Where no such actual loss or
injury has been produced, the fine shall not exceed two hundred and
fifty dollars over and above the costs and expenses of the proceedings.
Section 3491. When the misconduct proved consists of an omission
to perform some act or duty which is yet in the power of the defendant
to perform, he shall be imprisoned only until he shall have per
formed such act or duty, and paid such fine as shall be imposed and the
costs and expenses of the proceedings. In such case the order and warrant jf commitment shall specify the act or duty to be performed, and
the amount of the fine and expenses to be paid.
Section 3492. In every other case when no special provision is otherwise
made by law, the defendant may be imprisoned for a reasonable
time not exceeding six months, and until the fine, if any, and the ex
penses of the proceedings are paid; and the duration of such imprison
ment shall be expressed in the order and warrant of commitment.
Section 3493. Persons proceeded against under the provisions of
this chapter shall also be liable to an information or indictment for theW
same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense; but the court before
which a conviction shall be had on such information or indictment, shall
take into consideration the punishment before inflicted, in forming its
sentence.
Section 3494. If the defendant, against whom an attachment shall
have been issued and returned served, do not appear on the return day
thereof, the court may either award another attachment, or may order
the undertaking, taken on the arrest, to be prosecuted, or both.
Section 3495. The order directing the undertaking to be prosecuted may direct any action to be brought thereon in the name of any^,
party aggrieved; and such party may thereupon maintain an action in
his own name and recover damages to the extent of the loss or injury
sustained by him by reason of the misconduct for which the attachment
was issued, and his costs and expenses in prosecuting such attachment,
not exceeding the sum specified in such undertaking.
Section 3496. If there be no party aggrieved by the misconduct
for which the attachment was issued, the court, in case the defendant
shall fail to appear according to the conditions of the undertaking taken
on the arrest, shall order the 6ame to be prosecuted by the attorney
general, or by the district attorney for the county in which the under
taking was taken, in the name of the state, and in such action the state
shall be entitled to recover the entire sum specified in such undertak
ing. From the money collected in such action, the court shall order
such sum to be paid to the party prosecuting the attachment as it shall
think proper to satisfy'tke costs and expenses incurred by him, and to
compensate him for any injury he may have sustained by the iniscon.
duct for which such attachment was issued, and the residue shall be
paid into the state treasury to the credit of the school fund.
. Section 3497. After the return of an execution issued upon any
judgment obtained upon such undertaking unsatisfied in whole or in
part, an action to recover the amount of suchjudgment so remaining un
satisfied, may be maintained by the plaintifff who recovered such judg
ment against the officer taking such undertaking, when it appears that
at the time it was given the sureties were insufficient, and the officer
taking the same had reasonable grounds to doubt their sufficiency. If
the state was the plaintifff in the action on the undertaking, the action
against the officer must be prosecuted by the attorney general or dis
trict attorney in the name of the state, and the same disposition of the
monies collected in such action against such officer shall be made as
directed in the preceding sections.
CHAPTER CLI.
OP PROCEEDINGS IN THE CIRCUIT COURT FOR THE DISPOSITION OP
ESTATES OF INFANTS AND OTHER WARDS; TO ENFORCE SPECIFIC
PERFORMANCE OF CONTRACTS IN CERTAIN CASES; AND TO CHANGE
NAMES AND ESTABLISH HEIRSHIPS.
Section 3498. Whenever any infant or person incompetent to man
age n's affairs by reason of insanity, idiocy, unsoundness of mind or
habitual drunkenness, shall be seized or possessed of any lands, or in
terest therein, by way of mortgage, or in trust only for others, the cir
cuit court of the proper county may, upon the petition of the guardian
of such infant or incompetent person, or of any person in any way inter
ested in such real estate, make an order authorizing or compelling snch
infant or incompetent person to convey and assure such lands or interest
therein to any person entitled thereto, in such manner as the court shall
direct.
Section 3499. The circuit court shall have power to authorize or
tne specific performance of any bargain, contract or agreement,
made by any party who may die before the performance thereof, or by
any person incompetent to manage his affairs by reason of insanity,
idiocy, unsoundness of mind or habitual drunkenness, while he was
capable of conducting his affairs, by any infant heir or devisee or other
person, or by such incompetent per.-on, or his guardian, on the petition
of the executors or administrators of such deceased person, the guard
ian of such incompetent person, or of any other person interested in
such bargain, contract or agreement.
Section 3500. No order authorizing or directing any such convey
ance or assurance, or the performance of any such bargain, contract or
agreement, shall be made until after hearing the parties and beiti?; satis
fied that such conveyance or assurance ought to be made, or such bargain,
contract or agreement ought to be performed. The court may,
by such order, direct the guardian of such infant or incompetent per
son, or a special guardian appointed in such proceeding, to execute any
conveyance, or to do any other act which is necessary to carry such order
or judgment into effect. Every conveyance or assurance made, or other
act done, in pursuance of any order made under the provisions of the
preceding sections, shall be as effectual in the law, as if made by such
infant when of full age, or by such incompetent person when of sound
memory and understanding.
Section 3501. Whenever any person who is bound by a contract in
writing to convey any real estate or interest therein shall die before
making the conveyance, the person entitled thereto, or if he be dead,
then any person who would have been entitled to the estate under him,
as heir, devisee, or otherwise, in case the conveyance had been made ac
cording to the terms of the contract, or the executor or administrator
of such deceased person for the benefit of the person so entitled, may
maintain an action in the circuit court to enforce a specific performance
of the contract by the heirs, devisees, or the executor or administrator
of such deceased person who made the contract. If in such action it
shall appear that the plaintifff is entitled to have a conveyance of such
real estate, the court may require such executor or administrator to con
vey the estate in like manner as the deceased person might or ought to
have done if living; and if the heirs or devisees of such deceased per
son, or any of them, shall be within the state, and made parties to such
action, the court may require them, instead of the executor or adminis
trator, to convey the estate, or may require them to join with the ex
ecutor or administrator in such conveyance; or the court may, by its judg
ment, pass the title to such real estate to the plaintifff without any con
veyance; and every conveyance or judgment so made shall be effectual
to pass the estate contracted for as fully as if the contracting party were
still living and then executed the conveyance.
Section 3502. A copy of such judgment, directing such conveyance
or passing the title to the plaintifff, duly certified by the clerk and recorded
in the office of the register of deeds in the county where the
lands lie, shall give the person entitled to such conveyance a right to the
possession of the lands contracted for, and to hold the same according to
the terms of the intended conveyance, in like manner as if they had been
conveyed in pursuance of such judgment. The recording of such judg
ment shall not prevent the court from enforcing such judgment by any
proper proceedings therein.
Section 3503. In either of the following cases, any real estate, or
interest therein, belonging to an infant, or to a person incompetent to
manage his affairs by reason of insanity, idiocy, unsoundness of mind or
habitual drunkenness, may be sold, mortgaged or leased, as hereinafter
prescribed:
1. When the personal property and the income of the real estate of
such infant or incompetent person are together insufficient for the pay
ment of his debts, or for the maintenance and education of himself and
familv ;
2. When the interests of such infant or incompetent person require, or
will be substantially promoted by such disposition on account of such
real estate or interest therein being exposed to waste or dilapidation, or
being unproductive, or for other peculiar reasons or circumstances.
Section 3504. The application for such disposition must be made to
the circuit court of the county in which such real estate, or some part
thereof is situated, or to the circuit judge in vacation, by petition of the
general guardian of the infant or of such incompetent person, or by any
relative or other persou in behalf of either; and when the application
is on behalf of an infant over the age of fourteen years, such infant
must join in such petition. Such petition must be verified, and must
set forth the facts which would authorize the selling, mortgaging or leas
ing of such real estate or some part thereof for one or more of the rea
sons set forth in the preceding section.
Section 3505. When such application is made on behalf of an infant,
the court or circuit judge must appoint some suitable person special
guardian of such infant, in relation to the proceeding on such applica
tion, and such special guardian, and when the application is made on
behalf of an incompetent person the guardian of such incompetent
person, shall give a bond to such infant or incompetent person, by name,
as the case may be, to be filed with the clerk of the court, in such snm,
with such sureties and in such form as the court or circuit judge shall
direct, conditioned for the faithful performance of the trust reposed. for
Eaying over, investing or accounting for all monies that shall be receive]
y such guardian, according to the order of any court having authority
to give directions in the premises, and for the observance of the direetions
of the court in relation to the said trust. In case of the breach f
^e con(j;t;ions 0f sucn bond, it may be prosecuted for the benefit of the
party injured, without any direction therefore.
Section 350G. Upon the presentation of such petition, and the filing
of such bond, the court or circuit judge may proceed in a snmmary
manner to inquire into the merits of such application, or may makeai:
order, referring it to some suitable person as referee, to inquire into and
report upon the matters contained in such petition, whose duty it shall
be to examine into the truth of the representations made, to hear the
parties interested in the property, or otherwise interested in the applica
tion, and report thereupon with all convenient speed.
Section 3507. If, after an examination of the matter bv the court
Qr cjrcu;t judge without a reference, or on the coming in of the report
of the referee, and on examination of the matter, it shall satisfactorily
appear that a disposition of any part of the real estate of such infant or
incompetent person, or any interest therein, is necessary and proper, for
any 01 the causes mentioned in section three thousand five hundred and
three, the court or circuit judge shall make a final order, directing the
leasing, mortgaging or sale of suth real estate or interest therein, or of
such part thereof as the court shall deem proper to be made by the special
guardian of such infant so appointed, or by the guardian of such incom
petent person, as the case may be, in such manner and with such restric
tions as shall be deemed expedient.
Section 3508. No such lease, mortgage or sale shall be made until
an agreement therefore shall be entered into by such special guardian of
the infant, or guardian of such incompetent person, subject to the ap
proval of the court or circuit judge. Upon the confirmation of such
agreement by the court or judge, he must execute a lease, mortgage or
deed, as directed by the order of confirmation.
Section 3509. Whenever a final order shall have been made for
sale of any such real estate, and it shall be made to appear to the
court or judge that the interests of the infant, or incompetent person,
would be promoted by platting such real estate, the court or jud^cmay, by order, authorize the special guardian of such infant, or the
guardian of such incompetent person, either alo"T or together with the
cotenants, if any, or other owners, to make and acknowledge a plat of
such real estate in the manner prescribed in chapter one hundred and
one a plat made pursuant to such order, certified and acknowledged
in manner and form as prescribed in said chapter, and approved by the
court, shall be as valid and effectual as if made by such infant when
of full age, or by such incompetent person when of sound memory and
understanding. After such plat shall have been duly made and
recorded, such guardians may make separate sales of any lot or lots,
according to such plat, or of such infant's or incompetent person's
interest therein, in the manner above prescribed.
Section 3510. No real estate or interest therein shall be sold, mortgaged
or leased under the provisions of this chapter, contrary to the
provisions of any will by which the same was devised, or of any con
veyance by which the same was transferred to such infant or incompe
tent person.
Section 3511. Every deed, mortgage, lease or other conveyance
made in good faith by the guardian of an infant or incompetent person,
pursuant to any order or judgment of the court, or judge thereof, made
under the provisions of this chapter, when confirmed by the court,
shall be as valid and effectual as if made by such infant when of full
age, or by such incompetent person when of sound memory and under
standing.
Section 3512. No sale made as aforesaid of the real estate of any
infant or incompetent person, shall give to such infant or incompetent
person any other or greater interest or estate in the proceeds or such
sale than he had in the estate so sold ; but the said proceeds shall be
deemed real estate of the same nature as the property sold.
Section 3513. The court or judge shall make an order for the
application and disposition of the proceeds of any such sale or mort
gage, and of the income derived from the investment thereof, and of
the rent accruing upon any such lease, and direct the investment of any
portion thereof belonging to such infant or incompetent person, which
is not needed for the payment of debts or the immediate support of
himself and family, so as to secure the same for the benefit of such
infant or incompetent person, and shall direct a return of such invest
ment to be made on oath as soon as may be, and shall require accounts
to be rendered periodically by any guardian or other person who may
be intrusted with the disposition of such proceeds, or the income
thereof.
Section 3514. If the real estate or interest therein of any infant
or any incompetent person directed to be sold, is subject to a right of
dower, or an estate for life or for years, in the whole or any part thereof,
and the person having such right or estate shall, before such sale, con
sent in writing to accept a gross sum in lieu of such dower or other
estate, to be fixed according to the principles of law applicable to annui
ties, or to have a proportionate share of the proceeds of the sale
invested, and the interest thereof, paid to him until the termination of
such right or estate, and file such consent with the clerk of the court,
the final order for the sale may, in the discretion of the court or judge,
direct that such right or estate shall be sold, together with the estate or
interest of the infant or incompetent person. After such sale the
court must ascertain the value of such right or estate, and direct the
pavment of such sum in gross, or the investment of a proportionate share
of the proceeds, and the payment of the interest thereof, to the person
having such right or estate until the expiration thereof. But no such
gross sum shall be paid, or investment made, until an effectual release
of such right or estate has been duly executed, so as to entitle the same
to be delivered to the purchaser.
Section 3515. Where the interest of the infant or incompetent person
in real estate consists of a right of dower, or an estate for life or for
years, the court may by its order authorize the special guardian of suchb
infant, or the guardian of such incompetent person, to join with the
person holding the reversionary estate in a conveyance of the property to
which such interest attaches, so as to release such right or dower, or
fully convey the particular estate, on receiving from the proceed? of
the sale a gross sum in satisfaction of such right or estate, or a propor
tionate share of such proceeds to be invested, and the interest thereon
paid to the person having such right or estate until the termination
thereof; in either case, the amount to be ascertained as prescribed in the
last section. When a proportionate part cf such proceeds is received
by the guardian for investment, the order of the court must proridt
for the investment thereof until the determination of the particular
estate, and then for the payment thereof to the person entitled thereto
Section 3516. From the time of such application to the court or
judge on behalf of an infant, or of an incompetent person having no
guardian, he shall be considered the ward of the court so far as it relates
to such property, its proceeds and income.
Section 3517. The real estate of an incompetent person shall Dot
^e le^gd for m0re than five years, or mortgaged or disposed of other
wise than is hereinbefore authorized and directed,
Section 3518. In case any incompetent person shall be restored to
njs right mind, or become capable of conducting his affairs, his real
and personal property not lawfully disposed of, shall be restored to
him.
Section 3519. In case of the death of any incompetent person
during such state of incapacity, the power of any guardian appointed
under this chapter shall cease, and his real estate shall descend to hi?
heirs, and his personal estate be distributed among his next of kin, in
the same manner as if he had been of sound mind and memory.
CHANGING NAMES AND ESTABLISHING HEIRSHIPS.
Section 3520. Any resident of this state, whether a minor or of
full age, may, upon petition to the circuit court of the county where he
resides, and upon filing a copy of the notice hereinafter required, with
proof of the publication thereof, if no sufficient cause be shown to the
contrary, have his name changed or established by order of said court
Such order shall be entered at length upon the records of the court,
and a copy thereof duly certified shall be filed in the office of the regis
ter of deeds of such county, who shall make an entry thereof in s
book to be kept by such register,
Section 3521. The circuit court may also, by order, establish anv
or adult person as the legal heir of another person of full age,
both resident of the state, upon filing a petition setting forth their
names and residence, and the reasons tor such action, signed by the per
son desiring him to be so established, and also when such proposed
heir is over the age of fourteen years, by him, and the notice hereinafter
required, with proof of the publication thereof. Snch order shall be
entered at length upon the records of the court.
Section 3522. Before making an application to the court for changing or establishing a name or establishing an heirship, the applicant mus;
cause a notice thereof, stating therein the nature of the application, the
time and place when and where the same wiU be made, to be published
in a newspaper printed in the county where such application will be
made, or if there be none in such county, then in the official state paper,
for at least six weeks successively, once in each week.
CHAPTER CLII.
OF THE FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES BY ADVERTISEMENT.
Section 3523. Every mortgage of real estate, containing a power of
sale, upon default being made in any condition thereof, may be foreclosed by advertisement, in the cases and in the manner hereinafter
specified.
Section 3524. To entitle any party to make such foreclosure, it shall
v - •. *
be requisite:
1. That some default in the condition of such mortgage shall have
occurred, by which power to sell became operative;
2. That no action shall have been commenced to recover the debt then
remaining secured by such mortgage, or" any part thereof; or if any
action has been commenced, that the 6ame has been discontinued, or
that an execution upon the judgment rendered therein has been returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in part; and
3. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been duly
recorded; and if it shall have been assigned, that all of the assignments
thereof shall have been recorded.
Section 3525. In cases of mortgages given to secure the payment
of money by installments, each of the installments after the first, shall
be taken and be deemed to be a separate and independent mortgage for
the purposes of this chapter; and such mortgage for each of such install
ments may be foreclosed in the same manner and with like effect as if a
separate mortgage were given for each of such subsequent installments;
and a redemption of any such sale by the mortgagor shall have the like
effect as if the sale for such installment had been made upon an inde
pendent prior mortgage.
Section 3526. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by a
sale of the mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall be given by
publishing the same for six successive weeks, at least once in each week,
in a newspaper printed in the county where the premises intended to
be sold, or some part of them, are situated, if there be one; and if
no newspaper be printed in said county, such notice shall be pub
lished in a newspaper printed in an adjoining county, if there be one;
and if no newspaper Be printed in such adjoining county, then such
notice shall be published in a paper published at the seat of govern
ment.
Section 3527. Such notice shall specify:
1. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortagee, and of the
assignee of the mortgage if any;
2. The date of the mortgage, and when recorded;
3. The amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of the notice;
4. A description of the mortgaged premises, conforming substan
tially with that contained in the mortgage; and
5. The time and place of sale.
Section 3528. The sale shall be at public auction, between the hour
of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun, in the county
in which the premises to be sold, or some part of them, are situated,
and shall be made by the person appointed for that purpose in the mort
gage, if any, or by the sheriff, under sheriff or deputy sheriff of the
county, to the highest bidder.
Section 3529. Such sale may be postponed from time to time, by
inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable, in the
newspaper in which the original advertisement was published, and continning
such publication until the time to which the sale shall be post
poned, at the expense of the party requesting such postponement
Section 3530. If the mortgaged premises consist of distinct farms,
tracts or iotS) tnev shau De S01J separately, and no more farms, tracts or
lots shall be sold than shall be necessary to satisfy the amount due on
sucih mortgage at the date of the notice of sale, with interest, and the
costs and expenses allowed by law.
Section 3531. The mortgagee, his assigns, or his or their legal representatives,
may fairly and in good faith purchase the premises so ad
vertised, or any part thereof, at such sale,
Section 3532. Whenever any lands shall be sold by virtue of
a Power of sale contained in any mortgage, it shall be the duty of the
officer or other person making the sale, to give to the purchaser a cer
tificate in writing, signed by him, setting forth a description of each
tract or parcel or the premises sold, the sum paid therefore, and the
time when the purchaser will be entitled to a deed for the same, unless
they shall be redeemed, as provided in this chapter; and such officer
shall, within ten days from the time of sale, file in the office where the
mortgage is recorded, a duplicate of such certificate, signed by him:
and such duplicate certificate, or a copy certified by the register, shall
be taken and deemed evidence of the facts therein contained,
Section 3533. The mortgagor, his heirs, executors, administrators,
Qr assigns, whose lands shall be 6old in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, within one year from and after such sale, may redeem
such lands, or any distinct parcel or tract thereof, separately sold, by
paying to the purchaser, his executors, administrators or assigns, or to
the then sheriff, under sheriff, or deputy sheriff, the sum of money
which was bid therefore, together with interest at the rate of ten per
centum per annum from the time of such sale; and such payment
being made, said sale and certificate shall be null and void, as to the
parcels or tracts of land so redeemed, and the bail of the said sheriff
shall be responsible for the faithful payment to the purchaser aforesaid
of all monies received by him, or any of his deputies aforesaid; and in
every case the mortgagor may retain full possession of all premises
mortgaged by him, until the title shall absolutely vest in the pur
chaser of such mortgaged premises, according to the provisions of this
chapter.
Section 3534. If such mortgaged premises so sold shall not be
redeemed as aforesaid, the officer, or his successor in office, or other per
son who shall have sold the same, or his executor or administrator, or
some person appointed by the circuit court for the purpose, shall com
plete such sale, by executing a deed of the premises so sold to the origi
nal purchaser, his assignee or personal representatives, or to any sub
sequent mortgagee who shall have redeemed the mortgaged premises, as
provided in section three thousand five hundred and forty,
Section 3535. If, after sale of any real estate made as herein prescribed, there shall remain in the hands of the officer or other person
making the sale, any surplus money, after satisfying the mortgage on
which such real estate was sold, and payment of the costs and expenses
of such foreclosure and sale, the surplus shall be paid over by such
officer or other person, on demand, to the mortgagor, his legal repre
sentatives or assigns.
Section 3536. Any party desiring to perpetuate the evidence of
» r » ° r c
any sale, made in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may
procure:
1. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of any
notice of postponement, to be made by the printer of the newspaper in
which the same was inserted, or by some person in his employ knowing
the facts; and
2. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice, to be
made by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sals, stating the
time and place, at which the same took place, the sum bid and the
name of the purchaser.
Section 3537. Such affidavit shall be recorded at length by tihe
register of deeds of the county in which the premises are situated, in a
book kept for the recording of mortgages; and such original affidavits,
the record thereof, and certified copies of such record, shall be pre
sumptive evidence of the facts therein contained.
Section 3538. A note referring to the page and book where the
.j • i i_ • v J f • jj
evidence of any sale having been made under mortgage, is recorded,
shall be made by the register recording such evidence, in the margin of
the record of such mortgage, if such record be in his office.
Section 3539. A record of the affidavits aforesaid, and of the deed
i , ii»i • ini_ /r». i«i
executed on the sale ot the premises, shall be sufficient to pass the title
thereto; and the said conveyance shall be an entire bar of all claim or
equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his heirs and representatives,
and all persons claiming under him or them, by virtue of any title subsequent to such mortgage; but no title accruing prior to the execution
of such mortgage, shall be affected thereby.
Section 3540. Any person to whom a subsequent mortgage may have
been executed, shall be entitled to the same privilege of redemption of
the mortgaged premises that the mortgagor might have had, or of satis
fying the prior mortgage, and shall by such satisfaction acquire all the
benefits to which such prior mortgagee was, or might have been entitled.
Section 3541. When the mortgaged premises or any part of them,
shall have been purchased at such sale by the mortgagee, his legal
representatives, or his or their assigns, as hereinbefore provided, the
affidavits of the publication of the notice of sale, and of the circum
stances of such sale, shall be evidence of the sale, and of the foreclos
ure of the equity of redemption, as herein specified, without any con
veyance being executed, in the same manner, and with the like effect as
a conveyance executed by the proper officer or person upon such sale
to a third person.
Section 3542. When notice of any sale by virtue of a mortgage,
shall be published in any other than the county in which the premises
are situated, a copy of such notice shall be served at least four weeks
before the time of such sale, on the person in possession of the mort
gaged premises, in all cases where the same are occupied; and where
they are not occupied, and the mortgagor, his hairs or personal repre
sentatives, shall reside in the county where such premises lie, then upon
such mortgagor, his heirs, or personal representatives, as the case may
be. Proof of the service of such notice may be made, certified and
recorded in the same manner, and with the like effect, as proof of the
publication of a notice of sale under a mortgage.
Section 3543. The costs and expenses of foreclosing any mortgage
pursuant to this chapter, shall be taxed by some officer authorized to
tax costs in a court of record, upon request of any party liable to pay
the same, and on notice to the other party, on his paying the expense
of such taxation.
CHAPTER CLIII.
OF ARBITRATIONS.
Section 3544. All persons, except infants and persons under gnardianship,
may, by an instrument in writing attested by one or more sub
scribing witnesses, submit to the decision of one or more arbitrator?,
any controversy existing between them, which might be the subject of
a civil action, except as herein otherwise provided; and may, in such
submission, agree that a judgment of any court of record, to be designat
ed in such instrument, snail be rendered upon the award made pursu
ant to such submission.
37 Wis. 568; 40 id. 495.
Section 3545. T?o such submission shall be made respecting the
claim of any person to any estate in fee or for life, to real estate; but
any claim to an interest for a term of years, or for one year or less, in
real estate, and controversies respecting the partition of lands between
joint tenants or tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of
lands, or concerning the admeasurement of dower, may be so submitted
to arbitration.
Section 3546. The arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time and
place for the hearing, and may adjourn the same from time to time, as may
be necessary ; and on the application of either party, and for good cause,
thev may postpone such hearing to a time not beyond the day fixed in
such submission for rendering their award.
Section 3547. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the arbitntors
shall be 6worn, faithfully and fairly to hear and examine the matters in controversy, and to make a just award, according to the best of
their understanding; which oath maybe administered b}* any person
authorized to administer oaths, and the oath to witnesses and other per
sons examined before them, may be administered by them,
Section 3548. Witnesses maybe compelled to appear before such
arDi(;rators by subpoena, to be issued by any justice of the peace, in the
same manner and with like effect, and subject to the same penalties for
disobedience, as in cases of trials before justices of the peace.
Section 3549. All the arbitrators must meet togetber, and hear al!
the proofs and allegations of the parties; but an award by a majority
of them shall be valid, unless the concurrence of all the arbitrators be
expressly required in the submission.
Section 3550. To entitle any award to be enforced according to the
provisions of this chapter, it must be in writing, subscribed oy the
arbitrators making the same, and attested by a subscribing witness.
4 Wis. 181; 6 id. 6!6; 16 id. 644; 22 id. 376.
Section 3551. Upon such submission being proved by the affidavit
0f a subscribing witness thereto, and upon the award made in pursnance thereof being proved in like manner, or by the affidavit of the
arbitrators, within one year after the making of the same, the court des
ignated in such submission shall, by order, confirm such award, unless
the same be vacated or modified, or a decision thereon be postponed, as
herein provided.
Section 3552. Any party to such submission may move the court
designated therein to vacate the same, upon either of the following
1. That such award was procured by corruption, fraud, or other undue means; * .
2. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbitrators,
or either of them;
3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing to post
pone the hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refusing to hear any
evidence, pertinent and material to the controversy, or for any other
misbehavior of such arbitrators, by which the rights of any party shall
have been prejudiced;
4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or that they so imper
fectly executed them, that a mutual, final and definite award on the
subject matter submitted was not made.
Section 3553. Any party to such submission may also move the
court, designated therein, to modify or correct such award in the following cases:
1. When there is evident miscalculation of figures, or an evident mistake in the description of any person, thing or property, referred to in
such award;
2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not
submitted to them, not affecting the merits of the decision upon the
matters submitted;
3. Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form not
affecting the merits of the controversy, and where, if it had been a ver
dict, such defect could have been amended or disregarded by the court,
according to the provisions of law.
Section 3554. Every application to vacate or modify an award shall
■ . , . * . rr j . i ... " i
be made to the court designated in the submission, at the next term
after the publication of such award, upon the same notice to the adverse
party as in other motions, if there be time for that purpose; and if
there be not time, such court or any judge thereof, may, upon good cause
shown, order a stay of proceedings on such award, upon such terms as
shall appear just, until the term of the court, next after such first term,
at which term such application shall be made or shall be deemed
waived.
Section 3555. On such application, the court may vacate such award
in any of the cases hereinbefore specified, and if the time within which
such award shall have been required to be made by the submission, has
not expired, may in their discretion, direct a rehearing by the arbitra
tors; and, in the cases herein specified, the court may modify and cor
rect such award, so as to effect the intent thereof and to promote justice
between the parties.
Section 3556. Upon such award being affirmed or modified, the
court shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom any sum of
money or damages shall have been awarded that lie recover the same;
and if the award shall have ordered any act to be done by either party,
judgment shall be entered, that such act be done according to such
order. The costs of the proceedings shall be taxed as in actions, and if
no provisions for the fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall have
been made in the submission or award, the court shall make the same
allowance as is provided by law for referees; but no costs shall be taxed
for any other services or expenses prior to such application.
Section 3557. The judgment or the court on such award shall be entered in the judgment book, at length, as other judgments of said court,
and the clerk of the court shall immediately after the entry of such
judgment, attach to the submission the award of the arbitrators, and i
copy of the judgment of the court, and the same shall constitute the
judgment roll.
Section 3558. Such judgment roll shall be filed and judgment
docketed as in other cases, shall have the same force and effect in all
respects, be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to judgment!
in actions, and may, in like manner, be reviewed by the supreme court
on appeal or writ of error; and execution shall issue thereupon against
the property or person of any party against whom a recovery shall be
had, in all respects as upon other judgments.
Section 3559. When an appeal shall be taken from or writ of error
brought upon such judgment, the original affidavits upon which any
application in relation to such award was founded, and all other affi
davits and papers relating to such application, shall be annexed to, form
a part of, and be returned with the record of the judgment, unless the
court shall order copies thereof to be returned; and the supreme court
shall reverse, modify, amend or affirm such judgment, according to
justice.
Section 3560. When by such judgment any party shall be required
to perform any act other than the payment of money, the court render
ing such judgment shall enforce the same, in the manner provided foi
enforcing judgments of a similar nature in other cases.
Section 3561. If, upon application made pursuant to the foregoing
provisions, the court shall vacate and set aside any such award, coste
6hall be awarded to the prevailing party; and judgment may be ren
dered therefore and enforced by execution.
Section 3562. Upon any such order vacating an award, the party
aggrieved may appeal to the supreme court, on which appeal shall be
returned the submission and award and all affidavits ana papers used
on such application, unless the court shall order copies thereof returned;
and the court to which such appeal shall be taken shall proceed to affirm or reverse such order, as shall be just.
Section 3563. If such order be reversed, the proceedings shall be
remitted to the court from which they were removed, to proceed thereon;
or the supreme court may modify or affirm the award, in the same
manner, and with like effect, as if application for that purpose had been
originally made to such court.
Section 3564. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair
or affect any action upon an award, or upon any bond or other engage
ment to abide by an award.
Section 3565. Whenever any submission to arbitration shall be revoted
by a party thereto, before the publication of an award, the party
so revoking shall be liable to an action by the adverse party, to recover
all the costs and expenses incurred, and damages which he may havesustained in preparing for such arbitration; but neither party shall have
p0Wer to rovoKe the powers of the arbitrators, after the cause shall have
been finally submitted to them, upon a hearing of the parties, for their
decision.
Section 3566. If the submission so revokeM was contained in the
condition of any bond, the obligee in such bond shall be entitled to
prosecute the same in the same manner as other bonds with conditions
other than for the payment of money, and to assign such revocation as
a breach thereof; and for such breach he shall recover as damages the
costs and expenses incurred, and the damages sustained by him in pre
paring for such arbitration.
Section 3567. No other sum, penalty, forfeiture or damages shall
be recovered for any revocation of a submission to arbitration, than
suph as are prescribed in the two last sections, notwithstanding any "
stipulated damages, penalty or forfeiture, contained in such submission,
or w any other instrument or agreement collateral thereto.
CHAPTER CLIV.
OP GENERAL PROVISIONS, AND OP THE JURISDICTION OP JUSTICES K
CIVIL ACTIONS.
Section 3568. The jurisdiction of all justices of the peace shall be
coextensive with the limits of the county in which they are elected,
and no other or greater, except when otherwise specially provided by
law.
Section 3569. Every justice of the peace shall keep his office in the
town for which he may be elected, and not elsewhere, but he may issue
process at any place in the county.
Section 3570. No justice of the peace shall hold his office in the
same room with a practicing attorney, unless such attorney shall be his
law partner, and in that case such partner shall not be permitted to
appear, or practice as attorney, in any case tried before such justice.
;pr0 justice of the peace shall hold a court in any room, or room'adjoining anv room> in which strong, spirituous, ardent or intoxicating liquors
are sold, bartered or given away, and every such justice violatino- this
section shall forfeit twenty five dollars for each violation; but no judg
ment shall be held void in consequence thereof.
Section 3571. Every justice of the peace elected in any town, is
hereby authorized to hold a court for the trial of all actionsof which
justices of the peace have jurisdiction by law, and to hear, try and determine
the same according to law; and for that purpose, where no
special provision is otherwise made by law, such court shall be vested
with all the necessary powers which are possessed by courts of record;
and all laws of a general nature are to apply to 6uch justice's court so
far as the same may be applicable.
Section 3572. Every such justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction
over, and cognizance of, the following actions and proceedings:
1. Actions arising or growing out ot contract, express or implied,
wherein the debt, or oalance due or damages claimed, shall not exceed
two hundred dollars.
2. Actions on a note, bill, bond or other instrument in writing given
for the payment of money or other valuable articlo, for any amount
exceeding two hundred dollars, which has been reduced, by credits or
Sayments indorsed thereon, to an amount not exceeding two hundred
ollars;
3. Actions on installments as they shall become due, where pay
ments are to be made in installments, on any snch note, bill, bond or
other instrument in writing for the payment of money or other valu
able article, when the installment or installments due shall not exceed
two hundred dollars, or when the same has been reduced, by credits or
payments indorsed as aforesaid, to an amount not exceeding two hun
dred dollare;
4. Actions founded on any account, when the amount of the
pkintifTs account, proven to the satisfaction of the justice, shall not
exceed five hundred dollars, and when the same shall be reduced to an
amount not exceeding two hundred dollars by credits given, or by the
setoff or demand of the opposite party;
5. Actions on any surety bond taken by them, though the penalty
or amount claimed exceeds two hundred dollars;
6. Actions on any official bond, when the damages claimed shall not
exceed two hundred dollars;
7. Actions for injuries to persons, or to real or personal property,
wherein the damages claimed shall not exceed two hundred dollars;
8. Actions to recover the possession of personal property, with dam- &
ages for the unlawful taking or detention thereof, wherein the value of
the property claimed shall not exceed two hundred dollars;
9. Actions for forcible entry and detainer;
10. Actions for a penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding two hundred
dollars, given by any statute of this state;
11. To take and enter a judgment on the confession of a defendant,
when the amount confessed shall not exceed three hundred dollars;
12. Actions to enforce a lien npon personal propertyr, where the debt
or demand claimed does not exceed two hundred dollars.
Section 3573. No justice shall have cognizance of any action:
1. Against an executor or administrator, for any debt or demand 3
due from the testator or intestate;
2. Actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecutions, or false impris
onment;
3. Actions where the title to real property shall come in question;
4. Actions for or against any town in which the justice is
elected.
Section 3574. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket, in T
which he shall enter in each case to which they relate:
1. The title of all causes commenced before him;
2. The time when the process was issued against the defendant,
when returnable, and the particular process issued, and a statement of
the return of the officer;
^' ^'ie t*ine wnen the parties appeared before him, either without
process or upon the return of process;
4. Where the pleadings are written, a brief statement of their nature
and reference to the pleadings filed; and where the pleadings are made
orally, a concise statement of the complaint of the plaintifff, the answer
of the defendant, the further pleadings, if any, and the issue joined;
5. Every adjournment, stating at whose request, and to what time
and place;
6. The issuing of a venire, stating at whose request, and time and
place of its return;
7. The time when a trial was had, the names of the jurors returned
summoned who did not appear, and the fines imposed on them, if any,
and the names of the jurors who were sworn;
8. The names of witnesses sworn at the request of either party, stat
ing at whose request; the objections, if any, made to the competency
of a witness, and the decision thereon;
9. The verdict of the jury, and when received;
10. The judgment rendered by the justice, and the time of rendering
the same, and the amount of the debt, damages, costs and fees due to
each perSon separately;
11. The time of putting in any stay of execution, and the name of
the surety;
12. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to
whom delivered;
13. The return of every execution and when made, and every renews]
of an execution made by him, with the date of such renewal;
14. The fact of his having given a transcript of the judgment to be
filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court, and the time when
the same was given;
15. The fact of a certiorari having been brought on any judgment
rendered by him, and the time of service of the same;
16. The fact of an appeal having been made from the judgment ren
dered by him, and the time when made;
17. In addition to the above, he shall enter all motions made in a
cause, and his decision thereon, and the exceptions taken thereto, and
all other proceedings before him in the cause which he may think
useful.
PROCEEDINGS FOE CONTEMPTS.
Section 3575. In the following cases, and no others, a justice of the
peace may punish for contempt:
1. Persons guilty of disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior
towards such justice, whilst engaged in the trial of a cause, or in ren
dering judgment, or in any judicial proceeding, which tends to inter
rupt such proceedings, or to impair the respect due to his authority;
2. Persons guilty of any breach of the peace, noise or disturbance,
tending to interrupt the official proceedings of such justice;
3. Persons guilty of resistance or disobedience to any lawful order or
process made or issued by him.
Section 3576. Punishment for contempts may be by fine not esceeding
twenty dollars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not ex
ceeding two days, unless otherwise provided, at the discretion of the
justice.
Section 3577. No person shall be punished for contempt before a
justice of the pence, until jm opportunity shall have been given him
to be heard in his defense, and for that purpose the justice may issue
his warrant to bring the offender before him. But it the offender be
present, he may be summarily arraigned before the justice, and pro
ceeded against in the same manner as if a warrant had beeu previously
issued, and the offender arrested thereon.
Section 3578. The warrant for contempt may be in the following
» * • °
form:
county, )
Town of -J.
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of s.ilu county:
You are hereby commanded to apprehend A. B., and bring him be
fore J. P., one of the justices of the peace of the said county, at his
office in faid town, to show cause why he, the said A. B., should not
be convicted of a criminal contempt, alleged to have been committed
on the day of , A. D. IS— , before the said justice, while en
gaged as a justice of the peace in judicial proceedings.
I>ated at the town aforesaid, the day of , A. D. 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3579. Upon the conviction of any person for contempt,
the justice shall make up a record of the proceedings on such conviction, stating the particular circumstances of the offense, and the judg
ment rendered thereon, and shall file the same in the office of the clerk
of the circuit court, and shall also enter the same in his docket, as in
civil cases.
Section 3580. The record of conviction may be in the following or
an equivalent form:
*"mtMsS.
Town of
"Whereas, on the day of , A. D. 18—, while the undersigned,
one of the justices of the peace of the town of , in said county, was
engaged in the trial of a cause between C. D., plaintifff, and E. F., de
fendant, in said town, according to the statute in such cases made and
provided, A. B., of the town of , in said county, did interrupt the
said proceedings, and impair the respect due to the authority of the un
dersigned, by (here describe the cause particularly) ; [or whereas, the
undersigned, one of the justices of the peace of the town of , in
said county, did issue a lawful process (or did make a lawful order), in
a certain cause, wherein C. D. was plaintifff and E. F. defendant, requir
ing (here set forth the substance or the process or order), and whereas,
A. 6. was guilty of disobedience to said process (or order), (or was
guilty of resistance to said process or order), by (hero set forth the
means of disobedience or resistance)]; and whereas, the said A. B. was
thereupon required by the undersigned to answer for said contempt,
and show cause why he should not he convicted thereof; and whereas,
the said A. B. did not show any cause against the said charge; be it
thereforee remembered, that the said A. B. is adjudged to be guilty, and
is convicted of the criminal contempt aforesaid, before the undersigned,
and is adjudged by the undersigned to pay a fine of dollars (or to
be imprisoned in the common jail of said county for the term of two
davs, or until he be discharged from imprisonment according to law.)
Dated this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 35S1. The warrant of commitment for any contempt, shall
set forth the particular circumstances of the offense, and may be in the
folio wing or an equivalent form :
county, ,
Town of f 8SThe state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas A. B., of the town of , was duly convicted by the un
dersigned, a justice of the peace of said county, of a criminal contempt.
as appears by the record of such conviction, of which the following is
a copy (here insert a copy of the record of conviction). Therefore yon
are commanded to take the body of the said A. B., and deliver him to
the keeper of the common jail of said county, who is hereby com
manded to receive and keep the said A. B. in safe custody in said prison,
until the aforesaid sum of dollars and all legal expenses be paid
and satisfied (or if judgment be that he be imprisoned for the said
term of days), or until he be discharged therefrom by due course
of law.
Given under my hand, this day of A. D. 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3582. When any witness, attending before a justice of the
peace, in any cause, shall refuse to be sworn in some form prescribed by
Jg^ or j0 answer any pertinent or proper question, such justice may by
order commit such witness to the jail of the county. Such order shall
specify the cause for which the same is issued, and if it be for refusing
to answer any question, such question shall be specified therein; and
such witness shall be closely confined, pursuant to such order, until he
submit to be swom or to answer, as the cs.se may be.
Section 35S3. The justice shall thereupon, adjourn such cause, at
the request of the party, for such time as shall be reasonable, or until
such witness shall testify in the case.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Section 3584. Every justice of the peace and his sureties shall be
liable on his official bond, to each and every person for whom such jnstiee
shall collect money and refuse to pay the same; and it shall be compe
tent for any person to whom such justice and his sureties may have liecome
liable, as aforesaid, to sue him and his sureties therefore; and on
proof that such justice has neglected or refused to pay any sum of money,
by him collected as aforesaid, judgment shall be given against the par
ties, defendants in such action, for the money so collected, together
with interest and costs according to the condition of such bond.
Section 3585. Every justice shall preserve, file and keep togetherall
affidavits and papers delivered to him to be filed in any cause, separate
from all other papers,
Section 3586. If any justice of the peace shall be about to be absent
fr°m ^e connty f°r three days or more, or be unable from sickness to
attend to business, when there shall be pending before him any matter
or action undetermined, he may deliver his docket and all the papers re
lating to such matter or action, with a minute of his proceedings therein.
to some other justice of the same town, who may thereupon proceed to
hear, try and determine such matter or action, in the same manner as if
such matter or action had been commenced before him, and with like
effect; but the parties to such matter or action, their agents or attor
neys, shall be notified of such transfer previous to any hearing or trial
of such matter or action, and the justice having such docket may, whilst
the same shall remain in his possession, upon request of any party enti
tled thereto, issue execution upon, or give a certified transcript of, any
unsatisfied judgment appearing therein, with like effect as if issued by
the justice so delivering such docket to him.
Section 35S7. When the term of office of a justice shall expire, he
shall forthwith deliver over to the nearest justice all the books and papers relating to his office as a justice of the peace.
Section 35S8. "Whenever any justice shall be removed from office,
or shall remove out of the town in which he was elected, or his office
shall in any way become vacant, except by death, if his successor be not
elected and qualified, such justice, or the person in whose possession the
same may be, shall, within ten days after such vacancy shall happen, de
liver to the town clerk all the books and papers in his custody, relating
to Iris office as a justice of the peace.
Section 35S9. In case any justice shall die, and any books or papers
belonging to such justice in his official capacity, shall come to the hands
of any person, the town clerk may demand and receive such books and
papers from the person having the same in his possession; and it shall
be the duty of every such person, within ten days after any such books
and papers shall come into his possession, whether demanded or not, to
deliver the same to the town clerk.
Section 3590. Whenever any town clerk shall receive the books or"
any papers of any justice of the peace, he shall, within ten days after
leceiving the same, deliver them over to some other justice of the same
town, and post up a notice in three of the most public places, specifying
the name of the justice whose books and papers have been so delivered,
and to what justice and when the same were delivered.
Section 3391. Whenever the office of any justice shall become va-J
cant, for any cause, and there shall be pending before him any matter
or action undetermined, and the books and papers of such justice shall
have been delivered over to any other justice, pursuant to law, such last
named justice shall proceed to hear, try and determine such matter or
action, and to issue execution thereon, and may also issue execution upon
any judgment appearing upon 6aid books, and in either case may issue
certified transcripts thereof in the same manner and with like effect as
if such action or matter had been originally commenced before him, or
judgment rendered by him.
Section 3592. All actions and proceedings before any justice of the
peace, and undetermined when his office shall become vacant, shall be
continued as of course, until the expiration of ten days from the timeU
when the books and papers of such justice are delivered over to another
justice of the town, as provided by law; of which time the justice to
whom such books and papers shall be delivered, shall cause at least three
days' notice to be given to the parties to such action or proceeding, or
such of them as shall be within the county.
CHAPTER CLV.
OF THE COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS, OF PLEADINGS, AND PROCEED
INGS THEREIN BEFORE TRIAL.
Section 3593. Actions may be instituted before a justice of theA
peace, either by the voluntary appearance of the parties, or by the process of summons or warrant.
Section 3594. All process issued by a justice of the peace, shall
run in the name of " the state of Wisconsin," be dated on the day it is
issued, and shall be signed by the justice issuing the same, may be under
seal or without seal, afid be directed to the sheriff or any constable of
the proper county.
Section 3595. In all cases not otherwise specially provided for, the
fjrst process in actions shall be by a summons, commanding the officer
to summon the defendant to appear before such justice at the time and
place expressed in such summons, not less than six nor more than fifteen
days from the date thereof, to answer unto the plaintifff.
Section 3596. A summons may be issued in favor of the same
plaintifff against any number of defendants, and on the return thereof,
l . &. J . _ _ m »_
the plaintifff may proceed against each defendant severally, and the costs
of such summons shall be apportioned among the several defendants,
Section 3597. A justice of the peace shall issue a summons returna^]e
jn t]iree day's, in every case where he is satisfied from the facts and
circumstances, stated in an affidavit of the plaintifff or other competen:
witness, that the jjlaintiff has a subsisting and unsatisfied cause of action
upon a contract, express or implied, against the defendant, and that the
defendant is a nonresident of the county, or is about to remove from
the county with intent not to return thereto to reside, or that the defend
ant is about fraudulently to remove, convey or dispose of his property
so that the plaintifff will be in danger of losing nis debt or demand
unless such summons be granted.
Section 3598. When any action in a justice's court shall be coromenced by or against any town, or town officer in his official capacity,
the same shall be commenced before a justice of the peace elected in
some other town in the county.
Section 3599. When the name of any defendant is not known to
the plaintifff, an action may be commenced by summons or warrant by a
fictitious name, and it shall not be abated for that cause; but the justice
may amend the proceedings according to the truth of the matter and
shall thereafter proceed therein in the like manner as if the defendant
had been sued by his right name.
Section 3600. A summons, except when issued against a corporation, shall be served by reading the same to the defendant, and delivering
a copy thereof to him when demanded, if the defendant be found.
and if not found, by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of abode.
in the presence of some one of the family of suitable age and discre
tion, who shall be informed of its contents, at least six days before the
time of the appearance therein mentioned; a summons returnable in
three days must be served personally, and not less than two days before
the time of the appearance therein mentioned.
Section 3601. Actions in justice's court against municipal or
other corporations shall be commenced by summons, except where
,, , r • , , 1 , 1 • 1 , n 1 111 . r
otherwise provided by law, which shall be served by leaving a copy
thereof with any officer or officers, agent or person, upon whom tee
summons in an action commenced in the circuit court against such
corporation, is required by law to be served, at least six days before
the return day thereof, except that in an action against a railroad or
express corporation, in addition to the officers above referred to, '
may be served upon any agent of the corporation who has charge oi
an express office, or a depot or station on the line of the railroad,
owned or occupied by the defendant; and upon perfecting sucli ser
vice, and a legal return thereof being made, it shall be held to have
the same effect as a personal service upon a natural person, auJ like
proceedings may be had in such action as in cases against sucL
persons.
Section 3602. The plaintifff shall be entitled to a warrant to arrest
the body of the defendant, upon tiling1 with the justice an affidavit
made by him, or some one in his behalf, showing to the satisfaction of
the justice, either:
1. That the plaintifff has a demand against the defendant for money
collected by him as a public officer;
2. That the plaintifff has a demand against the defendant for dam
ages arising from the misconduct or neglect of the defendant, in any
professional employment or public office;
3. That the defendant has committed a trespass, or other wrong, speci
fying the nature thereof, to the damage of the plaintifff;
4. That the defendant has incurred a penalty, or forfeiture, by the violation
of some law, specifying the same, for which the plaintifff filing
such affidavit has a right to prosecute in the name of the state, or oth
erwise. Such affidavit shall state the facts and circumstances within
the knowledge of the person making the same, constituting the grounds
of the application, so that the justice may the better judge of the neces
sity and propriety of issuing such warrant.
Section 3603. A warrant to arrest the body shall command the
sheriff or constable to take the body of the defendant, and bring him
forthwith before such justice to answer the plaintifff, and shall further
require the officer to notify the plaintifff of such arrest.
Section 3604. A warrant shall be served by arresting the defendant
and taking him before the justice who issued the same; but if such
justice be, on the return thereof, absent or unable to try the cause, the
officer shall forthwith take the defendant to the nearest justice of the
same town, who shall take cognizance of the cause, and proceed therein
as if the warrant had been issued by himself.
Section 3605. When a defendant is brought before a justice on such
warrant, he shall be detained in the custody of the officer for the space
of twelve hours, and no longer, unless within that time he has been re
leased by the direction of the justice, or the trial of the cause has been
commenced, or has been delayed at the instance of the defendant
Section 3606. Every constable or sheriff serving any process authorized by this title, shall return thereon in writing the time and manner
of service, and sign his name and office to such return.
Section 3607. If any officer, without showing good cause therefore,
fail to execute any process delivered to him, and make due return
thereof, or make false return, such officer, for every such offense, shall
Eay to the party injured ten dollars and all damages such party may
ave sustained by reason thereof.
Section 3608. Every justice issuing any process, upon being satis- P
fied by the affidavit of the plaintifff or other credible evidence, that
such process will not be executed for the want of an officsr to be had
in time to execute the same, may empower any suitable person, not
being a party to the action, to execute the same, by an indorsement on
the process to the following effect:
At the request and risk of the plaintifff, I authorize to
execute and return this writ. J. P., Justice of the Peace.
And the person so empowered shall thereupon possess all the au
thority of a constable in relation to the execution of such process, and
shall be subject to the same obligations, and shall receive the same fees
for his services.
FORMS.
Section 3609. A BummonB may be in the following form:
County, )
Town of I
au«u uj. ^^^ )
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
You are hereby commanded to summon A. B., if he shall be found
within your county, to appear before the undersigned, one of the jus
tices of the peace in and tor said county, at my office in said town, on
the day of A. D., 18—, at o'clock in the noon, to
answer to C. D., plaintifff, to his damage, two hundred dollars or under.
Hereof fail not at your peril.
Given under my hand at , this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3610. When several defendants are intended to be sued
individually, the following form may be used:
County. )
Town of \ S9The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Yon are hereby commauded to summon A. B., C. D., E. P., etc, sev
erally and individually, each for himself, to appear before the under
signed, one of the justices of the peace, in and for said county, at my
office in said town, on the day of , A. D. 18 —, at o'clock
in the noon, then and there, severally and individually, each for
himself, to answer unto O. P., plaintifff, to his damage two hundred dol
lars or under. Hereof fail not at your peril.
Given under my hand, at , this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3611. A warrant may be in the following form:
County 1
Town of j ssThe
state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said cuuntj:
You are hereby commanded to take the body of A. B., if to be found
within your county, and him bring forthwith before the undersigned,
one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, at my office in
6aid town, to answer unto C. D., plaintifff, to his damage two hundred
dollars or under; and you are commanded to give due notice thereof to
the plaintifff. Hereof fail not at your peril.
Given under my hand, at , this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
THE APPEARANCE OF rARTIES.
Section 3612. Any plaintifff or defendant, except persons under
twenty one years of age, may appear by an attorney, agent, or in per
son, and conduct or defend any action. A party authorized to appear
by attorney or agent, may appoint any person such agent, and his au
thority may be written or verbal, and shall, in all cases, when re
quired by the justice, be proved by the agent himself, or by other com
petent testimony, unless admitted by the opposite party.
Section 3613. No action shall be instituted by an infant plaintifff
next friend for such infant shall have been appointed, but
every action so commenced shall be dismissed. Whenever reqnested,
the justice shall appoint some suitable person who shall consent there
unto in writing, to be named by such plaintifff, to act as his next friend
in such action, who shall be responsible for the costs therein,
Section 3614. After the service and return of civil process against
any infant defendant, the action shall not he further prosecuted until
a guardian for such defendant shall have been appointed. Upon the
request of a defendant, the justice shall appoint some person who will
consent thereto in writing, to be guardian of the defendant, in defense
of the action ; and if the defendant 6hall not appear on the return day
of the process, or if he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian, the
justice may, at the request of the plaintifff, appoint any discreet person
as such guardian; and the consent of such guardian shall be filed with
the justice, but he shall not be liable for any costs in the action.
Section 3615. The following forms may boused under the two last
sections:
County, ss.
o J
I hereby consent to be the next friend of A. B., an infant, in an ac
tion against C. D., and hereby, for value received, promise and agree
with the said C. D., to pay him such costs as he shall recover against
the said A. B., by judgment in said action.
Dated, etc. JOHN STYLES.
The said John Styles is accordingly appointed.
Dated, etc J. P., justice of the peace.
Justice's Court
Q T) \
ads. > Before J. P., Esq., justice of the peace.
A. B. )
County, ss.
I consent to* be guardian of C. D., an infant, the defendant in the
above entitled cause. JOHN STYLES.
Dated, etc.
The said John Styles is accordingly appointed.
Dated, etc J. P., justice of the peace.
THE BEMOVAL OF CASES.
Section 3616. In all cases, if the defendant shall, on the return day
of the process, and before any proceedings are had on his part, make
oath that from prejudice, or other cause, he believes such justice will
not decide impartially in the matter, and shall pay to the justice seventy five cents for making a copy of his docket, and transmitting the3
papers in the case, then such justice shall immediately transmit all
the papers in the case to the nearest justice of the peace in the same
county, qualified by law to try a cause between the parties in such action,
who shall proceed to hear, try, and determine the same, in the same
manner as it would have been lawful for the instice before whom the
said action was commenced to have done. This provision shall not
extend to any second removal.
Section 3617. J[f, previous to joining issue in any action, either
party, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit that the justice before
whom the same is pending is a material witness for such party, without
whose testimony he cannot safely proceed to trial, or if it shall appear
that the justice is near of kin to either party, then, and in such case, the
said justice shall transmit said action, and all papers appertaining to the
same, to some other justice of the same county, who may thereupon
proceed to hear, try and determine the same, in the same manner as it
would have been lawful for the justice before whom the said action was
commenced to have done.
Section 3618. When a suit in which any person shall have been
Bnmmoned as garnishee shall be removed, under the provisions of either
of the preceding sections, the garnishee suit, and all proceedings therein,
shall be removed to the same justice to whom the original suit is
removed. And whenever a suit commenced by garnishee summons
shall, for any cause, be removed to another justice, the suit in which
such garnishee summons was issued shall also be removed to the same
justice. In all such cases the justice shall transmit the papers in both
suits, as provided in the preceding sections, and the justice to whom
the same may be removed shall proceed to hear, try and determine
the same, in all respects as though the same had been commenced
before him.
Section 3619. In every action where the title to lands shall in any.
wise come in question, the defendant, at the time when he is required
to join issue, and not after, may in his answer state facts showing that
the title to lands will come in question, which answer must be in writ*no'
S1'nned by the defendant, or his attorney, and delivered to the jostice, who shall file the same among the papers in the case.
M Win. 483; 16 id. 516; 17 id. 446; 31 id. 885; 23 id. 414; 84 Id. 67, 394, 466; S3 id. 52,59;*liliL
303; 41 id. 134.
Section 3620. At the time of tendering such answer, the defendwith
at least one sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice,
shall enter into a bond to the plaintifff, in the penal sum of two himdred
dollars, conditioned, if such plaintifff shall prosecute bis said action
m *ne circuit court, and if judgment be rendered against the defendant
on nis answer setting up title in any such court, he will pay the amount
of such judgment with the costs. If such bond be not delivered, the
justice shall proceed with the case, and the defendant shall be pre
cluded in his defense from all evidence drawing in question the title to
lands.
Section 3621. Upon filing the answer and bond, the justice shall
immediately make an entry thereof in his docket, and cease all further
proceedings in the case; he shall collect from the plaintifff one dollar
for state tax on suit, and certify and return to the circuit court of the
county a transcript of all the entries made in his docket relating to the
action, together with all process and other papers therein, and jwv to
the clerk of s?aid court said state tax, in the same manner and within tie
same time as upon an appeal.
Section 3022. Upon filing the proceedings and papers in the office
of the clerk of the court, the circuit court' shall become possessed of the
cause, and proceed therein to final judgment and execution, the same as
if said action had been originally commenced therein, and the costs shall
abide the event of the action.
ISSUES.
Section 3623. At the hour named for the return thereof, in any
process issued by a justice of the peace, and at tlif hour to which any
case s])a]] De arIjourned, such justice shall be present and have his
opened for the transaction of business. Upon the return of process
duly served, and upon the day to which any case shall be adjourned.
the justice shall call the case for trial at the hour specified in such proc
ess, or by such adjournment, but he shall wait one hour after the time
so specified for the appearance of both parties, unless they sooner
appear,
Seotion 3624. Whenever civil process shall be issued against anperson who habitually observes and keeps the seventh day of the week
instead of the first, as a day of rest, and such process shall be made
returnable on Saturday, such defendant shall be entitled to have the
cause continued to the Monday following, at the same hour, upon filing
with such justice, at or before the return of the process, an affidavit in
writing, stating that he habitually keeps and observes the seventh day
of the week, instead of the first as a clay of rest; and such defendant
shall be entitled to all his rights on such adjournment day of the same,
as if it were the return day of such process.
Section 3625. The parties shall in all cases join an issue in law or
in fact, before an application for adjournment shall be granted by the
justice, unless they consent to an adjournment without such issue being
made, except as provided in sections three thousand six hundred and
twenty four and three thousand six hundred and twenty nine.
PLEADINGS.
Section S626. The following rules of pleading and proceeding shall
be observed in the courts of justices of the peace:
1. The pleadings in these cases are, (1) the complaint of the plaintifff,
(2) the answer of the defendant.
2. "The pleading may be oral or in writing; if oral, the substance
shall be entered by the justice in his docket; if in writing, they shall
be filed by him, and a reference to tliein made in the docket.
3. The complaint shall state, in a plain and direct manner, the facts
constituting the cause of action.
4. The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or of any part
thereof, and also notice, in a plain and direct manner, of any facts con
stituting a defense. The pendency of an action commenced by the
ordinary summons, shall not be pleaded in abatement of an action com
menced by summons returnable in three days, or by warrant.
5. Pleadings are not required to be in any particular form, but must
be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what
is intended.
6. Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or any
part thereof, where it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to under
stand it, or it contains no cause of action or defense although it betaken
as true.
7. If the court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to amend, the defective
pleading shall be disregarded.
8. In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the plaintifff can
not recover without proving his case, except in cases provided by law.
9. In an action or defense, fonnded upon an account or instrument
for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for a party to de
liver the account or instrument to the court, and to state that there is
due him from the adverse party a specified sum, which he claims to re
cover or set off.
10. A variance between the proof on the trial, and the allegation in
a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the court shall be
satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.
11. The pleadings may be amended at any time before trial, or dur
ing the trial, when by such amendment substantial justice will be pro
moted. Any defendant who shall have failed to appear on the return
day of the process against him, if the action shall have been adjourned
by the plaintifff, may be permitted to answer on such adjourned day, if
he shall then appear and request so to do before trial. If an amend
ment be made after the joining of the issue, or an answer nut in after
adjournment, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court,
by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in con
sequence of such amendment, an adjournment shall be granted. The
court may also, in its discretion, require, as a condition of an amendment,
the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed by the
court; but no amendment shall be allowed after a witness is sworn on
a trial, when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.
12. The court may, at the joining of issue, require either party at
the request of the other, at that or some other specified time, to exhibit
his account or demand, or state the nature thereof so far as may be in
his power, and in case of his default, preclude him from giving evidence
of such parts thereof as shall not have been so exhibited or stated.
Section 3627. At the time of joining issue in an action upon contract
or for the recovery of damages for an involuntary trespass, any
defendant may offer in writing to permit the plaintifff to take judgment
against him for the sum, damages or thing stated in said offer, with
costs; if the plaintifff accept such offer, he shall make such acceptance
in writing, and such offer and acceptance shall be filed with the justice;
and thereupon, if the justice shall be satisfied that the action was
brought in good faith, and without collusion of the parties thereto, for
the ascertainment of which he may examine the parties and witnesses
on oath, he shall enter judgment accordingly. The entry of such judg
ment shall not prejudice the right of the plaintifff to proceed to trial
and judgment against any other defendants in said action.
Section 3628. If the plaintifff do not accept such offer it shall be
deemed withdrawn, and shall not be considered in any manner or for
any purpose by the justice or jury before whom the action is tried ; but
if the plaintifff fail to recover a more favorable judgment than he would
have done by accepting the offer, he shall not recover costs made after
the making such offer, but shall pay costs so made to the defendant.
ADJOURNMENTS.
Section 3629. On the return day of the process, in all cases where
defendant does not appear, the justice shall, upon the application of
the plaintifff, without requiring cause to be shown, adjourn the case for
such time as may be required, not exceeding one week; but if such suf
ficient cause be shown, on oath by plaintifff, his agent or attoniev, the
justice shall grant an adjournment for a longer time than one week, not
exceeding ninety days.
Section 3630. At the time of the return of either a summons or
warrant of attachment, or of joining issue without process, the justice
may in his discretion, without the consent of either party, adjourn the
cause not exceeding three days, and shall, upon application of either
party, without requiring cause to be shown, for such time as mav be
required, not exceeding one week; but if sufficient cause be shown on
oath, by either party, the justice shall grant an adjournment for a longer
time, but not exceeding ninety days. No adjournment of an action
commenced by summons or warrant of attachment returnable in three
days, when the defendant appears, shall be granted by the justice, on
motion of the plaintifff, unless he shall show cause therefore as provided
in the next section.
Section 3031. No adjournment after the first shall be allowed upon
the application of a party, unless such party shall satisfy the justice bv
his owu oath, or the oath of some other person, that he cannot safefv
proceed to trial for want of some material witness or testimony (nam
ing such witness or testimony), that he has used due diligence to obtain
the same, (setting forth what diligence has boen used), and that he be
lieves if an adjournment be allowed, he will be able to procure such
testimony, or witness in time to be used upon the trial.
Section 3632. Every adjournment shall he for such reasonable time,
not exceeding in all ninety days, unless by consent of parties a longer
time bs agreed upon, from the d.iy of the return of the process, as will
enable the party to procure such testimony or witness, and shall bo at
the cost of the party applying therefore, unless otherwise ordered by the
justice, and shall be paid by the party applying therefore; and the justice
shall tax the fees of all witnesses who are in attendance for the adverse
party, except as provided in subdivision two of section three thousand
seven hundred and seventy five.
Suction 3633. If a cause commenced by warrant to arrest the body,
be adjourned by the consent of both parties, or on the application of
the plaintifff, the defendant shall be discharged from custody; but if
such cause be adjourned upon the application of the defendant, he shall
continue during the time of such adjournment, in the custody of the
officer, unless he shall enter into recognizance before the justice, with
such security as the justice shall approve, in a penalty sufficient to se
cure the plaintifff's demand and costs, conditioned that if judgment be
given against him in the action, and execution be issuea against his
person, he will render himself up on such execution, before the return
day thereof, or in default thereof, that he or his security will pay the
judgment so recovered.
Section 3034. If any such recognizance shall have been given upon
any prior adjournment, it shall not be necessary to enter into anyn
recognizance upon a subsequent adjournment, unless such recognizance
be required by the justice, or by the bail of the defendant in such prior
recognizance.
Section 3G35. In any action brought upon such recognizance, the
plaintifff shall not be entitled to recover, unless he show an execution
upon the judgment obtained in the action in which such adjournment
was had, duly issued within six days after the time when the same
could have issued against the person of the defendant, and a return
thereon that such defendant could not be found.
CHAPTER CLVI.
OF TRIALS AND JUDGMENTS.
Section 3636. If it appears on trial, from the plaintifff 's own showing, that the title to lands is in question, which title shall be disputed
by the defendant, the justice shall dismiss the cause, and the plaintifff
shall pay the costs.
Section 3637. To each witness examined on a trial, the justice shall
administer an oath before any evidence shall be given by him, which
oath may be in the following form:
You (Jo solemnly swear that the evidence yon shall give relating to
this matter in difference between , plaintifff, and ,
defendant, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth, so help you God.
If any witness declare to the justice that he has conscientious serapies against trJring an oath after the above form, then the justice may
administer the following affirmation:
Ton do solemnly, sincerely and traly declare and affirm, that tlie
evidence you shall give relating to this matter in difference between
, plaintifff, and , defendant, shall be the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth; and this you do under the paim
and penalties of perjury.
Section 3038. The justice shall take full minutes of all evidence
given before him on the trial of a cause, and file the same among the
papers in the case. He may, when he shall deem it necessary', coramand any constable to attend at the trial of a cause, and shall make an
entry thereof in his docket.
Section 3039. After issue joined in any civil action in a justice's
colir^ an(j before the commencement of the trial thereof, either party,
on first paying to the justice the jury fees, in advance, for one day's
attendance, may demand that the action be tried by a jury of six men;
and a neglect to make such demand shall be a waiver of the right to
trial by jury. The money so advanced shall be paid to the jurors when
they shall have rendered tlreir verdict.
Section 3040. Upon such demand of a jury, the justice shall direct
j.ne 8neriff, or any constable of the county who may be present, to
write down the names of eighteen persons of the county, qualified t)
serve as jurors in courts of record, who shall be in no wise of kin to
the plaintifff or defendant, nor interested in the action,
Section 3041. If no officer be present, the justice may appoint a
suitable person to write down the names of such persons, to whom he
ehall administer an oath or affirmation, which shall be as follows:
You do solemnly swear (or affirm), that yon will perform the duties
required of yon according to the best of your abilities, without par
tiality to either party.
Section 3042. From such list of names each party, commencing
wjtn j.jie partv demanding such jury, may strike out alternately six
names; and in case of the absence of either party, or his refusal to
6trike out, the justice shall appoint some other person to strike out six
names.
Section 3643. The justice shall issue a venire, requiring the officer
to summon the six persons whose names remain upon the said list cf
names, to appear at the time and place mentioned therein, to make a
jury for the trial of the action between the parties in the venire men
tioned.
Section 3044. The parties may agree upon six, or any less number
0f jurors fa fry t],e C!m<;e^ and in such case, the justice shall direct in
the venire the summoning of the persons agreed upon who, when sum
moned and appearing shall compose the jury; and the justice shall
make a minute of such agreement in his docket.
Section 3045. If any of said jurors shall not attend at the time so
summoned to appear, or in case there should be legal objections raised
to any of those who shall appear, the justice may order the officer to
summon a sufficient number of talesmen to supply the deficiency.
Section364G. The following form of a venire may be used:
'-mtyL ).
Town of
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
You are hereby commanded to summon to be and appear
before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said
county, on the day of , at o'clock in the noon of
said day, at my office in said town, to make a jury for the trial of an
action between , plaintifff, and , defendant.
And have you, then and there, this writ.
Given under my hand, this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3047. The officer shall summon the jurors personally, by
reading the venire to them, and shall certify and return his doings
thereon to the justice.
Section 3048. Every person who, being duly summoned as a juror,
shall fail to appear, or who shall refuse to serve, shall be deemed
guilty of a contempt, and it shall be the duty of the justice to fine
each of such persons in a sum not less than five nor more than ten dol
lars, and to commit him to the common jail of the proper county until
such fine be paid; and whenever any person, duly summoned to appear
before him to serve as a juror, shall refuse to appear, the justice snail
issue an attachment for such person, directed to the sheriff or any con
stable of his county, requiring such officer to attach the body of the
person so .summoned, and to bring him before such justice to serve as
a juror. The fees for issuing and executing said attachment shall be
the same as are now allowed by law in cases of civil warrant, and they shall,
in all cases, be paid by the person attached ; but if any person sum
moned as a juror shall appear before the justice, and show good cause
therefore, the justice may excuse him from such service.
Section 3049. Either party may challenge any juror summoned as
aforesaid for cause, and may have him sworn to answer questions con
cerning such challenge, and may prove such cause by other evidence;
and such challenge shall be decided by the justice.
Section 3050. To each juror, selected as aforesaid, the justice shall
administer the following oath:
You, and each of you do solemnly swear (or affirm), that you will
well and truly try the issue joined between , plaintifff, and
, defendant, and a true verdict give, according to law and the
evidence given in court, so help you God.
Section 3051. After the jury shall have been sworn, they shall sit
together, and hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, which shall
be delivered in public in their presence and hearing.
Section 3052. After hearing the proofs and allegations of the parties, the jury shall be kept in some convenient place under the charge
of the proper officer, until they all agree upon a verdict, or shall be
discharged by the justice; and for that purpose the justice shell administer
to such officer the following oath:
You do swear, in the presence or Almighty God, that you will, to
the utmost of your ability, keep all the persons sworn on this inquest
together in some private and convenient place, without drink except
water; you will not suffer any person to speak to them, nor speak to
them yourself, unless by my order, except it be to ask them whether
they have agreed on their verdict, until they have agreed on their verllct, or are discharged by the court; and you will not, before they renJer
their verdict, communicate to any person the state of their deliberitions, or the verdict they have agreed upon.
Section 3053. "When the jurors have agreed upon their verlict, they shall deliver the same to the justice publicly, who shall
mter the same in his docket, and enter judgment according to said
rerdict.
Section 3054. Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that a jury
sworn in any civil cause before him, after having been out a reasonable
time, cannot agree on their verdict, he may discharge them, and issue
1 new venire, unless the parties consent that the justice may render
judgment on the evidence already before him, or that a new trial be
had before the justice.
Section 3655. When the trial is before the justice without a jurv
he shall hear the proofs and allegations of the parties, and after fhetss*
has been submitted for his decision, he shall not permit any imtlier
evidence to be given or suffer any communication from either party, or
from any other person in relation to such action, except in the presence
of the parties, or on due notice thereof served upon the absent party,
until he has rendered judgment.
Section 3G56. The rules and laws of evidence shall bfe the same in
. , ,.,-..*.
actions and proceedings before j ustices of the peace as in co urts of record
in this state.
JUDGMENTS.
Section 3657. A judgment by confession may be entered before s
justice of the peace, in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars
without action, either for money due or to become due, or to secure any
person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both,
if a statement in writing be made, signed by the defendant, verified by
his oath, and filed with the justice, to the following effect:
1. It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered,
and authorize the entry of judgment therefore by the justice;
2. If it be for money due or to become due, it must state concisely
the facts out of which it arose, and must show that the sum confessed
therefore is justly due or to become due;
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintifff against a contin
gent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting the liability,
and must show that the sum confessed therefore does not exceed the
same.
Section 3658. If the defendant shall fail to appear within one bom
after the time specified for the return of process duly served, or after
the hour of adjournment, the justice shall proceed to hear the proofs of
the plaintifff, and render judgment thereon according to law ana equity,
as the very right of the case may appear,
Section 3659. Judgment of nonsuit, shall be rendered against a
fuaintiff prosecuting an action before a justice of the peace, in the fl
owing cases:
1. If he discontinue or withdraw his action;
2. If he fail to appear on the return of any process, within one hour
after the same is returnable;
3. If, after an adjournment, he fail to appear within one hour after
the time to which the adjournment shall have been made;
4. If he become nonsuited on the trial.
Section 3660. Judgment for the defendant shall be rendered whenever
a trial has been had and it be found by verdict, or by the decision
0f the justice, that the plaintifff has no cause of action against the de
fendant,
Section 3661. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered by a justice
against any partyj unless herein otherwise provided, it shall be with
^(.g of tlie action>
Section 3662. In all cases where judgment shall have been confessed,
or the plaintifff shall be nonsuited, or withdraw his action, or
w]iere a verdict shall be rendered in favor of either party, or the defendant
shall be in custody at the time of the trial of the cause, the justice
shall forthwith render judgment and enter the same in his docket In
a^ other cases, when the cause shall have been submitted to the justice
for his decision, he may take time to consider his judgment, and in
such case he shall continue the cause to a time to be by him named,
not more titan seventy two hours from the time the same is so submitted,
at which time he shall enter his judgment.
Section 3663. In actions against two or more persons, jointly indebted
upon any joint contract or liability, if the process be issued
against all the persons so indebted, and shall have been duly served
upon one or more of them, the defendants so served shall answer to the
plaintifff, and the judgment, if rendered in favor of the plaintifff, shall
be against all the defendants, in the same manner as if all had been
served with process. Such judgment shall be conclusive evidence of
the liability of the defendants so served with process or who appeared
therein; but against any other defendant it shall be presumptive evi
dence only of the extent of the plaintifffs demand after the liability of
such defendant shall have been established by other evidence.
Section 3664. If any sum be found in favor of a party, either by
the verdict of a jury or upon hearing of the cause before a justice, exceeding
the sum for which a justice is authorized to give judgment,
such party may remit or release the excess and take judgment for the
residue.
Section 3665. When the justice or jury shall find in favor of the
defendant, on a claim of setoff, and such setoff shall be indivisible, the
justice may, at the request of the defendant, enter a judgment for such
sum as he has jurisdiction of; and if such setoff be in writing, he shall
indorse the amount of the claim of the plaintifff, and the judgment al
lowed by him on such writing. The finding and allowance of a setoff
shall not be a bar to any action brought for the balance of such setoff;
but the same may be recovered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.
Section 36(56. A new trial may be granted at any time within one
year from the rendition of any judgment by a justice of the peace upon
a publication of notice, in the cases authorized by law, where no service
has been had and the defendant did not appear at the trial.
Section 3667. Such new trial shall be granted upon a petition subBcribed
and sworn to by the defendant in such action, his agent or at
torney, addressed to the justice before whom the same was rendered,
or the justice to whom, or the court into which the judgment has been
removed, and setting forth a valid defense, in whole or in part, to the
cause of action upon which such judgment was founded; and if the
court to which such petition is addressed is satisfied that it sets forth a
valid defense, in whole or in part, to the plaintifff's cause of action, it
shall make an order setting forth the time and place, and the court be
fore which a new trial will take place. A copy of such petition and
order shall be served on the plaintifff at least ten days previous to the
time fixed for the new trial. At the time so fixed, the defendant shall
answer to the complaint the same matters of defense set forth in his pe
tition, and thereafter the same proceedings shall be had as in other
trials.
Section 3668. No action on a judgment rendered by a justice of
the peace shall be brought in the same county within five years after its
rendition, except, in cise of his death, resignation, incapacity to act, or£
removal from the county, or that the process was not personally served
on the defendant, or on all the defendants, or in case of the death of
6ome of the parties, or when the docket or record of such judgment is or
shall have been lost or destroyed.
Section 3669. Every justice, on demand of any person in whose
favor he shall have rendered judgment for more than ten dollars, exelusive of costs, shall give to such person a certified transcript of snch
judgment. Such transcript may ho in the following form:
Justice's Court
A. B, )
vs. > County, ss.
C. D. J
—■—(date), 18—.
Judgment for the plaintifff for the sum of - - $ —
Costs, —
Costs of copy, - - 0.25
Name of attorney for judgment creditor, if any.
I certify the above to be a true copy of a judgment rendered before
me in the above entitled cause, as appears from my docket.
Dated at , this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
When the execution upon any judgment has been stayed as provided
by law, the justice in giving a transcript of such judgment shall state
in the transcript that execution was stayed, and give the name of the
person who entered into the recognizance for that purpose.
Section 3G70. Every justice shall keep an alphabetical index of all
ju(]g,nents entered in his docket in the course of any judicial proceed
ings had before him, in which shall be inserted the names of the parties
to each judgment, and the page of bis docket where such judgment is
entered.
WHEN JUDGMENTS MAT BE SET OFF.
Section 3671. If there be mutual justice's judgments equitably be
longing to the same parties, upon which the time of appealiughas elapsed
on wuich there is no existing execution, one judgment, on the appli
cation of either party and reasonable notice given to the adverse party,
may be set off against the other by the justice before whom the judg
ment, against which the setoff is proposed may be.
Section 3672. If the judgment proposed as a setoff was rendered
before another justice, the party proposing such setoff must produce
before the justice a transcript of such judgment; upon which there is a
certificate of the justice rendering the judgment, that it is unsatisfied
in whole or in part, and that there is no appeal or existing execution
thereon, and that such trauscript was obtained for the purpose of being
setoff against the judgment to which it is offered as a setoff. The jus
tice granting such transcript shall make an entry thereof in his docket,
and all further proceedings on such judgment shall be stayed, unless
such transcript shall be returned with the proper justice's certificate,
that it has not been allowed in setoff.
Section 3673. If any justice shall set off one judgment against another,
he shall make an entry thereof in his docket, and execution shall
issue only for the balance which may be found due after such setofl.
If a justice shall allow a transcript of a judgment rendered by another
justice to be set off, he shall file such transcript among the papers relat
ing to the judgment in which it is allowed in setoff. If he shall refuse
such transcript as a setoff, he shall so certify on the transcript, and re
turn the same to the party who offered it
CHAPTER CLVII.
OF EXECUTIONS AND STAY THEREOF.
Section 3674. The execution upon a judgment by a justice of the
peace may be stayed in the manner hereinafter provided, and for the
following periods of time, to be calculated from the date of the judgment,
but a longer period may be agreed upon:
1. If the judgment be for a sum not exceeding ten dollars, exclusive
of costs, one month ;
2. If it be for any sum above ten dollars, and not exceeding thirty
dollars, two months;
3. If it be for any sum above thirty dollars, and not exceeding fifty
dollars, three months;
4. If it be for any sum above fifty dollars, four months: provided,
that execution shall not be stayed upon a judgment rendered against a
corporation, or for manual labor performed by the party in whose favor
the same is rendered; nor upon any judgment rendered under the pro
visions of sections three thousand six hundred and ninety eight, and
three thousand six hundred and ninety nine, except at the option of the
plaintifff, but execution may issue forthwith.
Section 3675. To entitle such person to such stay of execution,
some responsible person, to be approved by the justice, and not being
a party to the judgment, must, within five days after the rendition of
the judgment, enter into a recognizance before the justice to the adverse
party, in a sum sufficient to secure the payment of the judgment and
costs, conditioned to be void upon such payment.
Sp:ction 3676. Such recognizance must be signed by the person
entering into the same and may be in the following form:
I, , acknowledge myself indebted to , in the sum of
dollars, to be void upon this condition: Whereas, ob
tained judgmont before , a justice of the peace, of the town
of , in the county of , on the day of , IS—, against
; now if such judgment, costs and interest shall be paid at
the expiration of months from the time it was rendered, this re
cognizance shall be void. A. B.
Section 3G77. If a judgment be stayed in the manner above prescribed
after an execution has been issued thereon, the justice shall revoke such execution in the same maimer and with like effect as he is
hereinafter directed to revoke an execution after an appeal has been
allowed, and, if the defendant has been committed, shall order him to
be discharged from custody.
Section 3678. If, at the expiration of such stay, the judgment be
not paid the execution shall issue agidnst both the principal and bail;
if the principal do not satisfy the execution, and the officer cannot find
sufficient property, belonging to him upon which to levy, he shall levy
upon the property of the bail, and in his return shall state what amount,
oi money collected by him on the execution was collected by him from
the bail, and the time when the same was received.
Section 3679. After the return of such execution, the bail shall be
entitled, on motion, to a judgment before the justice for the amount
collected from him in satisfaction of such execution, with interest
thereon at twelve per cent, per annum; and such return of the officer,
upon motion, shall be evidence of the facts therein stated; no such mo
tion shall be made after three months from the return of the execution.
Section 36S0. Upon every judgment rendered by a justice, except
when stayed as aforesaid, execution shall be issued by such justice or
his successor in office, or any other justice lawfully having custody of
the docket containing such judgment, in the manner hereinafter pre
scribed at any time upon demand, within five years from the rendition
of such judgment.
Section 3G81. An execution may be issued against the person of the
defendant when the action in which judgment is rendered is founded
on tort, or is for a penalty or forfeiture upon a statute, and in no other
case; but no execution shall issue against the person of any female upon
any justice's judgment in any civil action.
Section 36S2. The execution shall command the officer to collect
the damages and costs, together with the interest thereon, of the goods
and chattels of the person against whom the execution shall be granted
(except such as are exempted by law from execution), and to pav the
money within thirty days from its date to the justice who issued the
execution, to render to the party who recovered the same; and if the
execution be issued against a male person, in case where imprisonment
is authorized by law, it shall command the sheriff or constable that if
no goods or chattels can be found, or not sufficient to satisfy such exe
cution, then to take the body of the person agniust whom the execution
shall be issued, and convey him to the common jail of the county, there
to remain until such execution shall be satisfied and paid, or he be other
wise discharged according to law.
Section 3083. Executions may be in the following form:
County, )
Town of | BsEXECUTION AGAINST GOODS.
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas judgment against , for the sum of , lawful
money of the United States, and for costs of suit, was recovered
the day of , A. D. 18 —, before me at the suit of ;
the^e are, thereforee, to command you to seize the goods and chattels of
the said (excepting such as the law exempts), and make sale
thereof according to law in such case made and provided, to the amount
of the said sums, with interest thereon, together with twenty five cents
for this execution, and the same return to me within thirty days, to be
rendered to the said for his judgment and costs. Ilereof fail
not, under the penalty of the law.
Given under my hand, the day of , in the year 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
execution against goods and the body.
County, )
m ^^ » [ SS.
lOWn Ot - l
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas, judgment against , for the sum of , lawful
money of the United States, and for , costs of suit, was recovered
the day of , A. D. 18—, before me, at the suit of ;
these are, thereforee, to command you to seize the goods and chattels ot
the said (excepting such as the law exempts), and make sale
thereof according to law in such case made and provided, to the amount
of the said sums with interest thereon, together with twenty five cents
for this execution, and the same return to me within thirty days, to be
rendered to the said , for his said judgment and costs; and
for want of such goods and chattels, take the body of the said ,
and him convey and deliver unto the keeper of the common jail of said
county, who is hereby commanded to receive and keep the said'
in safe custody in said jail, until the aforesaid sums, with interest thereon
and all legal expenses, be paid and satisfied, or until he be discharged
thence by due course of law. Hereof fail not, under the penalty of the
law.
Given under my hand the day of , in the year 18 —.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
EXECUTION AGAINST THE GOODS OF PRINCIPAL AND SURETY.
County, )
m j! J t SS.
J. OWn Ot )
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
Whereas, judgment against , for the sum of , lawful
money of the United States, and costs of suit, was recovered the
day of , A. D., 18—, before me at the suit of ; and
became security to pay the said judgment, with interest on
the 6ame, in mouths from the day of aforesaid agreeable
to law, as appears of record; in the payment of which the said
■and have failed; these are, thereforee, to command you
to seize the goods and chattels of said and (ex
cepting such as the law exempts), and make sale thereof according to
law in such 'cases made and provided, to the amount of such sums with
interest thereon, together with twenty five cents for this execution, and
the same return to me within thirty days, to be rendered to the said
for his said judgment and costs. Hereof fail not, under the
penalty of the law.
Given under my hand this day of , in the year 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3684. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice
6hall state in his docket, and also on the back of the execution, the
amount of the debt or damages and costs separately; and the officer
receiving such execution shall indorse thereon the time of the receipt
of the same.
Section 3685. If an execution be not satisfied, it may at the request
of the plaintifff be renewed from time to time, either before or after
the return day thereof by the justice issuing the same, by an indorse
ment to that effect, signed by him, and dated when the same shall be
made. If any part of such execution has been satisfied, the indorse
ment of renewal shall express the sum due on the execution. Every
such indorsement shall renew the execution in full force in all respects
for thirty days and no longer; and an entry of such renewal shall be
made in the docket of the justice.
Section 3686. If any execution be returned unsatisfied, in whole or
in part and shall not be renewed, a further execution for the amount
remaining due, may be issued.
Section 3687. When a judgment shall be obtained against joint
debtors upon process which was not served upon all the defendants,
execution may be issued in fonn against all ; but the justice shall in
dorse thereon the names of such of the defendants who did not appear
in the action and were not served. Such execution shall not be served
upon the persons of the defendants whose names are indorsed thereon,
nor shall it be collected from the sole property of any defendant who
neither appeared in the action nor was served with such process; but it
may be collected of the several property of any defendant who appeared
or was served with process, or of the joint or copartnership property of
all the defendants,
Section 3G88. An officer shall not seize or sell any property, or do
any other act by virtue of any execution after the time limited therein
for its return, unless such execution shall have been renewed. Nor
shall any officer do any act under a renewed execution, after the
expiration of the time or times for which the same may have been
renewed,
Section 3689. The officer who shall hold any execution shall receive
all money tendered in payment thereof, and shall indorse the same on
the execution, and give the person paying the same a receipt there
for, in which shall be specified on what account the same was paid, if
demanded.
Section 3690. The officer, after taking goods and chattels into his
custody by virtue of an execution, shall indorse thereon the time of
seizing the same, and a description or list of the property; and such
goods and chattels shall be bound from the time they are seized on ex
ecution.
Section 3691. The officer shall, without delay, give public notice
by at least three advertisements, signed by himself and put up at three
public places in the town where the property is sold, of the time and
place when and where the same shall be exposed to sale; which notice
shall describe the goods and chattels taken, and shall be put up at least
ten days before the day of sale.
Section 3692. At the time and place so appointed, or at such other
j.«me ag t])0 gaje may ^ adjourned to within the life of the execntion,
the goods and chattels being present and pointed out to the inspection
and examination of the bidders, the officer shall expose them to sale at
vendue to the highest bidder,
Section 3693. ~No constable shall, directly or indirectly, purchase
an^ g00(jg or chattels upon any sale made by him upon execution; and
every such purchase shall be absolutely void.
Section 3694. The officer shall return the execution, and pay the
debt or damages and costs collected, to the justice who issued the same,
or in case of his death, absence, or removal from office, then to the justice
having custody of his docket, returning the surplus, if any, to the per
son against whom the execution issued.
Section 3695. For want of goods and chattels to satisfy the execu
tion, the officer shall, if the execution require it, take the body of the
person against whom the execution shall have issued, and convey him
to the common jail of the county; and the keeper thereof is herehj
required to keep such person in safe custody in jail until the debt or
damages and costs shall be paid, or he be thence discharged by dne
course of law.
Section 3096. Every constable to whom any execution shall hare
been delivered, and whose term of office shall expire before the tinn
within which the return or collection of such execution is required by
law, shall proceed thereon in the same manner, and shall have the same
power in relation thereto, as if his term of office had uot expired; aw.
such constable and his sureties shall be liable for any neglect of duty,
and for monies collected upon such execution, in the same manner and
to the same extent as if the term of office of such constable had not
expired.
Section 3697. Every officer having an execution in his hands for
collection, upon an affidavit being served upon him, made by any codefendant in such execution, his agent or attorney, showing the principal
debtor therein, shall first exhaust all the personal estate of said
principal debtor which may be turned out by any one of the defendants,
before selling the property of any other defendant who may be surety
in the demand upon which judgment was rendered.
Section 3698. If an officer neglect to return an execution within
five days after the return day thereof, or shall neglect to serve the same,
the party in whose favor the same was issued, may maintain an action
against such officer, and shall recover therein the amount of the ex
ecution, with interest from the time of the rendition of the judgment
upon which the same was issued.
Section 3699. If monies be collected by a constable upon an exeration and not paid over by him according to law, an action may be
maintained by the party entitled to such money, in his own name, upon
the instrument of security given by such constable and his sureties ac
cording to law, and in such action the amount so collected, with interest
from the time of collection, shall be recovered.
Section 3790. If there be no property found, or if the property
seized be not sufficient to satisfy the execution, and if the plaintifff or
some other person in his behalf, shall make and deliver to the officer
having such execution an affidavit stating that he has good reason to
believe that t any person (naming him) is indebted to the defendant or
has property in his possession belonging to the defendant, not by law
exempt from seizure and sale upon execution, and demand that he sum
mon such person as garnishee, such officer shall summon such person
in writing to appear before the justice on the return day of such exe
cution to answer touching his liability as garnishee. On receipt of
6uch affidavit, such officer shall forthwith serve a garnishee summons
upon such person, which service shaU be made at least six days before
the return day of the execution, and he shall return such affidavit and
summons and his doings thereon, and like proceedings shall be had
before the justice against such garnishee as in other garnishee actions
in a justice's court
CHAPTER CLVIII.
OP ACTIONS BY ATTACHMENT, AND OF GARNISHMENT.
Section 3701. Any person may commence an action by warrant
of attachment in a justice's court, and proceed thereon against the property
of his debtor in the cases, upon the condition and in the manner
provided by this chapter.
Section 3702. Before a warrant of attachment shall be issued, the
plaintifff or some person in his behalf shall make and file with the justice
an affidavit, stating that the defendant therein is indebted to the
plaintifff in a sum exceeding five dollars, and specifying the amount of
6iich indebtedness as near as may be, over and above all les-al setoffs,
ana that the same is due upon contract, express or implied, or upon
judgment or decree of some court, and containing a further statement,
that the deponent knows or has good reason to believe; either,
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation, or if created under
^^ ^ 0£ f^ig state) that all the proper officers thereof on whom to
serve a summons do not exist, are nonresidents of the state, or cannot
be found;
2. That the defendant is not a resident of this state, and has not
resided therein for three months immediately preceding the time of
making such affidavit;
3. That the defendant has absconded, or is about to abscond from
this state;
4. That the defendant has removed, or is abont to remove, any of hb
property out of this state, with intent to defraud his creditors;
5. That the defendant resides in any other county, and more than
one hundred miles from the residence of the justice;
6. That the defendant contracted the debt under fraudulent repre
sentations;
7. That the defendant so conceals himself that the process of sum
mons cannot be served upon him ;
8. That the defendant has fraudulently conveyed or disposed of, or
is about fraudulently to convey or dispose of any of his property or
effects 60 as to hinder or delay his creditors;
9. That the action is brought against the defendant as principal
npon an official bond to recover money due to the state or some county
or other municipality therein ;
Or a like affidavit showing that a cause of action sounding in tort
exists in favor of the plaintifff against the defendant therein ; that tie
damages sustained and claimed exceed the sum of five dollars, specify
ing the amount claimed, and the further statement, either;
1. That the defendant i9 not a resident of this state, or that his resi
dence is unknown and cannot, with due diligence, be ascertained; or
2. That the defendant is a foreign corporation.
Section 3703. In the first five cases mentioned in the precedii!^
section, the warrant of attachment shall be returnable in three days;
but in all other cases it 6hall be returnable as an ordinary sum
mons.
Section 3704. The warrant of attachment may be in the following
, •>
form:
county, I
Town of ,\*BThe
state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said
county:
You are commanded to attach the goods and chattels, monies, effect
and credits, of , or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to
satisfy the sum of , with interest and costs of suit, in whosesoever
hands or possession the same may be found in your county, and so
provide that the goods and chattels so attached may be subject to
further proceedings thereon, as the law requires; and also to summon
the said , if to be found, to be and appear before me, at my office
in said town, on the day of , A. D. 18—, at o'clock in
the noon, to answer to , to his damage two hundred dollars
or under.
Given under my hand, at , this day of , 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3705. The officer shall execute a warrant of attachment by
serving the same upon the defendant, in the same manner that a sninnions,
returnable within the like times respectively, is required to be
served, and by attaching the goods and chattels, monies, effects and
credits of the defendant, not exempt by law, and make dne return of
his doings thereon.
'o~
Section 3706. Like pleading of the parties, and like proceedings,
shall be had in actions commenced by warrant of attachment, as m
actions founded on contracts and commenced by summons.
Section 3707. "When the property of the defendant 6hall be actually seized on attachment, whether such property be found in the possession
of the defendant or some other person, the defendant or any
other person for him, or the person in whose possession the same shall
be found, may obtain possession thereof by giving bond, with one or
more sureties, to the satisfaction of the officer executing the warrant,
in double the value of the property so attached, or in double the
amount claimed to be due in the affidavit for the attachment, condi
tioned that the same shall be forthcoming when and where the justice
shall direct, and shall abide the judgment of the justice.
Section 3708. Attachments may be dissolved on motion made in A
behalf of the defendant at any time before final judgment, if the
defendant shall appear and plead to the action, and give bond to the
plaintifff with good and sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice,
in double the amount of the value of the property, effects and credits
attached, conditioned that if judgment be rendered against him in such
action, he will pay the amount thereof with costs and interest thereon.
Section 3709. "When any attachment shall be dissolved, the property
and effects attached shall be released, and the garnishees shall be
discharged, and the action proceed as if it had been commenced by a
summons only.
Section 3710. "When property shall be seized on attachment, which
is likely to perish or depreciate in value before the probable end of the
action, or the keeping of which would be attended with much loss or
expense, the justice may order the same to be sold by the officer, in the
same manner and on the same notice as goods are required to be sold
on an execution; and the proceeds of such sale shall remain in the
hands of the officer, subject to be disposed of as the property would
have been if seized upon in specie.
Section 3711. When property is seized on attachment, the justice
may allow to the officer having charge thereof, 6uch compensation for^
his trouble and expenses in keeping and maintaining the same, as shall
be reasonable and just.
Section 3712. When the defendant cannot be summoned, and his
property shall be attached, if he do not appear in the action at the return
of the warrant of attachment, the justice shall enter an order on his
docket, requiring the plaintifff to publish in a newspaper, if there be one
printed in the county, and if there be none to post up in three of the
most public places therein, a notice to the defendant that a warrant of
attachment has been issued against him, and his property attached to
satisfy the demand of the plaintifff, and that unless he appear before the
justice at some time and place to be mentioned, stated in the order and
in said notice, not less than twenty nor more than ninety days from the
date thereof, judgment will be rendered against him, and his property
sold to pay the debt; and the justice shall continue the cause to the
time and place mentioned in said order.
Section 3713. The notice may be in the following form:
■. J °
- county^ 1 gs In justice'8 court
To : '
You are hereby notified that a warrant of attachment has been issued
against yon, and your property attached to satisfy the demand of
, amounting to ; now unless you shall appear before J. P, i
justice of the peace in and for said county, at his office in said town, on
the day of , A. D. 18 —, at o'clock in the noon.
judgment wiH he rendered against you, and your property sold to paj
the debt.
Dated this day of , A. D. 18—.
, plaintifff.
Section 3714. Such notice shall be set up or published at least fiftcen jays before the expiration of the time at which the party is required
to appear; and the setting up may be proved either by the return of the
officer upon a copy of the notice, or by the affidavit of any person who
would be a competent witness in the case.
Section 3715. When the defendant shall be notified as aforesaid,
&n(j gjiajj nQt appear an(j answer to the action, that fact shall be entered
by the justice in his docket, and the plaintifff may proceed thereon to final
judgment, as in actions commenced by summons; but no execution
shall be issued on such judgment, either against the defendant or gar
nishee, or money paid to the justice thereon, until the plaintifff or some
person in his behalf, shall execute a bond in double the amount of such
judgment to the defendant, with security to be approved by the jnstice.
conditioned that if the defendant shall, within one year from the rendi
tion of such judgment, appear and disprove the debt or damages ad
judged against him or any part thereof, the plaintifff will refund the
whole or such part thereof as may be. found not justly due on a review
of the case.
GARNISHMENT.
Section 3716. "Whenever any action shall have been commenced
by summons upon contract, express or implied, or by warrant of
attachment in a justice's court, if the plaintifff, or some one in his
behalf, shall make and deliver to the officer having such summons or
attachment an affidavit, stating that the affiant has good reason to
believe that some person (naming him) is indebted to the defendant, or
has personal property in his possession or under his control, belonging
to the defendant; or when there is more than one defendant, to any or
either of them, not by law exempt from sale on execution, and demand
that he shall summon such person as garnishee, such officer shall sum
mon such person in writing to appear before the justice, on the return
day of such summons or attachment, to answer touching his liability as
garnishee.
Section 3717. The summons to the garnishee may be substantiallj
in the following form:
county, )
Town of , j 8SThe
state of Wisconsin to :
Whereas, a summons (or warrant of attachment) has been issued b*
J. P., Esq., a justice of the peace of said county, returnable on the
day of , A. D. 18—, in favor of , plaintifff, and against
, defendant, and whereas the plaintifff (or A. B. in his behalfi
has made oath, that you have property in your possession or under your
control, belonging to the defendant (or are indebted to him):
Now, thereforee, vou are hereby summoned to be and appear before
the said justice at his office in said town on the return day of said sum
mons (or warrant of attachment), at o'clock, in the noon of
said dav, then and there to answer under oath touching your liability
as garnishee.
Given under my hand this day of , 18—.
, constable.
Section 3718. The officer shall serve such summons on the gf"*nishee
personally, and return the same with the affidavit to the justice at
the same time that he shall make return of the service of the summons
or warrant of attachment, and state the day such summons was served
on the garnishee.
Section 3719. The garnishee from the time of the service of such
summons shall stand liable to the plaintifff to the amount of the per
sonal property, money, credits and effects in his hands belonging to the
defendant, and the amount of his own indebtedness to the defendant,
then due, or to become due, and not by law exempt from sale on exe
cution.
Section 3720. The service of the garnishee summons shall be
deemed the commencement of an action against such garnishee; andm
upon the return of the constable that such summons has been duly
served, the justice shall enter an action in his docket in which the
Slaintiff in the original action shall be plaintifff, and the garnishee8
efendant.
Section 3721. On the appearance of the garnishee before the justice,
the affidavit aforesaid shall be deemed a sufficient complaint in the
action; and the justice shall forthwith proceed to examine the said
farnishee touching the matters alleged in the affidavit, and shall reduce
is answer to writing and file the same with the papers in the case.
Section 3722. If the plaintifff shall not be satisfied with the answer
of the garnishee, the justice shall enter the fact in his docket, and the
cause shall be proceeded in and tried upon the issue formed by the affidavit and answer, as in other actions commenced by summons; and if
upon the trial of any such issue, property or effects shall be found in
the hands of the garnishee, or it shall appear that such garnishee was
indebted to the defendant, the justice or jury shall assess the value
thereof, and the garnishee may hold the same subject to the further
order of the justice.
Section 3723. The defendant in the original action may appear
and defend the proceedings against the garnishee upon the ground that
the indebtedness of the garnishee or any property held by him is exempt
from execntion against such defendant, or for any other reason, is not
liable to garnishment, or upon any ground upon which a garnishee
mijrht defend the same, and may participate in the trial of any issue
between the plaintifff and the garnishee for the protection of his inter
ests. And the garnishee may, at his option, defend the principal action
for the defendant, if the latter does not appear therein ; but such de
fense by a garnishee shall not preclude the defendant from any right
lie may have to a new trial in such action under the provisions of sec
tions three thonsand six hundred and sixty six and three thousand six
hundred and sixty seven.
Section 3724. If in the action instituted against the garnishee, the
plaintifff shall be nonsuited or discontinue his action; or if upon ther
answer and trial of the issue between the plaintifff and garnishee, no
property or effects shall be found in the hands of the garnishee, or
nothing shall be found due from the garnishee to the defendant; or if
in the action against the principal defendant, the plaintifff shall be non
suited or discontinue his action; or if on the trial in such action noth
ing shall be found due from the defendant to the plaintifff, then in each
of these cases the garnishee shall recover costs against the plaintifff, and
no such costs shall be paid by the defendant.
Section 3725. If the plaintifff recover against the defendant in the
original action, and the answer of the garnishee when no issue is made
thereon, or the finding of the court or jury on an issue, shows that the
garni si lee at the time of the service of the summons had property in
Jiis possession belonging to the defendant, or that he was indebted h
him, the justice shall enter an order in his docket, requiring the gar
nishee, witliin ten days, to pay or deliver to the justice such property or
the amount of such indebtedness, or so much thereof as may be neces
sary to satisfy such judgment; or if it appeal's from such answer or
finding that the garnishee is to pay or deliver to the defendant any
money or property in any other manner or at any other time than im
mediately, ana at the time of the service of the summons, the same
belonging to the defendant, then the order of the justice shall be that
such payment or delivery be so made to the justice for the benefit of
the plaintifff. If such garnishee shall pay such indebtedness and de
liver such property as directed by such order, the costs of the gar
nishee shall be paid out of the money or property received by the jus
tice, unless the garnishee upon an issue joined with him by the plaint
iff shall have been held liable in a greater amount of property or
indebtedness than was disclosed in his answer, in which case lie shall
not have costs; and all property and effects, except money delivered to
the justice, shall be by him ordered to be sold on the execution against
the defendant,
Section 3726. If the garnishee do not deliver over the property or
Pay tne money so found in his hands and belonging to the defendant,
as provided in the preceding section, then judgment shall be given
against him for the value of such property or money, and costs of suit
in the cause in which he is garnishee, and no such costs shall be paid
by the defendant.
Section 3727. No final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee, until final judgment be rendered against the defendant in the
original action; but no judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee,
or any money or property be required to be delivered by him to the
justice upon any liability arising out of either of the causes mentioned
in section two thousand seven hundred and sixty nine.
Section 3728. When a garnishee shall fail to appear, or appearing,
shall fail to make full answers upon oath to the interroaratories of the
justice, touching his liabilities as garnishee, the justice shall enter snch
fact in his docket and he shall be adjudged to be indebted to the
defendant; and if judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintifff
against the defendant, judgment in favor of the plaintifff shall be entered
against such garnishee for the amount of the judgment against the
defendant and for all costs in the garnishee proceeding, and no snci
costs shall be paid by the defendant; or on demand of the plaintifff h
may issue a warrant to arrest the garnishee, which shall be served it
the same manner as warrants issued by justices of the peace in civil
actions founded on tort, and the garnishee shall be held thereon until
he shall make full and direct answers to such interrogatories; and the
justice may continue the cause to some other day, if necessary, for further
proceedings.
Section 3729. If the garnishee shall have failed to appear at the
proper time, he may afterward appear and answer at any time before
jj,^ ju<jgment against him, if he shall first pay all costs in the gar
nishee suit which have accrued up to that time; and when he shall so
appear, the justice shall cause the plaintifff to be notified thereof, so that
he may be present at the examination.
Section 3T30. In all actions brought by the defendant against the J
garnishee for the recovery of any property, credits, money or effects, 5
delivered up or paid by order of any judgment rendered under this
chapter, except costs rendered against the garnishee, such judgment
may bo pleaded iu bar, and the same shall be conclusive between such
parties.
CHAPTER CLIX.
OF REPLEVIN.
Section 3731. Actions of replevin, for the recovery of the possession
of goods and chattels in justices' courts, shall be commenced by
warrant, which shall be made returnable on the third day after it shall
issue Sundays and legal holidays excepted, and shall be substantially
. 1 * -11 • 0
in the following rorm:
- county, \
Town of
#
The state of Wisconsin, to the sheriff or any constable of said county:
"Whereas complains that has taken and does
unjustly detain (or does unjustly detain, as the case -may be) (here
particularly describe the goods mentioned in the affidavit of the com
plainant); thereforee, you are hereby commanded to seize the said goods
and chattels without delay, and to hold the same subject to the further
order of the court ; and also, that you summon the said
to be and appear before me, one of the justices of the peace in and
for said county, at my office in said town, on the day of , A.
D is—} at o'clock in the noon, to answer the complaint of
the said .
Given under my hand this day of , A. D. 18—.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 3732! Such action shall not be maintained for any property
taken by virtue of%any warrant for the collection of any tax, in pursuance
of any statute of this state; nor shall it be maintained by any de
fendant in any execution or attachment to recover goods and chattels
seized on such execution or attachment, unless such goods and chattels
are exempt by law from seizure and sale thereon; nor shall it be
maintained at the suit of any person, unless he shall at the time have
a right to reduce the goods and chattels to possession.
Section 3733. No such warrant shall be issued until an affidavit
shall be filed with the justice, made by the plaintifff, or some one in his
behalf, stating that such plaintifff is then lawfully entitled to the possession of certain personal property, giving a particular description thereof,
and of the value thereof, and that the same has been unjustly taken
and is unjustly detained (or that the same is unjustly detained, as the
case may be)," by the defendant, naming him, and that the same has
not been taken for any tax levied by virtue of any law of this state, nor
seized under any execution or attachment against the goods and chattels
of such plaintifff liable to execution.
Section 3734. The warrant shall be served on the defendant by delivering
to him personally, if he can be found, a copy of the same; if
he cannot be found, it may be served by leaving the same at his usual
!)lace of abode, with his wife, or with some person of proper age, beonging to his family, at least two days before the return day thereof.
Section 3735. It the property to be seized or any part thereof be
secreted or concealed in any dwelling house, or other building or enclosure,
the officer shall publicly demand deliverance thereof, and if the
same be not delivered by the defendant or some other person, he shall
cause such house, building or enclosure to be broken open, and shall
seize such property according to the warrant; and if necessary he shall
take to his assistance the power of his county.
Section 3736. The officer shall return the warrant immediately after
the service thereof, and state in his return fully in what manner he has
served and executed the same, and shall keep the goods and chattels in
his possession until the cause is decided by the justice.
Section 3737. "Whenever such action shall be brought by or against
the sheriff of any county, the warrant and all process in the cause shall
be awarded to and executed by any constable of the county.
Section 3738. If the goods and chattels specified in* the warrant
have not been seized thereon, the plaintifff may proceed in the action
for the recovery thereof or of the value thereof,
Section 3739. The affidavit shall be deemed the complaint in the
action, and the defendant may answer thereto as in other cases.
Section 3740. The action shall be subject to the same usages, roles
and regulations, as other cases before a justice's court, as far as the same
are applicable, but no adjournment shall be allowed to either party,
unless such party shall satisfy the justice in the same manner as incase
of an application for a second adjournment in other cases; and such
party shall also enter into a bond to the opposite party, with a sufficient
security, to be approved by the justice, conditioned that such applicant
will pay all costs and damages which shall be adjudged against such
applicant on a trial of the cause,
Section 3741. The security in the preceding section mentioned, may
^e entered on the docket of the justice in the following form:
I do hereby agree to pay all costs and damages which shall be ad
judged against in this action. A. B.
I hereby approve the security, the said A. B. having justified (or
been accepted by the ).
, J. P., Justice,
Section 3742. In such action, it shall be necessary for the plaintifff,
wliet]ier the defendant be present or not, to prove all the allegations of
his complaint; and on such proof, if the justice or jury shall find in
favor of the plaintifff, they shall find as follows:
1. That the plaintifff is entitled to the possession of the goods ami
chattels specified in the complaint, or some part thereof, specifying the
same;
2. That the defendant unjustly took or unlawfully detained the same;
3. The value thereof;
4. The damages which he has sustained by the unjust taking or de
tention thereof.
And the justice shall immediately enter an order in his docket re
quiring the officer to deliver the same goods and chattels to the plaintifff,
and adjudge that he recover such damages and the costs of the action,
and shall issue execution therefore.
Section 3743. If the plaintifff shall discontinue his action, become
noDsni ted or shall otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judgment,
or if on trial of the issue joined, the justice or jury shall find
for the defendant, or if on such trial the justice or jury shall find the
the justice or jury shall find the
value than the amount over which
goods and chattels to be of a greater
a justice has jurisdiction, then, in each of these cases, the justice or jury
shall assess adequate damages for the caption and detention of the goods
and chattels seized; and the justice shall immediately enter an order in
his docket, that the officer deliver the said goods and chattels to the de
fendant, and adjudge that he recover such damages and costs, and shall
issue execution therefore.
Section 3744. If the justice or jury shall find that the plaintifff is
entitled to the possession of a part or the goods and chattels seized, and
that the defendant is so entitled to the residue, they shall find sepurately the value of the portions belonging to the plaintifff and the de
fendant, and separately assess the damages sustained by each party by
the unjust taking or detention thereof by the other; and the justice
shall immediately enter an order in his docket, requiring the officer to
deliver to the respective parties the property to which they are entitled
according to such finding; he shall set off the damages assessed to the
respective parties, and render judgment in favor of the party to whom
the greatest amount of damages were assessed for the excess of such
damages above the amount assessed to the other party; or upon the de
mand of the defendant the justice may in his discretion order all the
property delivered to the plaintifff, and render judgment for the defend
ant for the value of his portion of the property seized, adding interest
thereto from the time of the seizure, and deducting therefrom the
amount of damages assessed in favor of the plaintifff; and the costs of
such action shall in either case be awarded in the discretion of the
jnstice.
Section 3745. Whenever, upon the trial, it shall appear that one
party has a lien or claim upon the property seized or a part thereof,
to a part of its value only, and the right of possession, and that the
right of property in the same, subject to such lien or claim, is in the
other party, the justice or jury shall also find the amount of such lien
or claim; and upon demand of the party having such lien or claim, the
justice shall render a judgment in his favor For the amount thereof,
with interest and costs, and order the property subject to such lien to
be delivered to the other party; otherwise for a delivery of the prop
erty to the party establishing the lien, with judgment for his damages
and costs as in other cases, unless the lien be forthwith discharged and
the costs of the action paid by the other.
Section 3746. If the officer return on the warrant that the defendant has not been duly summoned in either of the modes hereinbefore
prescribed, and that he has seized the goods and chattels mentioned in
the warrant, then, if the defendant do not appear to the action at the
return of the warrant, the justice shall enter an order in his docket, re3uirinrr the plaintifff to give notice to the defendant as in case of a
efendant not summoned, whose goods have been attached; such notice
shall contain a full description of the goods and chattels seized, and its
publication may be proved in the manner in which a notice in attachment
is proved; and the cause shall be continued to the time and place men
tioned in the order.
Section 3747. When the defendant has been notified as aforesaid,
and shall not appear and answer to the action, the fact shall be entered
by the justice in his docket, and the plaintifff may proceed thereon to
final judgment as if he had been duly summoned ; but no execution
shall issue on such judgment for costs and damages, nor shall anvordw
be made for the delivery of the goods and chattels to the plaintifff, until
such plaintifff or some person in his behalf, shall execute a bond to the
defendant in double the value of the property, with security to be ap
proved by the justice, conditioned that if the defendant shall within
one year from the rendition of such judgment appear and disprove tie
same, the plaintifff will make return of said property if return be ad
judged, or will pay the value thereof and all costs and damages whici
may be adjudged against him on a new trial of the case.
Section 3748. If the goods and chattels specified in the affidavit
shall not have been seized, such plaintifff, in case he shall recover judg
ment upon the hearing of the case, shall be entitled, in addition to lit
judgment for damages and costs, to a further judgment that such goods
and chattels be seized and delivered to him without further delay; or
in default thereof, that such plaintifff do recover from the defendant the
value of such goods and chattels as the same shall have been assessed
by the jury or justice on the trial, or upon the hearing.
Section 3749. The execution to be issued upon such judgment shall
command the officer to levy the plaintifff's damages and costs of the
goods and chattels of the defendant, as in other executions against prop
erty, and also to seize the goods and chattels described in the complaint,
which shall also be specified in the execution, and to deliver them to
the plaintifff, if they can be found within his county; and if the same
cannot be so found, then that he levy the value of such goods and chattels,
specifying the same, together with the aforesaid damages and costs of
the goods and chattels of the defendant, as above provided.
Section 3750. The officer shall proceed in the same manner to colject
any raoney3 directed to be collected upon such oxecution as npon
executions against property in personal actions, and he 6hall possess the
same powers in respect to the seizing of the property described therein,
as are herein provided upon the execution of warrants to seize property.
If the goods and chattels described in the execution are seized and de
livered to the plaintifff, they shall not be liable to seizure in an action
by the defendant to recover the possession thereof,
Section 3751. Whenever an order shall be entered by a justice, in
an action for the recovery of the possession of personal property, for the
delivery of property to either party, the property shall not be delivered
to the party in whose favor the same is entered until the expiration of
twenty four hours after the entry of such order,
Section 3752. "When property is seized on the warrant, the justice
may allow the officer having charge of the saina, such compensation {•'"
his trouble and expenses in Iceeping and maintaining the same, as sIkl!
be reasonable and just; and when the officer shall keep such property
pending an appeal, the appellate court may fix and allow such compensation
; and the same in either case may be taxed as disburaeineaa
against the losing party.
CHAPTER CLX.
OF APPEALS.
Section 3753. Any party to a final judgment rendered by a justice
of the peace, and when a judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee, the defendant in the original action, may appeal therefrom to the
circuit court or other court having jurisdiction of the appeal, in the
cases and manner hereinafter provided.
5 Wis. 156; 9 id. HI; 11 Id. 389; Mid. 63J; 15 Id. 445; 19 Id. 193, 501 ; SO id. 48,639; 51 Id. 385 ; 34 Id.
159; '25 id. 543, 560; 33 id. 510.
Section 3754. The appellant or some person authorized by him,
must, within twenty days after jndgment rendered, make and present
to the jnsrice before whom the action was tried, or his successor in office,
or any other justice then lawfully having custody of the docket containing
such judgment, a notice of appeal, together with an affidavit that
the appeal is made in good faith, and not for the purpose of delay; and
the appellant must, at the time of presenting such notice and affidavit
to the justice, pay him his fees in the action, together with one dollar
for his return, and one dollar for state tax^ but if the judgment be rendered on process not personally served, and the defendant did not appear,
he shall have twenty days after personal service of written notice
of the judgment to present such notice of appeal and affidavit; but in
no case shall an appeal be taken after the expiration of two years after
the entry of the judgment.
Section 3755. When by reason of the death of a justice of the
peace, or his absence from the county or any other cause, the notice of j
appeal and affidavit cannot be presented to him, they may be filed with
the clerk of the court to which the appeal is taken within the time
aforesaid.
Section 3756. If the defendant desires a stay of execution of the
Judgment, except in actions of replevin, a written undertaking must be
executed on the part of the appellant, by one or more sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the judge of the appellate court or by the justice, to
the effect that if judgment be rendered against the appellant and
execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the sure
ties will pay the amount unsatisfied.
Section 3757. The delivery of the undertaking to the court below,
shall stay the issuing of execution; or if it have been issued, then service
of a copy of the undertaking, certified by the court below, upon
the officer holding the execution, shall stay further proceedings thereon.
Section 3758. "When, by reason of the death of a justice of the peace,
or his removal from the county, or any other cause, the undertaking on
the appeal cannot be delivered to him, it shall be filed with the clerk of
the appellate court, and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his
attorney or agent, and it shall thereupon have the same effect as if deliv
ered to the justice; and, in such case, the undertakings required to be
filed, to prevent or secure the delivery of property after judgment in ac
tions of replevin, may be filed with the clerk, who may make the orders
which the justice of the peace should have made.
Section 3759. If any party to an action of replevin shall, within
twenty four hours after entry of any order therein requiring the officer
to deliver the property seized, or any part thereof, to the opposite party,
make and file with the justice an affidavit stating that he intends to appeal
therefrom according to law, then such property shall not be so d&
livcred, unless the party in whose favor such order is entered shall, beforc the time for taking such appeal expires, cause a written undertaking
to be executed on his part, with one or more sufficient sureties, and
gj^ ^.^ ^ justice, to the effect that if, on appeal by the opposite
party, the judgment shall be reversed in the appellate court as to any
part of said property ordered to be delivered to him, he will return such
property or so much thereof as shall be adjudged to be returned to the
appellant, and pay any judgment which maybe rendered against him
on such appeal, and abide any other order or judgment of the appellate
court. Upon making and filing such undertaking the property snail be
forthwith delivered according to the order of the justice, without regard
to the appeal.
Section 3760. If the party making such affidavit shall perfect his
within the time required by law, and the successful party shall
not have given the undertaking required by the preceding section, within
the time therein prescribed, the appellant may within five days after the
expiration of the time for taking the appeal, cause an undertaking to
be executed on his part, with one or more sureties, and filed with the
justice, to the effect that if the judgment appealed from be affirmed in
the appellate court as to any part of 6aid property ordered to be deliv
ered to the opposite party, he will return such property or so much
thereof as shall be adjudged to be returned and pay all costs and dam
ages awarded against him on such appeal, and abide any other order or
judgment of the appellate court; and upon the filing of such undertak
ing, the justice shall enter an order in his docket requiring the officer
who has the custody of such property to deliver the same to the appel
lant, who, upon being served with a copy of such order, shall deliver the
same accordingly.
Section 3701. If the appellant shall have filed his affidavit as required in the preceding section and have perfected his appeal within
™*e *"ne prescribed by law, and neither party shall have made aud filed
an undertaking as above required within the time prescribed, then
such property shall remain in the custody of the officer who seized the
same, pending the appeal, subject at all times to the order of the appel
late court. In the case mentioned in this section, the appellant may
stay the execution of the judgment as to damages and costs by giving
the undertaking required in section three thousand seven hundred and
fifty six.
Section 3762. Either undertaking mentioned in sections three
thousand seven hundred and fifty nine and three thousand seven hun
dred and sixty shall be of no effect, unless it be approved by the justice
and accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties, in which eacli surety
Bhall state that he is worth a sum to be therein stated, not less than
double the value of the property ordered to be delivered as found by the
justice or jury, over and above all his debts and liabilities in property
within this state, not by law exempt from executionSection 3763. After ten days and within thirty days after any ap^
ghall be perfecte(j) the justice shall make a return to the appellate
court of the testimony, proceedings and judgment, and file the same
therein, and pay to the clerk the state tax. If the return made bedefect;ve? tne appellate court may direct a further or amended return, as
often as may be necessary, and may compel an original or further return
by attachment. But no justice shall be bound to make a return unless
his fees and state tax be paid, as prescribed by section three thousand
seven hundred and fifty fuur, at the time of the service of the notice of
appeal.
I Wis. 441; S id. 207; 13 Id. 625.
Section 3764. When a justice of the peace, by whom a judgment appealed
from was rendered, shall have gone out of office, or removed to
another county in the state, before return was ordered, he shall neverthe
less make return, and may be compelled to do so by attachment, in the
6ame manner and with like effect as if he were still in office.
Section 37G5. If a justice of the peace whose judgment is appealed
from shall die, become insane, or remove from the state, the appellate
court may examine witnesses on oath to the facts and circumstances of
the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal as if the facts had been
returned by the justice.
Section 3766. If neither party shall bring the appeal to a hearing
in the appellate court, before the end of the second term after filing the
return of the justice therein, such court shall dismiss the appeal, unless
it shall continue the same by special order for cause shown.
M Wis. ::o?; Slid. 6TS.
Section 3767. The appeal shall be heard on the original papers,
and the return of the justice, containing all the material evidence and
his rulings in the action, in case the judgment, exclusive of costs, does
not exceed fifteen dollars, except as otherwise provided in the next sec.. > r r
tion.
Section 3768. The appeal shall be tried in the appellate court, as actions originally brought there, in the following cases:
1. When the judgment appealed from shall exceed fifteen dollars, ex
elusive of costs;
2. When the plaintifff appeals from a judgment against him, or in his
» - * '.t ., i^i iV*# • p 1
favor, for a sum not exceeding ntteen dollars, exclusive of costs, it, at the
time of appealing, he shall make an affidavit that he has a valid claim,
as he verily believes, against the defendant as set forth in his complaint,
exceeding the sum of fifteen dollars;
3. When the defendant appeals from a judgment, in favor of the plaintifff,
for a sum not exceeding fifteen dollars, exclusive of costs, the plaintifff
shall make an affidavit as above prescribed, and file the same with the
clerk of the court in which the appeal is pending, and serve a copy
thereof on the defendant or his attorney, eight days prior to the term at
which the case is first noticed for trial;
4. When judgment shall be rendered against the defendant, or in his
favor, for a sum not exceeding fifteen dollars, exclusive of costs, if the
defendant, at the time of appealing, shall make an affidavit that he has
a valid claim, as he verily believes, against the plaintifff as set forth in
his answer, exceeding the sum of fifteen dollars;
5. If the appeal be from a judgment rendered in an action of replevin,
and the value of the properly in controversy, as found by the justice or
jury, shall exceed the sum of fifteen dollars.
Section 3769. Upon the hearing of the appeal, when there is no
new trial in the appellate court, such court shall give judgment accordiiijj
to the justice of the case, without regard to technical errors or defects which do not affect the merits, and may, if necessary for that purpose,
amend the pleadings therein, and in giving judgment, may affirm
or reverse the judgment of the court below in whole or in part, either
as to damages or costs, or both, as to any or all the parties, and for
errors of law or fact. To the copy of every such judgment upon an
appeal, there shall be annexed the return upon which it was heard,
which shall he filed with the clerk of the court, and constitute the jnd<>.
ment roll; and the judgment shall be executed by process of the appel
late court.
Section 3770. "Whenever any appeal from a judgment of a instice's court shall for any reason be dismissed, the clerk of the r.ppellate
court shall, as soon as may be after the time shall have expired to
appeal from the order of dismissal, transmit all the papers in the ease
on ^jj appCa] t0 tne justice from whose -judgment the appeal was
taken; and the said justice shall thereupon proceed to enforce the col
lection of said judgment, in the same manner as though no appeal had
been taken.
Section 3771. In every case where the ai>r>ollate court shall «ive
judgment against a party appealing, who shall have given an unaertaiing to stay execution in the court below, such judgment shall he
entered against the appellant and his sureties jointly; out it shall not
be collected of the sureties by the officer to whom the execution is
directed, if he can find sufficient property of the principal to satisfy the
same, and the party issuing the execution shall indorse a direction
thereon to that effect.
Section 3772. If any justice's judgment, or any part thereof, be col
lected and the judgment be afterwards reversed, the appellate court shall
order the amount collected to be restored with interest from the time of
the collection; such order may he obtained upon proof of the facts,
upon notice and motion, and may be enforced as a judgment.
Section 3773. At the time of serving a writ of certiorari upon a
justice of the peace, the party in whose favor the writ shall issue shall
no*; ^e re1l,'ired to pay any costs or fees to the justice, nor for a return
to such writ. Such justice of the peace shall file such writ and his
return thereto with the clerk of the court issuing the same within ten
days aft?r service thereof on such justice. If the return so made
is defective, the court may direct a further or amended return as often
as may be necessary. And such court may compel an original or fur
ther return by attachment.
CHAPTER CLXI.
OF COSTS AND FEES.
Section 3774. Justices of the peace may be allowed to receive the
following fees, and may tax the same in all cases when applicable, and
all fees of said justices in the progress of a cause shall be taxed in the
judgment in favor of the party who recovers judgment:
For a summons, warrant or subpeena, twenty five cents.
For a venire for a jury, twenty five cents.
For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty five cents.
For taking a recognizance of bail, twenty five cents.
For administering an oath to a witness, six cents; and for adminis
tering all other oaths and certifying the same when necessary, twelve
cents.
For a warrant of attachment, twentjr five cents.
For entering a judgment, twenty five cents.
For every adjournment, twenty five cents.
For every bond, undertaking or security, directed by law to be taken
and approved by the justice, twenty live cents.
For receiving and entering verdict of jury, twenty five cents.
For entering return to any process, twelve cents.
For taking an examination, testimony, or for any writing done in a
cause, twelve cents per folio.
For taking deposition, twelve cents per folio; and for copy of proceedings or of any paper, or examination in any case, when demanded,
per folio ten cents.
For entering satisfaction of judgment, twelve cents.
For entering amicable action without process, twelve cents.
For a transcript of judgment, twenty five cents.
For opening a judgment for rehearing, twenty five cents.
For filing all papers, five cents each.
For issuing notice to take deposition, twenty five cents.
For taking and approving undertaking and making return to an ap
peal, including travel, one dollar.
For a search warrant, twenty five cents.
For drawing an affidavit in attachment, replevin or garnishee, twenty
five cents; and for any other affidavit or other paper drawn by the jus
tice, for which no other allowance is made by law, twelve cents per
folio.
For commitment to jail, twenty five cents.
For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty five cents.
For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailer, twenty five cents.
For discharging a prisoner after hearing, on motion to discharge^
twelve cents.
For an execution, twenty five cents.
For every other writ not herein enumerated, twenty five cents.
For taxing co;ts, twelve cents.
For docketing, twenty five cents.
For marrying and making return thereof, one dollar and fifty cents, an<7
such other sum as may be allowed by the party making the application.
For holding an inquisition in certain cases of forcible entry and un
lawful detainer, one dollar.
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of a deed, for each
grantor named therein, twenty five cents.
For traveling to perform any service, when not otherwise provided
for, and such travel is necessary, going, per mile, six cents.
Section 3775. The justice shall also tax as costs in favor of the
. . '. ii J 11 ■
party recovering judgment, the tollowing:
1. "Witness fees for travel and attendance, not exceeding, however,
fifteen dollars in one case; and fees of jurors at the rate of fifty cents
per day, for each juror in attendance, less the amount advanced by the
opposite party, when the fury shall have been demanded by him; such
jurors' fees when collected shall be paid by the justice to the jurors en
titled thereto.
2. Fees for serving subpoenas and travel in serving the same;, but no
such witness fees, or for serving subpoenas on the same, shall be taxed
for travel or attendance on the return clay, except in cases where either
party is entitled to proceed to trial on such return day, unless an adjourn
ment be had for cause shown, and except when an actual trial shall be
had on such return day.
3. All other lawful fees and charges of any constable or other officer
for services rendered in the action pursuant to law.
4. An attorney's fee as follows, except when the amount thereof is
otherwise specially provided for by law: on all judgments for the sum
of fifty dollars or less, a sum equal to ten percent, of the judgment; on
all judgments over fifty dollars and less than one hundred dollars, five
dollars; on all judgments for one hundred dollars or over, ten dollars;
in actions of replevin, the value of the property recovered shall govern
the amount of attorney's fees to be recovered in such action; and when
judgment is for the defendant, the amount claimed in the plaintifffs
complaint shall govern the amount of the attorney's fees to oe recov
ered by the defendant; but no attorney's fee shall be taxed unless the
Sarty has appeared therein by an attorney of a court of record, and the
efendant has appeared and put in an answer or demurrer.
Section 3776. At the time of entering judgment, the justice may
proceed to tax costs in the cause, and no notice of such taxing need be
given to the party against whom judgment is rendered.
Section 3777. The justice shall allow no fees for the travel of a
witness or interpreter, unless the same be proved by the oath of some
person having knowledge of the fact, nor for travel in serving a sub
poena, unless the same be charged by a constable or sheriff, or be proved
by the oath of the person who served the same; and no fees shall be
a]iowe(} to a party for serving or travel in serving a subpoena in his own
case.
Section 3778. The attendance of not more than five witnesses to
each particular fact shall be taxed by the justice; and if any witness
shall attend upon two or more cases on the same day before the same
jnstice's court, his fees shall be equally apportioned among the parties
who shall summon him. No fees for copies of documents or papers,
Qr £or ^epOSitions shall be allowed, unless such copies or depositions
were used upon the trial.
Section 3779. No disbursements to officers or others shall be allowed
un'es9 tlie items are particularly specified, and proved to the justice and
the same were in his opinion necessary and reasonable in amount; and
the justice may hear any evidence which may be offered to prove anj
charge is unreasonable, or that the service has not been rendered,
Section 37S0. The return of a sheriff or constable to any writ shall
presumptive evidence that such return is correct, and that the ser
vice has been rendered, or disbursement made.
Section 37S1. In actions against a garnishee, the person summoned
to answer, shall be entitled to receive the same fees for travel and at
tendance as a witness, and he shall not be bound to appear or answer,
unless his fees for travel and one day's attendance shall be first paid,
and such fees shall be taxed as costs in the action as witness fees are
taxed. "When a corporation is garnished, the fee for the attendance of
some officer to answer the same, shall be paid to the person upon whom
the garnishee summons is served.
security fob costs.
Section 3782. Every justice of the peace shall, in all civil actions,
either before or after the process shall issue, require the plaintifff, if a
nonresident of the county, to give security for costs, and may in his
discretion, require a like security of all other plaintifffs; and if the plaint
iff refuse or neglect to give such security, when required, the action
shall be dismissed.
Section 3783. The person becoming security as aforesaid, shall sign
f0nowiiig memorandum on the docket: I, A. B., agree to become
security for the costs in this action. And if judgment oe rendered in
snch action against the plaintifff, execution for costs may issue against
the plaintifff and the surety; or at the option of the party entitled to
such costs, he may maintain an action upon such memorandum against
the security, for the recovery of the same.
CHAPTER CLXII.
OF THE PROBATE OF WILLS AND LETTERS TESTAMENTARY.
TKODUCINO WILLS FOE PEOBATE.
Section 3784. Every county judge who shall have in his possession
any w[]\^ g^j 0pen an(J announce his possession thereof in open court,
on the first day of the session thereof, next succeeding the day when
such judge shall first have notice of the testator's death; and shall
retain such will, and give notice of the same being in his possession to
the executor therein named, if any, otherwise to some person interested
in the provisions thereof; or if the jurisdiction of the case belongs to
any other court, such will shall be delivered to the executor named
therein, or to some other trusty person interested in the provisions of
the same, to be presented for probate in such other court
Section 37S5. Every person, other than the judge of the county
court, having the custody of any will, shall, within thirty days after he
has knowledge of the death of the testator, deliver the same into the
court which has jurisdiction of the case, or to the person named as
executor therein. Every person named as executor in any will, shall,
within thirty days after the death of the testator, or within thirty days
after he has knowledge that he is named executor, if he obtain such
knowledge after the death of the testator, present such will to the
county court which has jurisdiction of the case, unless the will shall
have been otherwise deposited with the judge of the county court, and
shall, within the period above meutioned, signify to the court his accept
ance of the trust, or in writing refuse to accept it. Every person who
shall neglect to perform any of the duties required in this section,
without reasonable cause, shall be liable to each and every person
interested in such will, for all damages caused by such neglect.
Section 3786. If any person having the custody of any will after
the death of the testator, shall, without reasonable cause, neglect to
deliver the same to the county court having jurisdiction thereof, after
he shall have been duly notified by such court for that purpose, he may
be committed to the jail of the county by warrant issued by such court,
and there be kept in close confinement until he shall deliver the will as
required.
PROBATE OF WILLS.
Section 3787. When any will shall have been delivered into or
deposited with any county court having jurisdiction of the 6ame, such
court shall appoint a time and place of proving it, when all concerned
may appear and contest the probate thereof, and shall, by order, cause
notice of such time and place to be given by personal service on all
persons interested, at least ten days before the time appointed, or by
publication in a newspaper, as provided in section four thousand and
forty five, at least three weeks successively previous to said time; and
no will shall be proved until notice shall be given as herein provided.
Section 3788. If no person shall appear to contest the probate of
a will at the time fixed for that purpose, the court may, in its discretion, grant probate thereof on the testimony of one of the subscribing
witnesses only, if such witness shall testify that such will was executed
in all particulars as required by chapter one hundred and three, and
that the testator was of a sound mind at the time of the execution
thereof. If none of the subscribing witnesses shall reside in this state
at the time fixed for proving the will, the court may, in its discretion,
admit the testimony of other witnesses to prove the sanity of the tes
tator, and the execution of the will, and may admit pi'oof of the hand
writing of the testator and of the subscribing witnesses.
foreign wills.
Section 3789. Any will which shall have been duly proved and
allowed in any other of the United States or any territory thereof, or in
any foreign country, may be allowed, filed and recorded in the county
court of any county of this state in which the testator shall have real
or personal estate on which such will may operate in the manner pro
vided in the next section.
Section 3790. When a copy of any such will and the probate
thereof, duly authenticated, shall be produced by the executor or other
person interested therein, to the county court, such court shall appoint
a time and place of hearing, and cause notice thereof to be given as
required by section three thousand seven hundred and eighty seven.
If on the hearing, it shall appear to the court that the order or decree
admitting such will to probate was made by a court of competent juris
diction and is still in force, the copy and the probate thereof shall be
filed and recorded, and the will shall have the same force and effect, as
if it had been originally proved and allowed in the same court
Section 3701. Whenever any will of real or personal estate shall
be lost or destroyed by accident or design, the county court shall have
power to take proof of the execution and validity of such will, and to
establish the same. The petition for the probate of such will shall
set forth the provisions thereof. The circuit court shall have the
same power in an action brought for that purpose.
LETTEES TESTAMENTARY.
Section 3792. When a will shall have been duly proved and
allowed, the county court shall issue letters testamentary thereon to
*ne P61"8011 named executor therein, if he is legally competent, and shall
accept the trust, and give bond as required by law.
IT Wla. 463 ; 18 Id. 169 ; 20 Id. 129.
Section 3793. When any will shall be allowed as mentioned in
section three thousand seven hundred and ninety, the county court
shall grant letters testamentary, or letters of administration with the
will annexed, except in cases where it shall satisfactorily appear to the
court that there are no debts due from the testator, or from his estate,
to parties residing in this state; and such letters testamentary or let
ters of administration shall extend to all the estate of the testator in
this state; such estate, after the payment of the jnst debts and expenses
of administration, shall be disposed of according to such will, so far as
6uch will may operate upon it, and the residue shall be disposed of u
is provided by law in cases of estates in this 6tate belonging to per
sons who were inhabitants of any other state or country; any sach
will when so allowed in this state and the record thereof shall have
the same effect upon real estate situated in this state whether letters
testamentary or of administration are issued or not.
Section 379-t. Every executor, before he shall enter upon the eie0f
i,;s trust, and before letters testamentary 6hall issue, shall
five a bond to the judge of the county court in such sura as he may
irect, with one or more sureties, with conditions a6 follows:
1. To make and return to the county court within three months, a
true and perfect inventory of all the goods, chattels, rights, credits
and estate of the deceased, whether disposed of by the will or not,
which shall come to his possession or knowledge, or to the possessien
of any other person for him ;
2. To administer, according to law and the will of the testator, all
his goods, chattels, rights, credits and estate, which shall at any time
come to his possession, or to the possession of any other person for
him, and out of the same to pay and discharge all debts, legacies and
charges chargeable on the same, or such dividends thereon as shall be
ordered and adjudged by the county court;
3. To render a true and just account of his administration to the
county court within one year, and at any other time when required by
such court;
4. To perform all orders and judgments of the county court.
When two or more persons shall be appointed executors of any will.
the county court may take a separate bond from each, with sureties,
or a joint bond from all, with sureties.
Section 3795. If the executor shall be sole or residuary legatee,
instead of the bond prescribed in the preceding section, he may gives
bond, in such sum and with such sureties as the court may direct, with
a condition only to pay all the debts and legacies of the testator, and
in such case, he shall not be required to return an inventory. An exeditor
named in any will may he exempt from giving hond, when the
testator has so ordered or requested in his will, unless the county
court shall order otherwise; and such court may require a bond, with
sureties, of any such executor, at any time pending the settlement of
the estate.
Section 3796. If a person named executor in any will shall refuse
ta accept the trust, or shall, for the space of twenty days after the
probate of the same, neglect to give bond as required by law, the
county court may grant letters testamentary to the other executors
named in the will, if any, who are capable and will accept the trust
and give bond. If all named as executors neglect to qualify, the court
may commit administration of the estate, with the will annexed, aa
provided in sections three thousand eight hundred and seven, and
three thousand eight hundred and eight. No person named as exec
utor in any will, who neglects to qualify for twenty days after probate
thereof, shall intermeddle or act as such.
Section 3797. When the person named executor in any will is
under full age at the time of proving such will, administration shall
be granted with the will annexed, during the minority of the execu ■
tor, unless there shall be another executor named, who shall accept
the trust and give a bond; and in such case, the executor who shall
give bond shall have letters testamentary, and shall administer the
estate until the minor shall arrive at full age, when he may be admit
ted as joint executor on giving the requisite bond.
Section 3798. Every person who shall be appointed administrator,
with the will annexed, shall, before entering upon the execution of
the trust, give bond to the judge of the county court, in the same
manner and with the same conditions, as is required of an executor,
and shall proceed in all things to execute the trust in the same manner
as an executor would be required to do.
Section 3799. "When all the executors appointed in any will shall
not be authorized, according to the provisions of this chapter, to actw
as such, such as are authorized shall have the same authority to per
form every act, and discharge every trust required and allowed by the
will, and their acts shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose,
as if all were authorized and should act togother; and administrators
with the will annexed shall have the same authority to perform every
act, and discharge every trust, as the executors named in the will
would have had, and their acts shall be as valid and effectual for every
purpose.
Section 3800. The executor of an executor shall not as such haveE
any authority to administer the estate of the first testator, but on the
death of the only surviving executor of any will, administration of the
estate of the first testator, not already administered, may be granted
with the will annexed to such person as the county court may judge
proper.
PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Section 3S01. "When an executor or administrator shall reside out
of this state, and it shall appear to the county court having jurisdiction that it is necessary to serve upon such executor or administrator
any order, notice or process from such court, said court may, upon
proper affidavits showing such necessity, make an order that such ser
vice be made by publication in the same manner and with the same
effect as is provided for the service of summons upon nonresident
defendants in an action in the circuit court.
Section 3S02. When an unmarried woman appointed an executrii
administratrix alone, or jointly with another person, shall mam,
^ier lmu-r'age shall extinguish her authority as executrix or admini-tratrix,
but her husband shall not be executor or administrator in her
. , '
right.
Section 3S03. If an administrator shall rssideont of this state,or
jf an executor or administrator shall neglect, after due notice given I
by the county court, to render his account and settle the estate accordmS to 'aw> or to perform any judgment of the court, or shall abscond,
or become insane, or otherwise incapable or unsuitable to discharge
the trust, the county court may remove such executor or administrator.
Section 3804. When an executor or administrator shall die, re
be removed, or his authority shall be extinguished in any war,
the remaining executor or administrator, if any, may execute the trust;
jf there shall be no other, the county court shall grant administration
of the estate not already administered, with the will annexed or other
wise, as the case may require, but no executor or administrator shall
resign without the consent of the county judge indorsed on such
resignation,
Section 3805. The word "executor," in this and other chapters
relating to probate proceedings, shall be construed to include an ad
ministrator with the will annexed.
CHAPTER CLXIII.
OF LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION, AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Section 3806. When any person 6hall die intestate, being an inhabitant
of this state, letters of administration of his estate shall be
granted by the county court of the county of which he was an inhab
itant at the time of his death. If any person being a resident of any
other state or country shall die, leaving estate to he administered in
this state, administration thereof shall be granted by the county court
of any county in which there shall be estate to be administered, and
the administration first legally granted shall extend to all the estate of
the deceased in this state. Administration may also be granted upon
the estate of any person, who at the time of his death was a party to
any action pending in any court of record, upon the application of any
other party to such action, when it shall appear necessary to protect
the rights of the party so applying, whether such deceased persou was
a resident of this state or not.
Section 3S07. Administration of the estates of intestates shall be
granted to someone or more of the persons hereinafter mentioned, and
they shall be respectively entitled to the same in the following order:
1. The widow or next of kin, or both', as the county court may
think proper, or such person as the widow or next of kin may request
to have appointed, if suitable and competent to discharge the trust;
2. If the widow or next of kin, or the person selected by them, shall
be unsuitable or incompetent, or if the widow and next of kin shall
neglect fo:- thirty days after the death of the intestate to apply for administration or to request that administration be granted to some other
person, the same may be granted to one or more of the principal cred
itors, if any such are competent and willing to take it;
3. If there be no widow, next of kin or creditor competent and
willing to take administration, the same may be committed to such
other person as the county court may think proper.
Section* 3S08. When application shall be made to any county
conrt, for the appointment or an administrator on an intestate estate,
or for letters of administration with the will annexed, such court shall
appoint a time and place forbearing such application, and shall cause
notice thereof to be given, by personal service on all persons inter
ested, at least ten days before the day designated, or by publication in
a newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty five, at
least three weeks successively, previous to the time appointed; and no
general administrator shall be appointed without such notice.
Section 3S09. Every administrator, before he enters upon the execntion of his trnst, and before letters of administration shall be granted
to him, shall give a bond to the judge of the county court, with such
sureties as the court shall approve, with substantially the same conditions
as are required of executors by section three thousand seven
hundred and ninety four, with such variations only as may be neces
sary to make it applicable to the case of an administrator. When two
or more persons shall be appointed administrators of any estate, the
county court may take a separate bond from each, with sureties, or a
joint bond from all, with sureties.
SPECIAL ADMINISTRATORS.
Section 3810. When there shall be delay in granting letters testameutary
or of administration, occasioned by an appeal from the
allowance or disallowance of a will, or from any other cause, or when
it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court to be necessary, the
county court may appoint a special administrator, to act until the
matter causing the delay shall be disjwsed of, or the necessity therefore
cease to exist, and an executor or administrator is appointed. No
appeal shall be allowed from the appointment of such special admin
istrator, and such special administrator may be appointed without
notice.
Section 3811. Such special administrator shall have power to
collect all the goods, chattels and credits of the deceased, and, with
leave of the court, to lease for a term not exceeding one year the real
property of the deceased, to care for, gather and secure crops, and do
such other things as the court shall direct and as may be deemed for
the interests of the estate, and preserve all the property of the deceased
for the executor or administrator who may afterward be ap
pointed, and may for such purposes commence and maintain actions
as an administrator, and sell such personal property of the deceased
as the court may direct. Such administrator shall not be liable to
an action by any creditor, or to be called upon in any way to pay the
debts of the deceased.
Section 3812. Every special administrator shall, before entering
upon the duties of his trust, give a bond to the judge of the county
court, as he shall direct, with a condition that he will make and file
with the court a true inventory of all the goods, chattels, rights,
credits and effects of the deceased, which shall come to his possession
or knowledge, and that he will truly account for all of the same which
shall be received by him, whenever required by the county court, and
will deliver the same to the person who shall afterward be appointed
executor or administrator of the deceased, or to such person as shall
be legally authorized to receive the same,
Section 8813. Upon granting letters testamentary or of administration
on the estate of the deceased, the power of the special administrator shall cease and he shall forthwith deliver to the executor or
administrator all the goods, chattels, monies and effects of the de
ceased in his hands; and the executor or administrator may be admit
ted to prosecute to final judgment any action commenced by such
special administrator, and may have execution on any judgment re
covered in the name of the special administrator.
Section 3814. An administrator appointed in place of any former
executor or administrator, for the purpose of administering the estate
not already administered, shall have the same powers, ana shall pro
ceed in settling the estate in the same manner as the former executor
or administrator would or should have done; and may prosecute or
defend any action commenced by or against the former executor or
administrator, and may have execution on any judgment recovered in
the name of such former executor or administrator,
Section 3815. If, after granting letters of administration by any
county court on the estate of any deceased person as an intestate, a
will of such deceased person shall be duly proved in and allowed by
said court, such letters of administration shall be revoked by order of
and surrendered to said court; and the powers of the administrator
shall cease, and he shall thereupon render an account of his adminis
tration within such time as the court shall direct.
Section 3S16. The executor of the will shall in such esse be entit]ed
tQ de^nd, sue for and collect all the go«ds, chattels, rights and
credits of the deceased remaining unadministered, and may be admit
ted to prosecute to final judgment any action commenced by the ad
ministrator before the revocation of his authority, and may have exe
cution on any judgment recovered in the name of such administrator.
Section 3817. All acts of an executor or admin istra to- as such,
before the revocation of his letters testamentary or of admiristration,
shall be as valid to all intents and purposes, as if such executor or
administrator had continued lawfully to execute the duties of his trust
PUBLIC ADMINISTKATOKS.
Section 3818. The county court of each of the counties in this
state, when it shall deem the same advisable, may appoint seme suit
able person, to be known as the public administrator, who shall, before
entering upon the duties of such trust, be sworn to a faithful dis
charge thereof, and shall give bond, with sufficient snretier, to the
judge of said court, in a sum not less than five thousand dolla-s, with
condition substantially like the conditions of other administrators'
bonds; which bond shall be approved by the county court, and with
the oath, filed and recorded therein. Additional bonds may be
required by the court in its discretion.
Section 3819. When any person shall die intestate, leaving prop
erty in this state, but leaving no widow or next of kin known to the
county court living therein, administration of such estate shsvll be
granted to the public administrator of the county in which such intes
tate died; and it shall be lawful for the public administrator to take
possession of the property and effects of the intestate, and protect and
preserve the same until administration thereon shall be granted. Tfsncli
intestate be a nonresident, administration of his estate shall be granted
to the public administrator of the county where the property may b«
found. Such administration may be revoked at any time if it shall
appear that the deceased left a will, or that he left a widow or next of
kin living in this state, or when for any other cause the court shall
deem it just or expedient; but such revocation shall not impair the
public administrator's right to receive from the estate his legal charges
and disbursements, to be determined by the county court. Such
estates shall be administered in the same manner as other intestate
estates, except as otherwise provided herein.
Section 3820. The state treasurer, upon the receipt of any money
from a public administrator, shall forthwith advertise the fact in the
state paper by giving the name of the deceased, the time and place of
his death, the amount paid into the treasury, the public administrator
paying the same and that the same will be paid to the heirs who had
not before asserted claim thereto without interest on proof of heirship,
if applied for within five years from date of publication. The pro
visions of this and the two next preceding sections shall not apply to
Milwaukee county.
CHAPTER CLXIV.
OF THE INVENTORY AND COLLECTION OF EFFECTS OF DECEASED
PERSONS.
Section 3821. Every executor or administrator shall, within three
months after his appointment, make and return into the county court
a true inventory of the real estate, and of all the goods, chattels, rights
and credits of the deceased, which shall come~to his possession or
knowledge, except that an executor, who shall be a residuary legatee,
and shall have given bond to pay all the debts and legacies, as pro
vided by section three thousand seven hundred and ninety five, shall
not be required to return an inventory. The estate and effects com
prised in the inventory shall be appraised by two or more disinterested
persons, appointed by the county court for that purpose, who shall be
sworn to a faithful discharge of their duty. The appraisers shall set
down opposite to each item in such inventory, in plain figures, the
value thereof in money, and deliver the same, certified by them, to the
executor or administrator. A separate and distinct inventory and
appraisement shall be made of all the household furniture and other
personal property which may be allowed the widow, pursuant to the
provisions of subdivision one of section three thousand nine hundred
and thirty five, but the same shall not be assets in the hands of the
executor or administrator. Where the estate is situated in two or
more counties, appraisers may be appointed by the court in each
county.
Section 3822. The personal estate of the deceased which shall
come into the hands of the executor or administrator, shall be first
chargeable with the payment of the debts and expenses; and if the
goods, chattels, rights and credits in the hands of the executor or administrator shall not be sufficient to pay the debts of the deceased
and the expenses of administration, the whole of his real estate, except
the widow's dower and the homestead, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, may be sold for that purpose by the executor or adminis
trator, after obtaining license therefore in the manner provided by
chapter one hundred and sixty seven.
Section 3823. The executor or administrator shaft have a right to
the possession of all the real as well as personal estate of the deceased,
except the homestead, and may receive the rents, issues and profits of
the real estate, except the homestead, until the estate shall have been
settled, or until delivered over, by order of the county court, to the
heirs or devisees, and shall keep in good tenan table repair all houses,
buildings and fences thereon which are under his control.
Section 3S24. If any person, before the granting of letters testamentary
or of administration, shall embezzle or convert to bis own use
any of the monies, goods, chattels or effects of any deceased person,
such person shall stand chargeable and be liable to an action by the
executor or administrator of such estate for double the value of the
property so embezzled or converted, to be recovered for the benefit o!
such estate.
Section 3S25. If any executor or administrator, heir, legatee, cred
itor or other person interested in the estate of any deceased person.
shall complain to the county court on oath, that any person is snspected to have concealed, embezzled, conveyed away or disposed of any
money, goods or chattels of the deceased, or that any person has in Lis
possession or has knowledge of any deeds, conveyances, bonds, con
tracts or other writings which contain evidence of or tend to disclose
the right, title, interest or claim of the deceased to any real or per
sonal estate, or any claim or demand, or any last will and testament of
the deceased, the said court may cite such suspected person to appear
before it and may examine him on oath, upon the matter of such
complaint.
Section 3826. If the person so cited shall refuse to appear and
submit to such examination, or to answer such interrogatories as may
be put to him touching the matter of such complaint, the court may,
by warrant for that purpose, commit him to the common jail of the
county, there to remain in close custody until he shall submit to the
order of the court; all such interrogatories and answers shall be in
writing and shall be signed by the party examined, and filed with tin
court.
Section 3827. The county court, upon the complaint on oath of
any executor or administrator, may cite any person who shall have
been intrusted by such executor or administrator with any part of the
estate of a deceased person, to appear before such court, and may re
quire such person to render a full account, on oath, of any money,
goods, chattels, bonds, accounts or other papers belonging to sne'a
estate, which shall have come to his possession in trust for such ex
ecutor or administrator, and of his proceedings thereon. If the per
son so cited shall refuse to appear and render such account, the court
may proceed against him as provided in the preceding section.
Section 3828. "When any debtor of a deceased person shall be un
able to pay all his debts, the executor or administrator, with the a;pr
jroval of the county court, may compoundwith such debtor and give
im a discharge upon receiving a fair and just dividend of li is effects.
im
Section 3829. When any mortgagee of real estate, or any assignee
of any mortgage of real estate, shall die without having foreclosed the
right of redemption, all the interest in the mortgaged premises conveyed
t. 1 jiji_ ii iiiit -i 1
by such mortgage, and the debt secured thereby, shall be considered as
personal assets in the hands of the executor or administrator, and he
may foreclose the same, and have any other remedy for the collection
of such debt, which the deceased could have had if living, or may con
tinue any proceeding commenced by the deceased for that purpose.
Section 3830. In case of the redemption of any such mortgage, or
the sale of the mortgaged premises by virtue of a power of 6ale contained therein, or otherwise, the money paid thereon shall be received
by the executor or administrator, and he shall thereupon give all
necessary releases and receipts; and if upon the sale of the mortgaged
premises the same shall be bid in by the executor or administrator
for such debt, he shall be seized of the 6ame for the same persons,
whether creditors, next of kin, or others, who would have been enti
tled to the money if the premises had been redeemed or purchased
at such sale by some other person.
Section 3831. Any real estate so held by an executor or administrator,
or which may be purchased by him as such upon a sale on
execution for the recovery of a debt due the estate, may be 6old for
the payment of debts ordegacies and the charges of administration,
in the same manner and with like effect as is prescribed in section
three thousand two hundred and sixty eight.
Section 3832. When there shall be a deficiency of assets in the
hands of an executor or administrator, and when the deceased shall
in his lifetime have conveyed any real estate, or any right or interest
therein, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid any right,
debt or duty, or shall have 60 conveyed such estate that by law the
deeds or conveyances are void as against creditors, the executor or8
administrator may and it shall be his duty to commence and proseecu
te to final judgment any proper action for the recoveiy of the
same, and may recover for the benefit of the creditors all such real
estate so fraudulently conveyed, and may also, for the benefit of
creditors, take possession of or 6iie for and recover all goods, chattels,
rights or credits which may have been so fraudulently conveyed by
the deceased in his lifetime, whatever may have been the manner of
such fraudulent conveyance.
Section 3833. No executor or administrator shall be bound to sue
for snch estate as mentioned in the preceding section for the benefit
of creditors, except on the application of creditors, nor unless thecreditor
making the application shall pay such part of the costs and ex
penses, or give such security to the executor or administrator there
for, as the county court shall deem just and eqnitable.
Section 3S34r. All real estate so recovered as provided in section
three thousand eight hundred and thirty two, shall be sold for the payment of debts, in the same manner as if the deceased had died seized
thereof, upon obtaining license therefore from the county court; and
the proceeds of all goods, chattels, rights and credits recovered as
aforesaid shall be appropriated to pay the debts of the deceased, in the
same manner as other assets in the hands of the executor or admin
istrator.
Section 3835. Whenever there shall be just reason to apprehend
thct the estate of a deceased person, as set forth in the inventory returned into court by his executor or administrator, may be insufficient
to pay the debts of the testator or intestate, any one or more of the
judgment creditors, or creditors whose claims against the deceased shall
have been allowed by the county court or commissioners appointed by
said court, may, on behalf of all, bring an action in the circuit court,
to reach and subject to sale any real estate or interest therein, or any
other assets, not included in such inventory, which, according to law,
ought to be subjected to the payment of such debts.
Section 3836. Such creditor's action shall not be brought to trial
' until the sufficiency or the insufficiency of the estate in the hands of
the executor or administrator to pay the debts of the deceased shall be
ascertained; if found sufficient, such action shall be dismissed at the
cost of the plaintifff; if found insufficient, such action may proceed to
trial and judgment, and any property described in the complaint which
ought, by law, to be subjected to the payment of the debts of the de
ceased, shall be sold under the order of such circuit court; and the
proceeds, after paying costs, shall be applied to the payment of such
debts in the same manner as other assets.
Section 3837. The county court, on the application of the executor
or administrator, may at any time order the personal estate of any
deceased person to be sold at public or private sale, when it shall appear
to be necessary for the purpose of paying debts, legacies, expenses
of administration, or for the preservation of the property, or when it
shall be requested by all the heirs residing in this state; or the court
may order 6uch personal property to be sold at public or private sale
as the executor or administrator may find most beneficial. If the
order be to sell at auction, the court 6hall direct the mode of giving
notice of the time and place of sale.
CHAPTER CLXV.
OF THE PROOF AND PAYMENT OF DEBTS AND LEGACIES.
Section 3S38. On granting letters testamentary or of administration
by any county court, it shall be the duty of such court to receive,
examine and adjust the claims and demands of all persons against the
deceased ; but such court may, in its discretion, upon the application of
the executor or administrator, or of any party in interest, appoint not
exceeding three suitable persons to be commissioners to receive, examine and adjust such claims and demands, whenever it shall appear
probable to said court that such claims or demands, in the aggregate,
exceed five hundred dollars, and that there are assets amounting to
that sum that ought, under existing laws, to be applied to the payment
of debts.
Section 3839. The county court shall appoint convenient times
aQd places when and where the court, or commissioners, will receive,
examine and adjust such claims, and within sixty days after granting
letters testamentary or of administration, snail give notice of the timea
and places fixed for that purpose, and of the time limited for creditors
to present their claims, by causing a notice thereof to be published
in a newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty tire,
for four successive weeks, or in such other manner as the court ma*"
direct. The first publication, if any, shall be within ten days after
making the order. The commissioners shall have power to adjourn
to any other time or place as circumstances may require. They shall
be sworn to a faithful discharge of their duty, ana any one of them
shall have power to administer oaths to parties and witnesses in mat
ters on trial before them. If any commissioner shall at any time
die, remove out of the state, refuse, or become in any way in.capacitatcd to perform his duties as such, the court may appoint another in
his place.
Section 3840. The county court shall allow such time as the circnmstances
of the case shall require for the creditors to present their
claims for examination and allowance, which time shall not in the first
instance exceed one year nor be less than six months. Such time may
be enlarged or extended before, or within two months after, the expiration
of the time previously limited has expired, for good cause shown,
upon application of a creditor upon reasonable notice to the executor
or administrator, if any, and otherwise to such parties in interest as the
court shall direct, but not so that the whole time will exceed two years
from the time of granting letters testamentary or of administration;
such claim shall be heard by the court or commissioners as the court
shall direct
Section 3841. When a creditor against whom the deceased had
claims shall present a claim to the county court or commissioners, the
executor or administrator shall exhibit the claims of the deceased in offset
to the claims of the creditor, and the court or commissioners shall
ascertain and allow the balance against or in favor of the estate as the
same shall be found; but no claim barred by the statute of limitations
sliall be allowed by the court or commissioners in favor of or against
the estate, as a setoff or otherwise.
Section 3S42. At the expiration of the time limited for creditors
to present their claims against the deceased, or as soon thereafter as
practicable, the court or commissioners shall in writing make a state
ment embracing lists of the claims presented against the deceased,
and those exhibited in offset, and stating how much was allowed
and how much disallowed in each case, together with the final bal
ance, whether in favor of the creditor or the estate ; and the same shall
be recorded and stand as the judgment of the court. If the balance
is in favor of the estate, the collection thereof may be enforced by
execution.
Section 3843. The court or commissioners shall have power to try
And decide upon all claims which by law survive against or in favor of
executors and administrators, except claims for the possession of or title
to real estate, and may examine and allow all demands at the then
present value thereof, which may be payable at a future day, including
claims payable in specific articles, and may offset such demands in the
same manner in favor of the estate; but this shall not prevent any
, . . . .' , , 1-1111, 11
executor or administrator from paying any debts which sliall be payable
at a future day, according to the terms and at the time specified in the
contract.
Section 3844. Every person having a claim against a deceased person, proper to be allowed by the court or commissioners, who shall not,
ufter notice given as required by section three thousand eight hun■Ired and thirty nine, exhibit his claim to the court or commissioners
within the time limited for that purpose, shall be forever barred from
recovering such demand, or from setting off the same in any action
whatever.
Section 3845. No action shall be commenced against an executor
or administrator, excepting actions for the recovery of specific real or
personal property, or actions to establish, enforce or foreclose a lien
or right of lien on real or personal property. Nor shall any attachment
or execution be issued against the estate, of the deceased, or the execu
tor or administrator thereof, until the expiration of the time limited
for the payment of debts, except as provided in sections two thousand
seven hundred and fifty one and two thousand nine hundred and
seventy eight. Nothing in this section shall prevent any person hav
ing a lawful claim against a deceased person from bringing an action
therefore against the executor, administrator, heir, devisee or legatee of
such deceased person, when no time has been fixed in which creditors
may present their claims against the deceased for allowance, or when no
notice of snch limitation has been ordered or given.
Section 3846. All actions which may be pending against a deceased
person at the time of his death, may, if the cause of action survive, be
prosecuted to final judgment, and the executor or administrator may be
admitted to defend the same, as provided in chapter one hundred and
twenty seven. If any judgment shall be rendered against the executor
or administrator, the court rendering it shall certify the same to the
county court; and the amount thereof shall be paid in the same manner
as other claims duly allowed against the estate, except as provided in the
preceding section.
Section 3S47. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent
executor or administrator from commencing and prosecuting anyaction against any other person, or from prosecuting any action commenced
by the deceased in his lifetime, for the recovery of any debt or claim, to
final judgment, or from having execution on any judgment. In such
case the defendant may set oft any claim he may have against the de
ceased, instead of presenting it to the court or commissioners, and all
mutual claims may be setoff in such action. If judgment shall beren^ere£
jn favor 0f tiie defendant, the same shall be certified by the court
rendering it to the county court, and be considered the true balance, and
paid as other claims allowed against the estate.
Section 3848. When two or more persons shall be indebted on any
joint contract, or upon a judgment founded on a joint contract, and either
of them shall die, his estate shall be liable therefore, and the claim may
be allowed by the court or commissioners as if the contract had been
joint and several, or as if the judgment had been against him alone, and
the other parties to such joint contract may be compelled to contribute
or to pay the same, if they would have been liable to do so upon payment
thereof by the deceased,
Section 3849. "Within sixty days after the expiration of the time
,. . . . ... .«., / , . r j ■ ■
limited for creditors to present their claims, every executor or adminis
trator shall render an account of his administration to the county court,
and such court shall thereupon direct the executor or administrator to
proceed forthwith to the payment of the debts, and to a final settlement
of the estate, in the manner prescribed by law, unless it shall satisfactorily
appear to the court:
1. That the personal assets in the hands of the executor or adminis
trator are insufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, and that there is
reaj estate that can be mortgaged, leased or sold to pay such debts;
2. That an appeal has been taken from some action of the county court
or commissioners, which is still pending, and necessarily delays the set
tlement of the estate;
3. That collectible debts due the estate have not been collected ;
4. That a contingent claim has been allowed against the estate of the
deceased and that the final settlement of the estate is necessarily delayed
thereby; or
5. That some other good and sufficient cause for delay exists.
Section 3850. Whenever it shall satisfactorily appear to the county
court that any one or more of the causes for delay mentioned in the
preceding section exists, such court shall, by order, fix a time within
which the executor or administrator shall pay the debts and legacies
and make a final settlement of the estate and of his account as executor
or administrator; but such time shall in no case exceed twelve months,
except when granted upon the petition of the executor or administrator,
under oath, setting forth the assets remaining in his possession belong
ing to the estate of the deceased, the debts and legacies that remain
unpaid, the reasons why the delay in the settlement of the estate prayed
for is necessary, and what additional time is deemed requisite for a full
settlement of such estate, and upon notice to all parties interested of
the time and place of hearing such petition, given by publication for
three successive weeks before the day of hearing in a newspaper, as
provided in section four thousand and forty five, or in such other man
ner as the court may direct. On such hearing the court may in its
discretion grant such further time for the payment of the debts and
legacies and the settlement of the estate, as the nature of the case may
require, and may again extend the time upon like petition and notice;
but in no case shall the time be extended beyond six years from the
time of granting letters testamentary or of administration.
Section 3851. When an executor or administrator shall die or
become incapable of discharging his trust, and another administrator
of the same estate shall be appointed, the county court may for cause
shown, without notice, extend the time for the payment of the debts and
legacies and the settlement of the estate for six" months beyond the
time allowed the original executor or administrator, and may extend
the time for a longer period upon petition and notice, as required in the
preceding section; but in no case shall the extended time exceed six
months beyond the time limited in the preceding section.
PAYMENT OF DEBTS.
Section 3852. If, after the amount of the claims against any estate shall
have been ascertained by the court or commissioners, it shall appear that
the executor or administrator has in his possession sufficient to pay all
the debts, he shall pay the same in full within the time limited for that
purpose. If the assets received by the executor or administrator, and
which can be appropriated to the payment of debts, shall not be suf
ficient, he shall, after paying necessary expenses of administration, pay
the debts against the estate in the following order:
1. The necessary' funeral expenses;
2. The expenses of the last sickness;
3. Debts having a preference under the laws of the United States;
4. Debts due to other creditors.
If there shall not be assets enough to pay all the debts of any one
class, each creditor shall Ise paid a dividend in proportion to his claim;
and no creditor of any one class shall receive any payment until all of
those of the preceding class shall be fully paid.
Section 3853. After the time limited for creditors to present their
claims has expired, and the amount of the indebtedness of the deceased
has been ascertained by the court or commissioners, such court shall
make an order or judgment for the payment of the debts of the
deceased, in whole or in part, out of the assets in the hands of the
executor or administrator for that purpose, as the circumstances of the
estate shall require.
Section 3851. If an appeal shall be taken from the decision of the
cour(. or commissioners in respect to any claim and shall remain unde
termined, the county court may suspend the order or judgment for the
payment of debts mentioned in the preceding section, or may order the
payment in whole or in part, of the claims that have been allowed and
from which no appeal has been taken, leaving in the hands of the eiecutor,
or administrator, sufficient assets to make a like payment upon
the claims disputed and pending upon appeal. When the disputed
claims shall have been finally settled, the county court shall order the
same to be paid out of the assets retained, to the same extent, and in
the same proportion as the claims of the other creditors.
Section 3S55. If the whole of the debts shall not have been paid in
full under the first order or judgment of the court for that purpose,
and if the whole assets applicable thereto shall not have been used, or if
other assets shall afterward come to the hands of the executor or admin
istrator that ought to be used in paying debts, the court may from time
to time, according to the circumstances of the case, make further orders
or judgments for the payment of the debts.
Section 3856. Whenever an order or judgment shall have been
made by the county court, for the payment of the debts in whole or in
part, the executor or administrator after the time fixed for the paymerit shall arrive, shall be personally liable to the creditors for their
debts or the dividend thereon, as for his own debt; and he shall be
liable on his bond, and the same may be put in action on the applica
tion of a creditor whose debt or dividend shall not be paid as above
mentioned.
Section 3857. When the time for paying the debts of a deceased
person shall be finally limited by order of the county court, whether the
estate be solvent or insolvent, the court may on the application of the
executor or administrator, by order, cause notice to be given to the cred
itors of the time fixed for the payment of such debts, by publication in a
newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty five, for three
successive weeks, or in such other manner as the court may direct If,
after such notice shall have been given, any creditor shall neglect to
demand from the executor or administrator his debt or the dividend
thereon, within two years from the time so limited for the payment of
debts, or if the notice shall be given after such time, within two years
from the last publication, the claim of such creditor shall be forever
barred.
CONTINGENT CLAIMS.
Section 3S58. If any person shall be liable as security for the deceased,
or have any other contingent claim against his estate which cannot
be proved as a debt before the court or commissioners, or allowed
by them, the same may be presented with the proper proof totiie court
or commissioners, and they shall embrace the same in a statement as
provided in section three thousand eight hundred and forty two. If
the court shall be satisfied by the proof exhibited, it may order the ex
ecutor or administrator to retain in his hands sufficient estate to i«y
such contingent claim, when the same shall become absolute: or if the
estate shall be insolvent, sufficient to pay a percentage thereof equal to
the dividends of the other creditors.
Section 3S59. If such contingent claim shall become absolute, and
shall be presented to the county court at any time witliin two yesiri
from the time limited for other creditors to present their claims, it may
be allowed by such court upon due proof, in the same manner as other
claims presented for allowance within the time limited for that purpose.
If such contingent claim shall be allowed as herein provided, or estab
lished on appeal, the creditor shall be entitled to receive payment there
on to the same extent as other creditors, if the estate retained by the
executor or administrator shall be sufficient for that purpose.
Section 3860. If the claim of any person shall accrue, or become
absolute at any time after the time limited for creditors to present their
claims, the person having such claim may present it to the county
court, and prove the same, at any time within one year after it shall
accrue or become absolute, and if established in the manner provided
in this chapter, the executor or administrator shall be required to pay
it, if lie shall have sufficient assets for that purpose, and shall be re
quired to pay such part as he shall have assets to pay; and if real or
personal estate shall afterward come to his possession, he shall be
required to pay such claim, or such part thereof as he may have assets
sufficient to pay, not exceeding the proportions of other creditors, in
such time as the county court may prescribe.
Section 3861. When a claim shall be presented within one year
from the time when it shall accrue, and be established as mentioned in
the preceding section, and the executor or administrator shall not have
sufficient assets to pay the whole of such claim, the creditor shall have
a right to recover such part of his claim, as the executor or administra
tor has not assets to pay, against the heirs, devisees or legatees who
shall have received sufficient real and personal property from the estate
that was liable for the payment of the debts of the deceased.
Section 3862. All the estate of the testator or intestate, real and
personal, except the homestead of the deceased and the property disposed of under the provisions of section three thousand nine hundred
and thirty five, shall be liable to be disposed of for the payment of his
debts and the expenses of administering his estate; but if a testator
shall make provision by his will, or designate therein the estate to be
appropriated for the payment of his debts, the expenses of administra
tion or family expenses, they shall be paid accordingly, and out of the
estate thus appropriated, so far as the same may be sufficient; but no
general direction in any will to pay the debts of the testator out of his
property shall subject the homestead to the payment thereof.
Section 38G3. If the provisions made by the will or the estate
appropriated shall not be sufficient to pay the debts, expenses of administration, and family expenses, such part of the estate, real or personal,
as shall not have been disposed of by the will, if any, shall be first appro
priated as provided by law for that purpose.
Section 3S64. The estate, real and personal, given by will to any
devisees or legatees, when required for that purpose, shall be held liable
for the payment of debts, expenses of administration, and family ex
penses, in proportion to the amount of the several devises or legacies;
except that specific devises and legacies, and the person to whom they
shall be made, may be exempted if there shall be other sufficient estate,
and it shall appear to the court necessary in order to carry into effect
the intention of the testator.
Section 3805. "When the estate given by any will shall be fiable for
the payment of debts and expenses as mentioned in the preceding section, or is liable to be taken to make up the share of a child born after
the execution of the will, or of a child or the issue of a child not provided for in the will, as provided in sections two thousand two hundred
and eighty six, two thousand two hundred and eighty seven, and two
"thousand two hundred and eighty eight, the executor shall have the
right to retain the possession of the same until such liability shall be
settled by order of the county court, and until the devises and lega
cies so liable shall be accordingly assigned by order of such court; and
when the same can be properly done, any devisee or legatee may make
his claim to such court to have such liability settled, and his devise or
legacy assigned to him.
Section 3866. All the devisees or legatees who shall, with the oonsent
of the executor or otherwise, have possession of the estate given to
them by will, before such liability shall be settled by the county court,
shall hold the same subject to the several liabilities mentioned in the
preceding section, and shall be held to contribute, according to their
respective liabilities, to the executor or to any devises or legatee from
whom the estate devised or bequeathed to him may have been token
for the payment of debts or expenses, or to make up the share of i
child born after the making of the will, or of a child or the issue of a
child omitted in the will; and the persons who may, as heirs, have re
ceived the estate, not disposed of by will, shall be liable to contribute
among themselves in like manner as the devisees or legatees.
Section 3867. If any person liable to contribute according to the
provjs;ong 0f tne preceding section, shall be insolvent aud unable to pay
his share, the others shall be severally liable for the loss occasioned by
such insolvency, in proportion to, and to the extent of, the estate they
may have received; and if any of the persons so liable to contribute
shall die before having paid his share, the claim shall be valid against
his estate, in the same manner as if it had been his proper debt.
Section 3868. The county court may, by judgment for that purpose,
settle the amount of the several liabilities as provided in the pre
ceding sections, and adjudge how much and in what manner, each per
son shall contribute, and may issue execution to enforce its judgment
as circumstances may require. The claimant may also have a remedy
by any proper action.
CHAPTER CLXVI.
OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF DOWER AND HOMESTEADS.
Section 3869. When a widow is entitled to dower in lands of which
jjer ]llisband died seized, and her right to dower is not disputed by the
heirs or devisees, or any person claiming under them or either of them,
it may be assigned to her in whatever counties the lands may lie, by
the county court for the county in which the estate of her husband is
being settled, upon petition of the widow or any other person inter
ested in the lands. Notice of the time and place of hearing such peti
tion, shall be given to such heirs, devisees or other persons, in such
manner as said court shall direct.
Section 3S70. For the purpose of assigning such dower, the county
court shall issue its warrant to three discreet and disinterested person;-.
authorizing and requiring them to set off the dower by metes and
bounds, when it can be done without injury to the whole estate. Such
commissioners shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties
and as soon as practicable shall set off the dower according to the command
of such warrant, and mate retnrn of their doings, with an ac
count of their charges and expenses, in writing, to the county court;
and the same being approved and recorded, and an attested copy thereof
recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county where the
lands are situated, the dower shall remain fixed and certain, unless such
approval be set aside or reversed on appeal. One-half of the costs of
such proceedings shall be paid by the widow, and the other half by the
adverse party.
Section 3871. When the estate out of which dower is to be assigned
consists of a mill or other tenement, which cannot be divided
without damage to the whole, and in all cases where the estate cannot
be divided by metes and bounds, the dower may be assigned of the
rents, issues and profits thereof, to be had and received by the widow
as a tenant in common with the other owners of the estate.
Section 3872. When a widow is entitled to dower in land of which
her husband died seized, she may continue to occupy the same, with
the children or other heirs of the deceased, or may receive one-third
part of the rents, issues and profits thereof, so long as the heirs or others
interested do not object, without having the dower assigned.
HOMESTEADS.
Section 3873. When a widow, heir or" devisee is entitled to the
homestead of which her husband, the testator or intestate, died seized,
and the right of the widow, heir or devisee thereto is not disputed by
the heirs, devisees, creditors or any person claiming under them or either
of them, and the widow, heirs, devisees and the creditors or other per
sons in interest are unable to agree as to the limits and boundaries
thereof, the same may be assigned to the widow, heir or devisee in the
same manner and with like effect, and upon like notice and proceed
ings, that are required by this chapter upon the assignment or dower,
and the costs shall be paid in the same manner.
CHAPTER CLXVII.
OF THE SALE OF LANDS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Section 3874. When the personal estate of any deceased person, in
the hands of his executor or administrator, shall be insufficient to pay
all his debts, with charges of administration, his executor or administrator
may mortgage, lease or sell his real estate (except the homestead)
for that purpose, on obtaining a license therefore, and proceeding therein
in the manner provided in this chapter.
Section 3875. In order to obtain such license, the executor or admi'nistrator shall present a petition, verified by himself, to the county
court from which he received his appointment, setting forth the amount
of personal estate that has come to his hands, and how much thereof, if
any, remains undisposed of; the amount of the debts outstanding
against the deceased, so far as the same can be ascertained; a descrip"
tion of all the real estate of which the testator or intestate died seized,
and the condition and value of the respective parcels thereof; and tie
names of the heirs, designating those that are minors, if any.
Section 3S7G. If it shall appear by such petition, that the personal
estate in the hands of the executor or administrator is insufficient to
pay the debts of the deceased and expenses of administration, and thai
'* is necessary to sell or incumber the whole or part of the real estate
for the payment of such debts and expenses, the county court shall
make an order fixing the time and place to be therein named, not le*
than four nor more than eight weeks from the time of making suet
order, when and where such petition will be heard.
Section 3877. Every such order, or a notice of such hearing in the
form and manner prescribed in section four thousand and fifty, shall be
published at least four successive weeks before the day fixed for tie
hearing, in a newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty
five; and a copy thereof shall be served personally on all persom
interested in the estate and residing in the county in which such applica
tion is made, at least twenty days before such day; but the notice mar
be dispensed with, if all persons interested in the estate shall signify in
writing their assent to such mortgage, lease or sale.
Section 3878. If it shall appear to the county court by the pettion,
or other competent evidence, that any person interested in snch
estate is a minor and has no general guardian residing in the conn?.
the court shall, at or before the time of making the order for heariii?
t|ie pefc}t;j0n? appoint some disinterested freeholder of said county, gnarii:in
of such minor for the sole purpose of appearing for him and tak
ing care of his interest in the proceedings, and the service of all order?
and notices shall be made on such special guardian. If such minor
shall have a general guardian in the county, such general guardisj
shall appear and take care of the interest of such minor, and all orders
and notices, required to be served, shall be served on such gener.t
guardian.
Seotion 3879. The county court at the time and place appointed re
order, or at such oilier time and place as the hearing shall h
adjourned to, upon proof of the due service and publication of snch
order or notice or upon filing the consent in writing to such mortgage,
lease or sale, of all the persons interested, shall proceed to the hearing
on such petition, and if such consent be not filed, shall hear and exam
ine the allegations and proofs of the petitioner, and all persons inter
ested in the estate who shall think proper to oppose the application.
The parties and witnesses may be examined on either side,
Section 3SS0. If on such hearing, it shall appear to the court, that
^ie heirs or devisees of the real estate in question, or any person claim
ing under them wish to contest the validity of any debt or claim
which may be represented as existing against the testator or intestate,
he shall be allowed to do so and to set up the statute of limitations in
bar of such claim; and the admission of any such claims, so barred, br
an executor or administrator, shall not be deemed to revive the same,
so as in any way to affect the real estate of said deceased; and t'ie
hearing on such petition shall be postponed until the liability of the
estate for such claim is finally determined,
Section 3S81. The court shall make no order for the mortgaging
leasing or sale of the real property of the deceased, until upon examin*
tion it shall appear to said court:
j 'pjiat t]ie executor or administrator making such application tai
fully complied with the preceding provisions of this chapter;
2. That the debts, for the purpose of satisfying which the application
is made, are justly due and owing;
3. That the personal estate of the deceased is insufficient for the pay
ment of such debts.
Section 3882. "When the facts mentioned in the preceding section,
shall be established to the satisfaction of the county court, said court shall
nest ascertain whether sufficient money to pay such debts can be raised
by mortgaging or leasing the real property of the deceased or any part
thereof. If it appear that money can be so raised advantageously to such
estate, the court shall direct a mortgage or lease to be made for that pur
pose. No lease shall be made for the purpose aforesaid, unless some of
the persons interested in the real estate of the deceased to be leased, shall
be under the age of twenty one years ; nor shall such lease be for a longer
time than until the youngest person, interested in the real estate leased,
shall have become twenty one years of age. Such lease or mortgage,
when made as aforesaid, shall be as valid and effectual as if executed by
the testator or intestate while in life.
Section 3883. If it shall appear to the county court that the money
required cannot be raised by mortgage or lease, advantageously to the"
estate, the court shall make an order authorizing the executor or administr.itor
to sell so much of the real estate of the testator or intestate a8H
shall he sufficient to pay the debts left unpaid afrer the personal estate
of the deceased is exhausted; but no order shall be made for mortgag
ing, leasing or selling the homestead, except as provided in the next section.
Section 3884. Whenever the homestead of the deceased is part only
of a tract of land, the whole of which was subject to a mortgage at the
time of the death of the deceased, and it shall appear that all other real
estate and personal'property of the deceased has been applied to the pay
ment of his debts, or is insufficient therefore, and that the part of the
mortgaged premises not included in the homestead cannot be sold sepa
rately therefrom, without injury to the interests of the parties, the court
may grant a license for the sale of the whole of the tract; or if a part
of the tract can be sold separately, and only a part is necessary to be
sold in connection with the homestead to prevent such injury, then a
license to sell such part separately first, which can be so separately sold,
and the remainder afterwards, may be granted. The order of license,
in either case, shall direct that the entire estate or interest, including the
interest of the mortgagee, be so sold; but no such license to sell shall
be made when the mortgage debt is not wholly due, unless the mort
gagee shall consent in writing thereto; and when the mortgage debt
shall be due, no sale shall be made under any such license for a less
sum than the amount of such mortgage debt, with interest and costs of
sale, unless the mortgagee shall consent thereto in writing, and release
his mortgage thereon.
The proceeds of the sale shall, under the direction of the court, be
applied in the following order:
"I. The expenses of the license and sale shall be paid;
2. The mortgage debt, making a proper rebate of interest on any sum
not due, shall next be paid;
3. The court shall next ascertain and set apart the value of the home
stead sold, irrespective of the mortgage thereon;
4. If there be any residue of the proceeds remaining, the same shall
be applied to the payment of debts, as in other cases.
The sum set apart, as the value of the homestead, shall be paid to
the owners thereof, by descent or devise, unless such owners, or some of
them, be minors, in which case the court may, if it co.n be justly done,
separate the amount belonging to such minors and pay the same to their
guardian, and pay the amount belonging to any person of full age to
such person ; or if such separation or the funds cannot be made will
certainty and with justice to the interests of such minors, the court msj
order the whole invested until such minors reach majority, or such sep
aration of the fund can be made and meantime apply the income frok
such investment to the use of the persons entitled thereto, according D.
their rights and interests therein. The proceeds of such homestc*:
shall possess all the privileges and exemptions which appertained t?
law to the homestead before such sale.
Section 3885. "Whenever an order shall be made by the county
court for the sale of any real estate for the payment of the debts of the
deceased and charges of administration, and such real estate shall be
to the rijdit of dower in the widow, it shall be lawful for the
executor or administrator to enter into a contract in writing with the
widow, by which she may agree to accept in lieu of dower such a per
centage on the amount realized on the sale as shall be deemed, upon the
principles of law applicable to annuities, a reasonable satisfaction for
such dower; which said contract shall be sealed and witnessed by two
witnesses, and filed with the county court, together with an affidavit
setting forth the age of the widow. The said contract, when acknowledged and assented to by said widow before the county court, and ap
proved by said court, and the acknowledgment indorsed thereon,' shall
operate as a release of the dower right of the widow, in the real estate.
and the same shall be sold free from all claim of dower. Immediate!;
after the sale, so ordered, shall have been made, the executor or 10ministrator shall file with the county court the receipt of the widow for
the said percentage taken in lieu of dower, or he shall deposit the same
amount with the county court for her use, to be paid to her when she
indorses a receipt for the same on said contract.
Section 3S86. No license to mortgage, lease or sell real estate shall
De granted, if any person interested in the estate shall give bonds to the
judge of the county court, in such sum and with such sureties as he
shall direct and approve, with condition to pay all the debts and the
expenses of administration, so far as the goods and chattels, rights ar/1
credits of the deceased shall be insufficient therefore, within such time
as the county court shall direct. Such bond shall be for the seenritj,
and may be prosecuted for the benefit, of the creditors as well as tie
executor or administrator.
Section 3887. "When the executor or administrator is authorized to
mortgage, lease or sell any real estate for the payment of debts, he stall,
before the sale, give bond to the judge of the county court, with suffi
cient sureties, to account for all the proceeds of the sale, and to dispose
of the same according to law, and take and subscribe the oath prescribed
by section three thousand nine hundred and fifteen.
Section 3888. The order shall specify the hinds to be sold, and the
count.Y court may therein direct the order in which several parcels shall
be sold. If it appear that any part of such real estate, or any estateori
interest therein, has been devised, and not charged in such devise will
the payment of debts, the count}' court shall order that part not devi*i
to be first sold; and if it appear that any lands devise! or descends
have been sold by the devisees or heirs, then the lands remaining unsok
shall be ordered to be sold first.
Section 3S89. Upon making such order for the mortgaging, leas
ing or selling real estate, and filing with the county court a bond*
required by this chapter, a certified copy of such order shall be delivered
by the court to the executor or administrator, who shall thereupon be authorized to mortgage, lease or sell the real estate as therein
directed, within one year after making the order and not after that
period. But the court making the order may, on application of the
executor or administrator, and for good cause shown, extend the time
for making a sale of real estate, but not longer than two years after the
date of the original order.
Section 3890. License to sell real estate as provided in this chapter
nay extend to the reversion of the dower of the widow of a deceased
person; and if such reversion be not sold with the other real estate, it
nay be sold after the expiration of the widow's term.
Section 3S91. "When a sale is ordered, notice of the time and place
of holding the same shall be posted in three of the most public places
in the town or ward in which the land is situated, and shall be published in a newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty
five, for three successive weeks before the day fixed for the sale, and
the last publication shall not be more than ten days before such day,
in which notice the lands to be sold shall be described with reasonable
certainty.
Section 3892. Such sale shall be in the county where the lands
are situated, at public auction, between the hours of nine o'clock in the
norning and the setting of the sun of the same day. But where theN
lands are adjacent and lie in two or more counties, the sale may be had
in either, but the court shall by order designate in which; and if there
be a newspaper printed in more than one ot said counties, the court shall
direct in which of such newspapers the notice of sale shall be published,
and when so published, it shall be sufficient.
Section 3893. An affidavit of the executor, administrator, or any
other person having knowledge of the fact, that notice of any such sale
was given as provided in this chapter, filed in the county court, together
with a copy of the notice, shall be admitted as evidence of the time,
place and manner of giving such notice.
Section 3894. If at the time appointed for any such sale, the executor
or administrator shall deem it for the interest of all persons con
cerned therein, he may adjourn the same from time to time, not exceed
ing in all three months. In case of such adjournment, notice thereof
shall be given by a public declaration at the time and place first fixed
for the sale. If the adjournment shall be for more than one day,
further notice shall be given by posting or publishing the same, or
both, as the time and circumstances may admit.
Section 3895. On such sale, the executor or administrator may give
such length of credit, not exceeding three years, and for not more
than three-fourths of the purchase money, as shall seem best calculated
to produce the highest price, and as shall have been directed, or shall
be approved by the county court, and shall take such security for the
amount of the credit given upon the premises sold, as the court shall
direct and approve.
Section 3896". The executor or administrator making such sale
shall immediately thereafter make a return of his doings upon the
order of sale, in pursuance of which it was made, to the county court
granting the order. Said court shall examine the proceedings, and may
also examine the executor, administrator, or any other person, on oath,
touching the same. If such court shall be of the opinion that the pro
ceedings were unfair, or that the sum bid is disproportionate to the
value of the land sold, and that a sum exceeding such bid, exclusive
Jt
of the expense of a new sale, may be obtained, said court may vacate
such sale and direct another to be had, of which notice shall he given,
and the sale shall be in all respects conducted as if no previous sale
had taken place. If it shall appear to the county court that the sale
was legally made and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid thereon
was not disproportionate to the value of the property sold, or if dispro
portionate, that a greater sum as above specified cannot be obtained,
said court shall make an order confirming such sale and directing con
veyances to be executed.
Section 3897. All sales and conveyances of land made by executor?
Qr acjministrators, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, except a>
otherwise provided in section three thousand eight hundred and eighty
* O ~ ■
four, shall be subject to all charges thereon by mortgage or otherwise,
existing at the time of the death of the testator or intestate, where suet
mortgage or charge is upon a single lot or tract of land. In case the
estate of the deceased shall be in any way liable for the amount secured
by any such mortgage, or for any such charge, such sale shall not be
confirmed by the county court, until the purchaser shall execute a bond
to the executor or administrator as required in section three thousand
nine hundred and one. But in case the charge by mortgage or other. . , ■. i * i j , • i xi
wise is upon two or more lots or parcels of land, greater in value than
the amount of said mortgage or liens thereon, the court ordering die sale,
on being satisfied that it would be most beneficial to the parties inter
ested in said land that the same be sold freed from such encumbrances,
may so order; in which case, sufficient of the monies made by the sale
shall be appropriated or invested by order of the county court, on con
firming the sale, to pay and satisfy the said lien, and the balance that
may remain shall be applied in course of administration as assets in
the hands of the executor or administrator.
Section 3898. The proceeds arising from mortgage, lease or sale of
estate, or from the sale of the interest of any deceased person in
real estate held under contract, as provided in this chapter, shall be
deemed assets in the hands of the executor or administrator, in like
manner as if the same had been originally part of the goods and chat
tels of the deceased; and the executor or administrator, and the sure
ties in his administration bond, shall be accountable and liable therefore.
Section 3899. When a testator shall have given any legacy by a
^.jj ^^ .g eg-ectna] to p^g or cnarge real estate, and his goods, chat
tels, rights and credits shall be insufficient to pay such legacy, together
with the debts and charges of administration, the executor or adminis
trator with the will annexed, may be licensed to sell, mortgage or lease
his real estate for that purpose in the same manner and upon the same
terms and conditions, as are prescribed in this chapter in the case of i
sale, mortgage or lease for the payment of debts.
8ALE OF LANDS HELD UNDER CONTRACT.
Section 3900. If a deceased person, at the time of his death, was
gegge(j oj a contract- for the purchase of land, his interest in snch
laud, under such contract, may be sold on the application of his execntor
or administrator, in the same cases and in the same manner as if he had
died seized of such land; and the same proceedings may be had for that
purpose as are prescribed in this chapter in respect to lands of which
he died seized, except as hereinafter provided.
Section 3901. Such sale shall be made subject to all payments that
ma^ thereafter become due on such contract; and if there be any 6ucb
payment thereafter to become due, such sale shall not be confirmed bj
the county court, until the purchaser shall execute a bond to the executor
or administrator, for his benefit and indemnity, and for the benefit
and indemnity of the persons entitled to the interest of the deceased in
the lauds so contracted for, in double the whole amount of payments
thereafter to become due on such contract, with such sureties as the
county court shall approve, with condition that such purchaser will make
all payments for such land that shall become due after the date of such
sale, and will indemnify the executor or administrator and the persons
so entitled against all demands, costs, charges and expenses, by reason
of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract.
Section 3902. Upon the confirmation of such sale, the executor or
administrator shall execute to the purchaser an assignment of such contract, which assignment shall vest in the purchaser, his heirs and as
signs, all the right, interest and title of the person entitled to the inter
est of the decea?ed in the lands sold, at the time of the sale, and such
purchaser shall have the same rights and remedies against the vendor
of such land as the deceased would have had, were he living.
FOREIGN EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS MAT SELL LANDS.
Section 3903. When an executor or administrator shall be appointed
in any other state or territory of the United States, or in any
foreign country, on the estate of any person dying out of this state, and
no executor or administrator thereon shall be appointed in this state, the
foreign executor or administrator may file an authenticated copy of
his appointment in the county court of any county in which there may
be real estate of the deceased. Upon filing such copy, such foreign ex
ecutor or administrator may be licensed by such court to mortgage,
lease or sell real estate, or any interest therein, held by contract for the
purchase thereof, for the payment of debts or legacies and charges of
administration, in the same manner and upon the same terms and con
ditions as are prescribed in the case of an executor or administrator ap]X)inted in this state, except in the*particulars in which a different pro
vision is hereinafter made.
Section 3904. When it shall appear to the court granting the license,
that such foreign executor or administrator, is bound with suffi
cient surety or sureties in the state, territory or country in which he
was appointed, to account for the proceeds of such mortgage, lease or
sale for the payment of debts, legacies and charges of administration,
and a copy of such bond duly authenticated shall oe filed in such county
court, no further bond for that purpose shall be required of him. If a
copy of such bond shall not be filed as aforesaid, such executor or ad
ministrator, before making such mortgage, lease or sale, shall give bond
with sufficient sureties to the judge of the county court, with condition
to account for and dispose of the proceeds of such mortgage, lease or
sale, for the payment of the debts or legacies of the deceased, and the
charges of administration, according to the law of the state, territory or
country in which he was appointed.
Section 3905. When such foreign executor or administrator is Hcensed to sell more than is necessary for the payment of debts, legacies
and charges of administration, as before provided for in this chapter,
he shall, before making the sale, give bond, with sufficient sureties, to
the judge of the county court, with condition to account to such court
for all the proceeds of the sale that shall remain after payment of the
said debts, legacies and charges, and to dispose of the same according
to law.
Section 3906. Any such sale, which shall have been made by virtue of any order or license of any county court, by any executor or administrator,
or by any person acting as such, shall be deemed and held
to be as valid and effectual as if made by the judgment or order of &
court of general jurisdiction. And the title of any purchaser in gool
faith at such sale shall not be invalidated by reason of any omission or
error in the appointment of such executor or administrator, or by rea
son of any defect or irregularity in the proceedings before such court,
or any allegation of the want of jurisdiction on the part of such court,
except in the manner and for the causes that the same could be invali
dated in case such sale had been made pursuant to the order or judg
ment of a court of general jurisdiction.
CONVEYANCE OF LANDS OF DECEASED IN PURSUANCE OF CONTRACT.
Section 3907. When any person who is bound by contract, in writing,
to convey any real estate, shall die before making the conveyance,
the county court may make an order or judgment, authorizing and
directing the executor or administrator to convey such real estate to the
person entitled thereto, in all cases where such deceased person, if liv
ing, might be compelled to execute such conveyance.
Section 3908. On the presentation of a petition by any person
c]ajmjng to be entitled to such conveyance from any executor or ad
ministrator, setting forth the facts upon which such claim is predicated,
the county court shall appoint a time and place of hearing such peti
tion, and shall order notices of the pendency thereof, and of the time
and place of hearing, to be published in a newspaper as provided in
section four thousand and forty five, at least six successive weeks before
the day fixed for such hearing. The last publication shall not be more
than ten days before the day so fixed.
Section 3909. At the time and place appointed for such hearing,
or at such other time as the same may be adjourned to, upon proof br
affidavit of the due publication of the notice, the court shall proceed
to a hearing, and all persons interested in the estate may appear and
defend against such petition; and the court may examine on oath the
petitioner and all others who may be produced before it for that purpose.
Section 3910. After a full hearing upon such petition and exami
nation of the facts and circumstances of such claim, if the county court
shall be satisfied that the petitioner is entitled to a conveyance of the
real estate described in his petition, it shall thereupon make an order
or judgment, authorizing and directing the executor or administrator to
make and execute a conveyance thereof to such petitioner.
Section 3911. If no appeal be taken from such order or judgment,
within the time limited therefore by law, or if such order or judgment
^e affirmed on appeal, it shall be the duty of the executor or adminis
trator to execute the conveyance according to the direction contained in
such order or judgment; and a certified copy of the order or judgment
shall be recorded with the deed in the office of the register or deeds in
the county where the lands lie, and shall bo evidence of the correctness
of the proceedings, and of the authority of the executor or adminis
trator to make the conveyance. Every such conveyance shall be effectual
to pass the estate contracted, as fully as if the contracting party himself
were still living and then executed the same.
Section 3912. If, upon the hearing as hereinbefore provided, the
county court shall doubt the right of tbo petitioner to have a specific
performance of the contract, such court shall dismiss the petition with
out prejudice to the rights of the petitioner, who may thereafter maintain
an action in the circuit court to enforce a specific performance of the
contract.
SALE OF LANDS BY EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS AND GUARDIANS.
Section 3913. The county court may, in its discretion, authorize an
executor, administrator or guardian to have the lands, which he may be
licensed by said court to sell, appraised by three disinterested freeholders
of the county in which the lands, or some part thereof, lie. Such ap
praisal shall be under oath, which oath and appraisal shall be certified
in the usual form and filed in the court from which said license was is
sued. The executor, administrator or guardian so licensed shall offer
the lands at public auction in the manner provided bylaw; and if at
public auction no bid shall be made of a greater sum than the appraised
value, such executor, administrator or guardian may sell such lands at
private sale, at a price not less than the appraised value; and if not sold
within one year, they may be sold at public auction.
Section 3914. The executor, administrator or guardian making the
sale, or the guardian of any heir of the deceased, shall not directly or indirectly
purchase, or be interested in the purchase of any part of the real
estate so sold. All sales made contrary to the provisions of this section
6hall be void; but this section shall not prohibit any such purchase by a
gnardian for the benefit of his ward.
Section 3915. Every executor, administrator or guardian authorized
to sell real estate, as provided in this chapter, or in chapter one hundred
and seventy one, shall, before making such sale, take and subscribe an
oath, that in disposing of the real estate which he is licensed to sell, he
will exert his best endeavors to dispose of the same in such manner as
will be most for the advantage of all persons interested ; wjiich oath shall
be filed with the county court before the sale is confirmed.
Section 3916. In all cases of a sale by an executor, administrator or
guardian of part or the whole of the real estnte of his testator, intestate
or ward, under a license granted by any county court by virtue of the provisions
of this chapter, or by virtue of the provisions of chapter one hundred
and seventy one, whether such executor, administrator or guardian3
was appointed in this state or elsewhere, the surplus of the proceeds of
the sale remaining on the final settlement of the accounts shall be con
sidered as real estate, and disposed of among the persons, and in the same
proportions as the real estate would have been by the laws of this state,
if it had not been sold.
Section 3917. If any person shall appear and object to the granting
of any license prayed for under the provisions of this chapter, or
under the provisions of chapter one hundred and seventy one, by an
executor, administrator or guardian, whether such executor, adminis
trator or guardian was appointed in this state or elsewhere, and
if it shall appear to the court either that the petition or the
objection thereto is unreasonable, the court may, in its discretion,
award costs to the party prevailing, and may enforce the payment thereof
by execution or otherwise.
Section 3918. No action for the recovery of any estate sold by an
executor or administrator, under the provisions of this chapter, shall be
maintained by any heir or other person claiming under the deceased
testator or intestate, unless it be commenced within five years next
after the sale; and no action for the recovery of any estate sold bya*
guardian under the provisions of chapter one hundred and seventy one,
shall be maintained by the ward, or by any person claiming under him,
unless it be commenced within five years next after the termination of
the guardianship, excepting only that minors ar.d others under legal
disability to sue at the time when the cause of action shall accrue, may
commence their action at any time within five years next after the
removal of the disability.
Section 3919. In case of an action relating to any estate sold by
an executor, administrator or guardian, in which an heir or other person claiming under the deceased, or in which the ward or any person
claiming under him, shall contest the validity of the sale, it shall not
he avoided on account of any irregularity in the proceedings, provided
it shall appear:
1. That the executor, administrator or guardian was licensed to make
the sale by the county court having jurisdiction;
2. That he gave a bond which was approved by the county court
before the sale;
8. That he took the oath prescribed by law;
4. That he gave the notice of the time and place of sale as prescribed
by law;
5. That the premises were sold accordingly, and the sale confirmed
by the court, and that they are held by one who purchased them in
good faith.
Section 3920. If there shall be any neglect or misconduct in the
proceedings of the executor, administrator or guardian, in relation to
such sale, by which any person interested in the estate shall suffer dam
ages, 6iich aggrieved party may recover the same in an action on the
bond of such executor, administrator or guardian, or otherwise, as the
case may require,
Section 3921. If the validity of a sale made by an executor,
administrator *>r guardian, shall be drawn in question by any person
claiming adversely to the title of the deceased testator or intestate, or
°f the ward, or claiming under any title that is not derived from or
through the deceased person, or the ward, the sale shall not be held
void on account of any irregularity in the proceedings: provided, it
shall appear that the executor, administrator or guardian was licensed
to make the sale by a county court having jurisdiction, and that he did
accordingly execute and acknowledge, in legal form, a deed for the
conveyance of the premises.
Section 3922. Any executor, administrator or guardian, who shall
fraut]u]eiltly sell any real estate of his testator, intestate or ward, con
trary to the provisions of this chapter, or contrary to the provisions of
chapter one hundred and seventy one, shall be liable in double the
value of the land sold as damages, to be recovered in an action by any
person having an inheritance therein.
CHAPTER CLXVIII.
OP THE ACCOUNTS OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
Section 3923. Every executor and administrator shall be chargea^]e
m jj}8 accounts with all the goods, chattels, rights and credits of
the deceased which may come to his possession; also with all interest,
profit and income, including income of the real estate, while it shall
remain in his possession, which shall in anyway come to his hands from
the estate of the deceased; also with all the proceeds of the real estate
which may be sold for the payment of debts and legacies.
Section 3024. Every executor and administrator shall account for
the personal estate of the deceased at the appraised value thereof, excepting when debts due the deceased remain uncollected without his
fault he shall not be required to account for the same, and when per
sonal property has been sold under an order of the county court, he
shall account for the same at the price for which it sold. lie shall not
make profit by the increase, nor suffer loss by the decrease or destruc
tion without his fault, of any of the personal estate. If he shall sell
any part of the personal estate without an order of court for less than
the appraised value, he shall not be liable for the loss if it shall appear
that such sale was beneficial to the estate; if he sell for more than the
appraised value, he shall account for the excess.
Suction 3925. When «iny executor or administrator shall use or
occupy any part of the real estate of the deceased, he shall account for
such use or occupancy, as may be agreed upon between him and the
parties interested, or as maybe adjudged by the county court with
their assent. If the parties shall not agree upon the sum to be allowed,
or if the county court shall not fix the sum with the assent of the par
ties, the sum may be ascertained by ono or more disinterested persons,
to be appointed by the county court, whose award, being accepted by
such court, shall be final.
Section 3926. When an executor or administrator shall neglect or
unreasonably delay to raise money by collecting the debts or selling
the rail or personal estate of the deceased, or shall neglect to pay over
the money lie shall have in his hands, and the value of the estate shall
thereby be lessened, or unnecessary cost or interest shall accrue, or the
persons interested shall suffer loss, the same shall be deemed waste; and
the damages sustained may be charged against the executor or admin
istrator in his account, or he shall be liable therefore on his administra
tion bond.
Section 3927. Every executor or administrator shall render his
account as required by section three thousand eight hundred and forty
nine, and he shall render such further accounts of his administration,
from time to time, as may be required by the county court, until the
estate shall be wholly settled; and he may be examined on oath by
the court upon any matter relating to his account and the settlement
of the estate.
Section 3928. Whenever any deceased person shall by his will make
provision for compensation to his executor, it shall be deemed a full
compensation for his services, unless he shall, by a written instrument
filed in the county court, renounce all claim to the compensation pro
vided by the will.
Section 3929. When no such compensation 6hall be provided by
the will, or the executor shall renounce all claim thereto, he shall be
allowed all necessary expenses in the care, management and settlement
of the estate, and for his services one dollar pe;- day, and commissions
upon the amount of personal estate collected and accounted for by him,
and the proceeds of real estate sold under an order of the county court
for the payment of debts or legacies as follows: for the first thousand
dollars at the rate of five per cent; for all above that sum and not ex
ceeding five thousand dollars, at the rate of two and one-half per cent.:
and for all above five thousand dollars, at the rate of one per cent.; and
such further sums in cases of unusual difficulty or extraordinary services
as the county court shall judge reasonable. The same compensa
tion shall be allowed to administrators,
Section 3900. When costs in any case are allowed against an executor or administrator in any proceeding in the county court, and paid
by him, the same shall be allowed him in his administration account,
unless it shall appear that the action or proceeding, in which the costs
were taxed, shall have been prosecuted or resisted without just cause
on his part; and the court may determine, in rendering the judgment,
whether the costs shall be paid out of the estate or by the executor or
administrator.
Section 3931. Before the administration account of any executor
Qr a(jmju;st;rator shall be allowed, notice shall be given to all persons
interested, of the time and place of examining and allowing the same.
Such notice may be given personally to such persons as the connty
court shall judge to be interested and by order direct to be notified;
or by publication for three successive weeks before the day fixed for
hearing, in a newspaper as directed in section four thousand and forty
five.
Section 3932. In case any executor or administrator has heretofore
(j;c(jj or shall hereafter die, leaving his administration accounts unset
tled, and leaving books of accounts as such executor or administrator,
appearing to have been kept in his own handwriting, snch books of
accounts shall be presumptive evidence of the receipts and disbursements
therein entered, and the services therein charged.
Section 3933. In case any sole or surviving executor or administrator has heretofore died, or shall hereafter die, leaving' his adminis
tration accounts unsettled, no action shall be commenced upon the
administration bond of such deceased executor or administrator against
the sureties in such bond, or either of them, until such sureties, or one
of them, shall have had an opportunity to apply for, and have, a settle
ment of the administration accounts of such deceased executor or
administrator.
Section 3934. The accounts of any executor or administrator, who
have died leaving his accounts as snch executor or administrator
unsettled, may be settled by the county court on the application of any
surety on the bond of such executor or administrator, or of any other
person interested in such settlement, upon notice being given as recpuired
by section three thousand nine hundred and thirty one.
CHAPTER CLXIX.
OP ALLOWANCES, AND OF THE DISTRIBUTION AND PARTITION OF THE
ESTATES OF DECEASED PERSONS.
Section 3935. When any person shall die possessed of any personal
^g^ or 0f any right or interest therein, not lawfully disposed of by
his last will, the same shall be applied and distributed as follows:
1. The widow, if any, shall be allowed all her articles of apparel and
ornaments, and all the wearing apparel and ornaments of the deceased.
the household furniture of the deceased, not exceeding in value two
hundred and fifty dollars, and other personal property to be selected by
her, not exceeding in value two hundred dollars. This allowance shall
be made when the widow waives the provision made for her in the will
of her husband, or when none is made for her, as well as when he dies
intestate.
2. The widow and minor children, or either, constituting the family
of the deceased testator or intestate, shall have such reasonable allowance
out of the personal estate, or the income of the real estate of the
deceased, as the county court shall judge necessary for their maintenance
during the progress of the settlement of the estate, but never for
a longer period than until their shares shall be assigned to them, and
in case of an insolvent estate, not longer than one year after granting
letters testamentary or of administration.
3. "When a person shall die, either testate or intestate, leaving children
under seven years of age, having no mother, or when the mother shall
die before the children shall arrive at the age of seven years, and before
the settlement of the estate, an allowance shall be made for the neces
sary maintenance of such children until they arrive at the age of seven
years, out of the personal estate, if sufficient; if not sufficient, then out
of the income of the real estate.
4. If on the return of the inventory of any estate it shall appear that
the value of the whole estate does not exceed the sum of one hundred
and fifty dollars in addition to the allowances mentioned in preceding
subdivisions of this section, the county court may by an order assign
the whole of such estate for the use and support of the widow and minor
children of the deceased, and for the support of the children under seven
years of age, if there ba no widow, after the payment of funeral charges
and expenses of administration.
5. Ii the personal estate of any deceased person shall amount to more
than one hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to the allowances mentioued in the preceding subdivisions of this section, the excess shall be
applied to the payment of the debts of the deceased, with expenses of
administration and funeral charges.
6. The residue, it any, of the personal estate of any intestate, and the
residue of the personal estate of a testator, not disposed of by his will,
and not required for the purposes hereinbefore mentioned in this seci ii f i- -i i • i1 • iii
tion, shall be distributed in the same proportions, and to the same persons,
and for the same purposes, as prescribed for the descent and dispo6ition of real estate in chapter one hundred and two, except that when the
deceased shall leave a widow and lawful issue, the widow shall be entitled
to receive the same share of such residue as a child of such deceased.
7. Incase there shall be no known heir or distributee, the personal
estate not disposed of by the will shall belong to the state; and all the1"
personal estate of any deceased person, which shall not be claimed by
the legatee, heir or distributee, within three years after the death of the
owner thereof, shall in like manner belong to the state; subject in both
cases only to the debts, funeral charges, and the expenses of adminis
tration; and shall be paid to the state treasurer and become a part of
the school fund.
Section 303G. In all cases mentioned in the seventh subdivision of
the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the county court, having
jurisdiction thereof, to notify the attorney general of the interest, or
probable interest, of the state in such estate, immediately after the same
shall come to the knowledge of such court; and the attorney general
shall appear for and protect the interests of the state therein.
Section 3937. Tbe sum paid, by the representative of any estate
named in the seventh subdivision of section three thousand nine liundred and thirty five, into the state treasury, shall be refunded to the
proper owner, who had not before asserted claim thereto, upon liis es
tablishing his right to the same as herein provided. Such claimant may,
at any time within five years after the payment of such sum into the
state treasury, file with the county court of the county where the estate
was settled a petition setting forth his right to the sum so paid to the
state treasury, and the grounds thereof; said court shall thereupon fix
a time and place for hearing such petition, and shall by order require
the claimant to notify the attorney general of the time and place so fixed
for such hearing, at least thirty days before such time. It shall be the
duty of the attorney general to appear for and protect the rights of the
state. When the claim is finally adjudicated by the county court, or
on appeal by the appellate court, if allowed, the county court shall so
certify to the secretary of state, who shall thereupon audit, and the state
treasurer shall pay the same; but no interest on the claim shall be paid
by the state.
Section 3938. If any land held by an executor or administrator as
inenti0ned in sections three thousand eight hundred and twenty nine,three thousand eight hundred and thirty and three thousand eight hun
dred and thirty one, shall not be sold by him as therein provided, it
shall be assigned and distributed to the same persons, and in the same
proportions, as if it had been part of the' personal estate of the deceased;
and if, upon such distribution, the estate shall come to two or more per
sons, partition thereof may be made between them in like manner, as if
it were real estate which the deceased held in his life time.
DISTRIBUTION AND PARTITION OF ESTATES.
Section 3939. Before any partition or division of any estate among
the heirs, devisees or legatees, an allowance shall be made for the necessary expenses for the support of the children of the deceased under seven
years of age until they attain that age; and the county court may order
tiie executor or administrator to retain in his hands sufficient estate for
that purpose, except where some provision shall have been made by will
for their support.
Section 3940. After the payment of the debts, funeral charges and
expenses of administration, and after deducting all the allowances proviucd
for in this chapter, or when sufficient effects shall be reserved in
the hands of the executor or administrator for the above purposes, the
county court shall, by an order or judgment, assign the residue of the
estate, if any, to such other persons as are by law entitled to the saint
In such order or judgment, the court shall name the persons and the
part to which each shall be entitled. Such persons shall have the right
to recover their respective shares from the executor or administrator,
or from any person having the same. Such order or judgment may
be made on the application of the executor or administrator, or of any
person interested in the estate.
Section 3941. No heir, devisee, legatee, or assignee thereof shall be
entitled to an order for his share, previous to the making of the order
or judgment mentioned in the preceding section, unless he shall give a
bond to the judge of the county court, in such sum and with such sure
ties as the court may direct, to secure the payment of the just propor
tion of such heir, devisee or legatee, of such debts and expenses, or
such parts thereof as shall remain unprovided for, and to indemnify
the executor or administrator against the same.
Section 3942. When the county court shall make an order or judgmerit
assigning the residue of any estate to two or more persons entitled
to t'.ie same, it shall not be necessary to make partition or distribution
of such estate unless the parties to whom the assignment shall be made,
or some of them shall request it; but when requested by any party in
interest, partition and distribution may be made by three disinterested
persons to be appointed by the county court for that purpose. Said
court shall issue a warrant to them for the purpose of sucli partition and
distribution, and they shall be sworn to a faithful discharge of their
duties.
Section 3943. If the real estate shall lie in different counties, the
county court may appoint different commissioners for each county, and
in such case the estate in each county shall be divided separately, as if
there were no other estate to be divided; but unless otherwise directed
by the county court, the commissioners first appointed shall make divis
ion of all such real estate wherever situated in this state.
Section 3944. Before any commissioners shall be appointed to make
such partition and distribution as directed in this chapter, notice of the
time and place of hearing the application for the appointment of such
commissioners shall be given to all persons interested who reside in this
state, or to their guardians, and to the agents, attorneys or guardians,
if any, in this state, of such as reside out of the state, either personally,
at least ten days before the day fixed for the hearing, or by publication
in a newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty five, for
six successive weeks before the day so fixed, the last publication not to
be more than ten days before such day.
Section 3945. Partition of real estate may be made as provided in
this chapter, although some of the original heirs or devisees may have
conveyed their shares to other persons. Such shares shall be set off to
the persons holding the same, in the same manner as they otherwise
should have been to such heirs or devisees.
Section 3946. Before any partition shall be made or any estate
divided, as provided in this chapter, guardians shall be appointed for
all minors and persons of unsound mind, interested in the estate to be
divided, and some discreet person shall be appointed to act as agent for
such parties as shall reside out of the state, and notice of the appointment
of such guardians and agents shall be given to the commissioners
in their warrant. Notice shall be given by the commissioners to all
persons interested in the partition, their guardians or agents, of the time
when and place where they will meet and proceed to make partition, in
such manner as the court shall direct.
Section 3947. The several shares in the real and personal estate
shall be set off to each individual, in proportion to his right, by metes
and bounds or descriptions, so that the same can be easily distin
guished, unless any two or more of the parties interested shall consent
to have their shares set off so as to be held by them in common and
undivided.
Section 3948. "When any tract of land, or tenement, shall be of
i i -i ,i I i j- -j j j
greater value than either party s share in the estate to be divided, and
cannot be divided without injury to the same, it may be set off by the
commissioners to either of the parties who will accept it, giving prefer
ence as prescribed in section three thousand nine hundred and fifty
one. But the party so accepting it shall pay or secure to one or more
of the others, such sums as the commissioners shall award to make the
partition equal, and the commissioners shall make their award accord
ingly. Such partition shall not be established by the court until the
sums so awarded shall be paid to the parties entitled thereto, or secure!
to their satisfaction.
Section 3949. When partition of real estate among heirs or devishall
be required, or dower is to be assigned to a widow in the
same, and such real estate shall be in common and undivided with the
real estate of any other person, the commissioners shall first divide and
sever the estate of the deceased from the estate with which it lies in
common, and such division, so made and established by the county
court, shall be binding on all the persons interested; but such other
part owner of such real estate shall have the same notice of the time
and place of hearing, upon the appointment of such commissioners, and
of the time and place of meeting to mate partition, as is provided in sec
tions three thousand nine hundred and forty four and three thousand
nine hundred and forty six.
Section 3950. The commissioners shall make report of their proceedings
to the county court, in writing; and the court may, for suffi
cient cause, set aside such report, and appoint other commissioners, or
direct the same commissioners to make another partition. The report,
when finally accepted and established, shall be recorded in the records
of the county court, and a copy thereof, attested by the judge of the
county court under the seal of the court, shall be recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of the county wherein the lands lie.
Section 3951. When any such real estate cannot be divided without
prejudice or inconvenience to the owners, the county court may
assign the whole to one or more of the parties entitled to share therein,
who will accept it, always preferring the males to the females, and
among children preferring the elder to the younger; but the party so
accepting the whole shall pay to the other parties interested their jnst
proportion of the true value thereof, or shall secure the same to their
satisfaction, and the true value of the estate shall be ascertained by com
missioners, appointed by the county court and sworn for that purpose.
Such commissioners shall only be appointed upon like notice to all par
ties interested, their guardians, agents and attorneys, as provided for
commissioners to make partition in sections three thousand nine hun
dred and forty four, and three thousand nine hundred and forty six.
Section 3952. The partition, when finally confirmed and established,
shall be conclusive on all the heirs and devisees, and all persons claimjng under them, and upon all persons interested.
Section 3953. If at the time of the partition or distribution of
an^ estate as provided in this chapter, the executor or admin istratoi
shall have retained sufficient effects in his hands which may be lawfully
applied for that purpose, the expenses of such partition or distribu
tion may be paid by such executor or administrator, when it shall ap
pear to the court just and equitable, and not inconsistent with the intent
of the testator; but if there be no effects in the hands of the executor
or administrator which may be lawfully applied to that purpose, the ex
penses and charges of the partition or distribution, being ascertained bv
the county court, shall be paid by all the parties interested in the parti
tion or distribution, in proportion to their respective shares or interests
in the premises; and the proportions shall be settled and determined by
the county court. If any one shall neglect to pay the sum assessed on
him by the court, the same may be enforced by execution in favor of
the persons entitled to the same.
Section 3954. When the term of a widow entitled to a homestead
right, or dower, or other life estate, in the lands of a deceased person, shall
expire, the reversion may be assigned to the persons entitled to the same,
and partition thereof be made, in the manner prescribed in this chapter
in relation to the estates of deceased persons.
Section 3955. When anv estate shall be assigned by order or iudgi e ii i i-". m .. j i • °- J ./, P
ment of the court, or be distributed by commissioners, as provided in
this chapter, to any person residing out of this state, and having no
agent herein, and it shall be necessary that some person should be au
thorized to take possession and charge of the same, for the benefit of
such absent person, the court may appoint an agent for that purpose,
and authorize him to take charge of such estate, as well as to act for
snch absent person in the partition and distribution thereof. Such agent
shall give a bond to the judge of the county court, to be approved by
him, faithfully to manage and account for such estate, before he shall
be authorized to receive the same, and the court appointing such agent
may allow a reasonable sum out of the profits of the estate for his services
and expenses.
ADVANCEMENTS.
Section 3956. Any estate, real or personal, that may have been
given by the intestate in his lifetime as an advancement to any child, or
other lineal descendant, shall be considered as a part of the estate of the
intestate, so far as it regards the division and distribution thereof among
his issue, and shall be taken by such child or other descendant, toward
his share of the estate of the intestate.
Section 3957. If the amount of such advancement shall exceed the
share of the heir so advanced, he shall be excluded from any further por
tion in the division and distribution of the estate, but he shall not be
required to refund any part of such advancement; and if the amount
so received shall be less than his share, he shall be entitled to as much
more as will give him his full share of the estate of the deceased.
Section 3958. If such advancement be made in real estate, the value
thereof shall, for the purposes mentioned in the preceding section, be considered a part of the real estate to be divided ; and if it be in personal
estate it shall be considered as a part of the personal estate; if in
either case it shall exceed the share of real or personal estate respectively,
that would have come to the heir so advanced, he shall not be required
to refund any part of it, but shall receive so much less out of the other
part of the estate as will make his whole share equal to those of the
other heirs who are in the same degree with him.
Section 3959. All gifts and grants shall be deemed to have been
made in advancement, if they are expressed in the gift or grant to be
so made, or if charged in writing by the intestate as an advancement
cr acknowledged in writing as such by the child or other descendant.
If the value of the estate so advanced shall be expressed in the con
veyance, or in the charge thereof made by the intestate, or in the ac
knowledgment of the party receiving it, such value shall govern in the
division and distribution of the estate; otherwise it shall be estimated
according to its value when given, as nearly as the same can be ascer
tained.
Section 3960. If any child or other lineal descendant, so advanced,
shall die before the intestate, leaving issue, the advancement shall be
taken into consideration in the division and distribution of the estate;
and the amount thereof shall be allowed accordingly by the representa
tives of the heir so advanced, in like manner as if the advancement had
been made directly to them.
Section 3901. All questions as to advancements made or alleged to
have been made by the deceased to any heirs, may be heard and determined by the county court, and shall be specified in the order or judg
ment assigning the estate, and in the warrant to the commissioners to
partition such estate; ard the final order or judgment of the county
court, or in case of appeal, of the circuit or supreme court, shall be bind
ing on all persons interested in the estate.
CHAPTER CLXX.
OF GUARDIANS AND WARDS.
Section 3962. All persons under the age of twenty one years shall
deemed minors; and tne county court in each county may appoint
guardians to minors and others subject to guardianship, being residents
m tne same county, and also to such as shall reside without the state,
anQ have any estate within the county. If a minor is under the age of
fourteen years, the court may nominate and appoint his guardian; if
he is above the age of fourteen years, he may nominate his own guard
ian, who, if approved by the court, shall be appointed accordingly.
Section 3963. If the guardian nominated by such minor shall not
^ approved by the court, or if the minor shall reside out of this state,
or, being a resident of this state, shall be absent therefrom, or if, after
being required by the court, he shall neglect for ten days to nominate
a suitable person, the court may nominate and appoint the guardian in
the same manner as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years,
Section 3964. The father of the minor, if living, and in case of his
death, the mother, while she remains unmarried, being themselves respectively competent to transact their own business, and not otherwrM
unsuitable, shall be entitled to the custody of the person of the minor,
and to the care of his education. If the minor lias no father or mother
living, and competent and suitable, the guardian so appointed skill
have the custody of the person of the minor and the care of his educa
tion; and, in all cases, the aruardian shall have the care" and mana*?ment
of the estate of his minor ward, until such minor shall arrive at the
age of twenty one years, or until the guardian shall be discharged ac
cording to law.
Section 3965. The father of every legitimate minor child may, by
liis last will in writing, appoint a guardian or guardians therefore, whether
born at the time of making such will or afterward, to continue during
the minority of such child, or for a less time. Every such testamentary
guardian shall give bond, with surety, in like manner and with Hire
conditions, as hereinafter required of a guardian appointed by the county
court, and he shall have the same power and perform the same duties
with regard to the person wv.d estate of the ward, as a guardian appoint
ed by tlie court. Letters of guardianship shall be issued by the county
court to such guardians upon their giving the aforesaid bond; but
when the testator in his will shall have so directed, no bond need be
taken, unless the county court shall be of opinion that the same if
required by reason of a change in the situation of such guardian, or
olher sufficient reason.
Section 3966. Before appointing any person guardian of a minor,
the court shall require such person to give a bond to the minor, in such
sum and with such sureties as the court shall designate and approve,
conditioned as follows:
1. To make a true inventory of all the estate, real and personal, of
Lis ward, that shall come to his possession or knowledge, and to return
the same into the county court of the proper county, within 6uch time
as thejudge shall order;
2. To dispose of and manage all such estate according to law and for
the best interests of the ward, and faithfully to discharge his trust in
relation thereto, and also, when required, in relation to the care, custody
and education of the ward;
3. To render an account on oath of the property, real and personal,
of the ward in his hands and all proceeds or interest derived therefrom,
and of the management and disposition of the same, within one year
after his appointment, and annually thereafter, and at such other times
as the proper court shall direct;
4. At the expiration of his trust to settle his accounts with the
county court or with the ward if he be of full age, or his legal repre
sentatives, and to pay over and deliver all the property, real and per
sonal, remaining in his hands or due from him on such settlement, to
the person lawfully entitled thereto.
Section 3967. The county court may, at any time, require additional
bonds to be given by any guardian, whenever it shall deem it c
necessary, and may discharge the existing sureties from future responsi
bility, after notice given as such court may direct, when it shall satis
factorily appear that no injury can result therefrom to those interested
in the estate.
Section 3968. Every bond eiven by a guardian shall be filed and
_ j j • .i jb > ,i ° . J . ° ■ ■ ,i_ a •
■ecorded in the office of the county court requiring the same, and in
;ase of any breach of the condition thereof, may be prosecuted in the
lame of the ward for the use and benefit of such ward or of any perion
interested in the estate whenever the county court shall direct; but
10 action shall be maintained against the sureties on any bond given by
i guardian unless it be commenced within four years from the time
vhen the guardian shall have been discharged. But if, at the time of
uch discharge, the person entitled to bring such action shall be under
ny legal disability to sue, the action may be commenced at any time
rithin four years after such disability shall be removed.
Section 3969. When any guardian appointed either by a testator,
r by the county court, shall become insane, or otherwise incapable of
ischarging his trust, or evidently unsuitable therefore, the county court
Iter notice to such guardian and all others interested, may remove
:ini; and every guardian may, upon his own request, be allowed to resign
is trust when it shall appear to the county court proper to allow the
line; and upon every such resignation or removal, and upon the
eath of any guardian, the county court may appoint another in his
lace.
Section 3970. The marriage of any female who is under guardianhip
as a minor, shall terminate the right and authority of the guardin, as to the custody and education of the ward only; but the county
ourt may, in its discretion, upon the application of such ward disharge such guardian and require him to account to said court, and
ay over and deliver to such ward all the estate, monies, credits and
fleets remaining in his hands, or clue from him on such settlement;
r may, in its discretion, upon such application, discharge such guardin and appoint another iii his place, who shall give bond, as required
by law in other cases, and to whom such estate, monies, credits and
shall he paid over and delivered, and who shall have the author
ity conferred hy this chapter upon a guardian after the marriage of
his ward.
Section 3971. Every general guardian shall annually render in
account under oath, and specify therein the amount of property received
hy him and remaining in his hands, or invested hy him, and the nature
and maimer of such investment, and his receipts and expenditure*
during the year; and when any guardian of a minor shall have tk
custody of his ward and the care of his education, and in all casei
when required by the court, he shall state in his annual report tk
length of time each of his wards has attended a public school during
the year for which the account is rendered, and shall also report which,
if either, of the sureties upon his bond as such guardian, has died ur
removed from the county during the year for which the report is made.
Every guardian who fails for thirty days to render an account of hii
guardianship when required by the court may be removed and another
appointed in his place. All letters of guardiauship hereafter issued
shall have attached thereto a copy of this section.
Section 3972. The county court at the next regular term thereof,
after the filing of any such guardian's account therein, shall examine
the same with the vouchers of the guardian, and if such account be
full and satisfactory, it may be entered of record; but if it be not, it
shall be examined on notice, and the court shall make such order
thereon as justice may require,
Section 3973. Any minor having a guardian, when under fourteen
year8 0f age> may, after attaining that age, have such guardian removed
and another appointed in his place, to be nominated by himself and
approved by the court, upon petitioning the court therefore. When the
newly appointed guardian shall have filed his bond as required by law,
the county court shall cite both guardians to appear before such court,
at a time and place to be fixed in such citation, to settle the account of
the guardian so removed; and upon such settlement, the guardian sc
removed shall pay to his successor the balance found due to the ward,
and deliver to such successor all property of the ward remaining in hia
hands. The provisions of this section shall not apply to testamentary
guardians,
Section 3974. If any minor, who has a father living, has property,
^e income of which is sufficient for his maintenance and education, is
a manner more expensive than his father can reasonably afford, reganl
being had to the situation of the father's family, and to all the circninstances of the case, the expenses of the education and maintenance oi
such minor may be defrayed out of the income of his property, ii
whole or in part, as shall be judged reasonable, and be directed by u*
county court; and the charges therefore may be allowed accordingly ii
the settlement of the accounts of his guardian.
Section 3975. "When any nonresident guardian, appointed in an,
0ther state, territory or country, shall file his original appointment, a
a copy thereof, together with a copy of his bond, duly authenticate!
so as to make the same receivable in evidence, in the proper count]
court in this state, such court may make suitable orders discharginj
any resident guardian, executor or administrator having control of th
property, and authorizing the delivery of such property to sncli noi
resident guardian, and also requiring receipts to be passed and filed
but in all cases notice shiill be given to the resident guardian, executa
or administrator, of the intended application for the order of reinu.i
t least twenty days before the day fixed for the hearing thereof; and
le court may refuse to permit the removal, whenever satisfied it is for
ie interest of the ward that such removal shall not take place.
Section 397G. Whenever it shall he represented to the county court,
y the verified petition of any relative or friend of any insane person,
r any person who by reason of extreme old age or other cause, is menilly incompetent to have the charge and management of his property,
aat such person is insane or mentally incompetent, 6aid court shall
ause a notice to be given to the supposed insane or incompetent person,
f the time and place of hearing the case, not less than twenty days beore the time so appointed, and shall also cause such person, if able to
ttend, to be produced before him on the hearing. But whenever any
uch insane person shall be confined in either of the "Wisconsin state
lospitals for the insane, such notice may be served upon the superinendent of such hospital, and such service shall be deemed sufficient in
aw; and if in the opinion of such superintendent it shall not be proper
o remove such insane person, he shall certify that fact to the court,
.nd it shall be deemed a sufficient cause for not producing such insane
>erson on the hearing.
Section 3977. If, after a full hearing and examination upon such
>etition, it shall appear to the county court that the person in question
s incapable of taking care of himself and managing his property, said«
»urt shall appoint a guardian of his person and estate, with the pow;rs and duties hereinafter specified.
Section 397S. When any person, by excessive drinking, shall beG
inafile to attend to business, or shall be lost to self control, and shall
:hereby greatly endanger his health, life or property, or shall be an
in^afe person to remain at large, or shall, by gaming, idleness or de
bauchery of any kind, so spend, waste or lessen his estate as to endan
ger his own or his family's support, or expose the town to charge or
expense for such support, any friend or relative, or any supervisor or
justice of the peace of the town of which such person is an inhabitant,
may present a verified petition to the county court, setting forth the
facts and circumstances of the case, and praying to have a guardian ap
pointed for such person. Upon the filing of such petition, said court
shall cause a notice to be given to such supposed spendthrift of the
time and place of hearing the case, not less than twenty days before
the day fixed for such hearing. If, after a full hearing, it shall appear
to the court proper under this section, such court shall appoint a guard
ian of his person and estate, with the powers and duties hereinafter
6pecified. The county court shall have power to authorize or direct
the guardian of any such person named in this section to commit such
person to any inebriate asylum, in or out of this state, to be designated
uy such court, by order, for a term not exceeding two years. Such per
son may be discharged at any time by order of the same court.
Section 3979. After the order for notice, as provided in sections
three thousand nine hundred and seventy six and three thousand nine
hundred and seventy eight, has been issued, the petitioner may cause a
copy of the petition, with a copy of the order for such notice, to be
filed and recorded in the office of the register of deeds for the county;
and if a guardian shall be appointed upon such .application, all con
tracts, except for necessaries at reasonable prices, and all gifts, sales
a'id transfers of real or personal estate, made by such insane or incom
petent person or spendthrift, after the filing of a copy of such petition
and order as aforesaid, and before the termination of the guardianship,
shall be void.
Section 3080. "When any person liable to be put under guardianship,
accor<l',1o to the provisions of this chapter, shall reside oiUuf this state,
and shall have any estate therein, any friend of such person, or any one
interested in liis estate, in expectancy or otherwise, may apply to the
county court of any county in which there may be any estate of such ab
sent person, and after notice given to all persons interested, in such man
ner as the court shall order, and after a full hearing and examination, if
it shall appear proper, such court may appoint a guardian for such ab
sent person. The guardianship which shall be first lawfully granted of
any person residing out of this state shall extend to all the estate of the
ward; \ . .iin the same, and shall exclude the jurisdiction of the countcourt in every other county.
Section 3981. When a guardian shall be appointed for an insaneor
incompetent person or spendthrift, or for any nonresident, the court shall
make an allowance to be paid by the guardian out of the estate of h«
ward, for iill reasonable expenses incurred by the ward, in defending
himself against the petition. Every such guardian shall have the care
and custody of the person of the ward and the management of his estate
until legally discharged therefrom; and he shall give bond to his ward,
jn jj|{e manner an(j wjtu ij]je condition ag before prescribed with respect
to the guardian of a minor, excepting that the provisions of the bond
of a guardian of a nonresident respecting the inventory, the»dispo>al of
the estate and effects and the account to be rendered shall be confined
to such estate and effects, as shall come to his hands in this state.
Section 3982. Every guardian appointed under the provisions of this
chapter, whether for a minor or any other person, shall pay the just debts
of the ward out of his personal estate and the income of his real esta'e,
if sufficient, and if not, then out of his real estate, upon being licensed to
sell, and selling the same as provided by law. Such guardian shall also
settle all accounts of the ward, and may demand, sue for, collect and re
ceive all debts due to him, or may, with the approbation of the county
court, compound and discharge the same on receiving a fair and just
dividend from the debtor's estate, and he shall appear for and represent
his ward in all actions and proceedings, except where another person is
appointed for that purpose.
Section 3983. Every guardian shall manage the estate of his ward
frugally and without waste, and apply the income and profits thereof as
^ar a8inn)' he necessary for the suitable education, maintenance and sup
port of the ward, and his family if there be any. If such income and
profits shall be insufficient for that purpose, the guardian may sell tl <?
real estate, upon obtaining a license therefore as provided by law, and shall
apply the proceeds of such sale, so far as may be necessary, for snch
maintenance and support as aforesaid.
Section 3984. Every guardian may join in and assent toapartiof
the real estate of his ward, in the cases and in the manner pro
vided bylaw; and he may also assign and set out dower in the sail
estate to any widow entitled thereto.
Section 39S5. Upon taking any inventory required by this chapter,
the estate and effects comprised therein shall be appraised by two or
more disinterested persons, to be appointed and sworn in like manner
as is required with respect to the inventory of the estate of a deceased
person. Every guardian shall account for and dispose of the personal
estate of the ward in like manner as is directed with respect to execu
tors and administrators.
Section 39S6. The county courts, in their respective counties, on
the application of a guardian, or of any person interested in the estate
i ftn^ .vard, after such notice to all persons interested therein as the
ourt shall direct, may authorize or reqiiire the guardian to sell and
rausfei any stock in public funds, , or in any bank or other corporation,
>r any other personal estate or effects held by him as guardian, and to
nvest the proceeds of such sale, and also any other monies in his hands,
n real estate, or in any other manner that shall be most for the interest
»f all concerned therein; and the said court may make such further
irders and give such directions as the case may require for managing,
nvesting and disposing of the estate and effects in the hands of the
juardian.
Section 3987. The guardian of any insane or incompetent person or
ipendthift, may be discharged by the county court, when it shall
ippear to such court on the application of the ward, or otherwise, th;it
>uch guardianship is no longer necessary, and his real and personal
state shall be restored to him.
Section 3988. In case of the death of any insane or incompetent
person or spendthrift, while under guardianship, the power of the guardan
shall cease, and his real estate shall descend to his heirs, and his
personal estate be distributed in the same manner as if he had been of
sound mind and memory.
Section 3989. Upon complaint made to the county court by any
guardian or ward, or by any creditor or other person interested in the
state, or by any person having any prospective interest therein, as heir
»r otherwise, against any person suspected of having concealed, embez
zled, or conveyed away any of the money, goods, effects or instru
ments in writing, belonging to the ward, the court may cite and exam
ine snch suspected person, and proceed with him as to such charge, in
the same manner as is provided with respect to persons suspected of
concealing or embezzling the effects of a deceased person, in sections
three thousand eight hundred and twenty five and three thousand eight
bundred and twenty six.
Section 3990. The county court in its discretion, whenever the
ame shall appear necessary, may appoint more than one guardian of
my person subject to guardianship, who shall give bond, and be governed
ind liable in all respects as is provided respecting a sole guardian. An
icconnt rendered by two or more joint guardians may be allowed by
he county court upon the oath of either.
Section 3991. The guardian of any person is authorized and emlowered
to make leases of and grant easements upon the lands of any
uch person, in the same manner, for the same purpose and with the
ame effect as such person might do if of full age and under no legal
usability. But any estate, lease, right or easement, granted by any such
[uardian, shall terminate with the guardianship or disability of the
rard.
Section 3992. No married woman shall be disqualified by coverture
rom being appointed or acting as general guardian of her own children
' a former husband; and actions may be maintained upon any bond of
•eh guardian who shall have been so appointed, in the same manner
xl with the same effect as upon the bonds of other guardians. Every
•eli guardian shall have the same powers and be subject to the same
jfcihties as other guardians.
Section 3993. Every guardian shall be allowed the amount of his
fcsonable expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and he shall
h> have such compensation for his services as the court, in which his
counts are settled, shall deem to be just and reasonable.
Section 3994. The word "spendthrift," when used in this chapter,
is intended to include every person who is liable to be put under
guardianship on account of excessive drinking, gaming, idleness or
debauchery.
Section 3995. Nothing contained in this chapter shall affect or im
pair the power of any court to appoint a guardian to prosecute or defend
the interests of any minor, impleaded in 6uch court or interested in
any action or proceeding pending therein.
CHAPTER CLXXI.
OF THE SALE OF LANDS OF WARDS.
Section 3996. The guardian of any ward may sell, mortgage or
lease tue rea^ estate of his ward, or any interest therein, ujwn obtain
ing license therefore from the county court, and proceeding therein as
provided in this chapter, in the following cases:
1. "When the personal property and the income of the renl estate are
together insufficient for the payment of the debts of the ward, or for
the maintenance and education of the ward and his family;
2. When the interests of the ward require, or will be substantially
promoted by such disposition, on account of such real estate or interest
therein, being cxposea to waste or dilapidation, or being unproductive,
or for other peculiar reasons or circumstances.
In any application under the first subdivision of this section, the
court may order the real estate of the ward to be mortgaged or leased.
Section 3997. Iii order to obtain license, as provided in this chap
ter, the guardian shall present to the county court by which he wis ap
pointed, a verified petition therefore, setting forth the condition and de
scription of the estate of his ward, and the facts and circumstances on
which the petition is founded, tending to show the necessity or expedi
ency of such disposition.
Section 3998. If it shall appear to the court from such petition,
that for any of the causes aforesaid it is necessary, or would be bene
ficial to the ward, that such real estate or some part of it should be
sold, mortgaged or leased, the court shall thereupon make an order
fixing a time and place therein to be specified, not less than four nor
more than eight weeks from the time of making such order, when and
where such petition will be heard.
Section 3999. All those who are next of kin, and heirs apparent or
presumptive of the ward, shall be regarded as interested in the estate,
and may appear as such and ainwer to the petition of the guardian;
and a copy of such order shall be personally served on all persons inter
ested in the estate, at least twenty days before the day fixed for th*
hearing of the petition, or such order, or a notice of. hearing in substan
tially the form prescribed in section four thousand and fifty, shall bi
published at least four successive weeks, before the day of snch hear
ing, in a newspaper as provided in section four thousand and forty fire
a3 the court directs by such order,
Section 4000. No such license shall be granted for the eale of ani
real estate of a ward residing in this state, excepting that of a minor
unless the supervisors of the town, the mayor of the city or president
of the village in which such ward is an inhabitant shall certify, in writin<r,
their approbation of such proposed sale.
Section 4001. The county court at the time and place appointed in
such order, or at such-other time as the hearing shall be adjourned to,
upon proof of the due service of the order or notice by publication or
otherwise as required by the order, and upon tiling the certificate of
approbation of the supervisors, mayor or president, when necessary, shall
hear and examine the proofs and allegations of the petitioner, and of
the next of kin, and all persons interested in the estate who shall think
proper to oppose the application. On such hearing, the guardian and
others may be examined on oath as witnesses by either party, and proc
ess to compel their attendance may be issued by the court or judge in
the same manner and with like effect as in other cases.
Section 4002. If after a full examination it shall appear to the
court either that it is necessary or that it would be for the interest of
the ward that the real estate or any part of it should be sold, mortgaged
or leased, such court may grant a license therefore, specifying whether it
is to be made for the payment of debts, or for the maintenance of the
ward or his family, or for the education of the ward or his children, or
in order that the proceeds may be put at interest or otherwise invested.
No such license shall be in force more than one year after granting the
same, but the court may on application of the guardian, for cause shown,
renew the same for such period as the court shall deem proper, not ex
ceeding two years from the date of such license.
Section 4003. If it shall be represented by the guardian in his petition,
and 6hall satisfactorily appear to the court, that it is necessary to
sell some part of the real estate of the ward, and that by such partial
sale the residue of the real estate, or of some specific piece or part
thereof, would be greatly injured, the court may license a sale of the
whole of the estate, or of such part thereof as the court shall judge neces
sary and most for the interest of all concerned.
Section 4004. Everv guardian, domestic or foreign, licensed to sell
rent estate as provided in this chapter, shall, before the sale, give bond
to the judge of the county court with sufficient sureties, to be approved
by the court, with condition to sell the same in the manner prescribed by
law, and to account for and dispose of, all the proceeds of the sale ac-a
cording to law. JIe shall also, before making such sale, take and sub
scribe the oath, prescribed by section three thousand nine hundred and
fifteen; which oath shall be filed with the county court before the sale
is confirmed.
Section 4005. When a sale is authorized, notice of the time and"
place of holding the same shall be posted in three of the most public
places in the town or ward in which the land is situated, and shall be
published in a newspaper, as provided in section four thousand and
forty five, for three successive weeks before such sale, the last publica
tion to be not more than ten days before the time fixed, in which no
tice the lands to be sold shall be described with reasonable certainty.
The giving of such notice may be proved by affidavit of any person
having knowledge of the fact, and when such affidavit, together with
a copy of such notice, is filed with the county court, the same shall be
received as evidence of the time, place and manner of giving such no
tice. This section shall apply to sales by both domestic and foreign
guardians.
Section 400G. The sale shall be in the county where the lands are
situated, between the hours of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun of the same day. Cut where the lands are adjacent and
lie in two or more counties, the sale may he had in either, but the court
shall by order designate in which. If there be a- newspaper printed in
more than one of said counties, the court sball direct in which of such
newspapers the notice of sale shall be published, and when so published,
it shall be sufficient.
Section 4007. If at the time appointed for any such sale, the guardj^
gjj.jj (jggjjj jj ^est for the interest of all concerned, he may adjourn
the same from time to time, not exceeding three months in all. Notice
of such adjournment shall be given by a public declaration thereof at
the time and place first fixed for the sale. If the adjournment is for
more than one day, further notice shall be given by posting or publish
ing the same, or both, as the time and circumstances may admit
Section 4008. If the estate is sold for the purpose mentioned in
the first subdivision of section three thousand nine hundred and ninetj
six, the guardian may apply the proceeds of the sale to such purpose,
so far as necessary, and shall invest the residue, if any, under the di
rection of the court granting the license to sell, in the best manner in
his power, until the principal shall be required for the maintenance of
the ward and his family, or the education of the ward when a minor,
or the children of the ward, when the principal may be used for that
purpose so far as may be necessary, in like manner as if it had been
personal estate of the ward. If the estate is sold for the purpose men
tioned in the second subdivision of said section, the guardian shall in
vest the proceeds according to his best judgment under the direction of
the court.
8ALES BY FOREIGN GUARDIANS.
Section 4009. "When any person, residing without this state, shall
jjg j. under guardianship in the state, territory or country in which be
resides, and shall have no guardian appointed in this state, the foreign
guardian may file a copy 01 his appointment, duly authenticated, so as
to make the same receivable in evidence, in the county court in any
county in this state in which there may be real estate of the ward. Af
ter filing such authenticated copy, such foreign guardian may be li
censed by such court to lease, mortgage or sell the real estate of the
ward in this state, in the same manner and upon the same terms and
conditions, and for the same purposes as prescribed in this chapter in
the case of a guardian appointed in this state.
Section 4010. The guardian, making any sale as provided herein,
shall iin mediately thereafter, make a return of his doings upon the order
of sale by virtue of which it was made, to the county court granting
the order. Said court shall examine the proceedings and may examine
parties and witnesses on oath, touching the sale, and may confirm or
vacate the sale, as shall be deemed just. In case such sale is vacated
another may be ordered.
Section 4011. In every case of the sale of real estate as provided
jn ^jg cliaptcr, the residue of the proceeds, if any, remaining upon the
final settlement of the accounts of the guardianship, shall be considered
as real estate of the ward, and shall be disposed of among the same per
sons and in the same proportions as the real estate would have been, if
it had not been so sold,
Section 4012. No sale of any lands of any minor made prior to the
fourth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and seventy, in pur
suance of any order of any court under chapter ninety three of the
revised statutes of one thousand eight hundred and fifty eight, or eiiaj;
ter sixty four of the revised statutes of one thousand eight hundred and
forty uine, shall be held invalid, if the bond required to be given by
the guardian was given before the sale and the guardian took and sub
scribed the oath required at any time before the sale, and the purchaser
paid the purchase price in good faith, by reason of not having hied
such bond or taken and filed such oath in due season.
Note.—Sections 3913 to 3922 inclusive, relate to the subject of this chapter.
CHAPTER CLXXII.
OP BONDS TAKEN IN THE COUNTY COURTS, AND THEIR PROSECUTION.
Section 4013. All bonds required by law to be taken in, or by
order of the county court, shall be for such sum and with such 6nreties as the court shall direct, except when otherwise provided by law.
Such bonds shall be for the security and benefit of all persons interested, and shall be taken to the judge of the county court, except where
they are required by law to be taken to the adverse party. No such
bond shall be deemed sufficient, unless it shall have been examined and
approved by the judge, and his approval indorsed thereon in writing
and signed by him; but his failure so to do shall not render the bond
void.
Section 4014. Actions may be brought on the bonds of executors,
administrators and testamentary trustees, by permission of the county
court, in the following cases:
1. By any creditor, when the amount due him has been ascertained
and ordered paid by such court, if the executor, administrator or
trustee shall neglect to pay the same when demauded;
2. By any legatee, next of kin, or other person, to recover his share
of the personal estate, after the county court has, by order or judgment,
declared the amount due to him, if the executor, administrator or
trustee shall fail to pay the same when demanded;
3. -By any creditor, next of kin, legatee, or other person aggrieved by
any maladministration, when it shall appear that the executor, adminis
trator or trustee has failed to perform his duty in any other particular;
i. Whenever an executor, administrator or trustee shall refuse orB
neglect to perform any order or judgment made by the county court,
having jurisdiction, for rendering an account, or upon a final settlement,
or for the payment of debts, legacies, or distributive shares,
die judge of such court shall cause the bond of such executor, adminis-88
trator or trustee to be prosecuted, for the benefit of all concerned, and
'he money collected thereon shall be applied in satisfaction of such orier
or judgment, in the same manner as such money ought to have been
applied l>y such executor, administrator or trustee.
Section 4015. All actions upon bonds taken to the judge of the
Bounty court shall be brought in the name of such judge in office at2
he time the action is commenced, when the same are brought under
:he fourth subdivision of the preceding see-tion. When the action shall
>e brought under either of the other subdivisions of said section, it may
je brought in the name of such judge, or of the party in interest. In
either case, if judgment is rendered for the plaintifff, it shall be for flu
amount found due, and costs of suit; and if the action is in the naice
of the judge, the judgment shall specify the amount found due tocaei
particular person for whose benefit it is brought.
Section 4016. On the application of any person authorized bvt!ii;
, \f , , J ', ., .
chapter to commence an action on such bond, the connty court mar
grant permission to such person to prosecute the same, and shall tlitreupon furnish to the applicant a certified copy of such bond, together
with a certificate that permission has been granted to such person to
prosecute, stating his name and residence.
Section 4017. If judgment shall be rendered for the plaintifff b
an^r act;on Up0n such Ijond, brought by the judge of the county cor.rt
for any breach thereof, in not performing any order or judgment uf the
county court, as mentioned in the fourth subdivision of section fonr thou
sand .and fourteen, such judgment shall be rendered for the full rake
of all the estate that shall have come to the hands of such executor, ad
ministrator or trustee, and for which he shall not have satisfactorilj
accounted, and for all such damages as shall have been occasioned lv
his neglect or maladministration, with costs of suit But no judgment
or execution against the sureties in any bond shall exceed the amouiit
of the penalty, thereof, exclusive of costs.
Section 4018. All monies recovered on any judgment in favor o!
the judge of thecounty court, as mentioned in the next preceding sec:;"?,
6hall be paid over to such person, other than the defendant therein, who
shall then be the rightful executor, administrator or trustee, and suchi
monies shall be assets in his hands to be administered according to
law; but if there be no executor, administrator or trustee, other Uiaa
the defendant, such monies shall be paid to the persons entitled therea
upon their giving receipts therefore, which receipts shall be filed with:
the county court.
Section 4019. Claims for damages on account of the breach of the
conditions of any bond may be prosecuted by any executor, administrator, testamentary trustee, or guardian in behalf of tbose he mavrW"
resent, in the same manner as by persons living, and of full age; and
such claims may be prosecuted against the representatives of deeea«*i
persons, in the same manner as other claims against such deceased per
sons.
Section 4020. No action brought upon the bond of any executor,
administrator or testamentary trustee, shall be barred or dismissed Lj
reason merely that any former action shall have been prosecuted on
such bond, but any payment of damages made or collected from the
sureties, or any of them, on any judgment, in an action previoudj
begun by any party on such bond, shall be applied as a total or partial
discharge of the liability thereon; and such partial defense niaj b<
pleaded by answer or supplemental answer as may be proper. Thi
court may, when it shall be necessary for the protection of such sire;
ties, stay execution on any judgment rendered in such action, until thl
final determination of any action so previously commenced and unti
the final determination of any other action, commenced before juJi
ment, entered in any such action.
CHAPTER CLXXIII.
OF THE ADOPTION OF CHILDREN.
Section 4021. Any inhabitant of this state may petition the comity
court, in the connty or his residence, for leave to adopt a child not his
own by birth; but no such petition made by a married person shall be
granted, unless the husband or wife of the petitioner shall join therein;
nor shall any such petition be granted unless the child, if of the age of
fourteen years or more, shall consent thereto in writing, in the presence
of the court.
Section 4022. No such adoption shall be made without the written
consent of the living parents of such child, unless the court shall find
that one of the parents has abandoned the child, or gone to parts un
known, when such consent may be given by the parent, if any, having
the care of the child. In case where neither of the parents is living,
or if living, have abandoned the child, such consent may be given by
the guardian of such child, if any. If such child has no guardian,
such consent may be given by any of the next of kin of such child
residing in this state, or, in the discretion of the court, by some suit
able person to be appointed by the court. In case of a child not born
in lawful wedlock, such consent may be given by the mother, if she is
living and has not abandoned such child.
Section 4023. If, upon 6uch petition and consent as herein provided,
the connty court shall be satisfied of the identity and relations of the
persons, and that the petitioners are of sufficient ability to bring up,
and furnish suitable nurture and education for the child, having refer
ence to the degree and condition of its parents, and that it is proper
that such adoption shall take effect, such court shall make an order,
reciting said facts, that from and after the date thereof, such child shall
be deemed to all legal intents and purposes the child of the petitioners;
and by such order the name of such child may be changed to that of
the parents by adoption.
Section 4024. A child so adopted shall be deemed for the purposes
of inheritance and succession by such child, custody of the per
son and right of obedience by such parents by adoption, and all other
legal consequences and incidents of the natural relation of parents and
children, the same to all intents and purposes as if such child had been
born in lawful wedlock of such parents by adoption; excepting that
such child 6tiall not be capable of taking property expressly limited to
the heirs of the body of such parents. The natural parents of such
child shall be deprived, by such order of adoption, of all legal rights
whatsoever respecting such child, and such child shall be freed from
ill legal obligations of maintenance and obedience to such natural
parents.
CHAPTER CLXXIV.
OF TESTAMENTARY TRUSTS.
Section 4025. Every trustee to whom any estate, real or personal
shall be devised or bequeathed in trust for any minor or other person, bj
the will of any deceased person, or who may be appointed by any countj
court to carry out the provisions of any will which creates a trust with'.
out naming a trustee, shall give bond to the county judge having juris
diction of the probate of the will in such sum and with such sureties as
the court may order, conditioned as follows:
1. To make and return to the county court within such time as tie
court shall direct, a true inventory of all the goods, chattels, rights,
credits and estate so devised or bequeathed;
2. To annually render an account to such court of the trust estate in
his hands, of the management, disposition and annual income thereof;
3. To faithfully execute such trust under the direction of the court
according to the true intent and meaning thereof;
4. To adjust and settle his accounts with such court at the expiration
of his trust, and pay and deliver to the person entitled thereto all bal
ances, money ana property in his possession, and for which he is liable
as such trustee. But if the testator in liis will has directed that no bond
be required of such trustee, none need be given by him, unless the court,
at the time of proving the will or thereafter, shall determine that a bond
is required by a change in the circumstances or situation of the trustee.,
or for othor sufficient reason.
Section 4026. Any person appointed trustee by any will, who shall
refuse to give the bond herein required, or neglect to do so for twenty
days after receiving notice that such bond is required, shall be deemed
to have declined 6uch trust.
Section 4027. If any trustee appointed in any will not containing 3
provision for perpetuating the trust, shall refuse to accept the same, or
shall resign, be removed, or die, or if a trust be created by the will and
no trustee be therein named to execute such trust, a trustee may be
appointed by the county court, after notice to the persons interested in
such trust estate. Every trustee so appointed by the court shall be
bound by the provisions of this chapter in the same manner and to the
same extent as though appointed by will, and the estate so given in
trust shall vest in such trustee in like manner, to all intents and pur
poses, as the same vested in the original trustee named in such will,
and he may demand, sue for, and recover from any other person holding
the same, any and all property belonging to such trust estate.
Section 4028. Any trustee so appointed by will or by the court may,
upon a request in writing, be permitted to resign the trust, if the court
shall think it expedient.
Section 402'J. Any trustee who shall become disqualified by insan
ity, or incapacity, or who shall be evidently unsuitable to perform hi;
duties as such trustee, or who shall neglect or refuse to comply with
the provisions of this chapter, shall be removed by the court after
notice to such trustee and other parties interested.
Section 4030. The county court on application of any such trustee,
Qr an^ perS0I1 interested, may, after notice to all parties in interest, au
thorize and require such trustee to sell any property so held in trust, in
such manner as the court may direct, and to invest the proceeds of such
sale in such manner as will be most for the interest of all concerned
therein; and such court may from time to time make such orders and
decrees as it may deem just and reasonable in relation to the sale, man
agement, investment and disposition of such trust property, and to the
settlement of the accounts of such trustee, but no such order shall be
made in violation of the terms of the trust. To keep the trust property
from being removed out of the state, or improperly or illegally used or
invested, the county court shall have the same power as circuit courts
to issue the writ of ne exeat and injunctions.
CHAPTER CLXXV.
OF APPEALS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
V
Section 4031. In all cases not otherwise provided for, any executer,
administrator, guardian, trustee, or any person aggrieved by any
order, judgment, decree, determination, or denial uf the county court,
or commissioners appointed by the county court to receive, examine
and pass upon claims against the estates of deceased persons, may
appeal therefrom to the circuit court for the same county by filing a
notice thereof with said county court, within sixty days from the date
of the act appealed from, or if the appeal be from the actions of the
commissioners, within sixty days after the filing of their report with the
county court, together with such undertaking as is required in the next
section. But no appeal shall be allowed from the action of the court
or commissioners in allowing or disallowing any claim unless a part
thereof in dispute amounting to at least twenty dollars shall have been
allowed or disallowed. The appeal of any child from an order of adop
tion may be taken by any person on his behalf.
Section 4032. The party appealing, other than an executor, administrator,
guardian or trustee, shall at the time of filing notice of appeal,
and before his appeal shall be effectual for any purpose, file with the
r ixi- • i S -ii i
county court an undertaking in such sum, ana with such surety as
the judge thereof shall approve, to the effect that he will diligently
prosecute his appeal to eflect, and to pay all damages and costs which
may be awarded against hin. on 6uch appeal; but no bond shall be re
quired of uor costs awarded against any child, or person acting in be
half of a child, on an appeal from an order of adoption.
Section 4033. The appellant shall give notice of the appeal to such
adverse party, and in such manner as the county court shall direct,
within ten days after taking the same, and the county judge shall, within
twenty days after the appeal is taken, file in the circuit court a certified
copy of the record and proceedings appealed from, together with the
notice of appeal and undertaking and proof of service or the notice of
appeal on the adverseparty, according to the order of the county court,
Section 4034. When such certified copy, notice of appeal, undertaking
and the evidence that the notice of appeal has been given to the
adverse party shall have been filed in the circuit court, the appeal may
be brought to trial in the same manner as actions originally brought
therein, and the court shall proceed to the trial and the determination
of the matter according to the rules of law, allowing a trial by jury of
all questions of fact, in cases where snch trial may be proper; and such
court may direct an issue to be made up between the parties in a brief
form, when it shall be deemed necessary, and appeals may be taken to
the supreme court as in other cases.
Section 4035. If any person, aggrieved by any act of the count*
court, or commissioners to examine claims, shall, from any cause without fault on his part, have omitted to take his appeal according to law,
the circuit court of. the same county may, if it shall appear that justice
requires a revision of the case, on the petition of the party aggrieved.
ana upon such terms and within such time as it shall deem reasonable,
allow an appeal to be taken and prosecuted in like manner and with the
same effect as though done seasonably. No such appeal shall be
allowed without reasonable notice to the party adversely interested, nor
unless the petition therefore shall be filed in the office of the clerk of
the circuit court within one year after the act complained of. When
ever the circuit court shall allow or disallow an appeal, as provided in
this section, the party aggrieved may appeal to the supreme court
Section 4036. After an appeal is claimed and notice thereof given
at the office of the county judge, all further proceedings in pursuance
of the act appealed from, shall cease, until the appeal shall be deter
mined.
Section 4037. The circuit court may reverse or affirm in whole or
in part the act appealed from, and may render such judgment as mat
be proper, or make such order therein as the county court ought to
have made, and may remit the case to the county court for further proceedings
in pursuance of the opinion of the circuit court, or may make
any order, or take any action therein, or enforce its own judgment, as
such circuit court may deem best. In any case appealed to the
supreme court, such court may remit the same to the county court in
its discretion, when no further proceedings are required in the circuit
court. In all cases the county court, after such cause is remitted, shall
proceed therein as directed by the court remitting the same.
Section 4038. If the appellant shall fail to prosecute his appeal
with reasonable diligence, the circuit court, on the motion of any person
interested in the case, shall dismiss the appeal or affirm the judgment or act appealed from, as such court shall deem just, and maj
allow costs against the appellant; and when such appeal is from the
disallowance of any claim, such claim shall be forever barred.
Section 4039. When an executor or administrator declines to
appeal from the allowance of any claim against the estate he represents,
in a case where an appeal may be taken, any person interested in such
estate as creditor, devisee, legatee or heir, may appeal from such allow
ance in the same manner as the executor or administrator might have
done; and the proceedings on such appeal shall be conducted in the
name of the executor or administrator. But to render the appeal effectual for any purpose, the person so appealing shall at the time of filing
the notice of appeal, file with the county court an undertaking ir »ue.
sum and with such sureties as said court shall direct and appr ve, •'
secure the estate from all damages and costs in consequence • f such
appeal, and to secure the intervening damages and costs to nit- adverse
party.
Section 4040. When an executor or administrator shall have a claim
agamst the estate which he represents, which shall be disallowed, and
he shall take an appeal therefrom to the circuit court, notice of Buch
appeal shall be given to all concerned by personal service thereof, or
by publication under an order of the county court in a newspaper as
provided in section four thousand and forty five, for three successive
weeks, the last publication to be at least four weeks before the hearing
of the appeal.
COSTS.
Section 4041. In all contested matters, proceedings and cases tried
before the county court, or before commissioners appointed by the
county court, where an appeal lies to the circuit court, such county
court may award costs, including attorney fees to the prevailing party
iu its discretion, to be paid by the other party, or to be paid out of the
estate which is the subject of the controversy as justice and equity may
require;' and when costs are allowed they shall be taxed at the same
rates allowed for like services in the circuit court; but the attorney
fees shall in no case exceed twenty five dollars and shall be allowed
only when an attorney of a court of record appears for the prevailing
party. "Whenever the county court shall allow costs as provided in
this section, such court shall enter judgment therefore in favor of the
estate or party prevailing in such matter or proceeding and against the
losing party, in a book to be kept by such court for that purpose to be
called the judgment book. Such judgment shall clearly state in whose
favor and against whom the same is rendered and the amount thereof,
and a list 01 the items making such amount shall be filed with the
papers in the case.
Section 4042. In all cases mentioned in the preceding section, the
county court may, in its discretion, require the claimant, or contest
ant, or other person, to give security for costs. Such security shall be
a written undertaking, in such sum and with such surety as shall
be approved by the county court, to the effect that such surety will
pay ail costs that may be awarded by such court in such proceeding
against the claimant or contestant. A judgment for costs against the
claimant or contestant may also be rendered against the surety in such
undertaking.
Section 4043. All judgments for costs, or for costs and a balance
found due an estate, against a person presenting a claim against such
estate, entered by the county court pursuant to the provisions of law,
shall have the same force and effect as judgments in the circuit court,
and may be enforced by execution, at any time within five years after
the rendition thereof, and at any time within fifteen years after said
five years, upon leave given by such court, upon reasonable notice to
the judgment debtor. All such executions shall be signed by the
judge, and sealed with the seal of the court, and state the amount due
upon such judgment, and shall be directed to the sheriff of the proper
county, commanding him to satisfy the same, with interest and costs
thereon, out of the goods, chattels, lands and tenements of the judgment
debtor in his county, and shall be made returnable within sixty days
from the date thereof, to the court from which the same shall have
issued. The sheriff shall proceed to levy upon and sell the property
of the judgment debtor in the same manner as required by law upon
executions issued out of the circuit court, and shall be entitled to the
same fees and commissions allowed by law on executions issuing from
the circuit court; but no such judgment shall be a lien upon the real
estate of the judgment debtor until execution shall have been levied
thereon.
NOTICE AND PUBLICATION.
Section 4044. When notice of any proceedings in a county court
shall be required by law, or be deemed necessary by such court, and the
manner of giving the same shall not be directed by any statute, suchcourt
shall order notice of such proceedings to be given to all persons
interested therein in such manner and for such length of time as it shall
deem reasonable.
Section 4045. In all matters and proceedings in the county court
requiring notice, by publication in a newspaper, the publication shall
be made in such newspaper as the court shall by order direct; but the
same shall be in a newspaper published in the county, if any; if no
newspaper is published in the county such publication may be made in
any other newspaper published in this state, as the court shall by order
direct; and the time of publication shall be as required by law, or if not
fixed by law, as directed by the court.
AMENDING EECOEDS.
Section 4046. Any county court may amend, correct and perfect
its record of any matter transacted therein in such manner as may be
necessary to make the 6ame conform to the truth.
Section 4047. Upon verified application in writing to any county
court by any person interested, praying that the records of such court,
in any matter transacted therein, may be amended, corrected or perfectea,
and specifying the amendments desired, it shall be the duty of
the court to cause notice to be given to all persons concerned, of the
time and place of hearing such application, by publication in a news
paper as provided in section four thousand and forty five, for three suc
cessive weeks prior to the time fixed for such hearing, the last publica
tion not to be more than ten days before the day so fixed.
Section 404S. At the time fixed for such hearing upon due proof
of the jmblication of such notice, the court shall proceed to hear the
proofs for and against the proposed amendments. If on such hearing
the court shall find its record incorrect, incomplete or imperfect, it shall
amend, correct and perfect the same in such manner as to make it conform to the truth. Such amended, corrected and perfected record shall
be as valid and binding in all courts as though correctly made and
entered at the proper time.
Section 4049. All matters and proceedings before any county court
requiring notice to be given of the time and place of the hearing thereof,
shall be made returnable to and set for hearing at a regular term of
such court. All such matters and proceedings by brief, appropriate
titles, shall be entered in the order in which they are commenced, in a
book to be kept by such court, and called the court calendar. At the
opening of the term of the court all such matters and proceedings shall
be called by their titles and in their order on the calendar. Any mat
ter or proceeding wherein a contest is indicated by any one interested
shall be so noted by the court. Matters and proceedings wherein there
is no contest shall be first disposed of in their order on such calendar,
followed by the disposition of contested matters and proceedings in like
manner, unless the court shall otherwise direct. The court mar ad
journ from day to day and from time to time till all business pending
therein is disposed of. All matters placed upon the calendar shall be
continued thereon until finally disposed of. But the hearing of anysuch
matter may, when necessary to procure the attendance of witnesses
or testimony, be continued to the next or any subsequent term of
such court, npon the application of either party, upon such terms as
may be imposed by the court
Section 4050. In all matters and proceedings in any county court
wherein such court shall order notice to be given to parties interested
therein, of the time and place of the hearing thereof, by publication or
otherwise, it shall not be necessary to publish in full or to serve a com
plete copy of such order; but a notice containing a brief statement of
the matter to be heard, sufficient to fairly inform those interested of
the nature of the proposed proceeding and the estate involved, with the
residence or late residence of the owner of such estate, and stating the
time and place of such hearing shall be sufficient, and any number of
different matters may be included in the same notice, and such notice
may be substantially as foUows:
State of Wisconsin, county court for county. In probate.
Notice is hereby given that at the term of the county court to
be held in and for said county at the court house in the (city, village or
town) of in said county, on the first Tuesday of , A. D., 18—,
the following matters will be heard and considered:
The application of A. B. for the appointment of an administrator of
the estate of C. D., late of the (city, village or town) of , in said
county, deceased.
The application of A. B. to admit to probate the last will and testa
ment or C. D., late of the (city, village or town) of , in said
county, deceased.
The application of A. B. for the appointment of a guardian of the
person and estate of C. D., an insane person of the (city, village or
town) of , in said county.
The application of A. B., administrator of the estate of C. D., late
of the (city, village or town) of , in said county, deceased, to sell
a piece of real estate belonging to such estate, described as follows
(here describe particularly), in said county.
By order of the court. E. F., Judge.
Dated.
Section 4051. Fees in the county court shall be allowed as follows:*'
To appraisers, one dollar per day;
To commissioners to examine and adjust claims, to make partitions,
or to assign dower or homestead, against deceased persons, two dollars
per day;
In all cases, travel, five cents per mile each way;
In cases not provided for, a reasonable compensation shall be allowed
by the court.
Section 4052. Depositions may be taken according to the provisions
of law, or the rules and practice of the circuit court for taking deposi
tions, to be used on the trial of civil actions therein, to be used on the
trial of any question before the county court, where such testimony
may be proper; and the county court may issue a commission to one
or more competent persons to take testimony of any nonresident wit
nesses, for use in such court. In proceedings where there is no con
test before the county court, depositions may be taken for use therein
in such manner as the court shall direct, either within or without the
state.
CHAPTER CLXXVI.
OF EVIDENCE.
OF COMPELLING THE ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES.
Section 4053. The subpoena may be in the form heretofore oommoniy
used, need not be sealed, and may be signed and issued as fol
lows:
1. By any judge, or clerk of a court of record, or court commissioner,
or by any justice of the peace, municipal judge, or police justice, to
require the attendance of witnesses and their production of lawful in
struments of evidence, within tiie territory in which such officer, or the
court of which he is such officer, has jurisdiction in any action, matter
or proceeding, pending or to be examined into, before any court, mag
istrate, officer, arbitrators, board, committee or other person authorized
to examine w; messes or hear testimony.
2. By the attorney general or any district attorney, or person acting
in his steao, to require the attendance of witnesses, in behalf of the
6tate, in any court, and from any part of the state.
3. By tli" chairman of any committee appointed by any county
board, town Mind, common council or village board, to invest ^e the
affairs of tht county, town, city or village, respectively, or tLn official
conduct or affairs of any officer thereof.
Section 40f>4. 7'ie subpoena of a justice of the peace may be in the
following form:
county, )
Town of . j8
The state of Wisconsin to : f
You are hereby required to appear before the r.r»aersigned, one of
the justices of the p?ace in and for said county, at my office in said
town (or before , designating the court, officer or person,
and place of appearance), on the day of , at o'clock in
the noon of said day, to give evidence in a certain cause, then
and there to he tried between , plaintifff, and , de
fendant, on the part of the .
Given under my hand, this day of , 18 —.
J. P., Justice of the Peace.
Section 4035. Any subpoena may be served by any person, by exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof, -or
by leaving such copy at the place of his abode.
Section 4050. A subpoena to require attendance of a witness before
a justice of the peace, may be served in a county adjoining that in which
such court is held, and shall oblige the attendance before such justice of
any witness, so duly served therewith, not residing more than thirty
miles from the office of such justice.
Section 4057. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness in
any civil action, matter or proceeding, except when subpoenaed on behalf
of the state, unless the fees are paid or tendered to him, which are allowed
by law for one day's attendance as a witness, and for traveling to and
returning from the place where he is required to attend.
Section 4058. Jno witness, on behalf of the state, in any civil action,
•,. , .. ' . ., ., J . i '
matter or proceeding, whether in its name or the name of the attorney
general, or of any other person for the state pursuant to law, or in any
criminal action or proceeding in any court, or before any officer, on be
half of either party, shall be entitled to demand any fee in advance, but
shall be obliged to attend upon the service of a subpoena as therein law
fully required.
Section 4059. Every witness on behalf of the state in any civil action
er proceeding, whether in the name of the state or of the attorney general, or of any other person for the state pursuant to law, may file with
the clerk of the court where the same is pending, his affidavit proving
his attendance and travel, and his fees shall, upon the certificate of such
clerk, countersigned by the attorney general, district attorney or acting
prosecuting officer, be paid out of the state treasury, except where other
wise specially provided.
Section 4000. The fees of all witnesses on the part of the state, in
every criminal action or proceeding in the name of the state, in any court
shall be paid by the county in which the offense which is the subject
thereof is committed, except where otherwise specially provided. When
such action or proceeding is pending in the circuit court, the clerk
thereof, upon proof by affidavit of his attendance and travel, shall give
each such witness a certificate of the number of days' attendance, num
ber of miles traveled, and the amount of compensation due him, which
certificate shall be receipted for by such witness, and thereupon the
county treasurer shall pay the amount thereof out of the county treasury.
Section 4061. When any person shall attend a court of record as
a witness in behalf of the state, upon the request of the public prosecutor, or upon a subpoena, or by virtue of a recognizance for that pur
pose, and it shall appear that such person has come from any other state
or territory of the United States or from any foreign country, or that
such person is poor, the court may, by an order on its minutes, direct
that such witness be paid a specific sum, which the court shall deem
reasonable for his expenses and attendance, in lieu of his fees by law;
and thereupon the clerk shall give a certificate for such sum, with a copy
of such order affixed, and the same shall be paid out of the state treasnry, or the county treasury, as may be proper under the two preceding
sections,
Section 4002. The iud<re of the circuit court, or a justice of the
. ■ • i *• J- l i • j i r i ■
peace, may, in any criminal action or proceeding to bo tried before him,
direct pucn witnesses to be summoned ou behalf of the defendant, as,
upon proof by affidavit of the defendant or his attorney, he shall deem
proper and necessary; and all witnesses, so ordered, whom the presid
ing judge or justice shall, after the trial, certify to have been material
or necessary to have beei> summoned, shall be paid their fees out of die
county treasury, in the same manner that the witnesses for the state in
such action or proceeding are paid. The fees of no other witnesses for
the defendant shall be a claim upon the county or the state.
Section 4063. If any person, duly subpoenaed and obliged to attend
.. l 11 fi » 5 ' ..i _i 11 i i it
as a witness, shall fail to do so without any reasonable excuse, he shall
be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such fail
ure, to be recovered in an action by 6uch party.
Section 4064. Such failure to attend as a witness in any court of
record shall also be considered a contempt of the court, and may be
punished by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars. If he is a party to
the action, the court may, as an additional punishment, strike out his
pleading. Such failure to attend in a justice's conrt shall also be con
sidered a contempt, and the witness shall be fined all the costs of his
apprehension, unless he shall show reasonable cause for his failure, to
the satisfaction of the justice; in which case the party procuring liim
to be apprehended shall pay the costs thereof.
Section 4065. Either a court of record, or a justice of the peace, in
such cases, upon due proof of the service of the subpoena, and the pay
ment or tender of fees when necessary or not waived, may issue an at
tachment to bring such witness before them, to answer for the contempt,
and also to testify as a witness in the cause in which he is summoned.
Section 4066. If any person, duly subpoenaed and obliged to atas a witness before any officer, arbitrators, board, committee, or
other person authorized to examine witnesses or hear testimony, shall
without any reasonable excuse fail to attend or to testify, a* lawfully
required, or to produce a book or paper which he was lawfully directed
to bring by subpoena, or subscribe his deposition when correctly reduced
to writing, upon sufficient proof of the facts by affidavit, any judge of
a court ot record, or court commissioner, in the county, may issue an
attachment to bring such witness before him, and then, unless such
witness shall purge the contempt and go and testify, or do such other
act as required by law, may Ivy warrant commit him to the common
jail of the county, there to remain in close confinement until he shall
so testify, or do such act, or bo discharged by order of such judge or
commissioner, or according to law. The sheriff of the county shall ex
ecute such warrant, and the keeper of such jail is required to receive
and safely keep such person, according to such commitment
FEES OF WITNESSES AND INTERPREfEES.
Section 4067. The fees of witnesses shall be as follows:
For attending in any action or proceeding in a court of record, or
before a judge thereof, one dollar and fifty cents for each day, and
seventy five cents for each half day;
For attending in any action or proceeding in justice's court, or be
fore a justice of the peace, or before any arbitrators, or any board or
committee thereof, of any town, city or village, seventy five cents for
each day, and fifty cents for each half day;
For attending before any other officer, board or committee, the same
as in a court of record;
For traveling, at the rate of three cents per mile, each way, goin
and returning from the residence of snch witness, if within this state
or if without, from the boundary line of the state, at the point where
the witness crossed in coming to attend, to the place of attendance, by
the usually traveled ronte, between such points.
The fees of interpreters for attending in any court of record shall
be two dollars and fifty cents for each day, and one dollar and twenty
five cents for each half day; and for attending in any justice's court,
or before any officer, person or board, one dollar for each day, and
fifty cents for each half day, and the fees for traveling allowed other
witnesses.
No witness or interpreter shall be entitled to receive snch fees for
attendance except for the time he shall be in actual and necessary
attendance as such witness or interpreter; nor be entitled to receive
pay in more than one action or proceeding for the same attendance or
travel, on behalf of the same party. No person shall be entitled to
demand or receive either travel or attendance fees as a witness or in
terpreter while attending court as an officer or juror; nor shall any
attorney or counsel in any cause be allowed any fee as a witness or
interpreter therein.
COMPETENCY OF WITNESSES.
Section 4068. No person shall be disqualified as a witness in any
action or proceeding, civil or criminal, by reason of his interest in the
event of the same, as a party or otherwise; and every party shall be in
every such case a competent witness, except as otherwise provided in
this chapter. But such interest or connection may be shown to affect
the credibilitv of the witness.
22 Wis. 93. 114, 184; 25 Id. 509; 20 Id. U86; 81 Id. 160; 35 id. 238; 39 id. 870; 40 id. 882.
Section 4009. No party, and no person from, through or under
whom a party derives his interest or title, shall be examined as a witness in respect to any transaction or communication by him personally
with a deceased person, or with a person then insane, in any civil
action or proceeding in which the opposite party derives his title, or
sustains his liability, to the cause of action, from, through or under
such deceased person or 6uch insane person, or in which such insane
person is a party prosecuting or defending by guardian, unless such
opposite party shall first be examined, or examine some other witness
in nis behalf, concerning some transaction or communication between
the deceased or insane and such party or person, or unless the testi
mony of such deceased person given in his lifetime or of such insane
person be first read or given in evidence by the opposite party; and
then, in either case respectively, only in respect to snch transaction
or communication of which testimony is so given, or to the matters
to which such testimony relates.
Section 4070. No party, and no person from, through or under
whom a party derives his interest or title, shall be examined as a wit
ness in respect to any transaction or communication by him personally
with an agent of the adverse party, or an agent of the person from,
through or under whom such adverse party derives his interest or title,
when such agent is dead or insane, or otherwise legally incompetent as
a witness; unless the opposite party shall first be examined, or exam
ine some other witness in his behalf, in respect to some transaction or
communication between such agent and such other party or person;
or unless the testimony of such agent, at any time taken, be first read
or given in evidence by the opposite party; and then, in either case
respectively, only in respect to such transaction or coinLnuuicatioD of
which testimony is so given, or to the matters to which such testimony
relates.
Section 4071. In all criminal actions and proceedings, the party
charged shall, at his own request, but not otherwise, be a competent
witness; but his refusal or omission to testify shall create no presump
tion against him, or any other party thereto.
Section 4072. A husband or wife shall not be allowed to disclose
a confidential communication made by one to the other, during their
marriage, without the consent of the other. In an action for criminal
conversation, the plaintifff's wife is a competent witness for the defendant as to any matter in controversy, except as aforesaid.
Section 4073. A person who has been convicted of a criminal ofjenge
.^ notwithstanding, a competent witness; but the conviction
may be proved to affect his credibility, either by the record or by his
own cross examination, upon which he must answer any question rel
evant to that inquiry, and the party cross examining him is not con
cluded by his answer,
Section 4074. A clergyman, or other minister of any religion,
shall not be allowed to disclose a confession made to him in his pro
fessional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the rules or
practice of the religious body to which he belongs, without consent
thereto by the party confessing,
Section 4075. No person duly authorized to practice physic or
surgery shall be compelled to disclose any information which lie may
have acquired in attending any patient in a professional character, and
which information was necessary to enable him to prescribe for such
patient as a physician, or to do any act for him as a surgeon.
Section 4076. An attorney or counselor at law shall not be allowed
to disclose a communication made by his client to him, or his advice
given thereon, in the course of his professional employment
Section 4077. Any competent witness in a cause shall not be
excused from answering a question relevant to the matter in i-sne,on
the ground merely that the answer to such question mav establish, or
, P, , ,. , *.■» ■» . ^ x, , . *, . »
tend to establish, that such witness owes a debt or is otherwise suoject
to a civil action. But this provision shall not be construed to
require a witness to give any answer which shall have a tendency to
accuse himself of any crime or misdemeanor, or to expose him to any
penalty or forfeiture, nor in any respect to vary or alter any other
rule respecting the examination of witnesses,
Section 4078. No witness or party, in an action brought upon the
, , , i t m • a' i_ xi , ••
bond of a public officer, or in an action by the state or any mnmciPahty
to recover public money received by or deposited "with the
defendant, or in any action, proceeding or examination, instituted by
or in behalf of the state or any municipality, involving the official
conduct of any officer thereof, shall be excused from testifying on the
ground that his testimony may expose him to prosecution for any
crime, misdemeanor or forfeiture. But no testimony so given shall
be in any manner used against the person so testifying in any other
action or proceeding, civil or criminal, except a prosecution for per
jury committed in giving such testimony.
Section 4079. In actions or proceedings by or against an aggrre
gate corporation, the admission of any member thereof who is not a
party to the action or proceeding, 6hail not be received as evidence
against such corporation, unless such admission was made concerning
6ouie transaction in which such member was the authorized agent of
6nch corporation.
ADMINISTERING OATHS.
Section 40S0. An oath or affidavit required or authorized by law,
. . , » . , , i .i * .i '
except oaths to jurors and witnesses on a trial, and such other oaths
as are required by law to be taken before particular officers, may be
taken before any judge, court commissioner, clerk of a court of record,
notary public, town clerk, justice of the peace or county clerk, within
the territory in which such officer is authorized to act; and when cer
tified by any sucli oilicer to have been taken before him, may bo read
aud used in any court of record, or not of record, and before any offi
cer, judicial, executive or administrative. Oaths may be administered
by any member of a committee mentioned in subdivision three of sec
tion four thousand aud fifty three, to any witness examined before
euch committee.
Section 4081. In all cases in which an oath or affidavit is required
or authorized by law, the same may be taken in any of the usual
forms, and every person swearing, affirming or declaring in any such
form, shall be deemed to have been lawfully sworn, and to be guilty
of perjury for corruptly or falsely swearing, affirming or declaring in
such form.
Section 40S2. "Whenever the court, before which any person shall
be offered as a witness, shall be satisfied that such person has any
peculiar mode of swearing, which is more solemn and obligatory, iu
the opinion of such person, than the usual mode, the court may, in its
discretion, adopt such mode of swearing such person; and any court
may inquire of any person what are the peculiar ceremonies, observed
in swearing, which he deems most obligatory.
Section 40S3. Every person believing in any other than the Chris■ • t • i ii i i- t t • /■
turn religion, shall be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of
bis religion, if there be any such ceremonies.
Section 40S4. Every person who shall declare that he has consci- £
entious scruples against taking any oath, or swearing in any form,
shall be permitted to make his solemn declaration or affirmation.
Section 4065. The court before whom an infant, or person appareutly of weak intellect, shall be produced as a witness, may examine
such person to ascertain 'his capacity, and whether he understands the
nature aud obligations of an oath.
depositions; general provisions.
Section 40SC. Djpositions may bo taken in the manner and ar>
cording to the regulations provided in this chapter, to be used before
any court, magistrate, or any other person authorized to examine witnesses
or hear testimony, in any action or proceeding, or any motion
therein, or in any other matter, except in criminal cases. Depositions
may also be taken to be used in the supreme court, as well as in the
other courts.
Section 40ST. The deponent shall be sworn to testify the truth,
trie whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the action,
proceeding or matter for which his testimony is taken, and his testiliiony
shall be taken in writing. Tne officer taking the same, must
insert therein every answer or declaration of the witness, which either
party requires to be inserted; and in depositions takeD by oral inter
rogatories, every interrogatory so required. The deposition must,
when completed, be carefully read and subscribed by the witness.
^'e deposition shall in all cases be delivered or transmitted by the
officer oy whom the same is taken, to the clerk of the court, the
magistrate or other person, before whom the action, proceeding or
matter is depending, securely sealed, and shall remain sealed until
opened by the court, or the clerk thereof, or such magistrate or other
person.
Section 4088. Additional rules may be prescribed by courts of
, . , , .. , •',. r., . J . .,
record in respect to actions and proceedings therein, concerning the
issuing and return of commissions, the taking, return, safe keeping
and opening of depositions, or any other matters connected therewith,
including depositions to perpetuate testimony, taken within or with
out the state, not inconsistent with law, and Buch rules as may be
prescribed by the supreme court.
Section 4089. No deposition shall be used if it shall appear that
*ne reason f°r taking it no longer exists; unless the party producing
it shall show other sufficient cause then existing for its use. No
deposition shall be taken before any officer or commissioner within or
without the state, who is the attorney or of counsel for anv party or
. ,' . . . - . * . , . " -r J
person interested, or is himself otherwise interested in the action,
matter or proceeding in or for which the deposition is taken, except
by written consent of the parties.
Section 4090. Every deposition taken in pursuance of a stipnlatjon^ or afjer due notice, may be used on the trial, if the same shall
have been filed with the clerk of the court, and the other party notified
thereof, or if filed with a justice of the peace without such notice, be^ore
tne commencement of the trial, and the same be otherwise unob
jectionable. But in an action or proceeding in courts of record, unless
such notice be given, or the deposition be filed at least one day before
the commencement of the term at which it is sought to be used, the
opposite party shall be entitled to a continuance for good cause shown,
at the cost of the party desiring to use the deposition, unless he will
forego the use of it.
Section 4091. All objections to the validity or admissibility of any
deposition shall be made before entering on the trial; but any depositjon may be suppressed after the trial is begun, if any sufficient cause
appear, which is not disclosed in the deposition and accompanying
papers. No deposition which shall have once been used on the trial
°^ an acf 'on shall be suppressed upon any retrial of the 6ame action,
for any cause, unless objection for such cause was made thereto on
the former trial, or such cause is not disclosed in the deposition and
accompanying papers, and shall have been discovered since the former
trial.
Section 4092. Every objection to the competency of the witness,
or to the propriety of any question put to him, or the admissibility of any
-testimony given by him, may be made when the deposition is produced, in the same manner as if the witness were personally examined
on the trial; and without being noted upon the deposition, unless the
objection is to the form or order of a question, when the objection
must be noted in the deposition before it is answered.
Section 4093. When a deposition shall have been lawfully taken
jn any action? jt may ue use(j jn ar)y trial, inquiry or assessment therein,
and it may also be used in any other action between the same parties,
including their respective legal representatives, involving the same
controversy, if it shall have been duly filed in the first mentioned
action, and have since remained in the custody of the clerk of the
court where the same was pending, subject to the same objections as
if originally taken for such other action.
Section 4094. When an action or proceeding shall have been appealed from one court to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be
used in the court below, may be used in the appellate court; but if
any such deposition was offered in the court below, then, subject to the
same objections for informality or irregularity, and none other, which
were duly taken in writing in such court below.
Section 4095. The deposition of a party to any action or proceeding, may be taken on his own behalf, within or without the state, inP
the same manner, and for the same causes, and be read in evidence
where he is a competent witness with the same effect, as the deposition
of any other witness, not a party, may be.
Section 4096. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid of
the prosecution or defense of another action, shall be allowed; but the
examination of a party, otherwise than as a witness on a trial, may be
taken by deposition, at the instance of the adverse party, in any action
or proceeding, at any time after the commencement thereof and before
judgment. Such deposition shall be taken before a judge at chambers,
on a previous notice to such party, and any other adverse party, or
their respective attorneys, of at least five days; or it may be taken
without the state upon commission, in the manner provided for taking
other depositions. The attendance of the party to be examined may
be compelled upon subpoena and the payment or tender of his fees asC
a witness; and such examination shall be subject to the same rules as
that of any other witness, but he shall not be compelled to disclose
anything not relevant to the controversy. On motion, and one day's
notice, the court or presiding judge thereof in which the action or
proceeding is pending, may,"before the examination is begun, by order
limit the subjects to which such examination shall extend; but the
party examining shall in nil cases be permitted to examine on oral
interrogatories. Such examination shall not be compelled in any
other county than that in which the party to be examined resides.
Section 4097. If any party lawfully required to appear and tes-P
... ., , . ,,.J », J. .., J ,\ . .. ,' * . ,,
tily, as provided in this chapter, either within or without the state,
shall neglect or refuse so to do, he may be punished as for a contempt,
and his pleading be stricken out, and judgment given against him as
upon default or failure of proof.
Section 4098. The examination or testimony of a party, taken on
the trial or by deposition, at the instance of the adverse party, may
be rebutted by other testimony, as if taken in his own behalf.
Section 4099. In any action in a justice's court, in which the defendant shall be personally served with the summons, or shall appear,
when the plaintifff shall file a written complaint, claiming an indebtedness upon account, verified in the manner prescribed for verification
of pleadings in a court of record, an affidavit of the plaintifff, or of his
agent acquainted with the facts, stating the names of the parties plaint
iff and defendant, that the defendant is indebted to the plaintifff upon
the account alleged in the complaint, in a specified amount, when the
s:mie became due, what setofis should be allowed, and what payments
have been made and when made, if any, and the true balance due,
with a copy of the account affixed, shall be received as presumptive
evidence of the facts therein stated. When made without the state,
such affidavit must have annexed a certificate of the official character
of the officer certifying the same, find of the genuineness of his si*
nature, such as is prescribed in section four thousand two hundred
and three.
DEPOSITIONS TAKEN WITHIN THE STATE.
Section 4100. Any witness mav he subpoenaed and compelled to
, . , ... •> , •> ..-,. » .. » , .' ■ i
give Ins deposition, at any jilace within twenty miles of his abode,
under the provisions of this chapter, and under the same penalties as
'he may be subpoenaed and compelled to attend as a witness in any
court.
Section 4101. The deposition of a witness, within this state, may
, , . r ~i J
be taken when:
1. He shall live more than thirty miles from the place of trial or
hearing of the action, proceeding or matter, in which his testimony
is wanted, or beyond reach of the subpoena of the court.
2. When he shall be about to go out of the state, not intending to
return in time for the trial or hearing.
3. When he is so sick, infirm, or aged, as to make it probable thit
he will not be able to attend at the trial or hearing.
4. When he shall be a member of the legislature, and the legisla
ture, or any committee of the same, or either house thereof, of which
he shall be a member, shall be in session, provided, he waive his privilege.
5. When his testimony is material to any motion or other similar
proceeding, pending in any court of record, and he shall have refnsed
voluntarily to make his affidavit of the facts, within his knowledge
in reference thereto.
Section 4102. Such deposition may be taken, within the territory
wt,jch j,e is authorized to act, by a justice of the peace, or aconrt
commissioner, or other person authorized by law to take depositions,
at any time after the action or proceeding is commenced, or after a
submission to arbitration. Notice in writing shall be given to the
adverse party, his attorney or agent, that the deposition of the witness
or witnesses named, will be taken before the officer, naming him, at a
time and place appointed therein, for one of the causes mentioned in
t]ie preceding section ; and in all cases, not less than twenty four hours
shall be allowed after service of such notice before the time appointed
for taking the deposition, and also time at the rate of one day. Sundays
excepted, for every twenty miles travel after the lirst ten miles, from
the place where such notice is served. But in any action or proceed
ing in any court no notice of taking a deposition need be given to a
defendant, who, having been duly served with process, shall not have
appeared, if the time limited by law therefore shall have expired.
Section 4103. The justice of the peace, before whom any civil
canse is pending, may, on any day on which a trial may be had, after
an application has been made for adjournment, and before making an
order for an adjournment, on the application of either party showing
any cause provided by law therefore, proceed to take the deposition of
any witness then in attendance before the justice; and no prior notice
shall be required,
Section 4104. The party producing the deponent shall, in all
caseS) })e allowed first to examine him, either upon verbal or written
interrogatories, on all points which he shall deem material, and then
the adverse party may examine the deponent in like manner, after
which either party may propose such further interrogatories as the
case may require.
Section 4105. The deposition shall be written by the justice, or
other officer by whom the same is taken, or by the deponent, or by
some disinterested person in the presence and under the direction of
the justice or officer, and it shall be carefully read to or by the deponent, and shall then be subscribed by him.
Section 410G. The justice, or officer, shall annex to the deposition,
a certilicate substantially as follows:
State of Wisconsin, [ g8> ,
;:(■
county. I "
I, A. B. (add official designation), in and for said county, do hereby
certify7 that the above deposition was taken before me, at my office, in
the town of , in said county, on the day of , 18 —, at
o'clock, noon; that it was taken at the request of the plaintifff
(or defendant, or other person procuring it), upon verbal (or written)
interrogatories; that it was reduced to writing by myself (or by de
ponent, or by , a disinterested person, in my presence, and
under my direction); that it was taken to be used in the action of A.
B. vs. C. D., now pending in court (or to be used in some pro
ceeding or matter, mentioning it), and that the reason for taking it
was (here state the true reason); that attended at the taking
of such deposition (or that a notice, of which the annexed is a copy,
was served upon on the day of , 18— ; or, that the depo
sition was taken in pursuance of the annexed stipulation); that said
deponent, before examination, was sworn to testify the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, relative to said cause, and that said
deposition was carefully read to (or by) said deponent, and then sub
scribed by him. A. B. (adding official designation).
DEPOSITIONS RELATIVE TO PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS.
Section 4107. The state board of charities and reform, the board
of regents of the university, the board of regents of normal schools,
the directors of the state prison, and the several boards of managers
or trustees governing the charitable and correctional institutions of
the state, may, by resolution duly adopted, require the deposition of
any witness to be taken concerning any institution under their gov
ernment or superintendence, or the conduct of any officer or agent
thereof, or any matter relating to the interests thereof; or ma}* ap
point and authorize a committee thereof so to do in their behalf.
Upon presentation of a certified copy of such resolution, and due re
quest accordingly, any justice or court commissioner shall issue the
proper subpoena, requiring attendance at a time and place therein
fixed, and take the deposition of the witness according to the preced
ing provisions. "W"hen any officer or agent of anv institution is concerned and to be affected by the testimony, two days' notice of the
time and place of taking any such deposition shall he given him, to
be served as provided in section four thousand one hundred and two;
and in all cases the board or committee, and any party interested, may
appear in person, or by counsel, and examine the witness touching
the matters upon which he may be examined as aforesaid. The depo
sition, duly certified, shall be delivered to the board or committee
which required the taking of the same.
Section 4103. Every officer who shall take a deposition, and every
witness who shall appear and testify, under the preceding section,
shall be paid the fees allowed in other cases, and the account of the
board or committee for such fees and other like expenses, incurred in
taking any such deposition, being duly certified, shall be paid out of
the state treasury.
DEPOSITIONS FOR USE IN OTHER STATES AND COUNTRIES.
Section 4109. Any witness may be subpoenaed and compelled,
to the provisions of this chapter, to attend and give his
deposition in any action, cause or proceeding pending in any court of
any other state or country, before any justice of the peace, court com
missioner, or other person authorized to take depositions in this state,
or before any commissioner appointed under authority of such state or
country, or any such court thereof. A subpoena to require attendance
before such commissioners, may be issued by either of the officers
mentioned in subdivision one of section four thousand and fifty three.
DEPOSITIONS TAKEN WITHOUT THE STATE.
Section 4110. In any civil action, proceeding or matter, in which
depositions may be taken within the state, the deposition of any wit
ness without the state may be taken by any judge or justice, eonrt
commissioner or master in chancery, of any court of record of the
United States, or any state or territory thereof, or by any notary pub
lic or justice of the peace of any state or territory thereof, or by any
commissioner of deeds appointed pursuant to the laws of this state,
within the territory in which any such officer is authorized to act as
such, or by commissioners appointed specially for that purpose by
commission issuing from any court of record in this state, in the man
ner provided in this chapter, and the rules of court that may be pre
scribed in respect thereto.
Section 4111. Such depositions, to be used in any actions or proceedings
before justices of the peace, arbitrators, or in any other cases,
exceptin courts of record, may be taken in the same maimer and under
the same provisions of law as depositions of persons may be taken
within the state; but not more than thirty days' notice of the taking
thereof shall be required in any case.
Section 4112. Any such deposition, to be used in any action or
proceeding in a court of record, may be taken in the same manner and
under the same provisions of law, as depositions of persons maybe
taken within the state; except that the notice of the taking of the
same shall be given at least ten days, and one day more for every one
hundred miles of distance between the place of taking the deposition
and that where notice is served, before the time appointed.
Section 4113. A commission may issue from any court of record
to any competent person or persons without the state, to take the de
position of any such witness in either of the following cases:
1. Where an issue of fact has been joined.
2. "Where the time limited by law for the defendant to plead shall
have expired, and no answer or demurrer shall have been received.
3. At any time after the commencement of the action, before any
issue of fact is joined, when the witness is so sick, infirm or aged as to
afford reasonable ground to apprehend that he may die, or become un
able to give his testimony, or when he is about to remove so that his
testimony cannot conveniently be taken, or for any other cause which
shall be deemed sufficient by the court.
4. "When required for use on any trial or hearing, or upon any mo
tion or procejcling before or after judgment. The commission shall
be signed by the clerk or judge, sealed with the seal of the court, and
be in the form heretofore commonly used.
Section 4114. To procure such a commission, the party desiring it
shall prepare his direct interrogatories, and state in the caption thereof
the name of the commissioner proposed by him, the name of the witness,
and the place of residence of each ; and shall serve a copy thereof
on the opposite party, with a notice that, at the expiration of ten days
from the date of such service, a commission will be issued to take the
deposition of the witness accordingly, specifying the cause or reason
for which the same is so to be taken. AVithin such time, the opposite
party may file with the clerk and serve upon the other his objections,
if any, to the direct interrogatories, or any of them, and also his cross
interrogatories; and may state in the caption thereof, or otherwise,
the name of any other person whom he desires to act as an additional
commissioner; but such person must be resident in the same county
in which the commissioner first named resides, or his appointment
may be disregarded. At the expiration of the time limited by such
notice, or that to which it may be enlarged pursuant to law, the mov
ing party may file the notice and interrogatories, with proof of service
thereof, and his objections, if any to the cros8 interrogatories. There
upon, the commission shall be issued, with the interrogatories, direct
and cross, and transmitted to the commissioner first named. But
when, in the second case mentioned in the preceding section, any de
fendant shall not have appeared, or when, in the third case, the sum
mons shall have been served by publication, or without the state, and
the defendant so served shall not have appeared, no notice is required
to be given such defendant, and the commission may issue on filing
the direct interrogatories.
Section 4115. The commissioner named in the direct interrogatories shall fix the time and place for executing the commission, and
give the other commissioner, if any, one day's notice thereof, when
he resides in the same place, and when not, one day's notice in ad
dition for every thirty miles of distance, between the place of his
residence and the place fixed for executing the commission. If
the notice be by mail, double time shall be allowed; but notice may
be waived in writing or by appearance at the execution of the com
mission. If there be two commissioners, the place for executing the
commission shall be fixed in the county where they reside, unless they
agree upon another. The commissioner named in the direct interrog
atories shall have charge of and return the deposition.
Section 4116. The officer or persons who take any deposition by
virtue of a commission or otherwise, and the witness deposing, shall
be entitled to the same fees allowed justices of the peace and witnesses
for similar service by the law of this state, or such as may be pre
scribed by the law of the state or country where taken. Each party
shall pay the fees of the commissioner named by him, and his lawful
fees, as well as those of the witnesses, may be taxed as disbursements.
deposition to perpetuate testimony: i. within the state.
Section 4117. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the
testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writing, setting
forth briefly and substantially his title, claim or interest, in or to the
subject concerning which he desires to perpetuate the evidence, and the
names of all other persons interested, or supposed to be interested
therein, and also the name of the witness proposed to be examined,
and shall deliver the said statement to a judge of a court of record,
requesting him to take the deposition of the said witness.
Section 4118. The said judge shall thereupon cause notice to be
given, of the time and place appointed for taking the deposition, to all
persons mentioned in the sajd statement as interested in the case; which
notice shall be given in the same manner as is prescribed in this chap
ter, respecting notice upon taking a deposition in this state, to be used
in any cause here pending.
Section 4119. The deponent shall he sworn and examined, and hii
, . . , , I , , , ,
deposition snail be written, read and subscribed, in the same manneras
is prescribed respecting the other depositions before mentioned, and die
judge shall annex thereto a certificate under his hand, of the^time and
manner of taking it, and that it was taken in perpetual remembrance
of the thing; and he shall also insert in the certificate the names of the
persons at whose request it was taken, and of all those who were noti
fied to attend, and 01 all who did attend the talcing thereof.
Section 4120. The deposition, with the certificate, and also the
written statement of the party at whose request it was taken, shall,
within ninety days after the taking thereof, be recorded in the registry
of deeds, in the county where the land lies, if the deposition relates to
real estate; otherwise, in the county where the parties, or some of them,
reside.
Section 4121. If any action shall, either at the time of taking such
deposition, or at any time afterward, be pending between the person at
whose request it was taken and the persons named in the said written
statement, or any of them, who were notified as aforesaid, or any person
claiming under either of the said parties respectively, concerning the
title, claim or interest set forth in the statement, the deposition so taken,
or a certified copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in
such action, in the same maimer and subject to the same condition*
and objections, as if it had been originally taken for the said action,
Section 4122. Any witness may be summoned and compelled to
give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of the thing, as before
prescribed, in like manner and under the same penalties, as are pro
vided in this chapter respecting other depositions taken in this stota
II. without the state.
Section 4123. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses
living without the state may be taken in any state, or in any foreign
country, upon a commission to be issued by any court of record, in the
manner hereinafter provided.
Section 4124. The person who proposes to take the deposition shall
aPpty to any such court, and file therein a statement like that before
prescribed, to be delivered to the judge, upon taking such a deposition
within this state; and if the subject of the proposed deposition relate
to real estate within this state, the statement shall be filed in the county
where the land or any part thereof, lie3; otherwise, in the county where
the parties, or some of them, reside.
Section 4125. The court shall order notice of such application and
gfatement f0 ]^e served on all the persons mentioned therein as adversely
interested in the case, and living within the state; which notice shall
be served fourteen days, at least, before the time therein appointed for
hearing the parties.
Section 4126. If, upon such hearing of the parties, or of the appliC£mt ail)nej 8]1011]d no adverse party appear, the court shall be satisfied
that there is sufficient cause for taking the deposition, it shall issue a
commission therefore in like manner as for taking a deposition to be used
in any cause pending in the same court.
Section 4127. The deposition shall be taken upon written interrog.1
tones, filed by the applicant, and cross interrogatories, filed by any party
adversely interested, if he shall think fit; and it shall bo taken and
returned substantially in the same manner as if taken to be used in any
cause pending in the same court.
Section 4128. The person who proposes to take tho deposition may,
at his election, hie Ins statement in the clerk s omec in vacation, and
in ay cause notice thereof to be given to the persons therein named as
adversely interested, by serving them with an attested copy of the said
statement, fourteen days at least, before the next term of the said court;
and the court may thereupon proceed to hear the parties, and to issue
the commission as before provided.
Section 4129. All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of wita. i i 1 •.!. .i • . j- .i •
nesses, taken nt anyplace without this state, according to the provis
ions of this chapter, may be used in like manner as if taken within
this state.
m. GENERALLY, A8 AGAINST ALL PERSONS,
Section 4130. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses,
within or without the state, so that the same may be evidence against
all persons, may be taken upon a commission, to be issued, after pub
lic notice, by any court of record.
Section 4131. Tho person who desires to have such deposition
taken may apply to any such court, in the manner before prescribed in
the ca.se of taking a deposition to perpetuate tho testimony of a wit
ness living without the state; and all the proceedings thereon shall bo
the same as are prescribed in the case last mentioned.
Section 4132. The court shall, in addition to the proceedings as
before prescribed, inquire upon the oath of the applicant or otherwise,
at their discretion, as to all persons known or supposed to be interested
in the case; and shall in the commission direct the commissioner or
commissioners to publish in such newspaper or newspapers, within
or without the state, or both, or in such other manner, as the court
shall consider most effectual, such notice of the time and place of tak
ing suoli depositions, and of the subject matter thereof, as the court
shall think proper; which notice, shall be addressed, specially by
name, to all persons who are known or supposed to be interested in
the case, and generally to all others, that they may attend and propose
cross interrogatories to the witnesses; and the court may also require
personal notice of the time and place of taking, and of the subject
matter of such depositions, to be given to such persons and in such
manner as under all the circumstances shall seem proper.
Section 4133. Such deposition having been taken and returned to
the court by whose order the commission issued, and being found by
the court to have been taken according to law and the directions contained
in the commission, the court shall order it to bo recorded within
thirty days in the registry of deeds for the county in which the land
lies, if the deposition relate to real estate; otherwise tho county in
which the parties, or some of them, reside.
Section 4134. Any deposition taken and recorded under the provisions of the four preceding sections, or a certified copy thereof from
the registry, may be used by the person at whose request it was taken,
or by any person claiming under him, against any person whatever, in
any action or proceeding wherein shall be brought in question the title,
claim or interest, set forth in the statement upon which the commis
sion was founded, in the same manner and subject to the same condi
tions and objections, as if it had been originally taken for said action
or proceeding.
DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE: STATUTES, ORDINANCES, ETC.
Section 4135. The printed copies of all statutes, acts and resolves
of this state, whether of a public or private nature, which shall he pub
lished under the authority of the state, shall be admitted as sufficient
evidence thereof in all courts of law, and on all occasions whatever;
and the journals of the senate and assembly, kept by tlie clerks of said
houses respectively, as provided by law, and deposited in the office o:
the secretary of state, including the printed journals of previous legis
latures there deposited, shall be admitted in all courts and places as
sufficient evidence of the proceedings of the said houses of the legis
lature; and the printed journals of said houses respectively, published
by authority of law, shall be prima facie evidence of such proceed
ings.
Section 4136. Printed copies' of the statute laws and all acts and
of the congress of the United States or of the legislature of
any gtate or territory of the United States, if purporting to be pub
lished under the authority of their respective governments, or if com
monly admitted and read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted
in all courts, and on all other occasions, in this state, as presumptive
evidence of such laws, acts and resolves.
Section 4137. Printed copies of the ordinances, by-laws, resolntions
and regulations of any city or village in the state, in any newspaper, book, pampfilet or other form, purporting to be published bv
authority of the proper common council, village board, or board of
trustees, shall be to a like extent admitted as presumptive evidence
thereof.
Section 4138. The unwritten or common law of any state or terof
the United States may be proved as facts by parol evidence,
and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may akw be
admitted as evidence of such law.
Section 4139. The existence, and the tenor or effect of all foreign
'aws ma^ ^e PTOve^ a8 facts by parol evidence; but if it shall appear
that the law in question is contained in a written statute or code, the
court may, in their discretion, reject any evidence of such law that is
not accompanied by a copy thereof.
RECORDS AND JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
Section 4140. The original records, papers and files in or concerning
any action or proceeding of any nature or description in any court
tne state, being produced by the legal custodian thereof, shall I*
receivable in evidence, in every action, proceeding or inquiry, before
any court, officer or person, had pursuant to law; and any copy of any
thereof, being certified by the clerk, judge or justice having legal
custody of the original, to have been by him compared with the original,
and to be a true copy thereof; such certificate having affixed the seal of
the court, or of such officer, if any be required by law to be kept, shall
be received with like effect as the original.
Section 4141. A transcribed copy of the minutes of evidence and
or of any specific part thereof, on the trial of an action or
proceeding, taken by the official phonographic reporter of the court,
I>eing certified by snc;h reporter to be a true and correct transcription in
long hand of all the testimony on the trial, or of a particular witness.
or of other specific part thereof, carefully compared by him with his
original notes, and to be a correct statement of the evidence and pro
ceedings had on such trial, so purporting to be taken and transcribed,
shall be received in evidence with the same effect as if such reporter
were present and testified to the facts so certified.
Section 4142. Whenever it shall become necessary in an action
before a justice of the peace to give evidence of a judgment or other
proceedings, hud before him, the docket of such judgment, or other pro
ceeding, or a transcript thereof, certified by him, shall be good evidence
thereof before such justice.
Section 4143. A transcript from the docket of any justice of the
peace, of any judgment had before him, of the proceedings in the cause
previous to such judgment, of the execution issued tliereon, if any, and
of the return to such execution, if any, when certified by 6uch justice,
or his successor in office, or other person having legal custody of his
books and papers, shall be evidence to prove the facts contained in such
transcript, in any court in the county wherein such judgment was ren
dered. It shall be likewise received in any other county, when there
shall be affixed a certificate of the clerk of the circuit court of the for
mer county, under seal of the court, that the person subscribing the
transcript was, at the date thereof, a justice of the peace of the county
or other person having legal custody of the books and papers; and also,
if the judgment was rendered by another, that such other was, at the
date of the rendition of the judgment, a justice of the peace of the
county.
Section 4144. In case of the death or absence of any justice, any
proceeoiings had before him may be proved by producing the original
minutes of such proceedings, entered in a book kept by such justice,
accompanied by proof of his handwriting; or they may be proved by
E reducing copies of such minutes, sworn to by a competent witness, as
aving been compared by him with the original entries, with proof that
such entries were in the handwriting of the justice. The proceedings
in any cause had before a justice, not reduced to writing by said jus
tice, nor being the contents of any paper or document produced before
such justice, and the contents of any such paper or document as shall
have been lost or destroyed, may be proved by the oath of the justice.
Section 4145. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of
the United States, or of any state or territory thereof, shall be admissi-oi
ble in evidence in all cases in this state, when authenticated in the manner
directed in section four thousand one hundred and forty, by the
attestation of the clerk, prothonotary, or other officer having charge of
the records of such court, with the seal of the court annexed.
Seoiion 414G. An exemplification of a judgment rendered by any
justice of the peace, or other magistrate holding a court not of record,
of an) state or territory of the United States, shall be admissible in
evidence in all cases in this state, when authenticated by the certificate
of such justice, or his legal successor having custody of his books and
papers, \hat the same has been by him compared with the original, and
is a full mid correct copy from the docket or other legal record, of all
the proceedings in the case, with a certificate of magistracy affixed, signed
by the clerk of a court of record in the county where such judgment
was rendered, tinder the seal of such court.
Section 4147. The records and judicial proceedings of any such
court, justi.e of the peace or magistrate, of any foreign country, shall
be admissible in all cases in this state, as presumptive evidence of the
contents thereof, when authenticated in tho manner required in the two
preceding sroxions respectively; and proof of the genuineness of the
gjgrvitnres of he authenticating officers, and of the seal of a court of
record Hrf.xed, shall likewise not be required in the first instance.
copies of fuelic records and documents.
Section 414S. A copy of any document or paper, filed, deposited,
, , , ~<[ »■' , r r ' » r i
entered, kept or recorded, or ot any record made or kept pursuant to
law, in any public office, or with any public officer of the United State,
or of this state, or of any county or municipality herein, or aay public
body or board created under any statute of the state, being certified %
provided in the next section, shall be received in evidence iu all case,
in like manner and with like effect as the original. If any such office,
upon being tendered his legal fees therefore, shall unreasonably refuse to
funish any such certified copy to any applicant for the same, he shall
forfeit not less than twenty nor more than one hundred dollars, one-kil:
to the person prosecuting therelor.
Section 4149. Whenever a certified copy of any document, paper
or record is allowed by law to be evidence, such copy shall be certified
by the officer in whose custody the same is required by law to be, to
have been compared by him with the original, and to be a true copy
thereof or a correct transcript therefrom; such certificate must w
under his official seal or under the official seal of the court, public body
or board, in his custody, when he is required by law to have or keep
any such seal. Any certificate purporting to be signed, or signed and
sealed as authorized by law, shall be presumptive evidence that it was
signed by the proper officer, and if sealed, that it has the proper seal
affixed, except when the law requires an additional certificate of genu
ineness.
Section 4150. But the preceding section shall not be construed to
n require the affixing of the seal of a court to a certified copy of a rule
or order made by such court, or of any paper filed therein, when such
copy is used in the same court, or before any officer thereof,
Section 4151. A copy of any record, plat, file, paper or memorandum of the purchase or entry of any land, filed, deposited, made or kept
in any land office of the United States located in this state, being cert'fied by the register of the land office having the custody thereof hi tie
manner provided in section four thousand one hundred and forty nine,
shall be received in evidence, in all cases, in like manner and with like
effect as the original.
PRESUMPTIVE EFFECT OF CERTAIN PUBLIC GRANTS AND RECOEDSSection 4152. All statements or lists of lands, which shall have
been certified to the state, by the president of the United States, by
t]lG iie{X(j 0f any department of the government thereof, by the commis
sioner of the general laud office or by any other officer of the govern
ment, as conveyed to the state under or by any act of congress, being
produced by the proper custodians thereof, shall be received, in all cases,
as presumptive evidence that the title of the lands therein contained u:
described became thereby vested in the state,
Section 4153. Every patent which has been heretofore executed and
delivered bv the commissioners of school and university lauds, or which
shall hereafter bo executed and delivered by the commissioners of public
lands, purporting to convey any land of any description, and e\ery deed!
or patent, which shall have been at any time executed and delivered by
the governor, purporting to convey any lands granted to the state by the
United States to aid in the construction of railroads, or any swamp or
overflowed lands, shall be received as presumptive evidence of the fccts
therein stated, and that the grantee named then in, became vested thereby)
at the date thereof, with an absolute title in fee to the lands therein de
scribed.
Section 4154. Every conveyance of land or any estate or interest
therein, which shall have boon duly executed by any sheriff*, referee, receiver or other person by virtue of, or in pursuance of a sale made by
„ -1 , y , it l- e ".
virtue of any judgment, decree, order, license or execution of any court
of record of" this state, or of the United States sitting within this state,
and which shall have been duly recorded in the proper county, shall, as
well as such record, be received, without any proof whatever of the pre
vious proceedings, as presumptive evidence 01 the facts therein stated,
and that the title, estate or interest in the land therein described, which
such conveyance purports to convey, of every person whom it purports
to affect, passed to and vested in the grantee therein at the date thereof,
or at such previous date as such conveyance purports to fix for that pur
pose.
Section 4155. Every certificate of sale of land, or any estate or interest
therein, which shall have been duly executed by any sheriff, referee,
receiver or other person, in pursuance of a sale made by virtue of any
judgment, decree, order, license or execution of any court of record of
this state, or of the United States sitting within this state and when
so acknowledged or proved as to be entitled to record, the record
thereof shall l>e received as presumptive evidence of the facts therein
staged.
Section 4150. Every conveyance, as defined in section two thousand
two hundred and forty two, being so executed and acknowledged orr
proved as to be entitled to record, and every patent of land from the
United States or this state, or the proper officers thereof, and the record,
in the office of the proper register of deeds of every such conveyance or
patent, or of any instrument authorized by law to be recorded, and every
document or paper affecting land or the title thereto, filed, deposited or
kept in the office of a register of deeds, pursuant to law, shall be re
ceived in evidence, without further proof thereof; but such evidence and
the efrect thereof, may be rebutted by other competent testimony.
Whenever any presumptive effect as evidence is given by law to any
such patent, conveyance or instrument, such record, as well as the duly
certified copies thereof, shall have the like effect.
Section 4157. The record in Brown county, 'made prior to theE
first day of January in the year one thousand eight hundred and forty,
of any such conveyance or instrument mentioned in the preceding
section, affecting lands situate in any other county at the time sucn
record was made, and duly certified copies thereof, shall be received in
evidence with the same effect as if the same had been duly recorded
in the county where the land was situated, except against purchasers
or claimants of any title, estate, interest or lien, in good faith and with
out notice, and except that no notice shall be implied from such record.
A copy of any such record, duly certified by the register of deeds of
Brown county, may also be recorded in any county where the land may
be situated, with like effect as the original conveyance or instrument;
and any such record of any such copy, heretofore made, shall have such
effect.
Section 4158. Whenever the record, in the office of a register of
deeds, of any conveyance, or of any instrument whatever, upon which
revenue stamps ma}' have been at any time required to be affixed by
any act of congress, shall show such stamps or any of thorn, more or
less, to have been affixed, it shall be presumptive evidence that such
conveyance or instrument had properly affixed to it the number and
denomination of stamps required by law.
Section 4159. All deeds, mortgages or other instruments in writing, rotating to real estate situated within this state, r.nd which shall
have heen of record in the office of any register of deeds before these
i n * i j» i° i 1-15-1
sttihites shall take effect, purporting to have been acknowledged or
proved without this state, and having upon them substantially the ordinary form of certificate of acknowledgment or proof, purporting to have
been signed by some officer in another state or country, shall be deemed
presumptively, in all cases, to have been acknowledged or proved (a3
the case may be) before the proper officer, and in conformity with the
laws of such state or country, where they purport to have been acknowl
edged or proved, notwithstanding the omission of a certificate, as is re
quired by section two thousand two hundred and nineteen, or any pre
viously existing similar statute; and the record thereof shall have the
like effect.
Section 4160. The record of any marriage, birth or death, made in
the register, or similar books, and kept in the office of any register of
deeds, or made and kept in the office of the secretary of state, pursuant
to chapter forty seven, or any former statute for the same purpose, shall
be received as presumptive evidence of the marriage, birth or death, so
recorded.
Section 4161. The papers, documents and orders, relating to the
organization and incorporation, or the alteration of the boundaries, of
Jinv village, being recorded in the office of the proper register of deeds,
pursuant to law, and such record, and also the record thereof in the
office of the village clerk, shall be received as presumptive evidence of
the facts therein stated.
Section 4162. All entries and records, made in the books in the
office of any county treasurer, or of any county clerk, all assessment
an(j tax rop,Sj am\ certificates and warrants thereto attached, all notices
required to be published, or posted, by the county treasurer or county
clerk, and the proofs of publication or posting, filed in the office of
either, pursuant to any law relating to the assessment or collection of
taxes, or to lands sold for taxes, shall be received as presumptive evi
dence of the facts therein stated.
PRESUMPTIVE EVIDENCE OF OFFICIAL CERTIFICATES.
Section 4163. Whenever any officer, to whom the legal custody of
any document, instrument or paper belongs, shall certify (under his
official seal, if he have any), that he has made diligent examination in
his office for such paper, instrument or document, and that it cannot be
found, such certificate shall be presumptive evidence of the facts s<^ertified, as if such officer personally testified to the same.
Section 4164. When a public officer i3 required or authorized by
^aw to mahe a certificate or affidavit, touching an act performed by hirn,
0r to a fact ascertained by him, in the course of his official duty, ard
to file or deposit it in a public office, such certificate or affidavit ~Jto
so filed or deposited, shall be received as presumptive evidence t.^TTe
facts therein stated, unless its effect is declared by some special pro
vision of law.
Section 4165. The receiver's receipt or certificate of purchase of
public lands signed by the receiver, and the official certificate of ant
register or receiver of the entry or purchase of any land, or the location of any land by any land warrant, shall be received, when held
Dv the original claimant, his heirs or assigns, as presumptive evidence
that the title to the lands therein described passed to and is vesjed in
the person therein named, his heirs or assigns, except when, at the
time of such entry or purchase, the land was owned or occupied by any
Eson as mineral ground, on which discoveries of mineral ores had
n made.
Section 41G6. A certificate substantially in the following form:
Register's Office, , 18I hereby certify, that from the books and records of the United
States land office at , Wisconsin, it appears that , on
the day of , 18—, at entered, purchased and paid for
of section , township north,' of range
ins acres.
Dated , 18—.
-, Register,
being signed by the register of a land office in this state, shall be received
as presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated.
Section 4167. A certificate of the secretary of state substantially in
.i m ii • » * •'o
Uie IOlIOWing IOrm:
Office of the Secretary of State,
, A. D. .
I hereby certify, that from the books, files and records of this office,
it appears that on the day of , A. D. , the following
described real estate, situate in the state of Wisconsin, viz: ,
was duly transferred by the United States to the state of Wisconsin,
and that on the day of , A. D. , the above described
real estate was duly transferred by the 6tate of Wisconsin to
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the great
(or lesser) seal of the state, this day of A. D. .
, Secretary of State,
shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts stated, and that
the person named became vested at the date stated, with an absolute
title in fee to the lands described.
Section 4168. A transcript of so much of the several books, files,
records, certificates or other written evidence, on file or of record, in the
sffice of the secretary of state, or the office of the commissioners of public
lands, as relates to any tract or parcel of land, with said secretary's cer
tificate thereto affixed substantially in the following form:
Office of the Secretarv of State,
—, —, a. b. —.
I hereby certify, that the annexed and foregoing is a true and correct
transcript of all books, files, records, certificates and other written or
loenmentary evidence of title, on file or of record in this office, reating
or appertaining to the title to the lands described in the foregoing
:ranscript, and of the whole thereof.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the great
or lesser) seal of the state, this day of , A. D. .
Secretary of State,
shall be received in evidence with the same effect as the originals tran
scribed, and as presumptive evidence of the facts stated in such certifi:ate.
Section 4169. A certificate by the secretary of state, under the great
or lesser) seal, to any facts which appear from the books, files and recjrds
in his office, or the office of the commissioners of public lands, in
•egard to the grant, conveyance or transfer of any land by the United
States to the territory or state of Wisconsin, and also in regard to the
rale, conveyance or transfer of any snch land by said territory or state,
shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts so certified.
Section 41 70. A certificate by the adjutant general to any facts whici
appear from the books, files and records in his office, shall be received as
presumptive evidence of the facts so certified.
Section 4171. A transcript of so much of the several books, files,
records, certificates or other written evidence, on file or of record in the
office of any county clerk, or any county treasurer, as relates to the as
sessment or sale for taxes of any particular tract or parcel of land in
any specified year or years, with the certificate of such officer thereto
affixed, in substantially the following form:
I hereby certify that the annexed and foregoing is a true and correct
transcript of all books, records, papers, files and proceedings of every
name and nature, on file or of record in my office, relating or in any wise
appertaining to the assessment of taxes upon, or to the sale for taxes of,
the following described lands situated in the county of , state
of Wisconsin, for the year (or years), A. D. , and of the whole
thereof. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this
day of , A. D. .
Count}' Clerk (or Treasurer) of county, "Wisconsin,
shall be received in evidence with the same effect as the originals
transcribed, and as presumptive evidence of the facts stated in such cer
tificate,
Section 4172. Official certificates of births, marriages or deaths, issued in foreign countries in which such births, marriages or deaths have
0CC11rred .purporting to be founded on books of record, and autlieatiill- ° J* TT • J Ci • • #1
cared by the signature of any United btates minister, secretary of lega
tion or other diplomatic officer, or by a consul of the United States, ac
credited to or appointed for the foreign country in which such certiricatea
are issued, shall be received as presumptive evidence of the facts in suet
certificates stated.
Section 4173. The affidavit of the printer, or foreman of such printer,
of any newspaper in the state, of the publication of any notice or adver
tisement required to be published in pursuance of any law of the state,
shall be received in all cases as presumptive evidence of such publica
tion and of the facts stated therein.
preservation of written evidence.
Section 4174. When notice of any application to any court or
judicial officer for any proceeding authorized by law, is required to be
published in one or more newspapers, an affidavit of the printer of such
newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy
of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was published, and
specifying the time when and the paper in which such notice was pub
lished, may be filed with the proper officer of the court, or with the
judicial officer before whom such proceeding shall be pending, at anv
time within six months after the last day of the publication of such
notice, unless sooner specially required.
Section 4175. When any notice of a sale of real property is reqnjreti
])v \iUV t0 ^e published in any newspaper, an affidavit of the
printer of such newspaper, or his foreman or principal clerk, annexed
to a printed copy of such notice, taken from the paper in which it was
published, and specifying the times when and the paper in which such
notice was published, may be filed at any time within six mouths after
the last day of such publication, with the register of deeds of the
county in which the premises sold are situated.
Section 4176. The original affidavit so filed pursuant to the two last
preceding sections, and copies thereof duly certified by the officer in
whose custody the same shall be, shall be presumptive evidence in all
cases, and in every court or judicial proceeding, of the fact contained
in such affidavit.
Section 4177. The register of deeds and the clerk of any court of
_. iP-i- , • .-iip^iii
record in every county of tins state, upon being paid the fees allowed
therefore by law, shall receive and deposit in their offices respectively,
any instruments or papers which any person shall offer to them for
that purpose, and, if required, shall give to such person a written re
ceipt therefore.
Section 4178. Such instruments or papers shall be properly indorsed,
so as to indicate their general nature and the names of the parties thereto, shall be filed by the officer receiving the same, stating the
time when received, and shall be deposited and kept by him and his
successors in office, in the same manner as his official papers, in some
place separate and distinct from such papers.
Section 4179. The instruments or papers so received and deposited
shall not be withdrawn from such office, except on the order of someo
court for the purpose of being read in evidence in such court, and then
to be returned to such office; nor shall they be delivered without such
order to any person, unless upon the written order of the person who
deposited the same, or his executors or administrators.
Section 4180. Such instruments or papers so deposited shall be open
to the examination of any person desiring the same, upon the payment
of the fees allowed by law.
EVIDENCE RELATIVE TO CORPORATIONS.
Section 4181. Any charter or patent of incorporation which shall
have been issued by the governor or secretary of state, or both, to any
corporation, under any law of the state; any certificate of organization
or association of any corporation, or joint stock company; the articles of
association or organization of any corporation, or a certified copy
thereof, which shall have been filed or recorded in the office of the sec
retary of state, or of any register of deeds or clerk of the circuit court,
under any law of the state; any certificate or resolution for the purpose
of amendment, and every amendment in any form, of the charter, pat
ent, certificate or articles of association or organization, or of the name,
corporate powers or purposes of any corporation, filed or recorded, in
either of said offices; and a duly certified copy of any such document
so filed or recorded, shall be received as conclusive evidence of the exis
tence of the corporation or joint stock company, mentioned therein, or
of the due amendment of tlie charter, patent, certificate or articles of
association or organization thereof, in all cases where such facts are
only collaterally involved; and as presumptive evidence thereof, and of
the facts therein stated, in all other cases.
Section 4182. Whenever an assessment is made on any premium
note given to any mutual insurance company for any hazard taken by
said company, or as a consideration for any policy of insurance issued
or to be issued by said company, and action is brought for the recovery
of such assessment, the certificate of the secretary of said company,
specifying such assessment and the amount due to said company on
such note by means thereof, shall be received as presumptive evidence
of the facts so certified.
PRIVATE WRITINGS.
Section 4183. The court before which an action is pending, or a
judge thereof, may, in discretion and upon due notice, order either
Party to g've to tne other, within a specified time, an inspection and
copy, or permission to take a copy, of any books, papers, and docu
ments in his possession or under his control, containing evidence
relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If com
pliance with the order be refused, the court on motion may exclude
the paper from being given in evidence, or punish the party refusing,
or both.
Section 4184. Either party may exhibit to the other, or his attorne7) at any t>me before the trial, any.paper material to the action, and
request an admission in writing of its genuineness. If the adverse
Party> °r his attorney, fail to give the admission within four days
after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper be afterward
put to expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same be fully
proved or admitted on the trial, such expense, to be ascertained at the
trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission, unless it ap
pear to the satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons for
the refusal.
Section 4185. Every written instrument, except promissory notes
and bills of exchange, and except the last wills of deceased persons,
mav De pr0ved or acknowledged in the manner now provided bv law
. ^ , . r , ,. iiji * * * , *
for taking the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate,
and the certificate of the proper officer indorsed thereon shall entitle
such instrument to be read in evidence in all courts of justice, and in
all proceedings before any officer, body, or board, with the same effect
and in the same manner as if such instrument were a conveyance of
real estate.
Section 4186. "Whenever a party in any cause or proceeding shall
produce at the trial his account books, and swear that the same are his
account books, kept for that purpose; that they contain the original
entries of charges for goods or other articles delivered, or work and
labor, or other services performed, or materials found, and that such
entries are just to the best of his knowledge and belief; that s&id
entries are in his own handwriting, and that they were made at or
about the time said goods or other articles were delivered, said work
and labor or other services were performed, or said materials were
found, the party offering such book or books as evidence, being sub
ject to all the rules of cross examination by the adverse party that
would be applicable by the rules to any other witness giving testi
mony relating to said book or books, if it shall appear upon the ex
amination of said party that all of the interrogatories in this section
contained are satisfactorily established in the affirmative, then the
said book or books shall be received as presumptive evidence in proof
of the charges therein contained.
Section 4187. "Whenever the original entries mentioned in the
preceding section are in the handwriting of an agent, servant or clerk
tue Partv> the oath of such agent, servant or clerk may in like
manner be admitted to verify the same, and 6aid books shall be testi
mony in the same manner as the books mentioned in the preceding
section: provided, that such books mentioned in this and the preced
ing section shall not be admitted as testimony of any item of money
delivered at one time, exceeding five dollars, or of money paid to
third persons, or of charges for rent.
Section 4188. "Where a book has marks which show that the items
have been transferred to a ledger, the book shall not be testimony unless the ledger be produced. "
Section 4189. Any entries made in a book by a person authorized
to make the same, he being dead, may be received as evidence in ae
case proper for the admission of such books as evidence.
LOST NEGOTIABLE PAPER.
Section 4190. In any action founded upon anv negotiable promis-Pr
, .„ . *. . , . K ,J ° .. r, ,
sory note, or bill of exchange, or in which such note, if produced,
might be allowed as a setoff in the defense of any action, if it appear
on the trial that such note or bill was lost while it belonged to the
party claiming the amount due thereon, parol or other evidence of the
contents thereof may be given on such trial; and notwithstanding
such note or bill was negotiable, such party 6hall be entitled to recover
the amount due thereon, as if such note or bill had been produced.
Section 4191. But to entitle a party to such recovery, he shall execute
a bond to the adverse party, in a penalty at least double the
amount of such note or bill, with two sureties to be approved by the
court in which the trial shall be had, conditioned to indemnify the
adverse party, his heirs and personal representatives, against all claims
by any other person on account of such note or bill, and against all
costs and expenses by reason of such claims.
presumptions.
Section 4192. Every written instrument purporting to have been
i ii int. * ri • • i
Bigned or executed by any person, shall be proof that it was 60 signed
or executed, until the person by whom it purports to have been so
signed or executed shall specifically deny the signature or execution
of the same by his oath or affidavit, or by his pleading duly verified;
but this section shall not extend to instruments purporting to have
been signed or executed by any person who shall nave died previous
to the requirement of such proof.
Section 4193. In all actions brought on promissory notes, or bills
of exchange, by the indorsee, the possession of the note shall be presumptive
evidence that the same was indorsed by the persons by
whom it purports to be indorsed.
Section 4194. Warehouse receipts, bills of lading,. or railroad receipts given for any goods, wares, merchandise, lumber, timber, grain,
flour, qr other produce or commodity stored, shipped or deposited
with any warehouseman, wharfinger, vessel, boat or railroad company,
or other person, on the face of which shall not be plainly written the
words " not negotiable," may be transferred by delivery, with or
without indorsement thereof; and any person to whom the same
may be so transferred, shall be deemed and taken to be the owner of
the goods, wares and merchandise therein specified, so far as to give
validity to any pledge, lien or transfer made or created by such per
son or persons; but no such property shall be delivered, except on
surrender and cancellation of said original receipt or bill of lading, or
the indorsement of such delivery thereon, in case of partial delivery.
Section 4195. A seal upon an executory instrument, hereafter executed,
shall be received as only presumptive evidence of a sufficient
consideration, which may be rebutted as if the instrument was not
sealed.
Section 4196. Whenever the extent of the total area of towns or
counties shall be in question, townships not returned as fractional, by
reason of being bounded on navigable lakes or the state line, by the
surveys under authority of and according to which the public lands
were sold by the United States, shall be held to be six miles sqnare;
and townships returned as fractional for such reason, shall be held to
contain the number of miles, and fractions of miles, shown by snch
surveys, or the plats thereof.
SPECIAL PRESUMPTIONS IN CERTAIN CASES.
Section 4197. Whenever in any action the plaintifff or defendant
shall allege in their pleadings that the plaintifff, or defendant, or third
pergon8) were partners at any particular time, or that as such partners
they used any particular partnership name or style under which bnsiness was done, such averments shall be taken to be true, unless
expressly denied by the affidavit of the opposite party, or some one in
his behalf, or by his pleading duly verified, within the U6ual time of
pleading,
Section 4198. In actions against two or more defendants upon
contracts in writing, alleged to have been executed by such defendants, as partners, or otherwise, proof of the joint, liability of the
defendants shall not be required to entitle the plaintifff to judgment,
unless such proof shall be rendered necessary by answer, duly verified,
denying the execution of such writing.
Section 4199. In actions by or against any corporation it shall
. , ,-r . . ,", . .J r, ,
be necessary to prove on the trial the existence of such corporation,
unless the defendant by his answer, duly verified, shall hare
specifically denied that the plaintifff or defendant, as the case may be,
is a corporation.
Section 4200. Whenever a plaintifff shall sue as an executor, administrator,
guardian or trustee, and 6hall allege in his complaint his
appointment as such, and, if appointed in another state or foreign
country, the filing or recording of the authenticated copy of his ap
pointment's required by the laws of this state, such allegations shall
be taken as true, unless specifically denied by the defendant by his
answer duly verified,
Section 4201. If the defendant in any action for slander, or for
publishing a libel, shall set up in his answer that the words spoken or
published were true, such answer, though not maintained by evidence,
shall not, in any case, be of itself proof of the malice alleged in the
complaint.
Section 4202. In every action upon any official bond, the original
bond or a certified copy thereof, shall be presumptive evidence of the
due execution thereof by the officer and his sureties.
miscellaneous.
Section 4203. Whenever any oath or affidavit is or may be
required or authorized by any law of this state, the same may be taken
in any other state, territory or district of the United States, before
any judge or commissioner of a court of record, master in chancery,
notary public, justice of the peace, or other officer authorized by the
laws of such state, territory or district to administer oaths, and in
case the 6ame shall have been properly certified by any such officer tc
have been taken before him, and shall have attached thereto a certifi
cate of the clerk or other proper certifying officer of a court of reconl
of the county or district within which such oath or affidavit was taken,
under the seal of his office, that the person whose name is subscribed
to the jurat was, at the date thereof, such officer as he is therein rep
resented to be, and that he believes the signature of such officer to be
genuine, such oath or affidavit may be read or used in any court of
record, or not of record, within this state, and before any officer, judi
cial, executive or administrative, the 6ame as though it had been
taken in conformity to law in this state.
Section 4204. Any creditor to whom two or more persons are
jointly indebted, either upon contract or the judgment of any court o
of record, may release one or more of the persons so jointly liable o
from such joint indebtedness; and such release shall operate as a satisfaction
or discharge of such joint debt only to the amount of the1
proportion which the person so released ought in equity, as between
himself and the other joint debtor or debtors, to pay; and as to the bal
ance of such joint debt, the contract or judgment, as the case may
be, on which the same is owing, shall be and remain in full force as
to the joint debtor or debtors not so released, and may be enforced
against him or them alone, the same as if such joint contract or judg
ment had been made or rendered against him or them alone: pro
vided, that if the amount paid by the person released in any case to
procure his release, shall exceed the proportion of such joint debt
which he, as between himself and codebtor or creditors, ought to pay,
then such joint debt shall thereby be satisfied to the extent of the
sum actually paid to procure such release; and provided also, that if
the person released is only a surety, his release shall operate as pay
ment of such joint debt to the extent of the money actually paid by
him to procure his release, and no further.
Section 4205. The provisions of the preceding section shall not
so apply to joint debts owing by one or more person or persons as i
principal, and another or others as 6urety or sureties, as to permit the
principal debtor or debtors to be released, without the discharge of
Iiia or their surety or sureties.
CHAPTER CLXXVII.
OF LIMITATIONS OF TIME FOR COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS AND
PROCEEDINGS.
Section 4206. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
periods prescribed in this chapter, except when in special cases a different limitation is provided by statute. But the objection that the action
was not commenced within the time limited, can only be taken by
answer19 Wis. 17; 84 id. 640; 55 Id. GT2; 28 id. 472; ai id. 74, 223; 84 id. 558; 39 id. 482.
Section 4207. No action for the recovery of real property or theR
possession thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor or grantor, was seized or possessed of the
premises in question, within twenty years before the commencement of
such action.
Section 420S-. No defense or counterclaim, founded upon the title
to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, shall be effectual,
unless the person making it, or under whose title it is made, orhisye
ancestor, predecessor or grantor, was seized or possessed of the premises
in question within twenty years before the committing of the act
with respect to which it is made.
Section 4209. No entry upon real estate shall be deemed sufficient
valid, as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within
one year after the making of such entry and within twenty years from
the time when the right to make such entry descended or accrued; and
when held adversely under the provisions of section four thousand two
hundred and twelve, within ten years from the time when such adverse
possession begun,
Section 4210. In every action to recover real property or the possession
thereof, the person establishing a legal title to the premises shall
be presumed to have been possessed thereof within the time required
by law, and the occupation of such premises by another person shall be
deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title, un
less it appear that such premises have been held and possessed ad
versely to such legal title for ten years, under the provisions of the next
section, or twenty years under the provisions of section four thousand
two hundred and thirteen, before the commencement such of action.
Section 4211. Where the occupant, or those under whom he claims,
entered into the possession of any premises under claim of title, exclu
sive of any other right, founding such claim upon some written instru
ment, as being a conveyance of the premises in question, or upon the
judgment of some competent court, and that there has been a continual
occupation and possession of the premises included in such instrument
or judgment, or of some part of such premises, under such claim, for
ten years, the premises so included shall be deemed to have been held
adversely; except that when the premises so included consist of a tract
divided into lots, the possession of one lot shall not be deemed the pos
session of any other lot of the same tract.
3D Wis. 538; 40 id. (Hi
Section 4212. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession
by any person claiming a title founded upon some written instrument
or some judgment, land shall be deemed to have been possessed and
occupied in the following cases:
1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved;
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;
3. Where, although not inclosed, it has been used for the supply of
fuel, or of fencing timber, for the purpose of husbandry, or for the
ordinary use of the occupant;
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly improved,
the portion of such farm or lot that may have been left not cleared or
not inclosed according to the usual course and custom of the adjoining
country, shall be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of
time as the part improved or cultivated.
Section 4213. When there has been an actual continued occupation
oi any premises under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right, but
not founded upon any written instrument, or any judgment or decree,
the premises so actually occupied, and no other, shall be deemed to be
held adversely.
Section 4214. For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession
by a person claiming title, not founded upon some written instrument,
or some judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to have been possessed
and occupied in the following cases only:
1. When it has been protected by a substantial enclosure;
2. "When it has been usually cultivated or improved.
Section 4215. An adverse possession of ten years, under sections
four thousand two hundred aud eleven and four thousand two hundred
and twelve, or of twenty years under the two last preceding sections,
shall constitute a bar to an action for the recovery of such real estate
so held adversely, or of the possession thereof.
89 Wis. 511; 30 id. 591; 31 id. 316; 35 id. 229; 42 Id. 454.
Section 4216. Whenever tbe relation of landlord and tenant shall
have existed between any persons, the possession of the tenant shall be
deemed the possession of the landlord, until the expiration of ten years
from the termination of the tenancy; or where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of ten years from the time of the last
payment of rent, notwithstanding such tenant may have acquired an
other title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord; but
snch presumption shall not be made after the periods herein limited.
Section 4217. The right of any person to the possession of any real
estate shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being cast, in consequence of the death of any person in possession of such estate.
Section 4218. If a person entitled to commence any action for the
recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defense founded one
the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, be at
the time such title shall first descend or accrue, either
1. Within the age of twenty one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon conviction
of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life,
The time during which such disability shall continue shall not be
deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for the com
mencement of such action, or the making of such entry or defense;
buu such action may be commenced, or entry or defense made, after
the time limited, and within five years after the disability shall cease,
or ifter the death of the person entitled, who shall die under such dis
ability; but such action shall not be commenced, or entry or defense
made, after that period.
Section 4219. The following actions must be commenced within
the periods respectively hereinafter prescribed, after the cause of action
has accrued.
{Section 4220. Within twenty years:
A. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of
this state, or of the United States, sitting within this state.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument when the cause of action
accrues within this state, except those mentioned in section four thou
sand two hundred and twenty two.
Section 4221. Within ten years:
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record of
any other state or territory of the United States, or of any court of the
United States, sitting without this state.
2. An action upon a sealed instrument when the cause of action
accrued without this state, except those mentioned in the next section,
3. An action for the recovery of damages for flowing lands, when
6uch lands have been flowed by reason of the construction or maintenance of any milldam.
4. An action which, on and before the twenty eighth day of February,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty seven, was cognizable
by the court of chancery, when no other limitation is prescribed in this
chapter.
Section 4222. "Within six years:
*■• ^Jx act'on upon a judgment of a court not of record.
2. An action upon any bond, coupon, interest warrant, or other contract
for the payment of money, whether sealed or otherwise, made
or issued by any town, county, city, village or school district in thu
state.
^. -^-n acti°n upon any other contract, obligation or liability, expres
or implied, except those mentioned in the last two preceding sections,
4. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty
forfeiture, when a different limitation is not prescribed by law.
5. An action to recover damages for an injury to property, real or
personal, or for an injury to the person, character or rights of another
not arising on contract, except in a case where a different period is
expressly prescribed.
6. An action to recover personal property, or damages for the wrong
ful taking or detention thereof.
7. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in a case which was
on and before the twenty eighth day of February, A. D. one thousand
eight hundred and fifty seven, solely cognizable by the court of chan
cery. The cause of action in such case is not deemed to have accrued,
until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting
the fraud.
Section 4223. Within three years:
An action against a sheriff, coroner, town clerk, or constable, upon
a liability incurred by tho doing of an act in his official capacity, and
in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty, including
the nonpayment of money collected upon execution. But this section
shall not apply to an action for an escape.
Section4224. "Within two years:
1. An action upon a statute penalty or forfeiture when the action ii
given to the party prosecuting therefore and the state, or to the state
alone, except when the statute imposing it provides a different limita
tion.
2. An action to recover damages for libel, slander, assault, battery
or false imprisonment.
3. An action brought by the personal representatives of a deceased
person to recover damages, when the death of such person was caused
by the wrongful act, neglect or default of another.
4. An action to recover a forfeiture or penalty imposed by any by
law, ordinance or regulation of any town, county, city or village, or of
any corporation organized under the laws of this state, when no other
limitation is prescribed by law.
Section 4225. "Within one year:
An action against a sheriff or other officer, for the escape of a prisoner
arrested or imprisoned on civil process,
Section 4226. In actions brought to recover the balance due upon
a mutual and open account current, the cause of action shall be deemed
to have accrued at the time of the last item proved in such account,
Section 4227. All personal actions on any contract not limited by
chapter, or any other law of this state, shall be brought within ten
years after the accruing of the cause of action.
Section 422S. A cause of action upon which an action cannot be
maintained, as prescribed in this chapter, cannot be effectually inter
posed as a defense, counterclaim or setoff.
Section 4229. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall ap
ply t0 actions brought in the name of the state, or for its benefit, in the
same manner as to actions by private parties; but no person can obtain
title to real property belonging to the state, by adverse possession, prescription
or nser, unless such adverse possession, prescription or user,
shall have been continued uninterruptedly for more than forty years.
Section 4230. None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply
to any action brought upon any bills, notes or other evidences of debt,
issued by any bank, or issued or put into circulation as money.
Section 4231. If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any
person, he shall be out of this state, such action may be commenced
within the terms herein respectively limited, after such person shall return to or remove to this state. But the foregoing provision shall not
apply to any case where, at the time the cause of action shall accrue,
neither the party against or in favor of whom the same shall accrue, is
a resident of this state; and if, after a cause of action shall have accrued
against any person, he shall depart from and reside out of this state,
the time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the
time limited for the commencement of such action.
Section 4232. When a person shall be an alien subject, or citizen
of a country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance
of the war shall not be a part of the time limited for the commence
ment of the action.
Section 4233. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in
this chapter, except actions for the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture,
or against a sheriff or other officer for an escape, or for the recovery of
real property, or the possession thereof, be at the time the cause of
action accrued, either
1. Within tbe age of twenty one years; or
2. Insane; or
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under sentence
of a criminal court for a term less than his natural life,
The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action, except that the period within which the
action must be brought cannot be extended more than five years by any
snch disability, except infancy; nor can it be so extended in any case
longer than one year after the disability ceases.
Section 4234. If a person entitled to bring an action, die before the
expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the°
cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his representatives
after the expiration of that time, and within one year from his
death. If a person against whom an action may be brought die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and
the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced after the ex
piration of that time, and within one year after the issuing, within this
state, of letters testamentary or of administration.
Section 4235. If an action shall be commenced within the time prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be reversed on
appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die and the cause of action survive, his
heirs or representatives may commence a new action within one year
after the reversal.
Section 4236. When the commencement of an action shall be stayed
by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of
the injunction or prohibition shall not be part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action.
Section 4237. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless
it existed when his right of action accrued.
Section 4238. When two or more disabilities shall coexist at thea
time the right of action accrued, the limitation shall not attach until they
all be removed.
Section 4239. An action shall be deemed commenced, within the
meaning of any provision of law which limits the time for the com
mencement of an action, as to each defendant, when the summons is
served on him, or on a codefendant who is a joint contractor or other
wise united in interest with him.
Section 4240. An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed
equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of anj
provision of law, which limits the time for the commencement of an
action, when the summons is delivered with the intent that it shall be
actually served to the sheriff or other proper officer of the county in
which the defendants or one of them, usually or last resided; or if a cor
poration organized under the laws of this state be defendant, to the sheriff
or the proper officer of the county in which it was established by law,
or where its general business is transacted, or where it keeps an office
for the transaction of business, or wherein any officer, attorney, agent or
other person upon whom the summons may by law be served, resides or
has his office; or if such coqjoration has no such place of business, or
any officer or other person upon whom the summons may by law be
served, known to the plaintifff, or if such defendant be a nonresident or
a nonresident corporation, to the sheriff or other proper officer of the
county in which plaintifff shall bring his action. But such an attempt
must be followed by the first publication of the summons, or the service
thereof, within sixty days. If the action be in a court not of record, the
service thereof must be made with due diligence,
Section 4241. The certificate of the sheriff or other proper officer, inhorsed
upon the summons, statinjr the time when he received the same
_ . i n i • ° »j iiti . i
for service, shall be presumptive evidence that he did receive the sum
mons for service on the day in such certificate named.
Section 4242. The presentation of any claim, in cases where bylaw
sl,ch presentment is required, to the county board of the proper counrv,
[]ie 00ar(j 0f audit of the proper town, city or village, to the commis. .in f ■ r i " »° i i
sioners appointed to allow claims against the estate of a deceased person,
or wnere t10 8UCU commissioners are appointed, to the county court,
shall be deemed the commencement of an action, within the meaning
of any law limiting the time for the commencement of an action
thereon.
Section 4243. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient
evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the cause
out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same be contained in
some writing signed by the party to be charged thereby.
Section 4244. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
administrators of any contractor, no such joint contractor, executor or
administrator shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, so
as to be chargeable by reason only of any acknowledgment or promise
made by any other or others of them.
Section 4245. In actions commenced against two or more joint
contractors or joint executors or administrators of any contractors, if
jj Bha]l appear on the trial or otherwise, that the plaintifff is barred by
the provisions of this chapter, as to one or more of the defendants, but
is entitled to recover ne-ainst any other or others of them, by virtue of
a new acknowledgment or promise, or otherwise, judgment snaLI be
given for the plaintifff, as to any of the defendants against whom he is
sn titled to recover, and for the other defendant or defendants, against
the plaintifff.
Section 4246. If in any action on contract, the defendant shall
answer that any other person ought to have been jointly sned, and
shall verify such answer by his oath or affirmation, and issue shall he
. . , , J f, , -ii i • i_ i
joined thereon, and it snail appear on the trial that the action is barred
against the person so named in such answer, by reason of the provisions
or this chapter, the issue shall be found for the plaintifff.
Section 4247. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections
shall alter, take away, or lessen the effect of a payment of any principal
or interest made by any person, but no indorsement or memorandum
of any such payment, written or made upon any promissory note,
bill of exchange or other writing, by or on behalf of the party to
whom such payment shall be made or purport to be made, shall be
deemed sufficient proof of the payment, 60 as to take the case out of
the operation of the provisions of this chapter.
Section 424S. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
executors or administrators of any contractor, no one of them shall
lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, so as to be chargeable,
by reason only of any payment made by any other or others of
them.
Section 4249. The periods of limitation, unless otherwise specially
prescribed by law, must be computed from the time of the accruing of
the right to relief by action, special proceedings, defense, or otherwise,
as the case requires, to the time when the claim to that relief is actu
ally interposea by the party as a plaintifff or defendant in the particular
action or special proceeding, except that as to a defense, setoff, or
counterclaim, the time of the commencement of the plaintifffs action
shall be deemed the time when the claim for relief, as to such defense,
setoff or counterclaim is interposed.
Section 4250. "When a defendant in an action has interposed an
answer, as a defense, setoff or counterclaim upon which he would be
entitled to rely in such action, the remedy upon which, at the time of
the commencement of such action, was not barred by law, and such
complaint is dismissed, or the action is discontinued, the time which
intervened between the commencement and the termination of such ac
tion, shall not be deemed a part of the time limited for the commence
ment of an action by the defendant, to recover for the cause of action
so interposed as a defense, setoff, or counterclaim.
Section 4251. There being no person _in existence, who is authorized
to bring an action thereon, at the time a cause of action accrues,
shall not extend the time within which, according to the provisions of
this chapter, an action can be commenced upon such cause of action, to
more than double the period otherwise prescribed by law.
Section 4252. This chapter shall not affect actions against directors or stockholders of a moneyed corporation or banking association,
to recover a forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability created by law ;
but such actions must be brought within six years after the discovery
by the aggrieved party, of the facts upon which the forfeiture attached,
or the liability was created.
CHAPTER CLXXVIII.
OP MISCELLANEOUS GENERAL PROVISIONS.
SURVIVAL OF ACTIONS.
Section 4253. In addition to the actions which survive by the com
mon law, the following shall also survive, that is to say: actions forthe
recovery of personal property, or the unlawful conversion thereof, ac
tions for assault and hattery, or false imprisonment, or for goods taken
and carried away, and actions for damages done to real or personal es
tate.
Section 4254. When any action mentioned in the preceding section,
shall be prosecuted to judgment against the executor or administrator,
the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover only for the value of the goods
taken, or for the damages actually sustained, without any vindictive or
exemplary damages, or damages for alleged outrage to the feeling? of
the injured party.
Section 4255. "Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by
a wrongful act, neglect or default, and the act, neglect or default, is
such as would, if death had not ensued, have entitled the parry injured
to maintain an action and recover damages in respect thereof, then, and
m every such case the person who, or the corporation which, would
. , » i . -i , • r t -S i i 3 i 11 1 tii *_•
have been liable, if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action
for damages, notwithstanding the death of the person injured: provided, that such action shall be brought for a death caused in this state,
and in some court established by the constitution and laws of the same.
Section 4256. Every such action shall be brought by, and in the
name 0f? fae personal representative of such deceased person, and the
amount recovered shall belong and be paid over to the husband or
widow of such deceased person, if such relative survive him or ber:
but if no husband or widow survive the deceased, the amount recovered
shall be paid over to his or her lineal descendants, and to his or her
lineal ancestors in default of such descendants; and in every such action
the jury may give such damages, not exceeding five thousand dollars,
as they shall deem fair and just in reference to the pecuniary injury
resulting from such death, to the relatives of the deceased specified in
this section.
ACTIONS BETWEEN TENANTS IN COMMON.
Section 4257. When personal property is divisible and owned by
tenants in common, and one tenant in common shall claim and hold
possess'011 of more than his share or proportion thereof, his eoteiunt
after making a demand in writing, may sue for and recover his shareo
the value thereof; and the court may direct the jury, if necessary, i
any such action, to find what specific articles, or what share or interest
belongs to the respective parties, and the court shall enter up judg
ment in form for one, or both of the parties against the other, accord
ing to such verdict.
setoffs.
Section 4258. In the following cases a demand by one party may
be set off against and as a defense, in whole or in part, to demands b
the other:
1. It must be a demand arising upon a judgment or upon contract,
express or implied, whether such contract l)e written or unwritten, sealed
or without seal ; and if it be founded upon a bond or other contract
• ii-ii • * ' j • •
having a penalty, the sum equitably due by virtue of its conditions
1 U 11 V. i a
only, shall be setoff.
2. It must be due to him in his own right, either as being the original
creditor or payee, or as being the assignee and owner of the demand.
3. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of the
action, and must then have belonged to the party claiming to set off
the same.
4. It can be allowed only in actions founded upon demands which
could themselves be the subject of setoff according to law.
5. If the action or counterclaim be founded upon a contract, other
than a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, which has been
assigned to the party, a demand existing against such party, or any
assignor of such contract, at the time of his assignment thereof, and
belonging to the opposite party, in good faith before notice of such
assignment, may be set off to the amount otherwise recoverable upon
such contract, if the demand be such as might have been set off, against
the party or assignor while the contract belonged to him.
6. If the action be upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of ex
change, which has been assigned to the party after it became due, a
setoff to the extent of the amount otherwise recoverable thereon may
be made of a demand existing against any person who shall have as
signed or transferred such note or bill after it became due, if the
demand be such as might have been set off against the assignor, while
the note or bill belonged to him.
Section 4259. If the party against whom the setoff is claimed be
a trustee, or a person expressly authorized by statute to sue, so much
of a demand existing against those whom the party represents or for
whose benefit he sues, may be set off as will satisfy the claim, if the
same might have been set oil in an action by those beneficially interested.
Section 42(10. In actions brought by executors and administrators,
demands existing against their testators or intestates, and belonging to
the defendant at the time of their death, may be set off by the defend
ant in the same manner as if the action had been brought by and in
the name of the deceased.
Section 4261. In actions against executors and administrators, and
against trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the
defendants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestates,
or those whom they represent, in the same manner as the persons
so represented would have been entitled to set off the same in an action
against them.
Section 4262. If the amount of a setoff, duly established, be equal
to the plaintifff's debt or demand, judgment shall be entered that the
plaintifff take nothing by his action; if it be less than the plaintifff's debt
or demand, the plaintifff shall have judgment for the residue only.
.Section 4263. If there be found a balance due from the plaintifff
in the action, to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant to the amount thereof; but no such judgment shall be rendered
against the plaintifff for any balance due from any other person.
Section 4264. In actions in courts of record, a setoff claimed bv
the defendant shall be pleaded as a counterclaim, and regulated by the
rales of pleading and practice applicable to counterclaims. When a
counterclaim is upon a cause of action derived by assignment, a setoff
of a demand against the assignor, and a setoff which in any case may
be made to a counterclaim, shall be pleaded, by reply, as a defense to
the counterclaim.
TENDEB.
Section 4265. The payment or tender of payment of the whole sum
due on any contract for the payment of money, although made after
the money has become due and payable, may be pleaded to an action
subsequently brought in like manner and with the like effect, as if
such tender or payment had been made at the time prescribed in the
contract.
Section 4266. A tender also may be made after an action is brought
such contract of the whole sum then due thereon, with the legal
costs of suit incurred up to the time, at any time before the action is
called for trial. It may be made to the plaintifff or his attorney, and
if not accepted, the defendant may plead the same by answer or supple
mental answer, in like manner as if it had been made before the com
mencement of the action, bringing into court the money so tendered
for costs as well as for debt or damages.
Section 4267. If such tender be accepted, the plaintifff or his at^orney
8}ia]] at the request of the defendant, sign a stipulation of dis
continuance of the action for such reason, and shall deliver it to the
defendant; and also a certificate or notice thereof to the officer who has
any process against the defendant, if requested; and if any further
costs shall be incurred for any service made by the officer after tender
accepted and before he receives notice thereof, the defendant shall pay
the same to the officer or the tender shall be invalid.
Section 4268. A tender may also be made in all cases of involuirtary
trespass before action is commenced; and when in the opinion
of the court or jury a sufficient amount was tendered to the party in
jured, his agent or attorney, for the trespass complained of, judgment
shall be entered against the plaintifff for costs: provided, that the de
fendant kept his tender good, by paying the money into court at the
trial for the use of the plaintifff.
Section 4269. In all actions to recover the possession or valne of
logs, timber or lumber, wrongfully cut upon the land of the plaintifff, or
to recover damages for such trespass, the highest market value of such
logs, timber or lumber, in whatsoever place, shape or condition, manu
factured or unmanufactured, the same shall have been, at any time be^ore tne tr'a'> while in possession of the trespasser, or any purchaser
from him, with notice, shall be found or awarded to the plaintifff, if he
except as in this section provided. The defendant in any such
action, may, within ten days after service of the complaint, serve on
the plaintifff his affidavit that such cutting was done by mistake, and
therewith an offer, in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him
for the sum therein specified with costs. If the plaintifff accept the offrr
an(j ^ye not;ce thereof, in writing, within ten days, lie may file the sum
mons, complaint and offer, with an affidavit of service of the notice of ac
ceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment accordingly,
which shall be in full satisfaction of the matters alleged in the complaint,
notice of acceptance be not 60 given the affidavit of the defendant
g^ajj ^Q ^eeme^ traversed. Upon the trial the jury shall find specially
upon such issue, and also the true value of such logs, timber or lumber
when so cut, as well as their highest 'market value, aforesaid. If the
jury find such cutting was by mistake, and the sum, exclusive of cost
for which judgment was so offered, was not less than the value of such
logs, timber or lumber when cut, with interest from that time to the
time of such offer and ten per centum as damages upon the combined
sum, principal and interest, the plaintifff shall have judgment for the
amount of such offer only, less the costs and disbursements of the action
since the date of such offer, to be taxed and deducted in favor of the de
fendant. If the jury find such cutting was by mistake, but the sum, ex
clusive of costs, for which judgment so offered, was less than such value,
and interest and ten per centum damages combined, judgment shall be
awarded the plaintifff on the verdict for the value found at time of cut
ting, with interest from the time of such cutting, and ten per centum
thereon aforesaid, besides the costs of the action. If there be several
defendants not alike liable, either, or any, may serve such affidavit and
offer, and have a separate trial as to him or them.
PUBLISHING LEGAL NOTICES.
Section 4270. Whenever a legal notice is required by law to be
it ii. . °, j -St * t.11
pubhshed m a newspaper in any county, and no public newspaper shall
be printed therein, or when there shall be but one such newspaper, and
the publisher thereof shall refuse to publish such notice, such notice
shall, unless otherwise specially provided, be deemed required by law,
to be published in a newspaper printed in an adjoining county, if there be
any such; and proof by affidavit of the reason why such publication was
made in an adjoining county shall accompany the proof of publication,
or the order for publication, when any is necessary, may be made or
amended by the court or judge so as to designate a newspaper in an
adjoining county, upon affidavit showing the necessity therefore. When
ever publication is made in an adjoining county, under this section,
copies of the notice shall be posted m at least three public places in the
first county.
Section 4271. Whenever a legal notice shall be required or ordered
to be published in a particular newspaper in any county, and such newspaper shall cease to be printed and published in said county before the
publication of such legal notice shall be commenced, or when com
menced, shall so cease before such publication is completed, the order
for publication, when one is required in the first instance, may be
amended by order of the court or judge, on proof of the fact by affida
vit, so as to designate another newspaper, as may be necessary; and if
no order is required in the first instance, such publication may be made
>r completed in any other newspaper; and any time, during which such
notice shall be published in the first newspaper, shall be reckoned a
part of the time required for the publication thereof, proof of which
may be made by affidavit of any person acquainted with the facts. The
second newspaper may be one published in an adjoining county, in the
cases mentioned in the preceding section.
Section 4272. Whenever a legal notice shall be required or ordered
to be published in a particular newspaper, and the name of such newspaper shall be changed before such publication is commenced, or before
it shall be completed, the publication shall be made or continued in the
newspaper under its new name, with the same effect as if the name had
not been changed. The proof of the publication shall state the change
of name, and specify the period of publication in such newspaper under
each name.
Section 4273. The time for publication of legal notices shall beT
. ill /»-jtii ii» • j.-iii
computed so as to exclude the first day of publication, and include thee
day on which the act or event, of which notice is given, is to happen,
or which completes the full period required for publication.
Section 4274. If the publisher or printer of a newspaper shall, after
payment or tender of his legal fees therefore, refuse or willfully neglect
to publish any legal notice required in pursuance of law, or a lawful
order of publication, to be published in nis newspaper, being able to
make such publication, he shall forfeit twenty live dollars, one-half to
the party prosecuting therefore.
Section 4275. The fees for publishing a legal notice, when not otherwise specially prescribed by law, shall oe not more than sixty cent;
per folio for the first insertion, and thirty five cents per folio for each
insertion after the first.
Section 4276. The six preceding sections, and the term legal notice,
as u8ed therein, embrace every summons, order, citation, notice of sale,
or 0ther notice, and every other advertisement of any description, re
quired to be published by any law, or in pursuance of any law, or of
any order of any court.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Section 4277. When the violation of a right admits of both a civil
and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not merged in
the other,
Section 4278. No person shall serve or execute any civil process
from midnight preceding to midnight following the first day of the
week; and any such service shall be void; and any person serving or
executing any such process, shall be liable in damages to the partv ag
grieved, in like manner and to the same extent as if he had not had any
such process.
Section 4279. Whenever an execution or other final process shall
be issued against the property of any person who habitually observes
the seventh day of the week, instead of the first, as a day of rest, the
officer to whom such process shall be directed, shall not levy upon or
sell any property of any such person on the seventh day of the week:
provided, that said person shall deliver to such officer an affidavit in
writing, setting forth the fact that he habitually keeps and observes the
seventh day of the week instead of the first, as a day of rest, at any
time before such levy or at least two days before such sale, as the case
may be; and such sale may, at the time appointed therefore, be adjourned
to any day within the life of the execution, or such execution may be
renewed, as in other cases.
Section 4280. When a trustee of any express trust shall have been
duly appointed, in any other state, territory or country, either as an
original or substitute trustee, and no trustee shall have been appointed
in tliis state upon that part of the trust estate situate in this state, such
foreign trustee may have recorded in the office of any register of deeds
of any county in which any part of such trust estate may be situated,
his original appointment, or a copy thereof duly authenticated, as
required to make the same receivable in evidence, and thereafter may
exercise any powers over such trust estate, including sales and convey
ances and assignments thereof, or of any part thereof; and may prose
cute or defend any action or proceeding relating thereto, and have all
the rights, remedies and defenses in regard to the property, real and per
sonal, and interests, legal and equitable, and to collect any demands of
such estate, which such a trustee could have, if he were so appointed
within, and pursuant to the laws of this state.
Section 4281. When a guardian shall have been duly appointed in
any other state, territory or country, for any person a resident thereof
at the tune of such appointment, and no guardian for such person
shall have been appointed in this state, such foreign guardian, upon
filing, his original appointment, or a copy thereof duly authenticated,
60 as to make the same receivable in evidence, in any county court
in the state, may thereafter exercise any powers over the estate of such
ward, including sales and assignments of the same, or any part thereof,
and may prosecute or defend any action or proceeding relating thereto,
and have all the rights, remedies and defenses in regard to the prop
erty, real and personal, and interests, legal and equitable, and to col
lect any demands of 6uch estate or person, which a guardian duly ap
pointed by any county court of this state could have or exercise in
relation thereto.
CHAPTER clxxix.
OP PROCEEDINGS IN INSOLVENCY.
Section 4282. Every insolvent debtor may be discbarged from his
debts, in the manner prescribed in and upon compliance with the pro
visions of this chapter:
Section 4283. Such insolvent debtor shall petition the circuit court
°f the county in which he resides, or the presiding judge thereof, pray
ing to be discharged, in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, and
shall annex to and deliver with his petition to such court or judge, to
whom it shall be presented, a schedule containing:
1. A full and true account of all his creditors;
g. The place of residence of each creditor, if known to such insolvent,
and if not known, the fact to be stated;
3. The sum owing to each creditor, and the nature of each demaad,
whether arising on written security, on account, or otherwise;
4. The true cause and consideration of such indebtedness, in each
case, and the place where such indebtedness accrued.
5. A statement of any existing judgment, mortgage or collateral or
other security, for the payment of any such debt;
6. A full and true inventory of all the estate, both real and personal,
and of all choses in action, debts due, and monies on hand of such in
solvent; of the encumbrances existing thereon, and of all the books,
vouchers and securities relating thereto.
Section 4284. An affidavit in the following form shall be annexed
to gucu petition and schedule, and shall be sworn to and subscribed bv
the insolvent in the presence of such judge who shall certify the same:
I , do swear (or affirm as the case may be) that the account
of my creditors, and the inventory of my estate, which are annexed to
my petition and herewith delivered, are in all respects just and true,
and that I have not, at any time, or in any manner whatsoever, disposed
of or made over any part of my estate, for the future benefit of myself
or my family, or in order to defraud any of my creditors; and that I
have in no instance created or acknowledged a debt for a greater 6um
than I honestly or truly owed, and that I have not paid, secured to be
paid or in any way compounded with any of my creditors, with a view
fraudulently to obtain the prayer of my petition.
Section -±285. Upon the filing with such court or delivery to sucho
judge of such petition, schedule and affidavit, such court or judge shall
make an order requiring all creditors of such insolvent to show cause,
if any they have, why an assignment of the insolvent's estate should
not be made and he be discharged from his debts. If such application is
made to such court, such order shall also fix a day in the same, or next
ensuing term for the hearing thereof at the court house in such county;
and if made to such judge such order shall fix a day for such hearing
at such court house or at the chambers of such judge, designating the
place thereof.
Section 4286. Such order shall direct that notice of its contents be
published in a newspaper published at the seat of government of the
state, and in a newspaper published in the county in which the appli
cation is made, if there be one, and if not then in a newspaper pub
lished in an adjoining county; and if one-fourth part in amount of the
debts owing by such insolvent shall have accrued in any other state or
territory, or be due to creditors residing there, such order shall also
designate a newspaper at the seat of government of such state or terri
tory in which such notice shall be published.
Section 4287. If all the creditors of such insolvent reside within
this state, the order shall direct such notice to be published once in
each week for six successive weeks; and if any of such creditors reside
out of this state, the notice shall be directed to be published once each
week for ten successive weeks.
Section 4288. On the day fixed in such order, or at any subsequent
day or time that such judge or court may appoint, such judge or court
shall hear the proofs and allegations of the parties; and before any
other proceeding be had, shall require proof of the publication of the
notice as herein prescribed.
Section 42S9. Every creditor opposing the discharge of an insolvent
under this chapter may, at the time appointed for the first hearing,
demand of the court or judge, that the cause of such insolvent be heard
ami tried by a jury, and shall be entitled to an order to that effect, upon
filing with such court or judge a specification in writing, of the grounds
of his objection to such discharge; and in all cases ordered to be tried
by a jury, under the provisions of this section, such trial shall be had
in the county where such insolvent shall reside, subject to a change of
the place of trial for like causes, and according to the provisions which
govern in actions pending in the circuit court.
Section 4290. If such demand is made to such court, the iury shall
i j ... .... . . ' . J J
be drawn in the same manner as in civil cases from the jurors sum
moned and attending such court, who shall be sworn as prescribed in
the next section.
Section 421)1. If such demand is made to such judge, he shall name
eighteen freeholders of such county, qualified by law to serve as jurors,
and issue a summons to the sheriff or any constable of the county,
commanding him to summon the persons so named to appear before
him at such court house or at his chambers, designating them, at a day
fixed in such summons not less than six nor more than twelve days
from the time of issuing the same, at which time and place twelve of
such persons shall be drawn to serve as a jury, in the same manner as
juries in the circuit court are drawn, who shall be sworn well and truly
to hear, try and determine the validity of the objections so specified.
Section 4292. Such jury, having heard the proofs and allegations
of the parties, shall determine the matter submitted to them, and for
that purpose shall be kept together by some proper officer, to be sworn
as is usual in like cases in courts of record, until they agree upon their
verdict. Such verdict shall be recorded in such court or by such judge,
an(j gjia|j ^e couc]nsive ju tlie premises, unless a new trial is awarded as
hereinafter directed.
Section 4293. There shall be but one hearing before a jury, unless
a retrial is granted as hereinafter provided, and if they cannot agree after
being left together a reasonable time, they shall be discharged, and such
court or judge shall decide the merits of the application, as if no jury
had been caned,
Section 4294. At the hearing of any such petition before a jury or
otherwise, the insolvent may be examined, on oath, at the instance of
any creditor, touching his estate or debts, or any matter stated' in his
schedule, and may be required to state any change which may have oc
curred in the situation of his property since the making of his schedule,
and particularly whether he has collected any debts or demands, or made
any transfer of any part of his real or personal estate; and any sueh
creditor may contradict or impeach by other competent evidence, any
testimony given by such insolvent.
Section 4295. If it shall appear on such examination or otherwise,
by competent proof, that such insolvent has collected any debts or demands, or made any transfer, absolute or conditional, or otherwise, of
any part of his real or personal property, since the making of the sched
ule annexed to his petition, he shall be required to pay forthwith to the
clerk of such court, or to such judge, the lull amount of all debt* and
demands so by him collected or received, and the full value of air prop
erty so by him transferred, except such part of the said debts aud prop
erty as shall satisfactorily appear to such court or judge to have been
necessarily expended by such insolvent for the support of himself or
family; and no discharge shall be granted to him under the provisions
of this chapter, unless such payment shall be made as above required,
within thirty days thereafter, to the assignee of such insolvent,
Section 4296. If it shall satisfactorily appear to such court or judge,
in cases where no jury has been required, or the jury have disagreed, that
the insolvent is justly and truly indebted to the creditors in the sums
mentioned in his schedule and affidavit, that such insolvent has honestly
and fairly given a true account of his estate aud has in all things con
formed to the matters required of him in this chapter, such court or
judge shall direct an assignment of all such insolvent's estate in posses
sion, reversion, or remainder, except such property as may be by law ex
empt from execution, to some person appointed by the court or judge
as assignee, and such assignment shall be approved by it, or him, as to
its form and manner of execution. The assignment shall be recorded
in the office of the register of deeds of such county, and of every other
county in which any real estate conveyed thereby is situated.
Section 4297. When any of the matters in the last section, required
^0 De established previous to granting an order of assignment, shall
have been submitted to a jury, and shall have been found in favor of
the insolvent, such court or judge shall direct an assignment accordingly,
of all such insolvent's estate, as mentioned in the preceding section;
and the jury may, by their verdict, increase or diminish the amount of
any debt set forth by such insolvent in his schedule as they shall find
the fact to be.
Section 4298. Such assignment shall vest in the assignee all the
interest of such insolvent, at the time of executing the same, in any es- c
tate or property, real or personal, whether such interest be legal or
equitable; but no contingent interest shall pass to the assignee by vir
tue of such assignment, unless the same shall become vested within
three years after the making thereof, and in case of its becoming so
vested, it shall pass to the assignee in the same manner as it would
have vested in such insolvent if no assignment had been made by him.
Section 4299. Upon such insolvents producing to and filing with
such court or judge, a certificate of such assignee, executed in the presence of the judge of such court, that such assignment has been executed
and delivered to him, a copy whereof shall be annexed to such certifi
cate, and that such insolvent has/delivered to such assignee all his estate
so directed to be assigned, and all books, vouchers and securities relat
ing to the same, and a certificate of the register of deeds of such county,
and of- each countv in which any real estate conveyed by such assign
ment is situated, that such assignment has been duly recorded in his
office, such court or judge shall grant to such insolvent a discharge from
his debts, which shall have the effect declared in this chapter.
Section 4300. The petition, schedule, affidavit, and all the testimony P
taken, orders, papers and other proceedings in the case, shall be filed in a
the office of the clerk of such circuit court, who shall thereupon enter
in the judgment docket of said court against said insolvent as defend
ant, a judgment in favor of each of his creditors as plaintifff, for the sev- J
eral sums respectively appearing or shown to be due to them by such
schedule and proceedings, which judgments shall be liens only upon the
property conveyed by such assignment, and shall also enter a discharge
thereof upon such docket by order of the court, which shall discharge
6nch insolvent from personal liability only in respect to the debts for
which such judgments were rendered. The state tax, upon filing all
such papers, and entering all such judgments, shall be one dollar; and
the clerk's fees for filing and entering all such papers and proceedings,
for recording in connection therewith, and for docketing and discharg
ing all such judgments, shall be five dollars.
Section 4301. In any action which may be brought against such D
insolvent, a discharge granted pursuant to this chapter may be pleaded, a
and shall constitute a bar to the recovery against him, for or on account
of aii}r indebtedness or liability of his included in said schedule, or found
due in such proceedings.
Section 4302. Every discharge granted to an insolvent under this
chapter, shall be voidable in each of the following cases:
1. If such insolvent shall willfully have sworn falsely in his affidavit
annexed to his petition, or upon his examination, in relation to any ma
terial fact concerning his estate or his debts, or to any other material
fact;
2. If after the presentation of his petition, he shall sell or in any way
transfer or assign any of his property, or collect any debts due him, and
shall not give a just and true account thereof on the hearing of his ap
plication, and shall not also pay or secure the payment of the money
so collected, or the value of the property so assigned, as hereinbefore
directed;
3. If he shall secrete any part of his estate, or any books or writings
relative thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors;
4. If he shall fraudulently conceal the names of any of his creditors,
or the amount of any sum due to any of them;
5. If he shall pay or consent to the payment of any portion of the
debt or demand of any of his creditors, or shall grant or consent to
the granting of any gift or reward to any such creditor, upon any
express or implied contract or trust, that the creditor so paid or re
warded should abstain or desist from opposing the discharge of such
insolvent;
6. If he shall be guilty of any fraud whatever, contrary to the trne
intent of this chapter.
Section 4303. "Within one year after the docketing of the several
ju(jgmen(;s against the insolvent, any creditor may apply, upon affidavit
or other proof, to such circuit court, upon notice to such insolvent, for
a now trial of the application for a discharge. Such insolvent may
resist such application by affidavits and other proofs, and if, upon the
hearing of the application, such court shall be satisfied that any grounds
for rendering such discharge voidable, mentioned in the preceding sec
tion, and which have been specified in such application for a new trial
exist, it shall make an order vacating such discharge, and directing a
new trial of such insolvent's application for a discharge. Such new
trial shall be had as to the grounds specified in such application only,
in the same manner as hereinbefore provided for a trial upon the origi
nal application of the insolvent; and if the verdict of the jury or find
ing of the court shall be in favor of the creditor so applying, the dis
charge shall be vacated, otherwise it shall be final and conclusive.
Section 4304. The assignee in such assignment shall forthwith,
under the orders of such court or judge, convert the property assigned
into money, and distribute the same, ratably, and without preference,
among the several creditors of such insolvent, and such court or judge
may also make all necessary orders for the payment, out of the proceeds
of such assigned property of all fees and expenses, including compen
sation to such assignee for his services, accruing on such application
prior to such distribution.
Section 4305. Appeals may be taken to the supreme court by such
insolvent from any order denying or vacating his discharge, or by any
creditor opposing such discharge, from the order granting it, or from
the order denying an application for a new trial, or an order in favor
of the insolvent, upon a new trial of the application for a discharge;
which appeals shall be taken, and bills of exceptions when necessary
shall be settled therein, as in ordinary appeals in civil actions.
Section 4306. For publishing the notices required by this chapter,
tke same fees per foijo s]ial] De allowed as for publishing other legal
notices; and a notice published by a general heading, stating that the
insolvent, naming him, will apply to such court or judge for a discharge
from his debts, at the time and place, stating them, fixed by the order
therefore, shall be a valid publication.
CHAPTER CLXXX.
OF THE RELIEF OF PERSONS CONFINED IN JAIL ON CIVIL PROCESS.
Section 4307. Every person confined in jail on an execution issued
on a judgment recovered in an action founded on a tort, shall be discharged
therefrom at the end of ten days from his first confinement,
upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Section 4308. Such person shall cause notice to be given to the
plaintifff in the action, his agent or attorney, in writing, that at a time
and place specified in such notice, he will apply to the judge of the cir
cuit court, county judge or court commissioner of the county in which
he is so confined, for the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his im
prisonment.
Section 4309. Such notice shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof to the plaintifff, his agent or attorney, twenty four hours before
the time for the hearing of such application, if he lives within twenty
miles of the place designated for the hearing; and for every additional
twenty miles or part thereof that he resides from such place, twenty four
hours shall be added to the time of such service.
Section 4310. At the time and place specified in such notice, such
Eerson shall be taken under the custody of the jailer, or the sheriff or
is deputy, before such circuit judge, county judge or court commis
sioner, who shall examine the prisoner on his oath, concerning his es
tate and effects and the disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the judg
ment for which he is committed; and who shall also hear any other
legal and pertinent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or the
creditor.
Section 4311. The plaintifff in the action may, upon such examination,
propose to the prisoner any interrogatories pertinent to the inquiry, and they shall, if required by the creditor, be proposed and an
swered in writing, and the answers shall be signed ana sworn to by the
prisoner; and the plaintifff in the action may nave a copy of the inter
rogatories and answers certified by the officer before whom such exami
nation is had, upon paying therefore the legal fees.
Section 4312. If upon such examination such officer shall be satisfied
that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, he shall administer to
him the following oath:
I, , do solemnly swear that I have not any estate real or
personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except such as is by law ex
empt from being taken on execution, and that I have not any other es
tate, nor conveyed or concealed, or in any way disposed of any portion
of my estate, real or personal, with design to secure the same to my
use, or to defraud my creditors. So help me God.
Section 4313. After administering the oath, theofficer before whom
such examination shall be held, shall make a certificate under his hand
as follows:
To the sheriff or jailer of the county of : I do hereby cer
tify, that , confined in your jail upon an execution, at the suit
of , is entitled to be discharged from imprisonment, if he be
imprisoned for no other cause.
The sheriff or jailer, upon receiving such certificate, shall forthwith
discharge the prisoner, if he be imprisoned for no other cause.
Section 4314. If upon such examination aforesaid, the prisoner be
not discharged, he shall be entitled to apply for his discharge at the
end of every succeeding ten days, in the same manner as above pro
vided, and the same proceeding shall thereupon be had.
Section 4315. The prisoner, after being so discharged, shall be forever
exempt from arrest or imprisonment for the same debt unless he
shall be convicted for having willfully sworn falsely, upon his examina
tion aforesaid, or in taking the oath before prescribed.
Section 4316. The judgment against any prisoner who is dis
charged as aforesaid, shall remain in mil force against any e3tate which
may then or at any time afterward belong to him; and the plaintifff in
the action may take out a new execution against the goods and estate
of the prisoner in like manner as if he had never been committed on
the execution.
Section 4317. In case such prisoner shall be unable to pay in
whole, or in part, the fees of such county judge or court commissioner,
in such proceedings, they shall, nevertheless, proceed without charge to
him therefore.
Section 4318. If the debtor shall satisfy the execution he shall not
be entitled to his discharge until he has paia all the charges for his sup
port in prison, in addition to the sum due on the execution, and the
costs and charges thereon,
Section 4319. The plaintifff, in the action, may at any time order
^e prjsoner to be discharged, and he shall not thereafter be liable to
imprisonment for the same cause,
Section 4320. Whenever a person is committed to jail on execution
issued on a judgment recovered in a civil action, the creditor, his agent
or attorney, shall advance to the jailer, within twenty four hours after
such commitment, sufficient money to pay for the support of said pris
oner during the time for which he may be imprisoned; and in case the
money shall not be so advanced, or, if during the time the prisoner may
be in confinement, the money shall be expended in the support of such
prisoner, the jailer shall forthwith discharge such prisoner from cus
tody, and 6ucn discharge shall have the same effect as a discharge by
order of the court.
jail liberties.
Section 4321. A space of ground in a square, the center of each of
whose sides shall be one mile distant from the jail, is declared as the
liberties of the jail of each county of the state. The sheriff of each
county, where such liberties have not been heretofore so designated,
shall, at the expense of the' county, designate by visible and permanent
marks the extent and limits of such liberties.
Section 4322. Every person who shall be in the custody of the
sheriff of any county, by virtue of an order of arrest, or writ of ne exeat
or surrender by his bail upon an order of arrest, execution (except when
issued in a civil action for the recovery of a forfeiture or penalty), or
attachment in proceedings for contempts, not criminal, issued for non
payment of costs', or of any sum of money ordered to be paid in a civil
action, shall be entitled to be admitted to such jail liberties upon exe
cuting the bond prescribed in the next section.
Section 4323. Such bond shall be executed by the prisoner and
one or more sureties, to be approved by the sheriff in a snm not less
than double the amount of the sum in which the sheriff was re
quired to hold the defendant to bail, or double the amount directed
to be collected by the execution, or double the amount of the costs or
sum of money ordered to be paid, as the case may be, and shall be con
ditioned that such defendant shall remain a true and faithful prisoner,
and shall not escape or go without the limits of 6uch jail liberties,
until discharged by due course of law. Every such bond shall be held
for the indemnity of the sheriff, taking the same, and of the party at
whose suit or for whose benefit such prisoner is confined.
Section 4324. If a sheriff who shall have taken any such bond, shall
discover that any surety to such bond is insufficient, he may commit
the prisoner, who executed the same, to close confinement in such jail,
until other good and sufficient sureties shall be substituted.
Section 4325. The sureties in any such bond may surrender their
principal at any time before judgment shall be rendered against them
thereon, by taking such principal and delivering him to the keeper of
the jail, when upon the written requirement of such sureties he shall
indorse upon such bond an acknowledgment of the surrender of the
principal, and shall also, if required, give such sureties a certificate
acknowledging such surrender; but such surrender shall not exonerate
such sureties from any liability incurred by them previous to such sur
render.
Section 4326. The going at large of any prisoner who shall have
executed such bond, or of any prisoner who would be entitled to the
liberties of any jail, upon executing such bond, within the limits of the
liberties of the jail oi the county in which he shall be in custody, shall
not be deemed an escape of snch prisoner; but in case any such pris
oner shall go at large without the jail liberties of 6uch county, without
the assent of the party at whose suit such prisoner shall be in custody,
the same shall be deemed an escape, and forfeihire of the bond so exe
cuted; and the sheriff in whose custody such prisoner shall have been,
shall have the same authority to pursue and retake such prisoner as if
such escape had been made from the jail.
Section 4327. In every suit brought by a sheriff on such bond, the
defendants may plead a voluntary return of the prisoner to the jail
from which he escaped, or the liberties thereof, or the recapture of such
prisoner by the sheriff from whose custody he escaped, before the com
mencement of such suit, and may give evidence thereof in mitigation
of the damages or judgment claimed, but upon such answer of a vol
untary return judgment shall be rendered against the defendant in the
action for twenty five dollars for each day or part of day such defend
ant was outside of such liberties, together with the costs of the action;
and such defendants shall be entitled to make such or any other defense
to such suit which might be made by such sheriff to an action against
him for such escape.
Section 4328. But if an action shall have been brought against
such sheriff for such escape, and due notice thereof shall have been
given to the prisoner and his sureties, who executed such bond, the
judgment against such sheriff shall be conclusive evidence of his right
to recover against such prisoner and his sureties, as to all matters
which were or might have been controverted in the action against the
sheriff.
Section 4329. In every suit brought by a sheriff on such bond, if
it shall appear to the court that judgment has been rendered against.
such sheriff for the escape of the prisoner, and that due notice of the
pendency of the action against the sheriff was given to the prisoner
and his sureties, to enable them to defend the same, such court shall
render judgment in the suit upon such bond at any term after the summons
is served, upon the complaint being filed and twenty days' notice
of the application for such judgment has been given to the defendants
in such action,
Section 4330. If it shall appear, on the hearing of such motion,
that the defendants have any meritorious cause of defense, which ws;
not controverted in the action against the sheriff, and which by law
could not have been so controverted, the court shall enter judgment si
provided in the preceding section, and suspend proceedings thereon
until a trial in such action be had ; but such judgment shall remain ts
a security for the sheriff. If such defense be established, the court
shall vacate such judgment and render judgment as in other cases,
Section 4331. In every action brought by a sheriff on such bond,
the recovery of a judgment against him for the escape of the prisoner,
shall be evidence of the damages sustained by him, in the same man
ner as if such judgment had been collected; and such sheriff shall be
entitled to recover the costs and his reasonable expenses in defending
the suit against him, as part of his damages.
Section 4332. If any such bond shall be forfeited, the party at
whose suit the person executing the same shall have been confined, or
in case of his death, the executor or administrator of such party, shall
be entitled to an assignment thereof, which shall be made by the sher
iff taking the same, or in case of a vacancy in his office, by his under
sheriff.
Section 4333. The party to whom such assignment shall have been
made, may maintain an action on such bond, as assignee of the sheriff
^king the same, in the same cases in which such action might be main
tained by such sheriff, and shall recover damages for breaches of the
condition of such bond, as follows:
1. If the prisoner escaping was confined by virtue of an execution,
or by virtue of an attachment for nonpayment of costs, or of any sum
of money ordered to be paid by a court or judge, the measure of the
plaintifffs damages shall be the amount directed to be levied by 6och
execution or attachment, with interest thereon to the time of such re
covery;
2. If the prisoner was confined by virtue of an order of arrest or writ
of ne exeat, or upon a surrender by his bail upon an order of arrest,
made before or after judgment rendered against him, the plaintifff shall
recover only the actual damages sustained by him.
Section 4334. The acceptance of an assignment of any such bond
shall be a bar to any action by or on behalf of the party receiving such
assignment, against the sheriff or other officer making the same, foranv
escape of the prisoner executing such bond, amounting to a breach
thereof.
Section 4335. In every action brought by the assignee of such bond,
fae defendants shall be entitled to plead a voluntary return of the pris
oner to the liberties of the jail before the commencement of such action,
in mitigation thereof, as provided in section four thousand three hun
dred and twenty seven; and to make any defense which they would be
entitled to make if such action had been brought in the name and for
the benefit of the sheriff to whom such bond was executed,
Section 4336. In case the party at whose suit any person shall haw
j)een confine(j to the liberties of a jail, shall refuse or neglect to take an
assignment of the bond executed by such person, as hereinbefore pro
vided, and shall prosecute any sheriff for the escape of such person,
the court in which such action shall be pending shall by order stay all
the proceedings upon the judgment against 6uch sheriff, until he shall
have had a reasonable time to prosecute the bond taken by him, and to
collect the amount of any judgment he may recover thereon. But this section shall not authorize such stay of proceedings in any action where
the judgment shall have been recovered against any sheriff for any es
cape committed with the assent, aid or assistance of such sheriff.

