Qa.,.p. 199. Of the forms of civil action, and parties thereto.
128. Of the place of trial of ciTil actions. 
124-. Of the manner of commencing civil action&
125. Of pleadings in civil actions.
126. Of set-offs and tender.
127. Of arrest and bail
128. or claims and delivery of personal property. 
129. Of injunctions and writs·of m tzeat; and of receiTera. 
180. or attachments.
131. Of arbitrations.
18!. Of issues, mode of trial, and judgments in civil actions. 
183. Of costs and fees.
184. Of executions, and proceedings supplementary thereto. 
185. Of the survival ·of actions, and of death,· marriage, and other dis- 
1.bility occurring after the commencement of the action.
186. Of writs and process.
187. Of evidence.
188. or limitation of actions. 
189. Of appeals and writs of error, and proceedings thereon.
140. Of miscellaneous proceedings in civil actitms, and general pro­ 
visions. 
OF THE FORllS OF CIVIL ACTIONS, .AND P A..RTIF.8 THERETO. 
SECl'IoN 1. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided
into- 
1. Actions.
2. Special proceedings.
SECTION 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court 
of justice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the
enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention 
of a wrong, or the prevention of a public offense.
SECTION 3. Eve_ry other remedy _is a special proceeding. 
SECTION 4. Actions are of two kinds:- 
1. Civil.
2. Criminal. 
TITLE XXIII. 
OF PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
CHAPTER CXXIl 
SECTION 5. A criminal_ action is prosecuted by the people of 
the state as a party' against a person charged with a public
offense, for the punishment thereof. 
SECTION 6. Every other is a civil action.
SECTION 7. When the violation of a right admits of both a 
civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is not
merged in the other. 
SECTION 8. The distinction between actions at law and suits 
in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits heretofore
existing, are abolished; and there shall be in this state but one 
fo f · ~ h '° t · f ·
rm o action ,or t o eutorcement or pro ection o private 
rights, and the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denomid , .1 · 
nate a c1v1 action.
9. In such action, the party complaining shall be 
known as the plaintifff, and the adverse party as the defendant.
10. No action shull be brought upon a judgment 
d d • f thi t f I · ·
ren ere 111 any court o is sta e, except a court o t ie Justice 
of the peace, between the same parties, without leave of the
court, for a good cause shown, on notice to the adverse party; 
and no action on a judgment rendered by a justice of the peace
shall be brought in the same county within two years after its
rendition, except in cases of his death, resignation, incapacity to
act, or removal from the county, or that the process was not
personally served on the defendant, or on all the defendants, or
m case of the death of some of the parties, or when the docket
or record ol such judgment is or shall have been· lost or de­
stroyed. 
11. Feigned issues are abolished, and instead thereof,
in the case where the power now exists to order a feigned issue, 
or when a question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, is
to be tried by a jury, an order for the trial may be made, stating
distinctly and plainly .the question of fact to be tried, and such
order shall be the only authority necessary for a trial. 
12. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of
the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section 
fourteen; but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the
assignment of a thing in action not arising out of a contract. 
13. In case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action of the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set­ 
off or other defense existing at the time of or before notice of
the assignment; but this section shall not apply to a negotiable
promissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in good faith,
and upon good consideration before due. 
SECTION 14. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may
sue without joining with him the person for whose benefit the
action is prosecuted; a trustee of an express trust, within the
meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person
with whom or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit
of another. 
SECTION 15. When a married woman is a party, her husband
must be joined with her except that- 
1. When the action c~ncerns her separate property, she may
sue alone. 
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue or be sued alone. 
SECTION 16. When an infant is a. party, he must appear by
guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which the action
is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or a county judge. 
17. The guardian shall be appoin ted as follows:- 
1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon tho application of the 
infant, if he be of tho ago of fourteen years; or, if under that
agu, u pou the application of his general or testamentary guard- 
ian, if he has any, or of a relative or friend of the infant. If
ma.de by a relative or friend of the infant, notice thereof must
first be given to such guardian, if he has one; if he has none,
then to the person with whom such infant resides. 
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within 
twenty days after the service of the summons ; if he be under
the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then upon the appli­
cation of any other party to the action, or of a relation or friend
of the infant, after notice of such application being first given
to the general or testamentary guardian of such infant, if he
has one in this state ; if he has none, then to the infant himself,
if over fourteen years of age, or if under that age and within
this state, to the person with whom such infant resides. 
SECTION 18. .All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined 
as plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this title. 
SECTIO~ 19. Any person may be made a defendant who has
or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintifff,
or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settle- 
ment of the questions involved therein. 
SECTIO~ 20. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintifffs or defendants; but 
if the consent of any one who shall have been joined as· plain- 
tiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
1
f 
b . d . tl 1 . t d h l . . 
t iereo emg state m 10 comp am ; an w en t ie question is
one of a common or general interest of many persons, or when the 
parties are very numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring
them all before the court, one or more may sue or defend for
the benefit of the whole. 
SECTIOS' 21. Persons severally liable upon the same obliga- 
tion or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and
. 11 f tl be . l d d . 1 
promissory notes, may a , or any o rem, me u e m t ie 
same action, at the option of the plaintifff. 
SECTION 22. The court may determine any controversy
between the parties before it when it can be done without preju- 
dice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when
a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had with- 
out the presence of other parties, the court shall order them to
be brought in ; and when in an action for the recovery of real or 
personal property, a person not a party to the action, but having
an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to the court
to be made a party, it may order him to be brought iu by the 
proper amendment. A defendant against whom au action is
pending, upon a contract, or for specific real or personal 
. b " ffid .
property, may at any time etore answer, upon a avit that a 
person, not a. party to the action, and without collusion with
him, makes against him a demand for the same debt or property,
upon due notice to such person and the adverse party, apply to
the court for an order to substitute such person in his place, and
discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in
court the amount of the debt, or deli vering the property or its 
to such person as the court may direct ; and the court
may, in its discretion, make the order. 
CHAPTER CXXIII. 
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS. 
SECTION 1. Actions for the following causes must be tried in
the county in which the subject of the action or some part 
thereof is situated, subjec~ to the power of the court to change
the place of trial in the cases provided by law :- 
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate, or
interest thereon, or for the determination in any form of such
right or interest, and for injuries to real property. 
2. For the protection of real property.
3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.
4. For the recovery of personal property distrained for any 
cause.
2. Actions for the following causes must be tried in 
the county where the cause or some part thereof arose, subject
to the like powers of the court to change the place of trial in
the cases provided by statute :- 
1. For the recovery of a. penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute, except that when it is imposed for an offense committed
on a lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or
more counties, the action may be brought in any county border­
ing on such lake, river, or stream where the offense was com­
mitted. 
2. Against a public officer or person specially appointed to
execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of bis office,
or against a person who, by his command, or in his aid, shall do
any thing touching the duties of such officer. 
SECTION 3. When it shall be necessary to commence an
action, or any judicial proceedings, against any county, or any
county treasurer, to recover its amount of indebtedness to the
state, either for state taxes not paid over, or for any other cause,
such action or legal proceeding may Le tried in any county
in this state. 
4. In all other cases the action shall be tried in the
county in which the defendants, or any of them, shall reside at 
the commencement of the action; or if none of the parties shall
reside or be found in the state, or the defendant be a corporation, 
the same may be tried in any county which the plaintifff shall
designate in bis complaint, subject however to the power of the
court to change tho place of trial in the cases provided by law :
provided, that in the cases specified in this section, the action
may be tried in the county where the defendant may be at the
time he is served with a summons. If the county designated
for that purpose in the complaint be not the proper county, the
action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defend­
ant, before the time for answering expire, demand, in writing, 
that the trial be had in the proper county, and the place of trial
be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by order of the
court, as provided in this section. 
SECTION 5. Actions against corporations created by the laws 
of this state, may be tried in the county in which the cause of
. l f . l . h l . 
action or some. part t iereo arose, or in w nc sue 1 corporation
is situated or has its principal office or place of business.
Actions against foreign corporations may be tried in any county 
which the plaintifff shall designate for that purpose in his
complaint. · 
SECTION 6. The court may change the place of trial in the 
following cases :- ·
1
W
d 
. d fi l .
. here the county esignate or t 1at purpose m the com- 
plaint is not the proper county. '
2. Where there is reason to believe that an impartial trial 
cannot be had therein.
8. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice 
would be promoted by the change.
4. When the parties or their attorneys shall stipulate in 
writing to change the place of trial. 
SECTJO:-J 7. Whenever the judge is a party, or interested in
the matter in controversy, in any action pending before him, or
is related to or has been of counsel for either party, the court
in term time shall, upon application of either party, and may,
without such application, change the place of trial of such action. 
SECTION 8. Whenever any party, in any civil action, pending
in any court of record, shall apply for a change of the place of
trial of such action, on account of the prejudice of the judge of
such court, and shall verify such application by his oath or 
affidavit, the court shall change the place of trial of such action. 
.
SECTION 9. When the place of trial shall be changed, as 
p
rovided in this chapter, it shall be changed to some county 
OF THE MANNER OF COlDIE~CL'iG CIVIL ACTIONS. 
SECTToN 1. .Clvil actions in the courts of records of this
state shall be commenced by the service of a summons, with or 
without seal. 
• • 
where the causes complained of do not exist ; and no more
than one change of the place of trial shall be awarded in any 
• 
action. · 
SECTIOS 10. When the place of trial is changed, all other
proceedings shall be had in the county to which the place of 
trial is changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the
parties in writing, duly filed, or order of the court, and the 
papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly. 
CHAPTER CXXIV. 
S~ION 2. The su.mmons shall be subscribed by the plaintifff"
or Ins attorney. and directed to the defendant, and shall require 
him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy of his answer 011 
person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at a place
within the state to be therein specified, in which there is a post
office, within twenty days after the service of the summons,
exclusive of the day of service. 
3. The plaintifff shall also insert in the summons a 
notice in substance as follows:l I . . . ro l f 
. u an action ansmg on contract tor t ie recovery o money
only, that he will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if
the defendant fail to answer the complaint in twenty days after
the service of the summons. 2. In other actions, that if the 
defendant shall fail to answer the complaint within twenty days
after service of the summons, the plaintifff will apply to the court 
for the relief demanded in the complaint. 
SECTION 4. The summons or a copy thereof must be filed
with the clerk, before the same is issued, or within ten days
thereafter, and the state tax on the action must be paid at 
the time of filing such summons or copy, or the suit must be
dismissed. 
5. A copy of the complaint need not be served with
the summons; in such case the summons shall state where the 
complaint is or will be filed, and if the defendant, within twenty
days thereafter, in person or by attorney, demand in writing 
a copy of the complaint, specifying a place within the state
where it may be served, a copy of it shall he served within
twenty days thereafter accordingly ; and after such service, the 
defendant shall have twenty days to answer; but only one copy
need be served on the same attorney. In the case of a defend­ 
ant against whom no personal claim is made in an action, the 
plaintifff may deliver to such defendant, with a summons, a 
notice subscribed by the plaintifff or his attorney, setting forth
the general object of the action, a brief description of o.11 the
property affected by it, if it affect specific real or personal
property, and that no personal claim is made against such
defendant ; in which case no copy of the complaint need be
served on such defendant, unless within the term for answering,
he shall, in writing, demand the same. 
SECTION 6. If a defendant on whom such notice is served,
unreasonably defend the action, he shall pay costs to the 
plaintifff. 
7. In an action affecting the title to real property,
l I · · 
t ie plaintifff at the time of filing the comp amt, or at any time
afterward, may file with the register of deeds of each county in 
which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency or the
action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the
action, and a description of the property in that county affected
thereby ; and if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice must be filed twenty days before judgment, and 
must contain the date of the mortgage, the parties thereto, and 
the time and place of recording the same ; from t110 time !Jf 
filing only shall the pendency of the action be construreive
notice to a purchaser or incumhrancer of the property o.fected 
ili~~- . 
8. The summons may be served by· the sleriiF of
ti 
the county where the defendant may be found, or by &JY o ier 
person not a party to the action. The service shall be made,
and the summons returned, with proof of the service to the
person whose name is subscribed thereto, with all reasonable
diligence. The person subscribing the summons may at his
option, by an indorsement on the summons, fix a time for the
service thereof, and the service then shall be made accordingly. 
SFCTIO~ 9. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof as follows : 1. If the action be against a minor under the 
age of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his
father, mother, or guardian, or if there be none within the state, 
then to any person having the care and control of such minor,
or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be
employed. 2. If against o. person judicially declared to be of
unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs in
consequence of habitual drunkenness, and for whom a guardian
or committee has been appointed, to such guardian or committee, and to the defendant personally. 3. In all other cases,
to the defendant personally, or if not found, by leaving a copy
thereof at his usual place of abode, in presence of some one of
the family of suitable age and discretion, who shall be informed
of the contents thereof. 
SECTIO!ll 10. When the person on whom the service of the
summons is to be made cannot after due diligence be found 
within the state, and that fact shall appear by affidavit to the
satisfaction of a court, or a judge thereof, or a county judge, or
court commissioner, and it shall in like manner appear that a 
cause of action exists against the defendant in respect to whom
the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper
party to an action relating to real property in this state, such
court or judge may grant an order that the service be made
by the publication of a. summons, in either of the following
cases :- 
1. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has
property within this state, or the cause of action arose therein. 
2. When the defendant, being a resident of this state, has
departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors, or avoid
the service of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein
with the like intent. 
8. When ho is a non-resident or his residence is unknown, but
has property therein, and the action is on contract, and the court
has jurisdiction of the subject of the action. 
4. When the subject of tho action is real or personal property
in this state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest;
actual "Or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists
wholly or partially in excluding the defendant from any interest
or lien therein. 
5. When the action is for divorce in the cases provided by law.
The order shall direct the publication to be made in one news­ 
paper to be designated as most likely to give notice to tho person
to be served, and for' such length of time as shall be deemed
reasonable, not less than once a week for six weeks; in case of
publication the court or judge shall also direct a copy of tho
summons and complaint, or in lieu of the complaint, a notice
setting forth the object of the action, as provided in section five 
of this chapter, to be forthwith deposited in the post office,
directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence,
unless it appears that such residence is neither known to the
party making the application, nor can with reasonable diligence
be ascertained by him. When the publication is ordered, per­
sonal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, or notice
of the object of the action, out of the state, shall be equivalent to
publication and deposit in the post office. If the summons shall
not be personally served on a defendant, nor received by such
defendant through the post office, in the cases provided for in
this section, he or his representative shall, on application and
sufficient cause shown, at any time before judgment, be allowed 
to defend the action ; and except in actions for divorce the
defendant or his representative may, in like manner, upon good
cause shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, at any time
within one year after notice thereof, and within three years after 
its rendition, on such terms as shall be just, except in actions for
divorce; and if the defense be successful, and the judgment or
any part thereof shall have been collected or otherwise enforced,
such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall
direct, and the court may require bonds to be given for such
restitution, before execution is issued, as is uow required by law,
but the title to property sold under such judgment to a pur­
chaser in good faith, shall not thereby be affected; and in all
cases where publication is made, the complaint shall be first filed,
and the summons published shall state the place of such filing. 
SECTION 11. When the action is against two or more defend-}
d l · d b 11 
ants, an t ie summons is serve on one or more, ut not on a
of them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:- 
1. If the action be against several persons jointly indebted
upon a contract, he may proceed against the defendant served,
unless the court shall otherwise direct, and if he recover judg­
ment, it may be entered in form against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and if they are subject to arrest, against 
the persons of the defendants served. 
2. In an action against defendants severally liable, he may
proceed against the defendant or defendants served, in the same.
manner as if such defendant or defendants were the only parties
proceeded against. 
3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be
taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintifff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defend­
ants if the action had been against them or any of them alone. 
12. In the cases mentioned in section ten, the service
of the summons shall be deemed complete at the expiration of 
• • d b h d fi bl" ·
the time prescribe y t e or er or pu ication. 
SF.CTION 13. Proof of the service of the summons and of
complaint, or notice, if any, accompanying the same, shall be as
follows:- 
1. If served by the sheriff, his certificate thereof; or,2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer or his 
foreman or principal clerk, showing the same, and an affidavit of 
a deposit of a copy of the summons in the post office, as required
by law, if the same shall have been deposited; or,- 
4. The written admission of the defendant: in case of service
otherwise than by publication, the certificate or affidavit shall 
state the time and manner of service. 
SECTION 14. From the time of the service of the summons in
a civil action, or the allowance of a provisional remedy, the court
shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance
of a defendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons
upon him. 
OF PLEA.DINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
SECTION 1. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing are 
abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleading in civil actions in
courts of record, and the rules by which the sufficiency of the 
pleadings arc determined, are those prescribed by this chapter. 
SECTIOS 2. The first pleading on the part of the plaintifff is
the complaint. 
s
3
Tl l
. l ll . 
ECTIOS • 1e comp amt s 1a contain :1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in 
which the action is brought, the name of the county in which the
plaintifff desires the trial to be had, and the names of the parties
to tho action, plaintifff and defendant. 
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a 
cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.
8. A demand of the relief to which the plaintifff supposes him­ 
self entitled ; if the recovery of money be demanded, the amount
thereof shall be stated. 
SECTIO~ 4. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is
either a demurrer or an answer. It must be served within 
.zwenty days after the service of the copy of the complaint. 
• SECTION 5. The defendant may demur to the complaint when
it shall appear upon the face thereof, either- 
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the
defendant or the subject of the action; or- 
2. That the plaintifff has not legal capacity to sue; or3. That there is another action pending between the same par­ 
ties for the same cause ; or4. Th.at there is a defect of parties, plaintifff or defendant 
or5. That several causes of action have been improperly 
united; or6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to consti­ 
tute a cause of action. 
CHAPTER CXXV. 
SECTIO:"f 6. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds
of objection to the complaint; unless it do so it may be disre- 
garded. It may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of
the alleged causes of action stated therein. 
7. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof must
be .served 011 the defendant, who must answer it within twenty 
days, or the plaintifff upon filing with the clerk due proof of the
service, and of the defendant's omission, may proceed to obtain 
judgment as provided by section twenty-seven of chapter one
hundred and thirty-two of the revised statutes; but when an
application to tho court for judgment is necessary, eight days'
notice thereof must be given to the defeudant, 
8. When any of the matters enumerated in .section
five of this chapter do not appear upon the face of the complaint, 
the objection may be taken by answer. 
SECTION 9. If no oijcction be taken either. by. demurrer or
answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, 
excepting only tho objection to tho jurisdiction of the court, and
the objection that the complainant does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. · 
SECTION 10. The answer of the defendant must contain :- 
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of
the complaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowl­
edge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief. 
i. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense
or counterclaim, in ordinary and concise language, without
repetition. 
11. The counterclaim mentioned in the last section
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plain­ 
tiff, between whom a several judgment might he had in tho
action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action:- 
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the plaintifff's
claim, or connected with the subject of the action. 
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract and existing at the commencement of
the action. 
SECTION 12. The defendant may set forth by answer as many
defenses and counterclaims as he may have, whether they be
such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, o:r
both ; they must each be separately stated, and refer to the
causes of action which they arc intended to answer, in such
manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished. 
13. The defendant may demur to one or more of
several causes of action stated in the complaint, and answer tho 
residue. 
SECTION 14. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may
be stricken out, on motion, and upon such terms as the court 
may in their discretion impose.
15. When the answer contains new matter consti­ 
tuting a counterclaim, the plaintifff may within twenty days
reply to such new matter, denying generally or specifically each
allegation controverted by him, or any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief, and he may allege in ordinary
and concise language, any new matter not inconsistent with the 
complaint, constituting ·a defense to such new matters in tho
answer ; and the plaintifff may in all cases demur to the answer
when, upon its face, it does not constitute a counterclaim or
defense, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof, and the
plaintifff may demur to one or more of several defenses or counter claims set up in the answer, and reply to the residue of the
counterclaim. This section shall not be construed to permit
the plaintifff to reply a separate cause of action which he might
have inserted in his complaint. 
SECTION 16. If the answer contain a statement of new matter
constituting a counterclaim, and the plaintifff fail to reply 01' 
demur thereto within the time· prescribed by law, the defendant
may move, on a notice of not less than ten days, for such judg- 
ment as he is entitled to upon such statement, and if the case
require .it, a writ of inquiry of damages may be issued. 
SECTION 17. If a. reply of the plaintifff to any defense set up
by the answer of the defendant be insufficient, the defendant 
may demur thereto and shall state the grounds thereof. 
SECTION 18. Every pleading in a court of record, must be
subscribed by the party or his attorney, and must be filed with
the clerk of the court within the time fixed by law for serving 
• 
the same; and when any pleading is verified, every subsequent
pleading, except a. demurrer, must be verified also. 
SECTIO~ 19. The veriflcatiou must be to the effect that the
same is true to the knowledge of tho person making it, except 
as to those matters stated on information and belief, and as to
those matters he believes it to be true, and must be by the affi- 
davit of the party, or if there be several parties united in interest
and pleading together, by one at least of such parties acquainted
with the facts, if such party be within the county where the 
attorney resides, and capable of making the nffidavit, The o.ffidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action
or defense be founded upon a written instrument for the payment of money only, and suchinstrument be in the possession
of the agent or-attorney ; or if all the material allegations of tho
pleadings be within the personal knowledge of the agent or
attorney. When the pleading is verified by any other person
than the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit his knowledge, or
the grounds of his belief on the subject, and the reasons why it
is not made by the party. When a corporation is a party, the
verification may be made by any officer thereof. And when the
state or any officer thereof in its behalf is a party, tho verification may be made by any person acquainted with the facts, The
verification may be omitted when an admission of tho truth of
the allegations might subject the parties to prosecution for felony.
And no pleading can be used in a criminal prosecution against
the party as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleadings. 
SECTION 20. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth
in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he 
shall deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account, which, if the pleading
is verified, must be verified by his own oath, or that of his agent
or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of such agent or
attorney, to the effect that ho believes it to be true, or be pre- 
eluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge
thereof, or a county judge, may order a further account when
the one delivered is defective ; and the court may in all cases
order a bill of particulars of the claim of either party to Le 
furnished, 
SECTION 2.1. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose
of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally con- 
strued with a view to substantial justice between the parties. 
SECTION 22. If irrelevant and redundant matter be inserted
in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of any perrnn 
aggrieved thereby; and when the allegations of a pleading are
so indefinite or uncertain, that tlte precise nature of' the charge
or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading
to be made definite and certain by amendment. 
SECTIOX 23. In pleading a judgment or other determination 
or o. court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be neces­
sary to state the facts conferriug jurisdiction, but such judgment
or determination may be stated to ham been duly given or made. 
If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction. 
BECTIOS 24. In pleading the performance of conditions pre­
cedcnt in a contract, it shall uot be necessary to state the facts 
showing such performance, but it may be stated generally that
the party duly performed all the conditions on his part, and if 
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be
bound to establish 011 the trial the facts showing such perform­
ance. In an action or defense founded upon an instrument for 
the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for the party
to give a copy of the instrument, and to state that there is due
to him thereon, from the adverse party, a specified mm which
he claims. 
SECTION 25. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its
title and the day of its passage, and the court shall thereupon
take judicial notice thereof. 
SEcTIO:S 26. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the 
purpose of showing the application to the plaintifff of the defamatory matters out of which the came of action arose ; but it
shall be sufficient to state generally that the same was published
or spoken concerning the plaintifff, and if such allegation lie
controverted, the plaintifff shall be bound to establish on trial
that it was so published or spoken. 
SECTION 27. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the
defendant may in his answer allege both the truth of the matter 
charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to
reduce the amount of damages ; and whether he prove the
justification or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating
circumstances. ' 
SECTION 28. In an action to recover the possession of property 
distrnincd, doing damage, an answer that the defendant or
person by whose command he acted was lawfully possessed of 
the real property upon which the distress was made, and that
the pl'opcrty distraiued was at the time doing damage thereon, 
shall be good without setting forth the title to such real
property. 
SECTION 29. The plaintifff may unite in the same complaint
several ca.uses of action, whether they be such as have been 
" d · d gal · 
heretofore enominate le or equitable, or both, where they
arise out of- 
t. The same transaction or transactions connected with the
same subject. or action. 
2. Contract, express or implied. 
3. Injuries, with or without evidence, to person or property,
or either ; or- 
4. Injuries to character ; or- 
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages,
for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the
same; or- 
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages, for tho withholding thereof; or- . 
7. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a. contract, or by
operation oflaw. 
SECTION 30. But the causes of action so united must all
belong to one of theso classes, and must affect all the parties to
the action, and not require different places of trial, and must be 
stated respectively. 
SECTION 31. Every material allegation of the complaint, not
controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section ten of this
chapter, and every material allegation of new matter in the 
answer constituting a counterclaim, not controverted by the
reply, as prescribed in section fifteen of this chapter, shall, for
the purpose~ of the action, be taken as true. 
SECTIOY 32. But the allegation of new matter in the answer,
not relating to a counterclaim, or of new matter in a reply, is 
b d
d
. 
to e eeme controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct
denial or avoidance, as the case may require. 
SECTION 33. No variance between the allegation in a pleading
and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it shall actually 
mislead the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his
action or defense upon its merits. Whenever it shall be alleged
that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the
satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been misled,
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be amended
upon such terms as may be just. 
SECTION 3-l. When the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found in 
accordance with the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment without costs. 
SECTIO~ 35. When, however, the allegation of the cause of
action or defense to which tho proof is directed, is improved, 
not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within
tho last two sections, but a failure or proof. 
SECTION 36. .Any pleading may be once amended by the
party, of course, without costs and without prejudice to the pro- 
ceeding already had, at any time before the period for answering 
it expires, or it can be so amended at any time within twenty 
days after the service of the answer or demurrer to' such plead­
ings, unless it be made to appear to the court that it was done
for the purpose of delay, and the plaintifff or defendant will
thereby lose the benefit of a term or circuit for which it is or
may be noticed ; and if it appear to the court that such amend­
ment was made for that purpose, the same may be stricken out
and such terms imposed as to the court may seem just. In such
case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the
adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer, either at a
general or special term, the court may, in its discretion, 'if i\ 
appear that the demurrer was interposed in good faith, allow the 
party to plead on such . terms as may seem just. If tho
demurrer be allowed for the cause mentioned in the fifth subdi­ 
'Vision of section five of this chapter, the court may, in its dis­
cretion, and upon such terms as may be just, order the action to
be divided into as · many actions as may be necessary to the 
proper determination of the cause of action therein men tioncd. 
SECTION 87.' The court may before or after judgment, in fur­
therance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, 
amend any pleading or proceedings, by adding or striking out
the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake· in the name 
of -a party, or a mistake in- any other respect, or by inserting
other allegations material to the case, or when the amendment
does not change substantially the claim or defense, by conform­
ing the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. 
SECTION 38. The court may likewise in its discretion, and
upon such terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to bo 
made, or .other act to be done, after the time limited by this
chapter, or by an order enlarge such time; and may also in its
discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, at any time
within one year after notice thereof, relieve a party from a judg­
ment, order, or other proceeding against him, through his mis­
take, inadvertence, or surprise, or excusable neglect, and may
supply an omission in any proceedings ; and whenever any pro­
ceeding taken by a party fails to conform, in any respect, to the
provisions of law, the court may, in like manner and upon like
terms; permit an amendment of such proceedings so· as to· make 
it conformable thereto. 
SECTION 89. When the plaintifff shall be ignorant of the name
of· a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any plead­ 
ing or proceeding by any name, and when his true name shall
be· discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended
accordingly. 
SECTION 40. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disro­
gard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall 
not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party ; and no
judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such · error 
or defect. 
SECTION 41. The plaintifff and defendant, respectively, may
be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, an­ 
swcr, or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after
the former complaint, demurrer, reply, or of which the party
was ignorant when his former pleading was made. 
SECTION 42. When two or more actions are pending in the
same court, which might have been joined, the defendant may
move the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, to consolidate
such actions; and if no sufficient cause be shown against
it, such actions shall be consolidated. 
CHAPTER CXXVI. 
OF SET-OFFS Al\'1> TENDER. 
SECTION 1. In the following cases and under the following
circumstances, a defendant may set off demands which he has 
against the plaintifff:. 1. It must be a demand arising upon judgment or upon con- 
tract, express or implied, whether such contract be written or
unwritten, sealed or without a seal ; and if it be founded upon
a bond or other contract having a penalty, the sum equitably
due by virtue of its conditions only shall be set off. 
2. It must be due to him in his own right, either as being
the original creditor or payee, or as being the assignee and
owner of the demand. 
3. It must have existed at the time of the commencement of
the action, and must then have belonged to the defendant. 
4. It can be allowed only in actions founded upon demands
which could themselves be the subject-of set-off according to law. 
5. If the action be founded upon a contract, other than a
negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, which has been
assigned by the plaintifff, a demand existing against such plaintifff,
or any assignee or such contract, at the time of the assignment,
thereof, and belonging to the defendant in good faith, before·
notice of such assignment, may be set off to the amount of the
plaintifff's debt, if the demandbe such as might have been set off'
against such plaintifff, or such assignee, while the contract
belonged to him. 
6. IC action be upon a negotiable promissory note or bill or
exchange, which has been assigned to the plaintifff after it beoame 
due, a set-off to the amount of the plaintifff's debt may be made or
a demand existing against any person or persons who shall have
assigned or transferred such note or bill aftier it became due, if 
the demand be such as might have been set off against the
assignor while the note or bill belonged to him. . 
If the plaintifff be a trustee for any other, or a person
expressly authorized by statute to prosecute such action, so much
of ~ demand existing against those whom the plaintifff represents,
or for whose benefit the action is brought, may be set off, as will
satisfy the plaintifff's debt, if the same might have been set off in
an action by those beneficially interested. 
SECTION 2. If the amount of a set-off duly established, be
equal to the plaintifff's debt or demand, judgment shall be entered 
that the plaintifff take nothing by his action ; if it be less than
the pla.intiff's debt or demand, the plaintifff shall have judgment
for the residue only. 
SECTION 3. If there be found a balance due from the plaintifff
in the action to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered to the
defendant for the amount thereof; but 110 such judgment shall 
be rendered against the plaintifff for any balance due from any
other person. 
SECTION 4. In actions brought by executors and administra­
tors, demands existing against their testators or intestates, and
belonging to the defendant at the time of their death, may be
set off by the defendant, in the same manner as if the action had
been brought by and in the name of the deceased. 
SECTION 5. Whenever a set-off is established in an action
brought by executors or administrators, if judgment be rendered
against them, the judgment shall be against them in their repre- 
sentative character, and shall be evidence of a debt established
to be paid in the course of administration, but execution shall
not issue thereon, until directed by the judge of tho county
court who granted letters testamentary or of administration. 
SECTION 6. In actions against executors and administrators, 
d . d l d I 1 · . 
an against trustees an ot iers, sue m t ieir representative
character, the defendants may set off demands belonging to their
testators or intestates, or those whom thoy represent, in the
same manner as tho persons so represented would have been
entitled. to set off the same in an action against them. 
OF TENDER.
SECTION 7. The payment or tender of payment of the whole 
sum due on any contract for the payment of money, although
made after the money bas become due and payable, may be 
pleaded to an action subsequently brought, in like manner and
with the like effect as if such tender or payment had been
made at the time prescribed in the contract. 
SECTION 8~ Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person
from bringing any action for the breach of any covenant or 
other contract, instead of suing for the penalty by which the
performance of the covenant or contract may have been secured. 
SECTION 9. A tender may also be made after an action is
brought on such contract, of the whole sum due thereon, with 
the legal costs of suit incurred up to the time, provided it be 
made four days at least before the return day of the original
process. 
. SECTION 10. The tender last mentioned may be made either
to the plaintifff or to his attorney in the action, and if not 
accepted, the defendant may plead in like manner as if it had
boon made before the commencement of the action, bringing 
into court the money so tendered for costs as well as for debt or
damages. 
SECTION 11. If such tender is accepted, the plaintifff or bis
attorney shall, at the request of the defendant, sign a certificgte 
or notice thereof, to the officer who has the process, and sllall
deliver it to the defendant; and if any further costs shall be
incurred for any service made by the officer after the tender and
before he receives notice thereof, the defendant shall pay the 
same to the officer, or tho tender shall be invalid. 
SECTION 12. .A tender may also ho made in all cases or 
iuvoluutary trespass, before action is commenced; and when in
the opinion of the court or jury a sufficient amount was tendered 
to the party injured, his agent or attorney, for the trespass com·
plained of, judgment shall be entered against the plaintifff for
costs: provided, that the defendant kept his tender good, by
paying the money into court at the trial for tho use of the
plaintifff: 
CHAPTER cxxvn 
OF ARREST A...,"D BAIL. 
SrenoN 1. No person shall be arrested in a civil action
except as prescri.bed by this chapter, but this provision shall not 
apply to proceedmgs for contempt. 
SECTION 2. The defendant may be arrested as hereinafter
P
rescribed in the following cases ·- 
' • • 
1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of
action not arising out of contract, where tho defendant is not a
resident or the state, or is about to remove therefrom, or where
the action is for an injury to person or character, or for injuring,
or for wrongfully taking, detaining, or converting property. 
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money received,
or for property embezzled or fraudulently misapplied, by a pub­
lic officer, or by au attorney, solicitor, or counselor, or by au
officer or agent of a corporation or banking association, in the 
course of his employment as such, or by any factor, agent, bro­
ker, or any person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct
or neglect in office or in a professional employment. 
3. In an action to recover possession of personal property
unjustly detained, whore the property or any part thereof has
been concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it cannot be 
found or taken by the sheriff.
But no female shall he arrested in any action except for a 
willful injury to person,' character, or property.
Swrro~ 3. An order for the arrest of the defendant must be 
obtained from a judge of the court in which the action is brought,
or from a county judge or court commissioner. 
SECTION 4. The order may be made where it shall appear to
the judge or commissioner, by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or 
of any other person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and
that the case is one of those mentioned in section two of this
chapter. 
S~ON 5. Before making the order, the judge or commissioner shall require a written undertaking on the part of the
plaintifff', with or without sureties, to the effect that if the defend· 
ant recover judgment, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in
the undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred dollars. 
If the undertaking be executed by the plaintifff without sureties, 
thereto an affidavit that he is a resident and
householder or freeholder within the state, and worth double
the sum specified in the undertaking, above all his debts and
liabilities. 
6. The order may be made to accompany the sum­
mons, or at any time afterward before judgment. It shall
require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may be
found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a specified
sum, and to return the order at a time and place therein men­
tioned, to the plaintifff or attorney by whom it shall be subscribed
or indorsed. 
7. The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the sheriff;' who, upon arresting the defendant, shall 
d 1· l . h f
e iver to um a copy t ereo . 
SECTION . 8. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting
the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged by 
la.w, and may call the power of the county to his aid in• the
execution of the arrest, as in case of process. 
9. The defendant, at any time before execution,
shall be discharged from tho arrest, either upon giving bail or 
upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as
provided in this chapter. 
10. The defendant mo.y give bail by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more sufficient bail,
stating the places of residence and occupations, to the effect that
the defendant shall, at all times, render himself amenable to the
process of the court during the pendency of the action, and to
such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein; or if
ho be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third subdivision
of section two of this chapter, an undertaking to the same effect
as that provided by section six of chapter one hundred twenty­
eight of the revised statutes. 
SECTION 11. At any time before a failure to comply with their
undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant in their 
exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff of the
county where he was arrested, in the following manner:- 
1. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be
delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant in his
custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, and shall by -a cer­
tificate in writing acknowledge the surrender. 
2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking and
sheriff's certificate, a judge of the court, or county judge, or
court commissioner, may, upon a notice to tho plaintifff of eight
days with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exon­
erated ; and . on filing the order and the papers used on such
application, they shall be exonerated accordingly. 
But this section shall not apply to the arrest for the causes
mentioned in the third subdivision of section two of this chap­
ter, so as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the
effect provided by section six of chapter one hundred twenty­
eight of the revised statutes. 
12. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
tho bail, at any time or place before they are finally charged,
may themselves arrest him, or by a written authority indorsed 
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any person
of suitable age and discretion to do so. 
SECTION 13. Emry person surrendered in exoneration of his
bail, shall be kept in safe custody until he shall satisfy the judgment rendered against him, or be discharged according to law. 
. l . I ] d 
SECTION 14. In case of failure to comp y wit 1 t 10 un ertaking, tho bail may be proceeded against by action only. 
SF.CTION 15. The bail may be exonerated either by the death
of the defendant, or his imprisonment in the state prison, or by
his discharge from the obligation to render himself amenable to 
the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county where
he was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after
the commencement of the action against the bail, or within such
further time as may be granted by the court. 
SECTIO~ 16. Within the time limited for that purpose, tho
sheriff shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintifff or attor- 
ney by whom it is subscribed, with his return indorsed, and a
certified copy of the undertaking of the bail; the plaintifff within
ten days thereafter may serve upon the sheriff a notice that he
docs not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted
it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. 
SECTION 11. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or
defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintifff 
or attorney by whom the order of arrest is subscribed, notice of
justification of the same, or other bail, ( specifying the places of
residence and occupations of the latter,) before a judge of the
court, or county judge, or justice of the peace, at a specified time
and place ; the time to be not less than five nor more than ten
days thereafter. In case other bail be given, there shall be a 
new undertaking, in the· form prescribed in section ten of this
chapter. 
SECTION 18. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:1. Each of them must be a resident and householder or free. 
bolder within the state. ·
2. They must each b~ worth· the amount specified in the order 
of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution ; but a
judge ·or justice of the peace, on justification, may allow more
than two bail to justify severally in amounts less than that
expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equivalent to
that of two sufficient bail. 
SECTION 19. · For· the purpose: of justification, each of the bail
shall attend before the judge, or a justice of the peace, at the
time and place , mentioned in the notice, and may be examined
on oath, on the part of· the plaintifff, touching his sufficiency, in
such manner as the judge or justice of the peace in his discretion·
may think proper. The. examination shall be reduced to writing,
and subscribed bythe bail, if required ,by the plaintifff. 
SECTION -20. · · If too judge· or justice of the peace find the bail
sufficient, he shall annex the examination to-the ·undertaking~ 
indorse bis allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with
the court, and the sheriff shall thereupon be exonerated from
liability. 
SECTION 21. The defendant may, at the time of his -arrest,
instead of giving bail, deposite with the sheriff the amount men- 
tioned in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give the defend­
ant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be dis­
charged out of custody. 
SECTION 2.2. The sheriff shall, within four days after the
deposit, pay the same into court, and shall take from the officer 
receiving the same two certificates of payment, the one of which
he shall deliver to the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant.
For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings
ma.y be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the sum
deposited, as in other cases of delinquency. 
23. If money be deposited as provided in the last 
t t' b il b . d . ifi d .
wo sec ions, ai may e given an justi e upon notice, as pre- 
scribod in section seventeen of this chapter, any time before
judgment, and thereupon the judge before whom the satisfaction
is had shall direct, in the order of allowance, that the money
deposited be refunded by the sheriff to the defendant, and it
shall be refunded accordingly. 
SECTION 24. Where money shall have been so deposited, if it
remain 011 deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the 
payment of money to the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under the
direction of the court, apply the same iu satisfaction thereof, and
after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if any, to
the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, tho
clerk shall refund to him the whole sum deposited and remaining
unapplied, 
SECTION 25. If after being arrested the defendant escape or
be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not
made instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as bail.
But he may discharge himself from such liability by the giving
and justification of bail, as provided in sections seventeen,
eighteen, nineteen, and twenty of this chapter, at any time before
process against the person of the defendant to enforce an order
or judgment in the action. 
SECTION 26. If a judgment be recovered against a sheriff
upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned 
unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same proceedings may be
had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the delinquency,
as in other cases of delinquency. 
SECTION 27. The bail taken upon the arrest shall, unless they
justify or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff
by action for damages which he may sustain by reason of such
omission. 
SECTION 28. A defendant arrested may, at any time before
the justification of bail, apply on motion to vacate the order of 
arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail. 
SECTION 29. If the motion be made upon affidavit on the part
of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose tho
same by affidavit or other proof, in addition to those on which 
the order of arrest was made. 
CHAPTER cxxvm. 
OF CL.A.Ill AND DELIVERY OF PERSOXAL PROPERTY. 
SECTION 1. The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession 
or personal. propberfity, may at the1
1time1 
of. issuildi1~ thedsu1.mmonsf,
or at any time e ore answer, c a m t 10 imme ate e n·ery o 
such property, as provided in this chapter. 
SECTION 2. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be
made by the plaintifff, or by some one on his behalf, showing:- 
1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed, par­
ticularly describing it, or is lawfully entitled to the possession
thereof, by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in
respect to which shall be set forth. 
2. That the property is wrongf nlly detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his 
best knowledge, information, and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or 
fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or
attachment against the property of the plaintifff, or if so seized, 
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure; and5. The actual value of the property. 
SECTION 3. The plaintifff may, thereupon, by an indorsement
in writing upon the affidavit, require the sheriff of the county 
where the property claimed may be, to take the same from the
defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff. 
8ECTIO:S 4. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and notice, with
a written undertaking executed by one or more sufficient sure- 
tics approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit for the
prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to
him of such sum as may for any cause be recovered against tho
plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith take the property described in
the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defendant or his
agent, and retain it in his custody. He shall, also, without
delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice, and
undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can 
·b3 found, or his agent from whose possession the property is
tnken ; or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual
place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age and
discretion. 
SECTION 5. The defendant may, within three days after the
service of a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notice to 
the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If
he fails to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection 
to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify,
on notice, in like manner as upon hail on arrest. .And the
sheriff shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties
until the objection to them is either waived as above provided,
or until they justify, or new sureties shall be substituted and
justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as provided in tho next section. 
SECTION 6. At o.ny time before the delivery of the property 
to the plaintifff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintifff, require the return thereof upon giving 
to the sheriff a written undertaking executed by two or more
sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the 
value of the property as stated in tho affidavit of the plaintifff, for
the delivery thereof to the sheriff, if such delivery be adjudged,
and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause
he recovered against the defendant. If a return of the property
ho not so required within three days after the taking and service
of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintifff,
except as provided in section eleven of this chapter. 
7. The defendant's sureties, upon a notice to the
plain tiff of not less than two nor more than six days, shall jus­
tif y before a judge or justice of the peace, in the same manner
as upon bail on arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall
deliver the property to the defendant. The sheriff shall be re­
sponsible for the defendant's sureties until they justify, or until
justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain
the property until that time; but if they, or others in their place,
fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he shall deliver
the property to the plaintifff. 
8. The qualification of sureties and their justifica­
tion, shall he as prescribed by sections eighteen and nineteen of 
chapter one hundred twenty-seven of the revised statutes, iu
respect to bail upon an order of arrest. 
SECTION' 9. If the property or any part thereof be concealed in
a building or enclosure, the sheriff shall publicly demand its 
d 1· .f it r. t d 1· d I 1 11 1 L ·1d· 
e 1vcry; 1 1 ue no e rvere , 10 s la cause t ie m mg or
enclosure to be broken open, and take the property in to his 
possession ; and if necessary, he may call to his aid the power of
his county. 
SECTION 10. When the sheriff shall have taken property as in
this chapter provided, he shall keep it in. a secure place, and de­
liver it to the party entitled thereto upon receiving his lawful
fees for taking and his necessary expenses for keeping the
same. 
SECTION 11. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person shall
make affidavit of his title thereto, and right to the possession
thereof, stating the grounds of such right and title, and serve tho
same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep tho
property or deliver it to tho plaintifff, unless the plaintifff, on de­ 
mand of him or his agent, shall indemnify the sheriff against
such claim by an undertaking executed by two sufficient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits that they arc each worth double
the value of the property as specified in the affidavit of the plain­
tiff, and freeholders and householders of the county; and no
claim to such property by any other person than the defendant
or his agent, shall be valid against the sheriff unless made as
aforesaid; and notwithstanding such claim when so made, he
may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such in- 
demnity. 
SECTION 12. Tho sheriff shall file the notice and affidavit, with
\roceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the 
action is pending, within twenty days after taking the property
mentioned therein. 
OF L~JUNCTIONS AND WRITS OF NE EXE.AT, ..L~D OF RECEIVERS. 
SECTIO~ 1. The writ of injunction is abolished. The injnnction provided by law is a command to refrain from a particular 
act. It may be the final judgment in an action, or may be allowed
as a provisional remedy; and when so allowed it shall be by
order in the form prescribed b'y this chapter. The order may be
made by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge
thereof, or by a county judge, or court commissioner, in the cases
provided in the next section ; and when made may be enforced 
as the order of the court. 
CHAPTER CXXIX. 
SECTIO'.'i 2. Where it shall appear by the complaint that the
plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief or 
any part thereof consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which, 
<luring tho litigation, would produce injury to the plaintifff; or
when, during tho litigation, it shall appear that the defendant
is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring or suffering some act to be done in violation of the plaintifff's rights,
respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the
judgment ineffcotualv--« temporary injunction may be granted to
restrain such act. And when; during the pcndency of an
action, it shall appear by affidavit that the defendant threatens
or is about to remove or dispose of his property, with intent to
defraud his creditors, a temporary injunction may be granted,
to restrain such removal or disposition. 
SECTION 3. Tho injunction may be granted at the time of
commencing the action, or at any time afterward before judgmmt, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, or
court commissioner, by the affidavit of the plaintifff or any other
person, that sufficient grounds exist therefore. A copy of tho 
uffilavit must be served with the injunction. 
SECTION 4. An injunction shall not be allowed after the
defendant shall have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an 
order to show cause ; but in such case the defendant may be 
restrained, until tho decision of the court or judge, granting or
refusing the injunction. 
SECTION 5. Where no provision is made by statute as to
security upon an injunction the court or judge or commis- 
' ' ' 
sioner, shall require a. written undertaking, on the part of tho
plaintifff, with or without securities, to the effect that the plain- 
tiff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceeding
an amount to be specified, as he may sustain by reason of
the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintifff
was not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained l·y
a reference or otherwise, as the court shall direct. 
SEC'TJON 6. If the court, or judge, or commissioner, deem it 
-proper that the defendant or any of several defendants should
be heard before granting the injunction, an order may be made, 
• • b h if d . d 1
reqmrmg cause to e s own, at a speer e time an p ace, why 
the injunction should not be granted; and the defendant may,
in the mean time, be restrained. 
SECTION 7. An injunction to suspend the general and ordi­
nary business of. a corporation, shall not be granted except by
the court or judge thereof; nor shall it be granted without due
notice of the application therefore to the proper officers of the
corporation, except where the people of this state are a party to
the proceedings, unless the plaintifff shall give a written under­
taking, executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the court or judge, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all
damages, not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the under­
taking, which such corporations may sustain by reason of the
iiijunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was
not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained Ly a
reference or otherwise, as the court shall direct. 
8. If the injunction be granted by a judge of the
court, or by a county judge or court commissioner, without 
notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply
upon notice, to the judge of the court in which the action is
brought, to vacate or modify the same. The application may be
made upon the complaint and the affidavit on which the injunc­
tion was granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the defendant,
with or without the answer. 
SECTION 9. If the application be made upon affidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those on
which the injunction was granted. 
SECTION 10. The circuit court, or any judge thereof, in vacation, may grant writs of ne exeat to prevent any person from 
going out of the state until he shall give security. 
SECTION 11. No writ of ne exeat shall be granted, unless it
satisfactorily appears to the court or judge, by the affidavit of
the plaintifff, or some indifferent witness, that sufficient grounds
exist therefore; and the court or judge granting such writ, shall
direct to be indorsed thereon the penalty of the bond and secur­
ity to be given by the defendant. It may be granted at the
time of commencing the action, or at any time afterward, before 
Judgment. 
SECTION 12. If the defendant shall, by answer or otherwise,
satisfy the court or judge granting such writ of ne exeat, that
there is no reason for his restraint, or shall give security for the 
performance of whatever judgment may be made in the premises,
the writ may be discharged. 
OF RECEIVERS.
SECTION 13. A receiver may be appointed:- 
1. Before judgment, on the application of either party, when
)1e establishes an apparent right to property which is the subject 
of,the action, and which is in tho possession of an adverse party, 
and the property, or its rents and profits, are in danger of being
lost, or materially injured or impaired. · 
2 . After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
3. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the 
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal
or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the 
judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of
the judgment. 
4. In the cases provided in this chapter, and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its cor­
porate rights. 
5. In such cases as are now provided by law, or may be in
accordance with the cxistiugepractice, except as otherwise pro­
vided in this chapter. 
SECTIO~ 14. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or under his 
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which,
being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for
another party, or which belongs or is due to another party, tho
court may order the same to be deposited in the court, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to tho
further direction of the court. 
8ECTIO~ 15. Whenever in tho exercise of its authority, a
court shall have ordered the deposit, delivery, or conveyance of 
d
d
. di 
money or other property, an the or er is isobeyed, the court,
besides punishing tho disobedience as for contempt may make 
o ' 
an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or property,
and doposite, deliver, or convey it in conformity with the direc- 
. l . l l b .
tion of the court, or t ie court may pass ti t e to rea estate y its 
judgment, without conveyance, in like 'manner as may now be
done by decree. 
SECTION 16. When the answer of the defendant expressly,
or by not denying, admits part of the plaintifff's claim to be just, 
the court 011 motion may order such defendant to satisfy that
part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a 
provisional remedy. 
Chapter 80, Acts of a general nature. of 1858. 
SECTIO~ 1. In all cases where, at the time of the passage of
this act, any railroad company in this state shall have taken or 
appropriated, or where any such company shall take and appropriate, for right of way, depot grounds, or for the use of such 
company in any manner whatever, any lands or real estate
owned by or belonging to any person resident in this state, and 
for which such person is or may be entitled to compensation
from such railroad company, and such company shall have failed,
neglected, or refused for the space of six months after having
taken or appropriated the same, by making and the laying of its
track thereon, to make and pay such compensation to the person
entitled thereto, the person so entitled may, by writ of injunction or injunctional order, enjoin and restrain such railroad company, its officers and agents, and all persons claiming under such
company, from running cars or locomotives over the land or 
real estate so taken or appropriated, and from using such land
or real estate for the purposes of said railroad company, in any
manner whatever, until compensation, together with the costs
and all reasonable charges of the injunction and the proceedings
therein, shall be fully paid over to the person entitled thereto. 
2. Upon the filing, in any court of competent juris~iction,. the co1:11plain_t of any pcrs_on enti!lcd to s1~ch compensa­ 
tion as is mentioned m the preccdmg section of tins act, verified
by tho oath of such person or his agent, the writ of injunction 
or injunctional order therein specified, shall be issued, served,
returned, and enforced, in all respects, according to the laws and
practice of the courts of this state. 
Approved May 10th, 1858. 
• 
CHAPTER CXXX. 
OF PROCEEDrnGS AGAINST DEBTORS BY ATTACHMENT.
SECTION 1. Any creditor shall be entitled to proceed by 
attachment in the circuit court for the proper county, against
the property of his debtor, in tho cases, upou the conditions, and 
in the manner prescribed in this chapter.
2. Before any attachment shall be issued, the plain­ 
tiff, OffirdsO~le per~Oll in} his b} ehadlffi, s}diall make adn~ annex thcret1o
an a ant, stating t iat t ie e en ant name m such attac 1- 
ment is indebted to the plaintifff, and specifying the amount of
such indebtedness, as near as may be, over and above all legal 
set-offs, and that the satne is due upon contract, express or im­
plied, or upon judgment or decree, and containing a further
statement that the deponent knows, or has good reason to believe,
either- 
1. That the defendant has absconded, or is about to abscond,
from this state, or is concealed therein to the injury of his cred­
itors; or- 
2. That the defendant has assigned, disposed of, or concealed,
or is about to assign, dispose of; or conceal, any of his property,
with intent to defraud his creditors; or- . 
3. That the defendant has removed, or is about to remove,
any of his property out of this state, with intent to defraud his
creditors; or- 
4. That the defendant fraudulently contracted the debt, or
incurred the obligation, respecting which the action is brought; 
or5. That the defendant is not a resident of this state ;, or6. That the defendant is a foreign corporation ; or7. That the defendant has fraudulently conveyed or disposed 
of his property, or a. part of it, with intent to defraud his cred­
itors. 
The attachment and affidavit mentioned in this section, shall 
be annexed to the summons in the action, unless tho same shall
have been filed before the attachment is issued. 
SECTION 3. No attachment shall be issued under the provisions of this chapter, unless the amount stated in such affidavit 
as duo to the plaintifff, over and above all legal set-offs, shall
exceed tho sum of fifty dollars. 
SECTION 4. The attachment shall be directed to the sheriff, or
other proper officer, of the county in which the property of the
defendant may be, and shall require him to attach and safely 
keep all tho property of such defendant within his county, or so
much thereof as may be sufficient to satisfy the plaintifff's demand, together with costs and expenses. 
SECTION 5. Before the attachment shall be executed, a written
undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufficient surety, 
shall be delivered to the officer having the attachment, to the
effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintifff shall
pay all costs that may he awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of tho attachment, not
exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which sum shall
not be less than two hundred and fifty dollars. The surety shall
justify his responsibility, by affidavit indorscd on such under- 
taking, or annexed thereto, stating that he is worth tho sum
specified in the undertaking, over and above all debts and exemptions. 
~ECTION 6. In case the defendant is not satisfied with the
sufficiency of the sureties, or tho amount specified in such under- 
taking, he may, at any time before judgment, apply to a judge or
court commissioner, for an order requiring the plaintifff to give 
additional surety, notice of which application shall be given to
the plaintifff not less than four days before the same is made ; and
tho judge or commissioner may by order require the plaintifff to 
give another undertaking, iu such sum as tho said judge or com­
missioner may deem proper, but not to exceed tho value of the
property attached, as appears from the appraisement. The
surety in such undertaking shall justify his responsibility by
affidavit indorscd on such undertaking, or annexed thereto,
stating that he is worth the sum specified in such undertaking,
over and above all debts and exemptions. But if there is more
than one surety, it shall be sufficient if it appear that they are
jointly worth such sum over and above all debts and exemptions. 
8ECTION 7. The plaintifff shall, within three days after the
date of such order, file such undertaking with the clerk of the 
proper court; and in case of his failure to do so, the sheriff,
' 1 · f if d f 1 d ' l 
upon presentation to nm o _ a certi re copy. o sue 1 or er, wit 1 
a certificate of the clerk that the undertaking therein required
to bo executed had not been filed in his office, shall release the
property attached, and deliver the same to the defendant. 
SECTION 8. The officer to whom such undertaking is delivercd, shall, within twenty days thereafter, file the same in the 
office of the clerk of the proper county ; no action shall be
maintained on such undertaking until after the final judgment
in the attachment suit, unless the same shall be dismissed or
discontinued. 
SECTION 9. The officer having the attachment shall execute
th 
· 1 d l b · · 1 f 1 f 
e same wit rout e ay, y scizrug so muc 1 o t ie property o 
defendant, when the same can be found in his county, as
will be sufficient to satisfy the demand of the plaintifff, with 
costs and expenses and by making an inventory thereof· he 
l 11 ll ' l d b l . r. • d b ' . 
s ia cause a property attac ie y um to ue appraise y two
disinterested freeholders of the county, who shall be first sworn by
him to make a true appraisement thereof, which appraiscmcnt 
shall be signed by the appraisers, and the appraisemcnt and
inventory shall be returned with the attachment; he shall serve
o. copy of the attachment, inventory, and affidavit upon tho
defendant, if he can be found in the county. 
10. The officer shall keep the property seized by
him, and the proceeds of such as shall have been sold, to answer 
any judgment which may be maintained in such action ; and
shall, subject to the direction of the court or judge, collect and 
receive into his possession all debts, credits, and effects of the
defendant. The sheriff may also take such legal proceedings,
either in his own name, or in the name of such defendant, as
may be necessary for that purpose, and discontinue the same at
such times and on such terms as the court or judge may direct. 
SECTION 11. When any property taken on attachment, or
received by the sheriff from any garnishee, shall be perishable, 
the court, or a judge, or court commissioner, may make an order
directing such property to be sold, and the money arising
from such sale to be held hy the sheriff subject to the order of'
the court. 
· SECTION 12. Tho right or 'shares which such defendants may
have in the stock of anv association or corporation together 
• , J , 
with the interest and profits thereon, and all the property in
this state of such defendant, shall be liable to be attached and
levied upon, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execution. 
SECTION 13. The execution of the attachment upon any such
rights, shares, or any debts or other property incapable of man­
ual delivery to the sheriff, shall be made by leaving a certified
copy of tho attachment, with the president or other head of the
association or corporation, or tho secretary, cashier, or managing
agent thereof, or with the debtor or individual holding such
property, with a notice showing the property levied on. 
SECTION 14. Whenever the sheriff shall, with an attachment
or execution against the defendant, apply to such officer, debtor, 
or individual for the purpose of attaching or levying upon such
property, such officer, debtor, or individual shall furnish him 
with a certificate under his hand, designating the number of
rights or shares of the defendant in the stock of such associa­
tion or corporation, with any dividend or any encumbrance
thereon, or the amount and description of the property held by
such association, corporation, or individual for the benefit of,
or debt owing to, the defendant. If such officer, debtor, or indi­
vidual refuse to do so, he may ho required by the court or
judge, to attend before him and be examined on oath concern­
ing the same, and obedience to such order may be enforced by
attachment. 
15. Alias attachments in the same action may be
issued to the sheriffs or different counties at any time before 
• d d . l f l ffid . d 
JU gment, au m sue 1 case a copy o t re a ant annexe to 
the first attachment shall be annexed to such other attachment;
such alias attachments shall be executed and returned in the
same manner as the original attachment. • 
8ECTIO:'i 16. In attaching real estate, or any right or interest
in land it shall not Le necessary that the officer should enter upon 
, 
the land, or be within view of it. 
SECTION' 17. Such attachment shall bind the goods and chattel · so attached from the time they were attached 
~ · ' ' • 
SECTIO~ 18. Real estate shall be bound, and the attachment
shall be a lieu thereon, from the time when it was attached, if a 
. ~ d f 1 l . 1 d . . f I 1
eertitic copy o tie attae uncut, wit 1 a escription o sue 1 rca 
estate, shall be deposited in the office of the register of deeds
in the county where the same is situated, within three days
after such real estate was attached; otherwise such attachment
shall he a lien thereon only from the time when such certified
copy shall be so deposited. 
SECTIO~ 19. Each register of deeds shall note on every such
certified copy the day hour and minute when he receives it 
, , , , 
and shall also enter in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, the names of the parties in such writ, designating who is
plaintifff and who defendant, the time when the laud was
attached, and the time when such copy was deposited. 
SECTIO:S 20. The register of deeds shall be entitled to a fee
of twenty-five cents for his services in each case, to be paid on 
the delivery of such copy ; and the appraisers of the property
attached pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall each
be entitled to receive one dollar for each day, and fifty cents for
each half day, necessarily occupied by him in the appraisal, and
six cents per mile for traveling one way, to be paid on the rendition of the services ; which fees and compensation may be
taxed for the plain tiff in his bill of costs. 
SECTION 21. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in
1 
· J • b r • d I · d 1· 
t ie action, ie may, at any time eiore JU gment t ierem, e iver 
to the officer having the attachment, an undertaking executed
b 
I
. id d f l Id . id 
y at cast two sureties, resi cuts an rce 10 ers m sai county,
to be approved by said officer, to the effect that the parties exe­ 
cuting such undertaking will, on demand, pay to the plaintifff the
amount of the judgment that may be recovered in the action,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall
be at least double the amount alleged to be due in the afflduvit
upon which the attachment is issued. Before the officer shall
appron, of the undertaking, at least one of the parties 'signing
the same as surety, shall make an affida vit that he is· worth tho
sum specified therein, over and above all debts, liabilities, and
exemptions, which affidavit shall be indorsed upon such under
taking as annexed thereto. 
SECTIO~ 22. Upon the execution and delivery of such undertakinc all the property attached or received from auv garnishee 
n, .1 .J ' , 
shall be delivered up by the officer to the person entitled thereto,
and the suit shall thereafter be conducted as if 110 attachment 
had been issued: provided, that if the plaintifff recover in the
action, all costs and disbursements in executing the attachment
or in proceedings against any garnishee, shall be taxed by the
clerk as disbursements in tho action. In case the plaintifff re· 
covers judgment in the action, he shall be entitled .to prosecute
a suit upon such undertaking, and he shall be entitled to recover
the amount of the judgment against tlie defendant in the attach- 
-ment, with interest and costs. 
SECTION' 23. In all actions commenced under the provisions
of this chapter, it shall be competent for the defendant, by au­ 
swer verified by his affidavit, to deny the existence, at the
time of the making of the affidavit required to be annexed to the 
attachment, of the material facts stated therein, whether such
facts be stated upon the knowledge or belief of the deponent or
otherwise. 
SECTION 24. The affirmative of such issue, raised by said
answer of defendant, shall be upon the plaintifff in the attach­
ment, and it shall be incumbent upon the said plaintifff to prom 
the statement of facts eo traversed, and the trial of such issue
shall be by the court in all cases. 
2~. The traverse of the statement contained in the
plaintifff's affidavit may be made at any time before the expira­ 
tion of the time for the defendant to answer the complaint in the
action, except in cases where the attachment is issued after the
service of the summons, and in such cases, the defendant shall
traverse the affidavit within ten days after notice that such
attachment has been issued: provided, hmoeoer, that the defend­
ant shall not be permitted to traverse the affidavit, after judg­
ment against him in the action. 
SECTION 26. If the court shall find for the defendant on the
issue joined on the affidavit, the judge shall tax the defendant's 
d l d 11 b
costs of such trial, an t 10 property attaehe sha e delivered 
up to the defendant; and the costs as taxed, and the damages
sustained by the defendant, by reason of the taking and deten­ 
ti1on11obf the propderbty a1tta~hed, Or fihor an.y1inJf'ur1y to sn.ch propdert1y, 
s ia e assesse y t ie Jury on t c tria o t ie action, an t re 
same shall be allowed and applied by the jury as an offset to the
plaintifff's demand; and if the jury find the damages exceed tho 
amount of the plaintifff's demand, they shall render a verdict
for tho defendant for such excess, and judgment shall thereupon
be rondorod in favor of such defendant. If the court shall tind
for the plaintifff on the trial of such issue, the judge shall tax
the plaintifff's costs, and in case the plaintifff recover judgment
in the action, the costs so taxed shall be considered as disburse­
ments in the action; but if the defendant recovers judgment,
the same shall be applied toward the payment of the defendant's
costs in the action. 
SECTIO~ 27. If on the trial of the action the jury find for
tho defendant thev shall assess the damages sustained by him 
' J • • ' 
by reason of the taking, detention, or sale of any property attached, or by reason of any injury thereto, and the court shall 
render judgment thereon in favor of tho defendant. 
SECTIO~ 28. If the action be dismissed or discontinued, the
court upon the request of the defendant may empannel a jury 
' ' ' 
which shall proceed to assess the damages sustained by the
defendant by reason of the attachment, and the court shall
render judgment thereon in favor of such defendant. 
SECTio~ 29. In all cases where the defendant shall be entitled 
to a. judgment under the provisions of this chapter, the property
in the hands of the officer shall be released and delivered up to 
the defendant, and he shall recover the damages sustained by
him, by reason of the taking and detention of the property attached, and for the sale or loss of any portion thereof, or any
injury thereto. 
SECTION 30. After judgment in favor of the defendant in any
or either of the cases specified in this chapter, execution may 
· h · } h 1 ,
issue t ereon as in ot ter cases; . e may a so commence an action 
on the plaintifff's undertaking, for the recovery of such judgment. . 
SECTION 31. 'In case the property attached shall have been
released and delivered up by the officer in pursuance of section 
nineteen (twenty-two) of this chapter, the plaintifff, at any time
after judgment iu his favor, may cause an execution to be issued 
thereon, and he may also commence an action on the underki d · 1 ' l 1 11 b ' 1 d h 
ta mg, an m sue 1 action 1e s ia e entit e to recover t e
amount of such judgment, with interest and costs~ 
SECTION 32. .After an attachment shall be executed or discharged, the officer shall return the same, with his proceedings 
h h
b
1
. d 
t ereon, to t e attorney y w iom the same was Issue . 
SECTION 33. If any defendant not served with a copy of the
attachment and summons, shall appear at any time before judg- 
meut, he may be admitted by the court to defe11d the action,
h
t 1
d
bl
upon sue erms as sue 1 court may eem reasona e. 
SECTION 34. If the plain tiff, or some one in his behalf, shall
make an affidavit stating he verily believes that. any person 
(
. 1 . ) h di ff . l . l d 
nammg um as property, ere its, or e ects m us ian s or
possession belonging to the defendant, or is indebted to the 
defendant, or that such person has property in his hands or
possession belonging to either or any of the defendants, or that
lie is indebted to either or any of defendants, in cases where
there is more than one defendant, and shall deliver such affidavit
to the officer having the attachment, if such officer cannot attach
the property and get tho possession thereof, he shall serve such
affidavit upon such person or persons, by giving him or them a
copy thereof, with a written notice to appear before a judge or a
court commissioner, on some day to be specified in such notice,
not less than six nor more than twenty days from the time of
such service, to answer, under oath, all such questions as shall
be put him touching his liability as garnishee of the defendant
in the attachment. 
SECTION 35. From the day of such service, the person so
notified as garnishee shall stand liable to such plaintifff in attach- 
ment, to the amount of -the property, inoneys, aud credits in
his hands, and debts due or to become due from him to said 
defendant, and shall attend before the judge or commissioner in
accordance with said notice, and answer under oath all questions
put to him touching tho property, credits, and effects of the
defendant in said garnishee's possession, or within his knowledge,
and as to all debts due or to become due from him to the
defendant. 
SECTION 36. In cases where the garnishee is notified to appear
before a circuit judge, if he does not appear pursuant to notice, 
judge may compel his appearance by attachment, and may
punish him for neglecting or refusing to appear, by fine or 
imprisonment; and if appearing, he shall neglect or refuse to
ll · d d l 
answer a proper questions propoun e to rim, or to obey any
order of said judge, he may be punished by fine or imprison­
ment in the discretion of the judge; and the court may also
render judgment against him for the amount of the plaintifff's
demand, when the same shall be ascertained. 
SECTIO~ 87. In cases where the garnishee is notified to
appear before a county judge or court commissioner, if' he docs 
not appear pursuant to notice, such judge or court commissioner
may compel his appearance by attachment, ai'id the judge or
commissioner shall report to the circuit court that such garnishee
failed to appear pursuant to notice, and that he was so attached,
and the court may punish said garnishee by fine or imprisonment,
or by both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the
court; and if any person, on his examination before such county
judge or court commissioner, shall refuse to answer all proper
questions propounded to him, or to obey any order of such
county judge or court commissioner, such judge or court com­
missioner shall report the same to the circuit court, and the
court may punish such garnishee by fine or imprisonment, or by 
both such flue and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court;
and the court may also render a judgment against such garuishco
for the amount of the plaintifff's demand, when the same shall be
ascertained. 
SECTION 38. In case the officer having the attachment against
the garnishee in the case specified in the last two sections is 
• , • '· 
unable to arrest the garnishee on such attachment, the plaintifff,
after judgment in his favor in the attachment suit, shall ho 
entitled to a judgment against the garnishee for a sum not
exceeding the damages and costs against the defendant in the
attachment. 
39. If the garnishee shall fail to appear and answer
at the time and place specified in the notice ser~ed upon him, l.10 
may afterward appear and answer before the Judge or comrms­
sioner named in such notice, at any time before final judgment
against him, by giving to the plaintifff a notice of at least six and
not more than ten days, of the time when he will so appear and
answer: provided, that such judge or commissioner, before taking
his answer, may, at his discretion, require him to pay all costs
that ham accrued in the garnishee suit, up to the time such
notice is given. 
SECTION 40. It shall be the duty of the judge or commis­
sioncr before whom any person shall be examined as garnishee, 
d l f l · 1 · · d
to re uce t ie answer o t ie garnis iee to writing, an to cause 
the same to be subscribed by such garnishee, and to file such
answer in the office of the clerk of the court where the action is 
pending.
41. If it appear from the answer of the garnishee 
that he was indebted to the defendants, or either of them, or 
• • • J d fi d
that he had property in Ins hands belongmg tot 1e e en ants, or 
either of them, at the time he was notified to appear and answer,
he shall forthwith deliver such property or pay the amount of 
his indebtedness to the sheriff or other proper officer, who shall
hold and dispose of the same in the manner provided in section 
ten of this chapter, or in such other manner as the court shall
direct. 
SECTION 42. In case the garnishee pays over the money due
f 
I
· h d ~ d d Ii h · · hi h d 
rom um to t e eren ant, or e ivers t e property m ts au s
belonging to tho defendant, in the manner provided for in tho 
last section, he shall be no longer liable therefore to the defendant, and such payment or delivery shall be a bar to any action 
that may be brought against him by the defendant or his
assignee to recover tho same. 
SECTION 43. If the garnishee shall neglect to deliver over
any property in his hands, or to pay over any money due from 
him to the defendant, in the cases mentioned in section forty-one
of this chapter, tho court, after judgment against the defendant 
in the attachment, may render judgment against the garnishee
for the amount of his indebtedness to the defendant, or for the
value of such property, but the damages in such judgment shall
not exceed the damages and costs in the attachment suit ; or the
court, in its discretion, at any time after the garnishee has
answered, may render a judgment against the garnishee, directing and requiring him to deliver to the sheriff any property in
his hands, or under his control, belonging to the defendant. 
SECTION 44. If it appear from the answer of the garnishee,
or otherwise, that he holds the title of any real estate, or any 
interest therein, in trust for the defendant, or for his benefit,
he shall convey the same to the sheriff, and the sheriff shall 
sell and dispose of the same under the direction of the court,
in the manner provided by law and the rules and practice
of the court for the sale of real estate by receivers appointed
under proceedings supplemental to execution; and the court
may by its judgment pass the title to any such real estate
situate within this state, in case such garnishee refuses to convey
the same. 
SECTION 45. No action shall be commenced by the defendant
in the attachment suit, or his assignee, against any person sum- 
d
. l f l . h . 1 . d 
mono as garms rec, rom t ie time sue garms 10e is summone
to appear and answer until he has an opportunity to appear and 
d
. . . di r l f 
answer; au m case an action is pen mg J.Or t ie recovery o any 
such money or property at the time of the service of any such 
. l . l b • d . di 
notice, t 10 garms ice max o tam an or er staymg procec mgs
in such action until he can l~ave an opportunity ~o appear and 
answer, or for such further time as tho officer making such order
shall deem proper : provided, hotoeoer, that a judge or court 
commissioner may, upon the application of the defendant in tho
attachment suit or his assignee, upon cause being shown therefor, to the satisfaction of such judge or commissioner, make an
order permitting him to commence an action against the garnishee forthwith. 
SECTION 46. A corporation may be summoned as garnishee
by service of notice to appear and answer upon the president, 
I
· 1 ffi f l 
cas uer, treasurer, secretary, or ot ier agent or o cer o t 10 corporation upon whom a summons may by law be served in cases
where an action is commenced against such corporation; and 
answer of such officer or officers shall he taken and received
as the answer of such corporation, and their attendance may be
enforced in the manner provided in sections thirty-six and thirtyseven of this chapter. . 
47. Where there is more than one defendant in the
action, the garnishee shall be liable to· pay over any money due, 
to either or any of the defendants, and to deliver property
belonging to either or any of the defendants. 
48. If the garnishee in his answer deny all indebted­
ness or liability to the defendants or either of them, he shall 
recover judgment against the plaintifff for his fees for travel and
attendance, which shall be the same as those allowed to wit­
nesses, unless the plaintifff shall elect to have a trial on the issue
formed by such answer. 
49. The affidavit mentioned in the thirty-fourth section of this chapter shall be deemed the complaint in the action
against the garnishee, and his answer taken on his examination 
shall ho his answer in such action. 
50. In case the plaintifff is not satisfied with the
answer of the garnishee, the issue in the garnishee suit shall he 
for trial at the next term after the plaintifff shall have obtained
judgment against the defendant, and in case no such judgment
shall be obtained, the garnishee shall recover costs as above 
stated; all issues between the plaintifff and garnishee shall be 
tried, and judgment thereon rendered, and costs awarded, and
execution issued, in the same manner and with the like effect as
in other personal actions, except that the judgment against the
garnishee shall not be for a greater amount than that rendered
against the defendant. 
SECTION' 52. In case the answer of the garnishee shall be
satisfactory to the plaintifff, and it shall appear by it that he was 
• d d h d o. d l d . l . . f
m ebte to t e eren ant, or ia m us possession property o 
the· defendant which has not been paid over or delivered to the
officer, as provided in section forty-one of this chapter, the court 
shall render judgment against the garnishee, according to the 
merits of the case, iii the manner provided in section forty-three
of this chapter. 
53. If it shall appear upon the answer of the gar­
nishee, or from the finding of the court or jury on the trial of 
1 . I 1 . l . 1· bl d li l d " d
tie 1ss110, t tat t ie garnis iee Is ta e to e iver to t ie eten ant 
certain specific property, or to pay him any money at a future
day, unless the payment of such money is secured by a negotia- 
ble note, the court may render a judgment against the garnishee,
without costs, requiring him to deliver such property, or to pay
such money over to the sheriff, at such time as he may be liable
to deliver such property or pay such money. 
54. In case judgment be entered for the plaintifff
in the attachment suit, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of 
the property attached by him or received from any garnishee, i
it shall be sufficient for that purpose :- 
1. By paying over to such plaintifff the proceeds of all sales
of perishable property' and of any real estate or any interest
therein, received from any garnishee, or of any debts or credits 
collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such
judgment. 
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued . Oil such judgment, he shall proceed to sell, 
under such execution, so much of the attached property, real or
personal, except as provided in subdivision four of this section,
as may be necessary to satisfy the- balance, if enough for that
purpose shall remain in his hands ; and in case of the sales 
of rights or shares in the stock of a corporation or association,
the sheriff shall execute to the purchaser a certificate of auy sale
thereof, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and 
. il . l l ' h l d b l d '
pnvi eges, in respect t ioreto, w uc were ia y sue 1 efcudunt, 
3. If any of the attached property belonging to the defendant shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff without 
having been sold or converted into money, such sheriff shall
repossess himself of the same, and for that purpose shall have
all the authority which he had to seize the same under the
attachment, and any person who shall willfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff, shall be liable to double
damages at the suit of the party injured. 
4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be paid,
the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and accounts, and 
other evidences of debt that may have been seized or attached 
by virtue of the attachment, or that may have been delivered
up by any person summoned as garnishee, and to prosecute any
bond he may have taken in the course of such proceedings, and
apply the proceeds thereof to the payment of tho judgment and
costs. When the judgment and all costs of tho proceedings
shall have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand, shall
deli Yer over to the defendant the residue of tho property attached,
or that may have been received from any garnishee, or the proceeds thereof. 
SECTION 55. The actions herein authorized to he brought by
the sheriff may be prosecuted by the · plaintifff, or under his 
direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff of an undertaking with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plain- 
tiff will indemnify the sheriff for all damages, costs, and expenses
on account thereof, not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars 
in any one action; such sureties shall, when required by tho
sheriff, justify, by making an affidavit that each is a householder, 
and worth double the amount of tho penalty named in the undertaking, over and above all debts and exemptions. 
SECTIO~ 56. If the defendant in the attachment recover judgment against the plaintifff,or if the action be dismissedordiscontin- 
k b
l h
. ff. l . , 
ued, any bond ta en y ties en , except sue 1 as are mentioned in 
the last section, all the proceeds of sales, and all monies collected
by him, and all monies paid or property delivered by any garnishee, 
and all property attached remaining in his hands, shall be delivered
by him to the defendant or his agent, on request, andthe attachment shall be discharged and the property released therefrom. 
SECTION 57. The sheriff shall ho entitled to the same fees
and compensation for services and disbursements rendered under
the provisions of this chapter, as are allowed by law for services 
in other cases. 
SECTION 58. If in any case when an Officer has an attach.
ment against property, there is any reasonable doubt as to the 
ownership of tho property, or as to its liability so to be taken on
I I t tl ffi . ffi . . 
t re attac imen , 10 o cer may reqmre su cient security to
indemnify him for attaching such property. 
59. When real estate has been attached in pursn­
ance of the provisions of this chapter, and judgment shall be
rendered for the plaintifff, the execution may, among other things, 
direct a sale of all the interest which the defendant had in such
real estate at the time it was so attached. 
SECTION 60. If the property, money, credits, or effects of any
defendant in an action, shall be seized by an attachment issued 
tn such action, and such defendant shall die pending the action,
or after judgment and before execution issued thereon, and sat­
isfaction thereof, the property, money, credits, and effects so 
attached shall be applied to the payment of the judgmeu t ren­
dered in such action, either before or after the death of such
defendant, and execution may be rendered on such judgment,
and satisfied out of the property so attached, in tho same man­
ner as if such defendant were living . 
61. Attachments under the provisions of this chap­
ter may be issued against the property of a corporation, created 
d 1 f I · d · 1 I · 
by or un er the aws o t us state, au m sue 1 cases the P amtiff, or some person in his behalf, shall make and annex thereto 
an affidavit stating that such corporation is indebted to the plain­
tiff, and specifying the amount of such indebtedness, as near as 
may be, over and above all legal set-offs, and that the same is
due upon contract, express or implied, and containing a fur­
ther statement that the deponent knows or has good reason
to believe, cithcr- 
1. That such corporation, by any of its officers or agents, has
conveyed, assigned, disposed of, or concealed, or is about to
convey, assign, dispose of, or conceal, any of its property, with
intent to defraud its creditors; or- 
2. That such corporation, by any of its officers or agents,
fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation
respecting which the action is brought; or- 
3. That all the officers and agents of such corporation, upon
whom a summons may by law be served, are non-residents of this
state, or that no such officer or agent can be found within this 
state, 
CHAPTER CXXXI 
OF .ARBITRATIONS. 
SECTION 1. All persons, except infants and married women,
and persons of unsound mind, may by an instrument in writing
submit to the decision of one -or more arbitrators, any contro­
versy existing between them, which might be the subject of a
civil action, except as herein otherwise provided; and may, in 
such submission, agree that a judgment of any court of law and
of record, to be designated in such instrument, shall be rendered
upon the award made pursuant to such submission. 
SECTIOX 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the 
I
· f t t t · l' " I"'°' I ' 
c aim o any person o any es a e, in ree or J.Or he, to rea estate;
hut any claim to an interest for a term of years, or for one year or 
l
· I d • · l · . i 
ess, m rea estate, an controversies respecting t ie partition o
lands betwccnjoint tenants or tenants in common, orconcerningthc 
b d
· f l d · l ad f d 
mm anes o · an s, or concernmg t ie measurement o ower,
mav be SO submitted to arbitration. 
8ECTIOX 3. The arbitrators thus selected shall appoint a time
and place for the hearing, and shall adjourn the same from time 
t
. b d 1 1· . f . 1 
o time, as may · e necessary; an on t ie app ication o mt ier
party, and for good cause, they may postpone such hearing to a 
time not extending beyond the day fixed in such submission for
rendering their award. 
8ECTJOS 4. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, the
arbitrators shall be sworn, faithfully and fairly to hear and exam- 
ine tho matters in controversy, and to make a just award, according to the best of their understanding. 
~ECTIOX 5. Suell' oath may be administered by any judge of
any court of record or by any justice of the peace or bv any 
• • ' • ' J 
comrmssiouor of deeds; and the oath to witnesses and other
persons examined before such arbitrators, may be administered 
l>y such arbitrators, or any or either of them. 
SECTJO:'i 6. Witnesses may be compelled to appear before
such arbitrators by subpoena, to be issued by any justice of the 
peace, in the same manner and with like effect, and subject to
the same penalties for disobedience, as in cases of trials before 
justices of the peace. 
8Ecr10~ 7. All the arbitrators must meet together, and hear 
1.U the proofs and allegations of the parties; but au award by a 
majority of them shall be valid, unless the concurrence of all 
l b
. 1 l . d . ti b . . 
t 10 ar: itrators JO express y require m 10 su mission. 
SECTIO~ 8. To entitle any award to be enforced according to
the provislous of this chapter, it must be in writing, subscribed 
b I
bi ki 1 d d b b ih 
Y t 10 ar itrators ma mg t te same, an atteste y a su sen
ing witness. 
BECTION 9. {; pon such submission being proved by the affida- 
vit of a subscribing witness thereto, and upon the award made in
I 
f be" d . Ilk h l ffid 
pursuance t iereo mg prove m 1 ·e manner, or y t re a avit of the arbitrators, within one year after the maxing of the 
same, the court designated in such submission shall, by rule in
open court, confirm such award, unless the same !le vacated or
modified, or a decision thereon be postponed, as herein provided. 
SECTION 10. Any person complaining of such award may
morn the court designated in such submission, to vacate the 
same, upon either of the following grounds:- ·
1. That such award was procured by corruption fraud or 
' ' ' 
other undue means.
2. That there was evident partiality or corruption in the arbi­ 
trators, or either of them.
3. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct in refusing 
to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause shown, or in refu- 
evidence pertinent and material to the contro­
versy, or any other misbehavior, by which the rights of any party
shall ham been prejudiced. 
4. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers, or that they so
imperfectly executed them that a mutual, final, and definite
award on the subject matter submitted was not made. 
11. Any party to such submission may also move the
court designated therein, to modify or correct such award in the 
following cases:- .
1. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an 
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing, or prop­
erty referred to in such award. 
· 2. Where the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some mat­
ter not submitted to them, not affecting the merits of the decis­
ion upon the matters submitted. 
3. Where the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form
not affecting the merits of the controversy, and where, if it had
been a verdict, such defect could have been amended or disre­
garded by the court, according to the provisions of law. 
12. Every such application to vacate or modify an
award shall be made to the court designated in the submission, 
at the next term after the publication of such award, upon the
same notice to the adverse party as in other cases of special 
motions, if there be time for that purpose ; and if there be not
time, such court, or any judge thereof, may, upon good cause
shown, order a stay of proceedings on such award, either abso­
lutely, or upon such terms as shall appear just, until tho term
of the court next after such first term. 
13. On such application, the court may vacate such
award in any of the cases herein before specified, and if the time 
within which such award shall have been required to be made by
the submission has not expired, may in their discretion direct a
rehearing by the arbitrators; and in the cases herein specified,
the court may modify and correct such award so as to effect the
intent thereof, and to promote justice between the parties. 
SECTION 14. Upon such award being confirmed or modified,
the court shall render judgment in favor of the party to whom 
any sum of money or damages shall have been awarded, that he
recover the same and if the award shall have ordered any 
be d b ' . 1 . d l H b d 1
act to one y eit ter party, JU gment s iar e entere t mt 
such act be done according to such order. The costs of the pro­
cccdings shall be taxed as in actions, and if 110 provisions for the 
fees and expenses of the arbitrators shall have been made in the
award, the court shall make the same allowance as provided by 
law for referees; but no costs shall be taxed for any other serv­
ices or expenses prior to such application. 
SECTION 15. The judgment of the court on such award shall
be entered in the judgment book, at length, as other judgments 
of said court, and the clerk of the court shall, immediately after
the entry of such judgment, attach to the submission the award
of the arbitrators, and a copy of the judgment of the court, and 
the same shall constitute the judgment roll. 
SECTION 16. Such roll shall be filed and docketed as judg­
ment rolls in other cases; shall have the same force and effect in 
all respects; be subject to all the provisions of law in relation to
judgment in actions, and may in like manner be removed and 
reversed, by appeal to the supreme court; and execution shall
. th . t th t f t 
issue ereupon agams e proper y or person o any par
against whom a recovery shall be had, in all respects as upon 
other judgments. 
SECTION 17. When an appeal shall be brought 01i such judgment, certified copies of the original affidavits upon which any 
I
. . . l . I d l" d d d f ll 
app ication in re ation to sue 1 a war was roun e , an o a
other affidavits and papers relating to such application, shall be 
annexed to, form a part of, and be returned with the record of
the judgment; and the court to which such appeal shall be
returned shall reverse, modify, or amend, or affirm, such judgment, or any part thereof, according to justice. 
SECTIO~ 18. When by such judgment any party shall be
required. to perform any act other than the payment of money,
the court rendering such judgment shall enforce the same, in the 
manner provided for enforcing judgments of a similar nature in
other cases. 
SECTION 19. If upon application made pursuant to the foregoing provisions, the court shall vacate and set aside any award 
of arbitrators, costs shall be awarded to the prevailing party, and
the payment thereof may be enforced by rule of the court as in 
other cases. 
SECTION 20. Upon every such order vacating an award, the
party aggrieved may bring an appeal as upon any other judg- 
ment of such court, on which appeal shall be returned certified
copies of such order, and of all affidavits and papers used on such
application; and the court to which such appeal shall be taken
shall proceed to confirm or reverse such order, as shall be just. 
SECTION 21. If such order be reversed, the proceedings shall
be remitted to the court from which they were removed, to proceed thereon; or the court to which such proceedings shall have 
been returned may proceed thereon, after duo notice to the party
complaining of such award, to modify or confirm the .sarne, in
the same manner, and with like effect, as if application for that 
purpose bad been originally made to such court. 
~ 2:J. N I · · I · h l 11 b t d to 
oECTION ::... ot ung in -t us c apter s ia e cons rue
impair or affect any action upon an award, or upon any bond or 
other engagement to abide by an award 
•
SECTION 23. Whenever any submission to arbitration shall 
be revoked by a party thereto, before the publication of an
award, the party so revoking shall be liable to an action by the 
adverse party, to recover all the costs, expenses, and damages
which he may have incurred in preparing for such arbitration; 
but neither party shall have power to revoke the powers of the
arbitrators, after the ca.use shall have been finally submitted to 
them, upon a hearing of the parties, for their decision. 
SECTION 24. If tho submission so revoked was contained in
the condition of any bond, the obligee in such bond shall be 
entitled to prosecute tho same in the same manner as other
bonds with conditions other than for the payment of· money, 
and to assign such revocation as a breach thereof; and for such
breach he shall recover as damages the costs and expense 
incurred, and the damages sustained by him in preparing for
such arbitration. 
25. No other sum, penalty, forfeiture, or damages
shall be recovered for any revocation of a. submission to arbitra- 
• l l ·1. d . l l .
tion, t ian sue 1 as are prcscr1ue m t 10 two ast sections ; not- 
withstanding any stipulated damages, penalty, or forfeiture, 
• d . h b . . . h .
containe m sue su m1ss1011, or m any ot er mstrument or 
agreement collateral thereto. 
CHAPTER CXXXII. 
OF ISSUES, MODE OF TRIAL, .AND JUDGMENT IN CITIL ACTIONS. 
1. Issues arise upon the pleadings when ~ fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party and controverted 
by the other ; they arc of two kinds. 
1. Of law. 
2. Of fact. 
SECTION 2. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the 
complaint, answer, or reply, or to some part thereof. 
SECTION' 3. An issue of fact arises :- 
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted
by the answer ; or- 
2. Upon new mutter in the answer controverted by the reply ;
or- 
3. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is
joined thereon. 
SECTION 4. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon
different parts of the pleadings in the same action ; in such
cases the issue of law must be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct. \ 
SECTIO:'i 5. A trial is the judicial examination of tl1e issues
between the parties, whether they be issues of law or qf fact. 
SECTIO~ 6. An issue of law must be tried by t,. e court,
unless it be referred as provided in section twcnty-tw of this 
chapter. An issue of fact in an action for the re overy of
money only, or of specific real or personal property or for a
divorce from the marriage contract on the ground of dultery,
must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived], as pro­
vided in section eighteen of this chapter. Every othejr issue is
triable by the court, which, however, may order the wh!Jole issue,
or any specific question of fact involved therein, to bd: tried by
a jury, or may refer it as provided in section twonty-twi o of this
chapter: provided, when in an action for the recovery o~: specific
real property, tho defendant in his answer shall set up aill._ equit­
able defense, and shall also by his answer claim affir~:~
relief against the plaintifff, an issue of fact found upon a denial
of the allegations contained in such answer, shall be triable by '- 
the court, unless otherwise ordered. 
SECTION 7. The clerk shall prepare a calendar of issues for
each term of the circuit court, which shall contain the title of 
eachaction pending, in which an answer or demurrer has been
filed ten days before the term, the names of the attorneys, and 
the time when the last pleading was filed; andall appeals shall
he deemed to be at issue from tho day of the filing of tho returns 
in such appeal. 
RECTIOS 8. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed of
in the following order, unless for the convenience of parties or
the dispatch of business the court shall otherwise direct. 
1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.
2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court.
3. Issues of law. 
SECTJOS 9. Either party may bring the issue to trial, and in
the absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good 
cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a
dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict, or a judgment, as the 
case m,1y require. A separate trial between the plaintifff and
any of the several defendants may ho allowed by the court,
whenever in its opinion justice will be thereby promoted. 
SECTIO~ 10. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in favor
of the plaintifff or defendant. A special verdict is that by 
which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judgment to the
court. 
SECTIOS 11. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property have not been delivered to the plaintifff, 
or the defendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury
shall assess the value of the property, if their verdict be in 
favor of the plaintifff, or if they find in favor of the defendant
that he is entitled to a return thereof, and may at the same
time assess the damages, if they are claimed in the complaint
or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by reason
of the detention, or taking and withholding such property. In 
every action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury in their discretion may render a. general or
special verdict. In all other cases the court may direct the jury
to find a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of the issues,
and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a general
verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk and entered upon
the minutes. 
SECTIO~ 12. Whenever, on the trial of any cause in the
c!r~uit. court, either party shall .request it, the. judge pre- 
siding in such court shall reduce Ins charge to the Jury empanneled in such cause to writing, before giving the same to such 
jury; and if any such judge shall give any charge to a jury on
the trial of any cause when so requested, without the same· be in 
writing, it shall be sufficient cause for reversing on appeal or 
error to the supreme court, the judgments which may lie rendered therein. 
SECTIO:"i 13. As soon as any such charge sha],l lte.ve, been
given, the same shall be placed and remain on file among the 
records and papers of the case in which it was given .. 
SECTION 14. '\Yhen a special finding of facts. shall be incon- 
latter, and the court shall give judgment accordingly. 
15. When a verdict is found for the plaintifff in an
action for the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a
sot-off for the recovery of money is established beyond tho 
amount of the plaintifff's claim as established, the jury must 
assess the amount of the recovery : they may also, under the
direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery when
the court give judgment for the plaintifff on the answer. If a
set-off, established at the trial, exceed the plaintifff's demand so
established, judgment for the defendant must be given for tho
excess; 'orif it appear that the defendant is entitled to any other
affirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly. 
SECTION 16. Upon receiving a verdict, the clerk shall make
an entry in his minutes, specifying the time and place of tho 
trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the verdict, and
either the judgment rendered thereon, or an order that the
cause be reserved for argument or further consideration. If a. 
different direction ho not given by the court, the clerk must
enter judgment in conformity with the verdict. If an exception
be taken, it may be reduced to writing at the time, or entered
in the judge's minutes, and afterward settled as provided by the
rules of the court, and then stated. in writing, in a case or sepa­
rately, with so much of the evidence as may be material to the
questions to be raised, but need not be sealed or signed, nor
need a bill of exceptions be made. If the exceptions be in the
first instance stated in a case, and it be afterward necessary to
separate them, the separation may be made under the direction 
of the court or a judge thereof. The judge who tries the cause
may in his discretion entertain a motion to be made on his 
minutes, to sot aside a verdict, and grant a new trial, upon
exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or for excessive damages;
but such motions in actions hereafter tried, if heard upon the 
minutes, can only be heard at the same term or circuit at which 
the trial is heard. When such motion is heard and decided
upon the minutes of the judge, and an appeal is taken from the
decision, a case or exceptions must be settled in the usual form,
upon which the argument of the appeal must be had. 
SECTION 17. A motion for a new trial on a case or exceptions,
or otherwise, and an application f<1r judgment on a special 
verdict, or case reserved for argument or further consideration,
or to set aside the report of referees, must, in the first instance,
be heard and decided at the circuit, at special term, or at a
regular term. 
SE<n'ION 18. Trial by jury may be waived by the several
parties to an issue of fact, in actions on contract, with the assent 
of the court in other actions, in the manner following:- 
1. By failing to appear at the trial.
2. By written consent, in person, or by attorney, filed with 
the clerk.
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in' the. minutes. 
SECrION 19. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court,
its decision shall be given in writing, and filed with the clerk
within twenty days after the court at which the trial took place. 
Judgment upon the decision shall be entered accordingly, and
the judge shall state in his decision separately :- 
1. The facts found by him ; and- . ·
2. His conclusions of law thereon. 
SECTION 20. For the purpose of an appeal, either party may
except to a decision on a matter of law arising on such trial,
within ten days after notice in writing of the judgment, in the
same manner and with the same effect as upon a trial by jury
and either party desiring a review upon the evidence appearing
upon the trial, either of the questions of fact or of law, may, within
ten days after the notice of such judgment, or within the time
prescribed by the rules of the court, make a case or exceptions
in like manner as upon trials by jury, except that tho judge, in
settling the matter, must briefly specify the facts found by him,
and his conclusions oflaw. 
SECTION 21. On a judgment for the plaintifff upon an issue
oflaw, the plaintifff may proceed in the manner prescribed by
th
fi 
bdi . • f . f hl )
e rst two su ivisions o section twenty-seven o t rs c iapter, 
upon the failure of the defendant to answer, where the summons
was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon
au issue of law, and if taking an account or the proof of any
fact be necessary to enable the court to complete the judgment,
a reference or assessment by a jury may be ordered, as in that
section provided. 
SECTION 22. All or any of the issues in the action, whether
of fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the written 
f 1
. 
consent o t 10 parties. 
SECTION 23. The trial by referees shall be conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same 
power to grant adjournments, and to allow amendments to any
pleadings, as the court upon such trial, upon the same terms 
and with the like effect. They shall also have the same power
to preserve order, and punish all violations thereof, upon such 
trial, and to compel the attendance of witnesses before them by
attachment, and to punish them as for a contempt for non­
attendance or refusal to be sworn or testify, as is possessed by the
court ; and they shall give to the parties or their attorneys, at
lea.st eight days' notice of the time and place of trial ; they
must state the facts found, and conclusions of law separately,
and report their findings, together with ~11 the evidence taken
by them, and all exceptions taken on the hearing, to the circuit
court ; and the circuit court may review such report, and on
motion may enter judgment thereon, or set aside, alter, or
modify the same, and enter judgment upon the same so altered
or modified, and may require the referees to amend their report
when necessary. The judgment so entered by the circuit court
may be appealed from to the supreme court in like manner as
judgment upon motions for a new trial, and the report of the 
referees shall stand in the place of a case, or bill of exceptions.
When the reference is to report the facts, the report shall have
the effect of a special verdict. 
SECl'ION 24. In all cases of reference, the parties, except
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable per- 
son or. persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall be 
ordered accordingly, and if the parties do not agree, the court
shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who
shall be free from exception. 
SECTION 25. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in the action. 
26. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several defendants, and it may determine the ultimate 
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves, and
may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he
may IJe entitled. In an action against several defendants, tho
court may in its discretion render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the o.ction to proceed against the others when­
ever u several judgment may be proper. The court mny also
dismiss the complaint with costs in favor of one or more defend­
ants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of tho plaintifff
to serve the summons on other defendants, or to proceed in the
cause against the defendant or defendants served. 
27. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to
answer the complaint, as follows:- 
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, the plaintifff may file with the clerk proof' of personal serv­
ice of the summons and complaint on one or more of the de- 
fendants, or of the summons, according to the provisions of sec­
tion five of chapter one hundred and twenty-four of the revised
statutes, and that no answer has been received. The clerk
shall thereupon enter judgment for the amount mentioned in the
summons against the defendant or defendants, or against one or
moro of the several defendants, in the cases provided for in
section eleven of chapter one hundred and twenty-four of the 
revised statutes. But if the complaint be not sworn to, and
such action is on an instrument for the payment of money only,
the clerk, on its production to him, shall assess the amount due
to the plaintifff thereon ; and in other cases shall ascertain the
amount which the plo.intiff is entitled to recover in such action
from his examination under oath, or other proof, and enter tho
judgment for the amount so assessed or ascertained ; but no
execution shall be issued on a judgment entered under the pro­
visions of this subdivision, until the expiration of a general or
special term of the court which would be authorized for cause
shown to set aside such judgment. In case the defendant give
notice of appearance in the action, he shall be entitled to five
days' notice of the time and place of such assessment. 
2. In other actions, the plaintifff may, upon the like proof,
apply to the court after the expiration of the time for answering,
for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking au
account or the proof of any fact be necessary, to enable the
court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the
court may take the account, or hear the proof, or mo.y in its dis­
cretion order a. reference for that purpose. And when the
action is for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or
personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the
court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the
examination of a long account be involved, by a reference as 
above provided. Iu case the defendant give notice of appear- 
ance in the action before the expiration -of the time for answering, he shall be entitled to eight days' notice of the time and 
place of application to tho court for the relief demanded by the
complaint. 
3. In actions where the service of the summons was by publication, the plaintifff may in like manner apply for judgment, and 
the conrt shall thereupon cause proof to be taken of the demand
mentioned in the complaint, and in case the defendant is a non- 
resident, shall cause the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on
oath, as to any payment that may have been made to such plaintiff, or to any one for his use 011 account of such. demand, and
may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to
recover; and before entering judgment the court may in its discretion require tho plaintifff to cause to be filed satisfactory
security to abide the order of the court touching the restitution
of any estate or effects which may be directed by such judgment 
to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money
that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment, in
case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and hp 
admitted to defend the action and shall succeed in such defense.
4. In an action arising on a contract for the recovery of 
money only, if the answer of the defendant, either expressly or
by not denying, admits any part of the plaintifff's claim to ho 
. 'f 1 t l · ff t l". 
Just, or 1 sue 1 answer sets up a conn er c aim or o se ,or an
amount less than the plaintifff's claim, and contains no other 
defense to the action, the clerk, on the application of tho plaintiff, shall enter judgment for the amount so admitted, or for the
amount claimed in the summons, after deducting the amount of 
the defendant's counterclaim or off set: notice of such appliestion shall be given to the defendant.at least five days before the
samo is ma.de. Execution shall be issued upon such judgment
in the manner provided in subdivision one of this section. 
SECTION 28. If a demurrer, answer, or reply he frivolous, the
party prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of five days,
ma.y apply to a judge of the court, either in or out of the 
court, for judgment thereon, and judgment may be given
accordingly. 
SEt'TION 29. The relief granted to the plaintifff if there be no
answer, cannot exceed tha.t which he shall have demanded in his
complaint; but in any other case the court may grant him any
relief consistent with tho case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue. 
SECTION 30. Whenever damages are recoverable, tho plaintifff
may claim and recover, if he show himself entitled thereto, any 
rate of damages which he might have heretofore recovered for
the same cause of action. 
SECTIO~ 31. In an lction to recover the possession of per- 
sonal property, judgment for the plaintifff may be for the posses- 
sion, or for the recovery of possession, or the value thereof, in case
a delivery cannot be had, and of damages for the detention. If
the property have been delivered to the plaintifff, and a defendant
claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant may be for a
return of the property, or the value thereof in case a return can- 
not be had, and damages for taking and withholding tho sa~e. 
SECTION 82. Judgment upon an issue of law or of fact, or
upon confession, or upon failure to answer, (except where tho 
clerk is authorized to enter the same by the first subdivision of
section twenty-seven of this chapter, and section sixteen of chap­ 
ter one hundred a.nd forty of the revised statutes.) shall, in tho
first instance, be entered upon the direction of a circuit judge,
or report of referees, subject to review on the demand of either
party as herein provided. 
SECTION 33. The clerk shall keep, among the records of the
court, a book for tho entry of judgments, to be called the "judg­
ment book." 
SECTION 34: The judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book, and shall specify clearly the relief granted or other determinatiou of the action . 
SECTION 85. U nloss the party or his attorney shall furnish a 
judgment roll, the clerk, immediately after entering the judg­
ment, shall attach together and file the following papers, which
shall constitute the judgment roll. 
. 1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant,
tl1e summons and complaint or copies thereof, proof of service,
and that no answer has been received, the report, if any, and a
copy of the judgment. 
2. In all other cases, the summons, pleadings, or copies thereof,
and a copy of thejudgment, with any verdict or report, the offer
of the defendant, exceptions, case, and all orders and papers in
any way involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judg­
ment. 
SECTION 36. On filing a judgment roll, upon a judgment
directing in whole or in part the payment of money, it may be 
docketed with the clerk of the circuit court of the county where
it was rendered, and in any other county, upon filing with the 
clerk of the circuit court thereof, a transcript of the original
"docket," and shall be a lien on the real property in the county
where the same is docketed, of every person against whom such
judgment shall be rendered, and which he may have at the time
of docketing thereof in the county in which such real estate is
situated, or which he shall acquire at any time thereafter for ton· 
years from the time of docketing the same in the county whero
it was rendered. But whenever an appeal from any judgment
shall be pending, and the undertaking requisite to stay execution
on such judgment shall have been given, and the appeal perfect­
ed as provided in the code, the court in which such judgment
was recovered may, on special motion, after notice to the person
owning the judgment, on such terms as they shall see fit, direct
an entry to be made by the clerk on tho docket of said judgment
that the same is "secured on appeal," and thereupon it shall
cease during the pendency of the appeal to be a lien on the real
property of the judgment debtor as against purchasers and mort­
gagees in good faith. 
SECTION 37. At the time of filing the judgment roll, the clerk
shall enter in an alphabetical docket, in books to be provided and 
kept by him, a statement of such judgment, conta.ining:L The names at length of all the parties to such judgment, 
designating particularly those against whom it is rendered, with 
their places of abode, titles, trades or professions, if any such are
stated in such record. 
2. The amount of the debt, damages, or other sum of money
recovered, with the costs. 
3. The hour and day of entering such docket. 
4. If file judgment be against several persons, such statement
shall be repeated under the name of each person against whom
the judgment was recorded, in the alphabetical order of their
names respectively. . 
Bsonox 38. The books in which dockets of judgments· shall
be entered, shall, during the usual hours of transacting business, 
be open to the search and examination of all persons desiring the
same. 
SECTION 89. Every clerk who shall neglect to docket any
judgment as soon as practicable, shall forfeit to the party 
aggrieved two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to all damages which such party may have sustained by such omission or
neglect. 
SECTION 40. No recognizance taken by any court or by any
officer, shall bind any lands, tenements, or real estate, or other
property; but such recognizances shall be deemed to be mere 
evidences of debt. 
SECI'ION 41. The docket of a judgment rendered in any court
of record, may be canceled and discharged by the clerk thereof,
upon filing with him an acknowledgment of satisfaction signed
by the party in whose favor such judgment was obtained, or by
bis executors or administrators, duly authenticated as hereinafter directed. 
SECTION 4~. · Such acknowledgment shall be made before
some judge of the court in which the judgment was rendered,
or before some judge of tho circuit court or court commissioner,
or before any other officer duly qualified by law to take the
acknowledgment of deeds, who shall certify that the party
making tho same was known or was made known to such officer
Ly competent proof. 
8EOTION 43. Such acknowledgment may also be made by the
attorney on record of· the party in whose favor the same was
rendered, within two years after tho filing of the record of such
judgment, in the same manner and with the like effect as if
made by such party himself ; but such satisfaction shall not be 
conclusive against the party in whose favor the judgment was
rendered, in respect to any person to whom actual notice of the
revocation of the authority of such attorney shall have been 
given, before any payment on such judgment shall have been
made, or before any purchase of property bound by such judg­
ment shall have been effected. 
,SECTION 44. When payment of the judgment is made, satisfaction thereof shall be acknowledged by the attorney or plain- 
tiff receiving tho amount, on payment of the fees by the defendant, or satisfaction may be entered on the docket of judgment
in the clerk's office without acknowledgment. 
SECTION 45. In all cases where any defendant shall receive
1 
· d. ] • iti f to t tl
us rsc iarge m wn mg, rom any person compe n or au ror- 
ized to execute the same, from the operation of any judgment 
rendered against him and one or more defendants, in any court
of record of this state, on presenting the same to the clerk of 
the court in which such judgment is docketed, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to file the same in his office, with the pa.pers
in the case, and to enter or transcribe the same at length in the
appearance docket with the other recorded proceedings in the
case; and shall aim enter the discharge in the margin of the
judgment docket, in substance as follows: "This judgmeut dis­ 
charged as to [here insert the name of the party discharged];
dated ." Such discharge shall specify whether any
part of the judgment, and what amount thereof, is satisfied by 
such defendant in consideration of his discharge, and only the
balance of the judgment so remaining unsatisfied shall thereaf­
ter be collected in any execution which has been or shall be
issued on such judgment. 
SECrION 46. When a judgment shall be discharged, as pro­
vided in the first section, the same shall from thence cease to
operate as a lien upon the real estate of the defendant thus dis­
charged, shall forever be inoperative against him, his goods and
chattels, lands and tenements; and in case execution shall issue
upon such judgment, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the
court, before delivering the same to the proper officer, to indorse
thereupon the entry made in the margin of the judgment record, 
as provided in the preceding section of this chapter.
SECTION 47. When an execution issued upon any judgment 
shall be returned satisfied, in whole or in part, such judgment
shall be deemed satisfied to the extent of the amount so returned 
as having been collected on such execution, unless such return 
ertrb db I d · b ·
e vacate y t ie court; an upon any execution emg so 
returned, the clerk of the court shall enter in the docket of such
judgment the fact that the amount stated in such return to barn
been levied, has been collected. 
SECTION 48. It shall be the duty of the clerk to give a certi­
fied transcript of any judgment record in his office, when the 
same shall be demanded and the legal fees tendered.
SECTION 49. No judgment or decree of any United States 
court shall be a lien or encumbrance upon any real estate within
this state, until an execution shall be issued and levied upon 
such real estate, or until such judgment or decree is docketed 
I ffi f l 1 k f l . . . f 1 
m t re o ce o t ie c er o t 1e circuit court o t ie county
where such real estate is situated, in the manner provided in 
the next section.
SECTION 50. Any party to a judgment or decree in the Uni­ 
ted States district court for the district of Wisconsin, or in the
supreme court of the United States, may file with the clerk of 
the circuit court of any county within this state a transcript of
such judgment or decree, duly certified by the clerk of the court 
where the same was rendered or entered, which transcript shall
give the names of the parties in full, the time when such judg­ 
ment was rendered or such decree was entered, the names of
the attorneys in the suit, and the amount of damages and costs
in such judgment, or the amount decreed to be actually due in
such decree, with costs of suit; and the clerk of such circuit
court shall thereupon file such transcript and docket, such judg- 
mcnt or decree, in the manner provided by law for the docketiug of judgments, and the same shall thereupon become a lien
upon tho real estate of the person or persons against whom such
judgment is rendered or such decree entered within said couuty. 
SECTIO:i 51. The clerk shall be entitled to the same fee for
filing such transcript and docketing such judgment or decree, as
is provided by law for filing transcripts and docketing judgments
rendered in justices' courts. 
C/1,apter 50, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. No judgment rendered by tho United States court
in and for t_he district of Wisconsin, or by any other court of
record in tho state, shall hereafter be a lien or incumbranco
upon any lands or tenements within any county of the state, 
until a transcript of the docket of such judgment shall be filed
with tho clerk of the circuit court in and for the county in
which such lands or tenements arc situated. 
SF.CTION 2. The clerk of the circuit court for each county in
this state, shall furnish a book or books, and make an entry of 
all such judgments filed as aforesaid, and shall be entitled to the
same fees as are now provided by law for filing and docketing 
transcripts of judgments in other courts in this state. 
Approved AprH 15th, 1858. 
CHAPTER CXXXIII. 
OF COSTS AND FEFA 
OF THE FEES OF SHERIFFS.
SECTION 1. Every sheriff in this state shall be entitled to 
rccci ve the following fees for his services, viz. :- · 
First, for serving a summons, or any other process by which
an action shall be commenced in any court of record, or writ or
order of injunction, and making return thereon, for one defend­
ant, seventy-five cents; for each additional defendant, thirty­
seven and a half cents. 
Second. Traveling in making service of any summons, writ,
or other process, except criminal capias, to be computed in all
cases from the court house of the county in which service is
made, five cents per mile, going and returning. 
Third, Taking a bond or undertaking in any case, when
required by law, and approving the same, fifty cents. 
Fourth. }faking a copy of any bond or undertaking, sum­
mons, writ, complaint, or other paper served or taken, when
required by law or demanded by a party, ten cents per folio. 
Fifth. Serving and returning a subpoena to testify, for each
person served, twenty-five cents. 
Sixt!,. Serving an execution on a judgment for the recovery
of real estate, or other writ not provided for, one dollar. 
&venth. Collecting and paying over all sums upon execution, 
process, for the collection of money, five per cent. upon
any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ; and upon any
sum more than three hundred dollars and less than six hundred 
dollars, two and one-half per cent. ; and upon all sums exceed­
ing six hundred dollars, one and one-fourth per cent. ; but in no
case shall the whole percentage exceed thirty dollars. 
Eiglitlt. Advertising goods and chattels for sale upon execu­
tion, writ, or process, seventy-five cents; but when there arc
more than one execution, writ, or process in the hands of the
sheriff against the same defendant, there shall be but one adver­
tising fee charged on the whole, which shall be on the execution 
having priority. • .
N,,ntl,. Drawing advertisement of real estate, per folio, 
twenty-five cents.
Tenth. Every certificate of sale of real estate, fifty cents.
Elevemh. Filing copy thereof with the register of deeds, 
including fees of register of deeds, twenty-five cents.
Twelfth. Executing a deed pursuant to a sale of real estate, 
one dollar; to be paid by the grantee in such deed.
Thirteenth, Summoning a grand or petit jury, to be paid 
from the county treasury, thirty-eight cents for each juror named.
Fourteenth. Summoning a jury upon · a writ of inquiry, 
attending such jury, and making and-returning the inquisition,
one dollar and fifty cents. 
Fifteenth, Summoning a special jury, struck pursuant to an
order of court, and returning the panel, one dollar and fifty 
cents.
Sixteenth. Summoning a jury pursuant to any precept or 
summons of any officer, in any special proceeding, seventy-five
cents ; and for attending such jury when required, fifty cents. 
&venteenth. Attending a view, when ordered by the court,
one dollar and twenty-five cents per day, including the time occu­
pied in going and returning. 
Eighteenth. Summoning· appraisers and swearing the same,
fifty cents. 
Nineteenth. Every appraiser, for each day, one dollar.
Twentieth. Drawing an inventory or other paper, except 
returns upon a summons, subpoena, or uenire, twenty-five cents
per folio. 
Twenty-first. Attending the supreme court, one dollar and
fifty cents for each day ; to be allowed on the certificate of the 
chief justice or clerk, and paid out of the state treasury.
Twenty-second. Attending the circuit or county court, one 
dollar and fifty cents for eech day ; to be allowed on the certifi­
cate of the judge or clerks, and paid out of the county treasury. 
Twenty-third. Serving notice of any general or special elec­
tion upon the inspectors of elections, of tho different towns and
wards in Ms county, fifty cents for each town or ward, io be
paid out of the county treasury. 
Twenty-fourth. For serving any writ or other process, with
the aid of the county, two dollars and fifty cents, and all neces­
sary expenses incurred thereby. 
Twenty-fifth. All such necessary expenses incurred in tak­ 
ing possession of any goods or chattels and preserving the 
same, as shall be just and reasonable in the opinion of the
court. 
Twenty-sixth. All fees allowed by law and paid to any printer
for any advertisement required to be published by the sheriff. 
Twenty-sevent,h. Traveling to serve any criminal process, for
m·ery mile actually traveled, five cents per mile, whether in the
county from which process issued or not. 
Twenty-eighth. Every commitment to prison, fifty cents.
Twemy-ninth. Discharging a person from prison, twenty-five 
cents.
Tl•irtieth. Bringing up a prisoner upon a babea« corpus to 
testify or answer in any court, or before a judge, one dollar. 
T/1.irtg-first. Attending before an officer tlith a prisoner, for
the purpose of having him surrendered in exoneration of his
bail, or attending to receive a prisoner so surrendered who was
not committed at the time, and receiving such prisoner into
custody, in either case, one dollar ; and- 
Tl,irty-second. Attending any court or officer, with a pris­
oner, one dollar and fifty cents per day, besides actual necessary 
expenses. 
SECTION 2. All . fees· herein allowed to the sheriff, upon the
service of an execution, or writ for the collection of money, and 
advertising .thereon, shall be collected by virtue of such execution or writ, in the same manner as the sum therein directed to
be collected. 
SECTION 3. - The provisions of the first section of this chapter
shall not apply to the services in actions or proceedings before 
justices of the peace, where such fees are provided by law. 
SECTION 4. The following fees shall be allowed the sheriff or
other officer for services in executiug a judgment directing 
sale of mortgaged premises ; viz., for making sale when the
amount of the judgment does not exceed five hundred dollars,
tho sum of five dollars; when the amount of the judgment 
exceeds five hundred dollars and less than one thousand dollars,
the sum of eight dollars; and when tho amount of the judgment
exceeds one thousand dollars, the sum of ten dollars ; for
drawing, executing, and acknowledging the deed, the sum of
three dollars; for making the - receipt of sale in each case, three
dollars; for drawing advertisement of sale, one dollar; for
travel performed in, making such sale, to be computed from the
court house, five cents per mile; going and returning. 
SECTION 5. All fees to which sheriffs and their assistants are
entitled, for attendance upon any circuit or other court, except 
the supreme court of the state, on which they are or may by
law be bound to attend, shall be paid out of the treasury of the
county wherein such service shall have .been rendered,. by. the
treasurer - thereof, in the same. manner as the fees of grand and
petit jurors are now paid for attendance upon such courts. 
FEES OF CLERKS OF THE cmCUIT COURTS.
SECTIO~ 6. The fees of clerks of circuit courts for any servi- 
ces herein specified to be rendered by them, shall be as follows:For docketing cause, first time, fifty cents. 
paper, ten cents.
For drawing jury, in each cause, fifty cents.
For docketing each judgment, one dollar. 
For entering transcript of justice's judgment, and satisfying
same, one dollar. 
For per diem, during session of any court, to he paid out of 
the county treasury, 011 the certificate of the judge, three dollars.
For issuing and sealing every writ when filled up by them, 
.fifty cents, and for each subpoena, twenty-five cents.
Entering the return of every writ, except subpoena, twelve 
and a half cents; entering an appearance, retraxit, discontinu­
ance, non-suit, or default, twelve and a half cents. 
Entering every motion or order, twelve and a half cents.
Every report upon assessment of damages made by him, thirty­ 
seven and a half cents.
Every certificate, including seal, twenty-five cents. ,
Calling and swearing jury fifty cents; and for venire, thirty­ 
seven and a half cents.
Receiving and entering verdict, twenty-five cents.
Swearing each witness on the trial of a cause, six cents; and 
for administering every other oath, twelve and a half cen ts
each. 
Attendance in striking special jury and certifying names
selected, to each party, fifty cents. 
For recording every paper or other matter in any cause, and
for copies of papers or records, ten cents per folio. 
For determining and certifying the sufficiency of tho sureties
in any bond, twenty-five cents. 
Each blank writ furnished attorneys, including seal, twelve
and one-half cents. 
Entering surrender of bail, eighteen and three-fourths cents.
Each commission to take deposition, fifty cents.
Certificates of jurors, judge, or constables' attendance at 
court, twelve and a half cents.
Entering forfeiture of recognizance, twelve and a half cents.
Entering discharge of bail, twelve and a. half cents.
Entering a declaration to become a citizen of the United 
States, twenty-five cents; and for copy of same under seal of
court, fifty cents. 
Entering the final admission of an alien to the rights of eiti­
zenship, including certificate of the same under seal, one dollar. 
Entering every confession of judgment not including execu­
tion, two dollars. · 
For searching each volume for ea.ch judgment, twelve and a
half cents per volume. 
Entering plea of criminal in each cause, twenty-five cents.
For other services in criminal causes the clerk shall have the 
same fees as in ci vii actions.
For all services not herein enumerated, such fees as may be 
prescribed by the court in which the cause is pending. 
SECTION 7. The fees of the clerk, in any one case, shall not
exceed the following sums:- 
In cases settled or discontinued after answer, two dollars. 
In cases settled or discontinued after answer and before tho
cause has been put on the calendar, three dollars. 
In cases settled or discontinued after answer and when cause
has been put on the· calendar, four dollars. 
In cases where judgment is enterod without application to tho
court, three dollars. 
In cases where no answer is filed and judgment is entered on
application to the court, six dollars. 
In cases where an answer has been filed and judgment is ren­
dered on application to the court, or after a trial, teu dollars. 
FEES OF THE CLERK OF THE SUPREl\lE COURT.
SECTIO~ 8. The supreme court is hereby authorized to fix 
such fees for the services of tho clerk of said court, as to the
court shall seem proper. 
HECTIO~ 9. The clerk of the supreme court shall also receive
in addition to his fees, five dollars per day, during tho actual 
session of' the court, to be paid out of the state treasury semiauuuully, on the close of each term, on the certificate of tho
justices of said court, or a majority of them, of the number of
days attendance at such session, and a sufficient sum is hereby
unnually appropriated out of the state treasury, to pay the same. 
FEBS OF COMMISSIONERS TO TAKE TIBTIMONY.
8ECTIO~ 10. The persons to whom any commission shall be 
issued to take testimony in any cause or matter pending in any
court, shall be entitled to receive the same fees as allowed to
justices of the peace for the same services. 
FEES OF COURT COMMISSIO~ERS, AND COUNTY JUDGES ACTING AS
COURT COMMISSIONERS. 
SEC'l'lo,r 11. For taking bail thirty-eight cents. Deciding
upon an application for a writ of habeas corpus, or certiorari, 
I
. . l ) ) I . b 11 d E 
t nrty-eig it cents, w iet ier sue 1 writ e a owe or not. very
attendance upon the hearing of any motion for any order which 
such officer is authorized to grant, fifty cents; and the like fee
for attendance upon any motion for any official act to be done
by such officer, when no fee is specially provided for such act . 
Admitting any person to prosecute as the next friend, or to
defend as guardian of any infant, twenty-five cents. 
Evory order for a commission to examine witnesses, twenty­
five cents. 
Attending, settling, and certifying interrogatories to be an­
nexed to a commission, fifty cents. 
Every order for the examination of a. witness conditionally,
or upon any proceedings to perpetuate his testimony, twenty-five 
cents.
Every day's attendance on examination of such witness, one 
dollar and fifty cents.
Emry necessary order in the progress of a cause, except or­ 
ders to stay proceedings, twenty-five cents.
Signing a judgment, twelve cents.
Taxing a bill of costs, twenty-five cents. 
Taking the. aeknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment,
twenty-five cents. 
Taking a bond, undertaking, or recognizance, when the same
is required or authorized by law, twenty-five cents. 
For deciding on the sufficiency of sureties, and certifying such
sufficiency in cases where it shall appear, twenty-five cents. 
For every precept for a jury, summons for a witness, or attach­
ment against a witness, twenty-five cents. 
.Recoiving and filing the petition and accompanying papers of
an insolvent debtor, fifty cents. 
For every order, warrant, certificate, or appointment of as­
signees in such proceeding, twenty-five cents. 
For deciding on the propriety of directing an assignment of
the estate of any insolvent debtor, one dollar. 
Signing the discharge of any insolvent debtor, s,eventy-fi.rn
cents. 
For attending to the selection of referees, and certifying their
appointmeut, fifty cents. · 
For every order, warrant, or attachment made or issued in any
special proceeding authorized by law, twenty-five cents. 
For every notice to any party, officer, or person, required to be
given by any such officer, twenty cents. 
For every report, and all other papers and proceedings which
he may be required by law to prepare, in order to be signed by
himself, in cases where no specific allowance shall have' been
made for such paper or proceeding, for drafting the same, ten
cents for each folio, and for copying, six cents for each folio. 
Hearing and deciding on the return of a writ of habea« corpus,
one dollar. 
For administering an oath, in cases where no fee is specifically
provided for by law, and certifying the same when required,
twelve cents. 
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment or proof of any
conveyance. or mortgage of real estate, or any other instrument
which by law may be recorded, twenty-five cents for each person
making such acknowledgment, or whose execution of such con­
veyance, mortgage, or instrument shall be proved. 
Taking a surrender of principal in any cause, twenty-five cents.
For a commitment of such principal, twenty-five cents.
Allowing a writ of habeas corpus or certiorari, twenty-five 
cents.
A warrant of restitution, or to put any person in possession 
of lands, fifty cents.
For marrying, and making certificates and return thereof, one 
dollar and fifty cents.
For perusing a bill or petition for an injunction, or ne exeat, 
and allowing or refusing writ, one dollar. 
FEES OF COUNTY JUDGE ACTING AS JUDGE OP PROBATE. 
12. For granting letters of administration, when not
contested, seventy-five cents, and when contested or opposed, 
one dollar and fifty cents 
• 
Hearing any complaint or an application for the appointment 
of a guardian, fifty cents. 
Appointing ~ guardian, fifty cents; and when one guardian
shall be appointed for more than one person at the same time,
twenty-five cents for each person, after the first, for whom such
guardian shall be appointed. 
Judgment or order for probate of a will, when not contested,
seventy-five cents; when contested, one dollar and fifty cents. 
Judgment or order for settling au estate, fifty cents.
Partition of real estate, one dollar and fifty cents.
Order for distribution, fifty cents.
Examining and allowing an inventory, thirteen cents for each 
folio .
Administering an oath to an executor or other person, and 
certifying the same, when necessary, twelve cents.
Examining and allowing accounts of executors, administrators, 
or other persons, for the first folio, fifty cents, and for each additional folio, ten cents. ·" 
For each citation, summons, or other process, twenty-five
cents. 
Warrant to appraise or divide an estate, fifty cents.
Issuing a commission to examine and allow claims against an 
estate, thirty-eight cents. ·
Approving and filing a bond given on an appeal, twenty-five 
cents .
.Approving securities of executors or others, twenty-five cents.
Each order to" divideau estate among heirs, or to set off dower, 
twenty-five cents.
Order for an allowance to a widow, or to children under seven 
years of age, twenty-five cents.
Appointment of agent on partition of real estate, twenty-five 
cents.
Order for sale of personal estate, or for publication of any 
notice, or any other ordinary order in proceedings before him,
where no other provision is expressly made, twenty-five cents. 
Each order for sale of real estate to pay debts of an estate, fifty
cents. 
Extending the time for settling an estate, on examining and
allowing claims against an estate, twenty-five cents. 
Granting reference of accounts of executors or administrators,
or allowing report thereon, fifty cents. 
For a bond of executors, administrators, or guardians, on an
appeal, twenty-five cents. . 
Disallowing application for letters of administration or probate
of a will, to be paid by the party applying, fifty cents. 
For a warrant to set off dower, fifty cents.
Ordering and drawing a quietus, fifty cents.
Proportioning an insolvent estate among the creditors, seventy­ 
five cents. 
Entering and filing a caveat, twelve cents. 
Entering the account of an executor, administrator, or guard­ 
ian, ten cents for each folio. ·
Entering each oath of an executor or administrator, six 
cents.
Searching the records or files in his office, for each year, six 
cents. 
Recording wills and the proof thereof, letters of administra­
tion, of guardianship, and every other matter required to be
recorded, for each folio, ten cents; and where any will or other
matter is in any other than the English language, eighteen cents
for each folio. 
For a translation of any will from any other than the English
language, fifteen cents for each folio. 
Copies and exemplifications of the probate of a will, of letters
testamentary, or of" administration, or of any other proceeding
or order had or made before him, or of any other papers filed or
recorded in his office, transmitted on appeal, or furnished on
request to any person, eight cents for each folio. 
For all services required by law to be performed hy judges of
the county court acting as judges of probate, for which a com­
pensation is not herein provided, such fees as shall from time to 
time be established by the supreme court, by general rules; cor­
responding as near as may be with the rates herein specified:
provided, that the whole amount of fees taxed by any judge of the
county court acting as judge of probate, in his own behalf, in any
case not contested, shall in no case exceed fifteen dollars, unless
the same be audited and certified to be just by the judge of the
circuit court of the county. · 
FEES OF COUNTY JUDGE.
SECTION 13. · In addition to the fees allowed by law for doing 
probate business, the judge of the county court shall receive tho
following compensation. 
For each day actually engaged in holding court for the trans­
action of business, other than probate business, two dollars, to
be paid out of the county treasury, on the certificate of the clerk,
specifying the number of days that such judge bas actually
attended. 
For all services in any amicable action, when judgment is con­
fessed on the first appearance of parties, seventy-five cents, 
For every continuance or adjournment of a cause, fifty cents.
For taking bail, recognizance, or other security, when required 
by law, and approving the same, thirty cents.
For every order or notice required to be made or given by a 
county judge in the progress ·of a cause, except orders made on
the day of trial, fifty cents. / 
For all services in a cause wherein judgment is confessed by
defendant, or cause disposed of without trial on the merits, on
return of process, one dollar. 
For all services on the trial of a cause without a jury, includ­
ing the rendition of judgment, one dollar and fifty cents. 
For all services on the trial of a cause with a jury, including
receiving and entering verdict and rendering judgment, two dol­
lars ; if the jury be discharged and a new trial ordered, or the
cause otherwise disposed of, two dollars. .... 
For every judgment of discontinuance after adjournment or
dismissal of the action or proceedings without trial, seventy,-fivc 
oonb. 
1 
FEES OF EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
SECTION 14. For actual services and in lieu of all other fees, 
one dollar per day, and fifty cents for each half day, and their
actual and necessary disbursements for the benefit of the estate; 
but the county court may allow executors and administrators, in
cases of unusual difficulty or responsibility, such further sum as 
the judge may deem reasonable. 
FEm OF WITNESSES.
SECTION 15. For attending in any action or proceeding pend- 
ing in a court of record, seventy-five cents for each day, and
thirty-seven and one-half cents for each half day. 
For attending in any justice's court, or before any officer, per­ 
son or board, authorized to take the examination of ~·itnesses,
fifty cents for each day, and twenty-five cents for each half
day. 
For traveling, at the rate of six cents per mile in coming to
the place of attendance, to be estimated from the residence of
such witness if within this state, or from the boundary line of
this state which such witness passed in coming, if his . residence
be out the state. . 
The secretary of state, state treasurer, attorney general, regis­
ter, and treasurer of the state land office, any clerk, register of
deeds, county surveyor, or judge of the county court, attending
on a subpeena requiring the same with bills, records, or other
written evidence, shall be entitled to one dollar per day, and for 
traveling, at the rate of six cents per mile in coming and return­
ing from the residence of such witness. 
FEm OF CORONERS.
SECTION 16. For all services rendered by them, the same 
fees as are herein allowed to sheriffs for similar services.
For confining a sheriff in any house on civil process, fifty 
cents for each day, to be paid by such sheriff, before he shall 
be entitled to be discharged from such confinement, unless other­ 
wise ordered by the court. 
FEES OF CONSTABLES.
SECTION 17. Constables may be allowed to receive the fo,» 
l
· f 
owmg ees:For serving a warrant or other writ not herein provided for, 
on each person named therein, twenty-five cents.
For a copy of every summons delivered on request, or left at 
the place of residence of defendant, twelve and a half cents.
For serving a subpoena or summons, on each person named 
therein, twelve and a half cents. ·
For serving an attachment, fifty cents.
For each copy of an attachment, twelve and a half cents.
For each copy of inventory of property seized on attachment, 
twelve and a half cents.
For issuing summons on garnishee, twenty-five cents. 
For copy of any affidavit or other paper not otherwise enume­
rated, per folio, ten cents. 
For posting up each notice, twelve cents.
For each mile actually traveled going and returning to serve 
any process, [or] to give or post up notice, six cents.
Committing to prison, thirty-seven cents.
For summoning a jury, fifty cents. 
,.For writing a list of jurors, twelve cents.
For attending on a jury, twenty-five cents.
On all sums made on execution and paid over, charged upon 
the defendant, five per cent.
For notifying a plaintifff of a service of a warrant, or summons, 
or attachment, returnable in three days, twelve cents.
For serving every writ on an action for the recovery of per­ 
sonal property, fifty cents.
For summoning and swearing appraisers, and taking appraise­ 
ment, fifty cents.
For taking and approving security in any case, twenty-five 
cents. 
SECTION 18. When the services in the last section mentioned
are performed by any other person, the same fees shall be
allowed as constables are entitled to receive, and no more. 
FEES OF NOTARIES PUBLIC. 
SECTION 19. For drawing and copy of protest of the non­
payment of a promissory note or bill of exchange, or of the non­
acceptance of such bill,fifty cents, in the cases where by law
such protest is necessary, but in no other case. , 
For drawing and copy of every other protest, twenty-five
cents. 
For drawing, copy, and serving every notice of non-payment
of a note, or non-acceptance of a bill, twenty-five cents. 
For drawing any affidavit, or other paper or proceeding, for
which provision is not herein made, twenty cents for each folio,
and for copying the same, six cents for each folio. 
For taking the acknowledgment of deeds, and for other serv­
ices authorized by law, the same fees as are allowed to other 
officers for similar services. 
FEES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
SECTION 20. Justices of the peace may be allowed to receive
the following fees, and may tax the same in all cases where
applicable :- 
For a summons, warrant, or subpeena, twenty-five cents.
For a venire for a jury, twenty-five cents.
For a warrant in a criminal case, twenty-five cents.
For taking a recognizance of bail, twenty-five cents.
For administering any oath, six cents.
For certifying the same when administered out of court, six 
cents. ~
For a warrant of attachment, twenty-five cents. 
For entering a judgment, twenty-five cents.
For every adjournment, twelve cents.
For every bond, undertaking, or security, directed by law to 
be taken, and approved by the justice, twenty-five cents.
For swearing a jury, twenty-five cents. 
For taking an examination, deposition, or confession, per folio,
twelve cents. 
For copy of proceedings, or of any paper, or examination, in 
any case, when demanded, per folio, ten cents.
For entering a satisfaction of judgment, twelve cents.
For entering amicable action, without process, twenty-five 
cents.
For a transcript of judgment, twenty-five cents.
For opening a judgment for rehearing, twenty-five cents.
For filing every paper required to be filed, five cents.
For issuing notice to take 'deposition, twenty-five cents.
For taking and approving undertaking and making return to 
an appeal, including travel, one dollar.
For making return to writ of certiorari, per folio, ten cents.
Fo11 a search warrant, twenty-five cents.
For every affidavit or other paper, drawn by the justice, for 
which no other allowance is made by law, per folio, twelve
cents. 
For a commitment to jail, twenty-five cents.
For an order to bring up prisoner, twenty-five cents.
For an order to discharge prisoner, issued to jailer, twenty 
fiv.e cents.
For discharging a prisoner after a hearing on motion for 
discharge, twelve cents.
For an execution, twenty-five cents.
For every other writ, not. herein enumerated, twenty-five 
cents.
For taxing costs, twelve cents.
For marrying and making return thereof, one dollar and fifty 
cents, and such other sum as may.be allowed by the party making 
the application.
For holding an inquisition in cases of forcible entry and 
detainer, in addition to other fees, one dollar.
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of a deed, for 
each grant.or named therein, twenty-five cents.
For traveling to perform any duty, when not otherwise pro­ 
vided for, and such travel is necessary, going, per mile, six cents. 
PROVISIONS IN RELATION TO FEES IN JUSTICES' COURTS.
SECl'ION 21. In all civil cases at law, unless otherwise provi- 
ded, the party in whose favor judgment is given shall recover
costs, and the justice's court may give or refuse costs on all 
motions, at their discretion, unless otherwise directed. 
SECTION 22. At the time of entering a.judgment for costs in
any case, the justice may proceed to tax costs in such cause, 
and no notice of such taxing need be given to the party against 
whom judgment is rendered. 
SECTION 23. The justice shall allow no fees for the travel of
. t 1 th b d ti th f 
a. w1 ness, un ess e same e prove on 10 oa o some person
qualified to testify in the cause. 
SECTION 24. No fees shall be allqwed for travel in serving a 
subpoena, unless the same be charged by a constable or sheriff,
or be proved by the oath of the person who served the same. 
SECl'ION 25. The attendance of only iwo witnesses to each 
_particular fact before a justice of the peace, shall be taxed in the
"bill of costs; and if any witness shall attend upon two or more 
cases on the same day before the same justice's court his fees 
FEES OF REGISTERS OF DEEDS.
SECTION 81. For entering and recording any deed or other 
instrument, ten cents for each folio, to be paid when the same
is left for record. 
For copies of any records Of papers, when required, seven.'
cents for each folio. 
For recording any deed or other paper, in any other than the
English language, twenty cents for each folio. 
For every entry of a discharge of a mortgage in the margin
of a record, ten cents. 
For filing every other paper, and making an entry thereof,
when necessary, six cents. 
Searching for every such paper; on request, three cents for
each paper examined. 
FEES OF APPRAISERS, COMMISSIONERS, AND OTHERS.
SECTION 32. All appraisers of estates of deceased persons, 
appraisers of property taken on warrant of attachment, persons
appointed under any legal process or order for assigning dower, 
or making partition of real estate, sheriff's aids in criminal
cases, and all other private persons performing a1.1y other like
service required by law, or in the execution of legal process, 
where no express provision is made for compensation therefore, 
shall [be l ea titled to oue dollar for each day, and fifty cents for
each half day, for their services, and four cents a. mile for travel 
in going and returning. 
' ' 
shall be equally proportioned among the parties who shall
summon him. 
SECTION 26. No fees for copies or exemplifications of docu- 
~ d · · 1 11 b 11 d 1 h
ments or papers, or ror epositions, s ia e a owe , un ess sue 
copies or depositions were used upon the trial. 
SECTION 27. No allowance for disbursements, except to officers, shall be allowed, unless the items are particularly specified,
and proved to the justice, and the same were in the opinion of 
the justice necessary and reasonable in amount . 
SECTION 28. The justice shall hear any evidence which may
be offered to him, to prove that any charge is unreasonable, or
that the service has not been rendered. 
SECTION 29. The return of a sheriff or constable to any writ
l ll b d d . fi . id h h . 
s ia e ceme pnma acie evr ence t at sue return is correct,
and that tho service has been rendered, or disbursement made . 
SECTION 30. The justice shall have power, when he shall
deem it necessary, to command any constable to attend at the 
trial of a cause, and shall make an entry thereof in his docket,
and may tax in the bill of costs fifty cents for each half day such
constable shall so attend by his command. 
'FEES OF JURORS.
SECTION 88. Each grand and petit juror, except talesma.n, 
shall be entitled to one dollar and fifty cents for each day's
attendance upou any circuit court, and six cents for each mile
traveled in going and returning by the most usual route, to be
paid out of the treasury of the county, by the treasurer thereof,
on the certificate of the clerk of the court. 
Each talesman summoned and acting as a juror in a court of
record, shall be entitled to twenty-five cents for his services in
each cause, to be paid in the same manner herein provided for
the payment of grand jurors. 
In each case in which a jury shall be empannelod in any 
circuit court, the plaintifff shall pay to the clerk thereof, for the 
use of the county, the sum of three dollars, immediately after
the swearing of such jury, which shall be immediately paid by 
the clerk to the county treasurer.
Each juror sworn before any coroner, on any inquest taken by 
him, shall be entitled to one dollar for each day's attendance on
such inquest. 
Each juror sworn in any action in a Justice's court, or before
any sheriff on a writ of inquiry, shall be entitled to fifty cents
i>r each day's attendance to be taxed against the losing party, 
and when in any action before a justice of the peace ( except in
criminal cases) any of the parties to the action shall demand a 
jury trial, each party shall, before being entitled to the empan­ 
neling of a jury, pay jury fees for half a day's attendance in 
advance. 
FEES OF CLERK OF COUNTY COURT, AND OF WITNESSDJ, JUROBS, 
SHERIFFS, &e., IN SAID COURT.
SECTION 84. The fees of the clerk of the county court shall 
be the same as those allowed by law to the clerk of the circuit
court for similar services, but no fees shall be charged except for 
service necessarily and actually rendered. 
Sror10N 35. 'I'he fees of witnesses and jurors in the county
oourts shall be the same as are allowed by law to jurors and wit- 
. h . . b . 11 . l 
nesses in t e circuit courts ; ut in a cases m t ie county courts,
the fees of the jury shall be paid in the first instance by the
party requiring such jury. ~ 
SECTION 36. The fees of sheriffs and constables for services
rendered in county courts and for the service of process there- 
from, shall be such as are 'allowed by law to constables for similar services in civil proceedings before justices of the peace; and
where no fees for such services are provided for by law, they
shall be entitled to such fees as are allowed to sheriffs for similar
services in the circuit court. 
PEES IN THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OP STATE.
SECTION 37. For a copy of any act or resoldtion of the legis- 
lature, or of any other record, proceedings, or papers kept in the
office of the secretary of state, furnished to any private person
on request, twelve cents for each folio. 
For a certificate and seal thereto, twenty-five cents. 
FEES TO BE ALLOWED TO PARTIES IN COURTS OF LAW. / 
SECTION 38. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintifff,
upon a recovery in the following cases:- / 
. 
1. In an action for the recovery of real property, or when a. 
claim of title to real property arises on the proceedings, or is
certified by the court to have come in question at the trial. . 
2. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
except when a justice of the peace has jurisdiction. 
3. In the actions of which, according to law, a court of justice
of the peace has no jurisdiction. 
4. In an action for the recovery of money, where the plaintifff
shall recover fifty dollars or more, but in an action for assault,
battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution,
criminal conversation or seduction, if the plaintifff recover less
than fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs than
damages; and in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, if the plaintifff recover less than fifty dollars damages,
he shall recover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers
also property, the value of which, with the damages, amounts to
fifty dollars. 
Such value must be determined by the jury, court, or referee
by whom the action is tried. When several actions shall be 
brought on one bond, recognizance, promissory note, bill of
exchange, or other instrument in writing, or in any other case,
for the same cause of action against several parties who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, no costs other
than disbursements shall be allowed to the plaintifff in more than
one of such actions, which shall be at his election, provided the
party or parties proceeded against in such other action or actions,
shall, at the time of the commencement of the previous action or
actions, have been within this state and not secreted. · 
39. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defend­
ant in the actions mentioned in the last section, unless the plain- 
tiff be entitled to costs therein.
40. In other actions, costs may be allowed or not, in 
the discretion of the court.
Where there are several defendants not united in interest, and 
making separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintifff
fails to recover judgment against all, the court may award costs 
to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or
any of them. 
In the following cases the costs of the appeal shall be in the
discretion of the court:- 
1. Where a new trial shall be ordered.
2. Where a judgment shall be affirmed in part and: reversed in 
part. 
SECTION 41. When allowed, costs shall be as follows:For a retaining fee, three dollars; but uo such fee shall be 
allowed to the dMendant's attorney upon confessing judgment,
when no suit shall have been actually brought. 
A term fee for each term of the court during the progress of & 
cause, not exceeding three terms in any one cause, two dollars.
Drawing o.11 process and returns, admission of guardians or next 
friends, recognizances of b~ in suits against the bail only, plead- 
mgs, adjournments, suggestions, entries, special verdicts, bills of
exceptions, demurrer to evidence, and cases which shall ho 
necessary, and all other necessary entries, pleadings, and proceedings in an action according to the practice of tho court, and
for which no special provision is herein made, for each folio,
twenty-five cents. 
For engrossing or copying the same, including all records,
writs, returns, pleadings, instruments, and all other writings
necessarily inserted, for each folio, twelve cents. 
For every necessary ordinary motion, sixty-two and a half
cents; but not to be allowed upon any confession of judgment,
where no suit shall have been actually brought, for any motion
except for judgment. 
For attending the execution of a writ of inquiry or the assess­
ment of damage by the clerk, one dollar and fifty cents. 
For attending the trial of a cause, three dollars ; attending
the judge out of term upon petition, or upon special motion, one
dollar. 
For arguing a demurrer, special verdict, bill of exceptions,
demurrer to evidence, any enumerated motion, certiorari, habeas 
corpus, or a return to mandamus, or prohibition, throe dollars.
For a brief, and copies thereof, one dollar. 
Drawing a judgment, seventy-five cents. .
Attendance before a referee, three dollars per day during the 
trial of the cause before such referee ; attendance on striking a
jury, and on the examination of witnesses out of court, fifty cents. 
Such fees shall be taxed against and recovered from the
adverse party, for the use and benefit of the party recovering
judgment, and be collected and paid over in the same manner
as judgments are collected and paid. 
SECTION 42. These rates shall be estimated as follows :1. If the plaintifff recover judgment, it shall be upon the 
amount of money, or the value of the property recovered, or
claimed, or attached, or affected by the construction of the will, 
or sought to be partitioned, or the amount found due upon the
mortgage, in an action for foreclosure. 
2. If the defendant recover judgment, it shall be upon the
amount of money, or the value of the property claimed by the
plaintifff, or attached, or affected by the construction of the will,
or of the defendant's interest in property sought to be parti­
tioned, or the amount claimed in an action for foreclosure. 
Such amount of value must be determined Ly tho jury, court, or
referees by whom the action is tried or judgment rendered, or the
commissioners appointed to make partition in an action therefore. 
SECTION 43. When the judgment is for tho recovery of
mon ey, interest from the time of the verdict or report until 
judgment is finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and
added to the costs of the party entitled thereto. 
SF.CTION 44. The clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment,
on the application of the prevailing party, upon two days' notice 
to the other, the sum of the charges for costs, as above provided,
and the necessary disbursements and fees of officers allowed by 
law, including the compensation of referees, and the expense 
of printing the papers upon any appeal ; the disbursements 
shall be stated in detail, and verified by affidavits which shall
be filed. 
SECTION 45. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to
each, per day spent in the business of the reference; but the parties 
may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation. 
SECTION 46. When an application shall be made to a court
or referees to postpone a trial, the payment to the adverse party 
of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides the fees of witnesses,
may be imposed as the condition of granting the postponement. 
SECTION 4 7. Costs may be allowed on a motion in the discre ..
tion of the court or judge, not exceeding ten dollars, and may
be absolute, or directed to abide the event of the action. 
48. When costs are adjudged against an infant plain­
tiff, the guardian by whom he appeared in fhe action shall be 
responsible therefore, and payment may be enforced by attachment. 
SECTION 49. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered as in an 
action by and against a person prosecuting or defending in his
own right; but such costs shall be chargeable only upon or 
collected of the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court
shall direct the same to be paid by the plaintifff or defendant per­ 
sonally, for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defense;
but this section shall not be construed to allow costs against 
executors and administrators where they are now exempt by law.
50. In actions in which the cause of action shall, 
by assignment after the commencement of the action, or in any
other manner, become the property of a person not a party to 
the action, such person shall be liable for the costs, in the same
manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be
enforced by attachment. 
SECTION 51. Upon the settlement before judgment, of any
action mentioned in section thirty-eight of this chapter, no
greater sum shall be demanded from the defendant as costs,
than at the rate prescribed in section forty-one of this chapter. 
IN ACTIONS REMOVED FROM: JUSTICES' COUR'IS BY APPEAL.
SECTION 82. If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be 
awarded to the respondent; if reversed, costs shall be awarded
to the appellant; if it be affirmed in part, the costs, or such
part as to tho court shall seem just, may be awarded to either
party; this section shall apply to cases where there is no now
trial in the appellate court. 
SECTION 58. If the judgment below, or any part thereof, be
collected, and the judgment be afterward reversed, the appellate
court shall order the amount collected to be restored with
interest from the time of collection ; the order may be obtained
upon proof of the facts made at or after tho hearing, upon a 
previous notice of six days. 
SECTION 54. If upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one
party, and costs be awarded to tho other, the appellate court
shall set off one against the other, and render judgment for tho
balance. 
SEcrioN 55. The following fees and costs, and no others, 
except fees of officers and disbursements, shall be allowed upon
appeals. 
To the appellant on reversal, ten dollars.
To the respondent on affirmance, ten dollars.
To the respondent, if the appeal is dismissed or discontinued, 
five dollars.
To the justice of the peace for his return, one dollar.
If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part, and 
affirmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to either
party shall be such sum as the appellate court may award, 'not
exceeding five dollars. 
SECTION 56. The same costs, fees, and disbursements shall
be allowed to the successf ul party, in cases of new trial on appeal 
in the appellate court, as on affirmauce or reversal of a 
judgment. 
FEES FOR PUBLISHING IN NEWSPAPERS LEGAL NOTICES AND
ADVERTISEMENTS. 
SECTION 57. For publishing notices of any application of an
insolvent for six weeks, and furnishing the evidence of such 
publication, one dollar and sixty-seven cents ; if published ten
weeks, two dollars. 
SECTION 58. Such notice may be published in the following 
manncr:- 
1. A general heading, stating whether such notices are for
the purpose of being discharged from debt, or for the purpose
of having the person exonerated from imprisonment, shall ho 
prefixed to each class of applicants ; next, the name of the
applicant; next, the date ofthe first publication of such notice;
next, the name of the officer before whom the creditors are
required to appear; next, the place appointed for such appear­
ance ; next, the time for such appearance ; and every such
application shall be deemed as valid as if such notice had been
published at length. 
SECTION 59. For publishing any other notice, or any other
order, citation, summons, or any other proceeding or advertisement, required by law to be published in any newspaper, not 
more than forty cents per folio for the first insertion, and twenty
cents per folio for each insertion after the first. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
SECTION 60. Every officer whose fees are hereinbefore ascer- 
tained, limited, and appointed, shall publish and set up in his
office fair tables of his fees according to the provisions of this
chapter, in some conspicuous place, for the inspection of all 
persons who have business in such office, upon pain of forfeiting
for each day the same shall not be put up through such officer's
neglect, a sum not exceeding two dollars, which may be recovered in the name of any person before any justice of the peace
of the same county. 
SECTION 61. The allowance of any fees by this chapter shall
not apply to any case where special provision is otherwise made 
by law for any particular service, but the fees for such service 
provided in the statute requiring the service,
or providing the compensation therefore. 
62. The secretary of state, treasurer, attorney gon­
eral, and register and treasurer of the state land office, respect­
ively, shall be authorized to require searches in the respective
offices of each other, and in the offices of the clerks of the
supreme court, of the several circuit courts, of the county courts,
or registers of deeds, for any papers, records, or documents
necessary to the discharge of the duties of their respective offices,
and to require copies thereof, and extracts therefrom, without
the payment of any fee or charge whatever. 
SECTION 63. Tho term "folio," when used as a measure for
computing fees or compensation, shall be construed to mean one
hundred words, counting every figure necessarily used as a
word ; and any portion of a folio, when in the whole draft
or paper there shall not be a complete folio, and when there
shall be any excess over the last folio, shall be computed as a
folio. 
SECTION 64. No judge, justice, sheriff, or other officer whatever, or other person to whom any fees or compensation shall
be allowed by law for any service, shall take or receive any other
or greater fee or reward for such service, but such as shall be
allowed by tho laws of this state. 
65. No fee or compensation allowed by law shall be
demanded or received by any officer or person for any service, 
unless such service was actually rendered by him, except in case
of prospective costs hereinafter specified; but this section shall
not prevent any officer from demanding any fee herein allowed
for any service of which he is entitled by law to require the
payment previous to rendering such service. 
SECTION 66. A violation of either of the two last sections
shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and the person guilty thereof
shall be liable to the party aggrieved for treble the damages sus­
tained by him. 
SECTION 67. No fee shall be taxed for services as having been
rendered by any attorney, solicitor, clerk, sheriff, or other officer, 
in the progress of a cause, unless such service was actually rendered, except when otherwise expressly provided. 
68. No record, writ, return, pleading, instrument, or
other writing, copied into any proceeding, entry, process, or
suggestion, shall be computed as any part of the draft of such 
proceeding, entry, process, or suggestion. 
SECTION 69. The legal fees paid for certified copies of the
depositions of witnesses, filed in any clerk's office, and of any 
documents or papers recorded or filed in any public office,
necessarily used on the trial of a cause, or on the assessment of
damages, shall be allowed in the taxation of costs. 
70. No attorney or counsel in any cause shall be
allowed any fee for attending as a witness in such cause. 
SECTION 71. Every officer upon receiving any fees for any
official duty or service shall, if required by the person paying the 
same, make out in writing, and deliver to such person, a particular account of such fees, specifying for what they respectively
accrued, and shall receipt the same ; and if he refuse 01· .neglect 
to do so, he shall be liable to the party paying the same for
thrco times the amount so paid. 
SECTION 72. Upon the settlement of an execution by a defendant, or upon settling any action or demand, the sheriff or 
attorney claiming any fees which shall not have been taxed,
shall, upon being required by the defendant, and on his paying
the expenses thereof, have his fees taxed by some proper officer
authorized to tax costs in the court in which the action may be
ponding, or from which the execution shall have. been issued. 
SECTION 73. No sheriff, attorney, or other person shall collect 
any foes, after having been required as aforesaid to have the same 
taxed, without such taxation having been made. 
SECTION 74. No fee shall be charged by any officer for administering the oath of office to any member of the legislature, to 
any military officer, or to any township officer, and no more than
twelve cents shall be charged for administering such oath to any
other officer. 
SECTION 75. When a fee is allowed to one officer, the same
fee shall be allowed to other officers for the performance of the 
same services, when such officers are by law authorized to perform such services. 
SECTION 76. When any person shall attend a court of record
as a witness in behalf of the state, upon the request of the pub- 
1
. t b b . f . 
ic prosecu or, or upon a su pcena, or y virtue o a recogmzance
for that purpose, and it shall appear that such person has come 
from any other state or territory of the United States, or from
any foreign country, or that such person is poor, the court may,
by order on its minutes, direct the county treasurer of tho 
county in which the court shall be sitting, to pay such witness
such sum of money as shall seem reasonable for his expenses. 
SECTION 77. When any prosecution instituted in the name
of this state, for breaking any law of this state, shall fail, or 
where the defendant shall prove insolvent, or escape, or be
unable to pay the fees when convicted, the fees shall be paid out 
of the county treasury, unless otherwise ordered by the court :
provided, that no fees shall be paid out of the county treasury 
for mileage to the district attorney. 
SECTION 78. The attorney general is authorized to issue subpceuas, and compel the attendance of witnesses on behalf of the 
state, without paying or tendering fees in advance, and any
witness failing or neglecting to attend, after being served with a 
subpoena, may be proceeded against, and shall be liable in the
same manner, as provided by law in other cases where fees have
been paid or tendered. 
SECTION 79. The clerk of any court at which any witness
shall have attended on behalf of the state in a civil or criminal 
action, shall give to such witness a certificate of travel and
attendance, which shall entitle him to receive the amount from
the state treasury. 
SECTION 80. The provisions of the next two preceding sections of this chapter' shall extend to all actions. and informations 
brought in the name of the attorney general, or any other pcrsou or persons, for the benefit of the state. 
SECTION 81. The costs and expenses of foreclosing any mort- 
gage by advertisement, shall be taxed by some officer authorized
to tax costs, in a court of record, upon the requisition of any 
party liable to pay the same, and upon such party paying the
expense thereof. 
SECTION 82. Every officer authorized to tax costs in any
court for services rendered in any proceeding authorized by law, 
shall examine the bills presented to him for taxation, whether
such taxation be opposed or not, and shall be satisfied that the
items charged ip such bill are correct and legal, and shall strike
out all charges for services which in his judgment were not neces- .
sary to be performed. 
83. When there shall be charges in a bill of costs
for the attendance of any witnesses, or copies or exemplifications
of documents or papers, or for any other disbursements, except
to officers for services rendered, such charges for witnesses shall
not be taxed without an affidavit stating the distance they
respectively traveled, and the days they actually attended, and
such charges for copies shall not be taxed without an affidavit
that such copies were actually and necessarily used, or necessa­
rily obtained for use; nor shall such disbursements be allowed
without an affidavit specifying the items thereof particularly,
nor unless they appear to have been necessary and reasonable
in amount. 
84. On each action in the circuit court there shall
be levied a tax of one dollar, which shall be paid to the clerk at 
the time of the commencement thereof; which tax so levied
shall be paid into the treasury of the state, and form a separate 
fund, to be applied to the payment of the salary of judges ; said
sum of one dollar shall be taxed in the bill of costs and recov­
ered as other costs of suit. 
OF FILING SECURITY FOR COSTS. 
SECTION 85. The court in which any civil action may be
pending, may, in all cases where it shall appear reasonable and
proper, require the plaintifff to give sufficient security for all
such costs as may be awarded against him therein. 
SECTION 86. When an action shall be commenced in any
court- 
1. For a plaintifff not residing within the jurisdiction of such
court, or for several plaintifffs who are all non-residents; or- 
2. For, or in the name of the trustees or assignees of any
debtor; or- 
3. For or in the name of any person in execution for crime ;
or- 
4. In the name of any infant whose next friend has not given
security for costs,- 
The defendant may require such plaintifff to file security for 
the payment of the costs that may be incurred by the defendant 
in such suit or proceeding. 
SECTION 87. If, after the commencement of an action, the
plaintifff shall become a non-resident, or all the plaintifffs shall 
become non-residents, or be sentenced to state prison for any
term less than for life, the defendant may also require such 
security to be filed. 
SECTION 88. The order shall be to file such security, and that
all proceedings on the part of the plaintifff be stayed until such 
security be filed, as hereinafter provided, and may be made by
any judge or court commissioner, upon due proof by affidavit
or the facts entitling such defendant thereto. 
SFCI'ION 89. Such security shall be given in the form of a 
bond, in a penalty of at least two hundred and fifty dollars, with
one or more sufficient sureties, who shall swear that they are 
each worth the amount stated in the bond, over and above all
debts, to the defendant, conditioned to pay on demand all costs
that may be awarded to the defendant in such action. 
SECTIO~ 90. It shall be filed with the clerk of the court, and
notice thereof be given to the defendant or his attorney, within 
twenty days after notice of the order to stay proceedings.
SECTION 91. If any sepuritj' in any cause shall remove out 
of the state, or be deemed by the court insufficient, such court
may require the plaintifff to give new security to the satisfaction 
of the court, for the payment of all such costs as may be awarded
against him in the action ; and every person becoming such
surety shall be liable for all costs from the commencement of
the action, in like· manner as if he had been the original obligor. 
SECTION 92. In the cases in which, according to the provisions of this chapter, a defendant at the commencement of an 
action shall be entitled to require security for costs, the attorney
for the plaintifff shall be liable for such costs to an amount not
exceeding one hundred dollars, until security therefore be filed
as herein provided, whether such security shall have been filed 
by the defendant or not.
SECTION 93. Such attorney may relieve himself from such 
liability by filing security as herein provided, without being
required to do so by the defendant, and by giving notice thereof 
to such defendant or his attorney. 
Chapter 88, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. The county judge or a court commissioner of any
county in this state, in proceedings supplementary to an execu- 
ti b 11 d t • th '°' 11 · '°' fi • •
ion, may e a owe o receive e .10 owmg tees : or issuing 
an order requiring a judgment debtor or debtors to appear and
answer concerning his or their property, as provided in section
two hundred and two of the code of procedure of this state,
(section eighty-eigl,t of chapter one hundred and thirtyfour,)
fifty cents; for issuing a warrant requiring the sheriff of any
county where such debtor or debtors may reside, to arrest him
or them, and bring him or them before such judge, as provided
in said section two hundred and two, fifty cents; for issuing an
order requiring such judgment debtor or debtors to enter into
an undertaking as provided in section two hundred and three
of the code of this state, (eighty-nine, ib.,) twenty-five cents; for
issuing an order requiring any person to appear as provided in
section two hundred and five of the code of this state, ( ninetyone, ib.,) twenty-five cents; for every subpoena issued in such
proceedings, twenty-five cents; for filing every necessary paper
in such proceeding, six cents; for administering each and every
oath in such proceeding, ten cents; for each and every day 
actually spent in· the examination of such judgment debtor or
debtors, or of the witnesses examined at such hearing, three
dollars; for issuing any order requiring such judgment debtor
or debtors to deliver property for tho satisfaction of such judg­
ment, as provided in section two hundred and eight of the
code of this state, (ninety-four, ib.,) twenty-five cents; for issu­
ing an order appointing a receiver, twenty-five cents; for issuing
an order forbidding the transfer· or other disposition of the prop­
erty of the judgment debtor or debtors, if in a separate order,
twenty-five cents; if coupled with any other order and requir­
ing but one signature, ten cents ; for issuing each and every
order, warrant, or attachment necessary for the enforcement of
the provisions of section two hundred and thirteen of the code
of this state, (ninety-nine, ib.,) twenty-five cents. 
SECTION 2. Nothing in this act shaJJ. be construed to extend
the powers of a court commissioner beyond what they now are 
as provided by law.
Approved May 18th, 1858. 
CHAPTER CXXXIV. 
OF EXECUTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY THERETO. 
SECTION 1. The party in whose favor judgment has been
heretofore or shall hereafter be given, may at any time within 
two years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforco the
same, as prescribed by this title. 
SECTION 2. After the lapse of two years from the entry of
judgment, an execution can be issued only by the leave of tho
court, upon motion, with personal notice to the adverse party,
unless he be absent or non-resideut, or cannot be found to make
such service, in which case such service may be made by publication, or in such other manner as the court shall direct. Such
leave shall not be given unless it be established by the oath of the
party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment or some
part thereof remains unsatisfied and due. When the judgment
shall have been rendered in a court of justice of the peace, and
docketed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court, the appli­
cation for leave to issue execution must be to the court where 
judgment is docketed.
3. Where a judgment requires the payment of money 
or the de~verhy of real or bpersonal . property, tJd1e d~mtel ~ay1 be
enforced m t ose respects y execution, as provi e m us c 1ap­ 
ter. Where it requires the performance of any other act, a
certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party 
against whom it is given, or the person or officer who is required
to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced. If he 
zefuse, ho may be punished by the court as for a contempt.
4. There shall be three kinds of execution : one 
against the property of the judgment debtor ; another against
his person ; and the third for the delivery of the possession of 
real or personal property, or such delivery with damages fQr
withholding the same. They shall be deemed the process of tho
court, hut they need not be sealed nor subscribed, except as
prescribed in section eight. 
SECI'IOS 5. Where the execution is against the property of
the judgment debtor it may be issued to the sheriff of ans .. 
' J~~~~ 
county where the judgment is docketed. Where it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to tho
sheriff or the county where the property or some part thereof is
situated. Executions may be issued at the same time to different counties. 
SECTION 6. Real property adjudged to be sold, must be sold
in the county where the premises or some part of them are sit- 
uated, by the sheriff of that county, or by a referee appointed
by the court for that purpose, and thereupon tho sheriff or referee shall execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass the rights and interests of the
parties in the property adjudged to be sold. 
SECTION 7. If the action be one in which tho defendant might
have been arrested, as provided in sections two and four of chap- 
tcr one hundred and twenty-seven of the revised statutes, an
execu tion against the person of the judgment debtor may be 
issued to any county within the jurisdiction of the court, after
the return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in 
whole or in part. 
SECTION 8. The execution must be scaled with the seal or
the court from which it issues, directed to the sheriff, or coro- 
ner, where the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by tho
party issuing it, or his attorney, and must intelligibly refer to 
the judgment, stating the court, the county where the judgment
roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount
of the judgment, if it he for money, and the amount actually
due thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which
the execution is issued, and 'shall require the officer substantially as follows :- 
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it 
shall require the officer to satisfy the judgment out of the per­
sonal property of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, out of the real property belonging to him on
the day when the judgment was docketed in the county, or at
any time thereafter. . 
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands or
personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real
property or trustees, it shall require the officer to satisfy tho
judgment out of such property. 
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the officer to arrest such debtor and commit him to tho
jail of the county, until he shall pay the judgment or be dis­
charged according to law. 
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or per­ 
sonal property, it shall require the officer to deliver the posses­
sion of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled
thereto, and may at tho same time require the officer to satisfy
any costs, damages, or routs and profits, recovered by the same 
judgment, out of the personal property of the party against
whom it was rendered, and the value of the property for which
the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, if a deliv­
ery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property
cannot be found, then out of the real property belonging to him
on the day when the judgment was docketed, or at any time
thereafter, and shall in that respect be deemed an execution
against property. 
SECTION 9. The execution shall be returnable within sixty
days after its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with whom
record of judgment is filed. 
10. But if the defendant be imprisoned on execution
in another cause, or upon process in the same action, or shall 
have been surrendered in exoneration of his bail in such action,
an execution may issue against his body in those cases allowed
by law, without any previous execution against his property. 
SECTION 11. When the body of a party shall ham been
arrested on an execution issued for that purpose, 110 other exe- 
• b , d . t l . l . .
cution can e issue agams nm or us property, except m cases 
specially provided by law ; but if any person who shall have
been arrested on an execution shall escape, he may be retaken
by a new execution against his body, or au execution against 
his property may be issued in the same manner as if the body
of such prisoner had never been taken in execution. 
12. Whenever any person shall be arrested by virtue
of an execution issued upon any judgment rendered in a court 
of record, he shall be safely kept in secure custody, in the
manner prescribed by law. . 
13. If in any case where an officer has an execution
against property, there is any reasonable doubt as to the owner­ 
ship of the property, or as to its 'liability to be taken on the execution, the officer may require sufficient security to indemnify
him for levying upon such property. 
SECTION 14. Whenever a judgment shall be rendered upon
contract, or upon any prior judgment, and execution shall be 
issued thereon, it shall be lawful to direct upon such execution
the collection of interest on the amount recovered, from the
time of recovering the same until such amount be paid. 
15. Upon the receipt of any execution, it shall be
the duty of the sheriff or other officer to indorse thereon the 
d d 1 f } d I l · d I 
year, month, ay, an iour o t ie ay w ien re receive t re same.
16. In all cases where judgment shall be obtained 
in any court against the sheriff of any county, either singly or 
• I h . d f di . h . l l
wit 1 ot ers, instea o irecting t e execution t iereon to t 10 
coroner of the county, it may be directed and delivered to any
person ( except a party in interest in • the action) who shall be 
designated by the court in term by an order to be entered in the
minutes, or by any judge thereof in vacation by an order to be
indorsed on such execution. 
17. The person so designated and receiving such
execution to execute the same, shall, in respect to such execu­
tion, be deemed a coroner of the county, and shall be liable, in 
all respects, to all the provisions of law respecting sheriffs, so
far as the same may be applicable. 
SECTrox 18. Personal property shall he bound from tho time
it is seized in execution. 
SECTIO~ 19. Upon executions against the property of a
defendant, the officer shall levy upon any current gold or silver
coin belonging to such defendant, and shall pay and return the
same as so much money collected, without exposing the same
for sale at auction. 
S~TIO~ ~- Upon such execution the officers may levy upon
and sell any bills 01· other evidences of debt issued by any mon- 
eyed corporation, or by the government of tho U nitcd States,
and circulatod as money, which shall belong to the defendant in
such execution. 
SECTIOX 21. When goods and chattels shall be pledged for the
payment of money, or the performance of auy contract or agreement, the right and interest in such goods of the person making 
such pledge may be sold on execution against him, and the purchaser shall acquire all the right and interest of the defendant, 
and shall be entitled to the possession of such goods and chattels
on complying with the terms and conditions of the fledge . 
• RECTIO:'<i 22. No sale of any goods or chattels shal be made by
virtue of any execution, unless previous notice of such sale shall
ham been given twenty days successively, by fastening up written
or printed notices thereof in three public places of the town 
where such sale is to be had, specifying the time and place where
tho same is intended to be had. 
OF THE EXEMPTION OF PROPERTY FROM EXECUTION, ae, 
SECTIO~ 23. A homestead, consisting of any quantity of land
not exceeding forty acres, used for agricultural purposes, and 
tho dwelling house thereon and its appurtenances, to be selected
by the owner thereof, and not included in any town plot, or city,
or village, or instead thereof, at the option of the owner, a quantity of land, not exceeding in amount one-fourth of an aero,
being within a recorded town plot, or city, or village, and the
dwelling house thereon, and its appurtenances, owned and occupied by any resident of the state, shall not be subject to forced
sale on execution, or any other final process from a court, for 
any debt or liability contracted after the first day of January, in 
the year one thousand eight hundred and forty-nine. 
SECTJO~ 2-t. Such exemption shall not affect any laborer's or
mechanic's lien, or extend to any mortgage thereon lawfully 
b · d } h h 1· · f l
o tame ; mt sue mortgage or ot er a ienation o such and 
by the owner thereof, if a married man, shall not be valid with· f 1 · r-. f I 
out the signature o t 10 wue o t 10 same.
Sscnos 2.5. Whenever a levy shall bo made upon the lands 
or tenements of a householder whose homestead has not been
selected and set apart by metes and bounds, such householder may 
notify the officer, at the time of making such levy, of what he
· regards as his homestead, with a description thereof within the 
limits- above prescribed, and the remainder alone shall be sub­
ject to sale under such levy. 
SECTIO~ 26. If the plaintifff in execution shall be dissatisfied
with the quantity of land selected and set apart as aforesaid, the
officer making such levy shall cause the same to be surveyed, 
50 
beginning at a point to be designated by the owner, and set off 
in a compact form, including the dwelling house and its appur­
tenances, to the amount specified in the twenty-third section of
this chapter ; and the expenses of such survey shall be charge­
able on the execution, and collected thereupon, if it shall appear
after said survey that the owner of said land did not correctly
state his metes and bounds ; otherwise the expenses of survey
shall be borne by the person directing the same. 
SECTION 27. After the survey shall have been made, the
officer making the levy may sell the- property levied upon, and
not included in the set-off, in the same manner as provided in
other cases for the sale of real estate on execution, and in giving 
a. deed of the same, he may describe it according to his original
levy, excepting therefrom by metes and bounds, according to the
certificates of survey, the quantity set off as aforesaid. 
28. Any person owning and occupying any dwelling
house on land not his own, which land he shall be rightfully 
in possession of by lease or otherwise, and claiming such houso
as his homestead, shall be entitled to the exemption of such 
house. 
SECTTON 29. · Real estate exempt from forced sale on execu­
tion or other final process, as the homestead of a family, shall 
likewise, after the death of the owner thereof, be exempt from
the payment of his debts contracted after the ninth day of Feb­
ruary, one thousand eight hundred and fifty, in all cases in
which any infant children of the said owner shall survive tho
death of such owner, and no executor or administrator shall
have a right to the possession of any real estate so exempted, or 
to tho rents or profits of the same. 
SECTtON 30. Nothing in this chapter shall be considered as
exempting any real estate from taxation or sale for taxes. 
S 31 N f: · d 
i-: ECTION • o property hereina ter mentione or rcpresented, shall be liable to attachment, execution or sale, on any 
final process issued from any court in this state. 
1. The family Bible. 
. 2. Family pictures or school books. 
. 3. The library of the debtor; but this provision shall not be
deemed to extend to circulating libraries. 
4. A seat or pew in any house or place of public worship.
5. Tho right of burial of the dead. .
6. All wearing apparel of the debtor and his family ; all beds, 
bedsteads, and bedding kept and used for the debtor and his
family; all stoves and appendages put up or kept for the me of
the debtor and his family; all cooking utensils, and all other
household furniture not herein enumerated, not exceeding two
hundred dollars in value, 
7. Two cows; ten swine; one yoke of oxen and one horse, or in
lieu of one yoke of oxen and a horse, a span of horses; ten sheep,
and the wool from the same, either in the raw material, or manu­
factured into yarn or cloth; the necessary food for all the stock
mentioned in this section for one year's support, either provided or
growing, or both, as the debtor may choose ; also one wagon, cart,
or dray, one sleigh, one plough, one drag, and other farming uten­
sils, including tackle for teams, not exceeding fifty dollars in value. 
. 8. The provisions for the debtor and his family necessary for
one year's support, either provided or growing, or both, and fuel
necessary for one year. 
U. The tools and implements, or stock in trade, of any mechanic;
miner, or other person, used and kept for the purpose of carrying· 
011 his trade or business, not exceeding two hundred dollars in
value; the library and implements of any professional man, not 
exceeding two hundred dollars in value; all or which articles
bcreinbefore intended· to be exempt, shall be chosen by the
debtor, his agent, servant, clerk, or legal representatives, as the 
case may be. · 
10. All monies arising from insurance of any property ex­
empted from sale on execution, when such property has been
destroyed by fire. 
OF PROCEEDINGS ON BALE, AND REDEMPTION, AND MISCELLANEOUS 
PROVISIONS, 
SECTION 32. No personal property shall be· exposed for sale,
unless the same be present and within the view of' those attend·
iug such sale. It shall be offered for sale in such lots and parcels
as shall ho calculated to bring the highest price. 
SECTION 33. Any share or interest of a stockholder in any
bank,· insurance company, or other joint stock company that 
. b .. d d 1 l . f l i
is or may o incorporate un er t ie aut iority o t 1 s stato, 
may he levied upon or attached, by leaving an attested copy of
the writ with the clerk, treasurer, or cashier of the company, if
there be any such officer; otherwise with any officer or person
who has at the time the custody of the books and papers of the
corporation. · , 
SECTION 34. Any share or interest so levied upon or attached,
with all the dividends that shall thereafter accrue thereon, shall
be held and sold to satisfy the judgment, in like manner as any
other property levied on is held and sold. 
SECTION 35. If tho officer having an attachment or an exocution against any such stockholder, shall exhibit the writ to the 
ffi
r 1
l
. . d k d 
o ccr o t ie company w 10 is appointe to cop a recor or
account of the shares or interest of the shareholders therein, 
and shall request a certificate of the number of shares or amount
of the interest held by the defendant in such action, such officer
of the company shall give such certificate to the person holding
the writ; and if he shall unreasonably refuse to do so, or if ho 
willfully give a false certificate thereof, be shall be liable for
double tho amount of all damages occasioned by such refusal or 
false certificate, to ho recovered in an action against him, unless
the judgment is satisfied by the original defendant. 
SECTION 36. If execution be issued on a judgment rendered
against any person as terre-tenant, heir, or dcvisee of any deceased 
person, it shall command the amount of such judgment to be
satisfied out of the real estate whereof the ancestor, testator, or
person deceased was seized at tho time the same real estate
became liable, or at any time afterward, or at the time of the
death of such ancestor, testator, or other deceased person, as the
case may require, unless such heir, dovisee, or tcrre-teuant shall
have made his own estate liable to such judgment. 
SECTION 87. Lands, tenements, and real estate holden by any
One in trust or for the use of another, shall bo liable to debts, 
J. udgments, decrees, executions, and attachments against the
person to whose use they are holden. . 
SECTION 38. If a party die after judgment rendered against
him, but before execution issued thereon, the execution on 
such judgment shall not be suspended by reason of the nonage
of any heir of such party ; but no execution shall issue on any
such judgment until one year after the death of the. party
against whom the same was rendered. 
SECTIO~ 39. If any person, arrested on execution against his
body, shall die while so charged, new execution may be issued 
against the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of the deceased,
in the same manner as if he had never been charged in execution. 
SECTIO:-J 40. But such new execution shall not be levied upon
any real estate which the deceased, after the judgment rendered
against him, shall have sold in good faith. 
SECTIO~ 41. Nor shall such new execution be levied upon
any real estate which shall have been actually sold under any 
other prior or subsequent judgment against the person so <lying 
in execution . 
8ECTION 42. The time and place of holding any sale of real
11 1 l d d 
estate, pursuant to any execution, sha be pub icy a vertise
previously for six weeks successively, as follows :- 
1. A written or printed notice thereof shall be fastened up in
three public places in the town where such real estate shall be
sold; and if such sale be in a town different from that in which
the premises to be sold are situated, then such notice shall be
fastened up in three public places of the town in which the
premises are situated. 
2. A copy of such notice shall be printed once in each week
in a. newspaper of such county, if there be one. 
3. If there be no newspaper published in such county, and
the premises to be sold are not occupied by any person against
whom the execution is issued, or by some pcnon holding the
same as tenant or purchaser under such person, then such
notice shall be published in the paper printed at the seat of
government, once in each week. 
SECTION 43. ,vhonever an execution or other final process
shall be issued against the goods and chattels or lands and ten­ 
ements of any person who habitually observes the seven th day
of tho week instead of the first, as a day of rest, the officer to
whom such process shall be directed, shall not levy upon or sell
any property of any such person, on the seventh day of the
week, commonly called Saturday : provided, that said person 
shall file with or deliver to such officer an affidavit in writing,
setting forth the fact that he, or she, ( as the case may be.) 
habitually keeps and observes the seventh day of the week
instead of the first, as a day of rest, at any time before such levy,
or at least two days before such sale, as the case may be ; and
such sale may, at the time appointed therefore, be adjourned to
any day within the life of the execution, or such execution may
bo renewed as in other cases. 
SECTION 44. In every-such notice, the real estate to be sold 
shall be described with common certainty, by setting forth the
name of the township or tract, and the number of the lot, if 
there be any, and if there be none, by some other appropriate
description. 
SECTION 45. The sale of real estate or of any personal property, by virtue of any execution, shall be at public vendue, 
between the hour or nine o'clock in the morning and the setting
or the sun. 
SECTJo~ 46. Any officer who shall sell any real estate without
the previous notices herein directed, or otherwise than in the 
manner herein prescribed, shall forfeit one thousand dollars to
the party injured in addition to any damages which such party 
may sustain. 
SEC'110N 4 7. When real est.ate offered for sale by virtue of 
any execution shall consist of several known lots, tracts, or
parcels, such lots, tracts, or parcels shall be separately exposed 
for sale ; and if any person claiming to ho the owner of o.ny
portion of such estate, or of such lots, tracts, or parcels of them,
or either of them, or claiming to be entitled by law to redeem
any such portion, shall require such portion to be exposed for
sale separately, it shall be the duty of the sheriff to expose -the
same for so.le accordingly. No more of any real estate shall ho 
exposed for sale than shall appear necessary to satisfy the
execution. 
SECTION 48. Ir any person shall take down or deface any
notice of a sale or real or personal property, put up by any sheriff,
previous to the day of sale therein specified, unless upon satisfac- 
tion of the execution by virtue of which such notice shall have
been given, or upon the consent of the party suing out such execution and of the defendant therein, such person shall forfeit
fifty dollars to the party in whose favor such execution was 
issued. · 
8F£TION 49. The omission of any sheriff or other officer to
give the notice of sale herein required, or the taking down or 
defacing of any such notice when put up, shall not affect the
validity of any sale made to a purchaser in good faith, without
notice of any such omission or offense. 
SECTION 50. The sheriff or other officer to whom any execution shall be directed, and tho deputy of such sheriff or officer 
holding any execution, and conducting any sale of property in
pursuance thereof, shall not directly or indirectly purchase any
property whatever a.t any sale by virtue of such execution ; and
all purchases made by such sheriff, officer, or deputy, or to his
use, shall be void. 
SECTION 51. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of any
execution, the officer making the same shall make out and sub- 
scribe duplicate certificates of such sale, containing:- 
1. A particular description of the promises sold.
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole consideration money paid. 
4. The time when such sale will become absolute, and the 
purchaser will be entitled to a conveyance pursuant to law. 
SECTION 52. One of the said duplicate certificates shall,
within ten days after such sale, be filed fa the office of the register 
deeds of the county, and the other shall ho deliveredto the:
purchaser. If there be two or more purchasers, a certificate
shall be delivered to each. 
SECTION 53. Such original certificate, upon being proved
or acknowledged in the manner required· by law to entitle dcods
to be recorded, or a copy of such original, duly certified by the
register in whose office such original is filed, shall be.received 
as presumptive evidence of the facts therein contained. , 
S~oN 54. · Within two years from the time when such sale
shall have been made, the real estate so sold, or o.ny district, lot, 
tract, or portion that may have been separately. sold, may be
redeemed by the payment to the purchaser, his personal .repre­
sentatives or assigns, or to the officer who made such sale, for
the use of such purchaser, of the sum of monej' which was bid
on the sale of such lot or tract, together with the interest on
tµat sum from the time of SQ}C at the. rate . of ten ! per cent. a 
year. 
SECI'ION 55. Such redemption may be made :- , 
1. By the person against whom the execution WO$ issued, and 
whose right and title was SQ}d in pursuance thereof; or~ 
. 2. If such person be dead, by his devisee qf . the premises
sold, if the same shall have been devised, and if the same shall
not have been devisqd, by the heirs of such ~rson ; or- 
3. By any grantee of such person who shall have acquired an . 
absolute title. by deed, sale under mortgage, or under a.~ execu­
tion, or by .any other means, to the premises sold, or to any lot,
tract, parcel, or portion .which sl~all have been separately sold. 
SECT10N 66. Any heir or devisee of the person. against whom 
the execution was issued, and any grantee of such: person who
shall have acquired an absolute title to a portion of the estate.
sold, or a portion of o.ny lot, tract, or parcel that shall have
been separately sold, may redeem the lot, tract, or parcel so
sold, on the same terms and in the same manner as if he woro
grantee of the whole lot, tract, or parcel, and. shall ham the 
same remedy to enforce contributions from those who.shall own
the residue of such tract, lot, or parcel, asif the. sumrequired
to be paid by him to effect such redemption had . been collected
by a sale of the portion belonging to such grantee. . 
.. . SECTIO:'i 57. ~. there be several persons having up divided
~s as joint tenants, or as tenants in common, iu the premises 
sold, or in any particular lot or tract. sold, each person having
such title may redeem the share or interest bclougiug to him, 
QY paying. to the . purchaser. or to thq oftic.cr ~ herein directed,
a s11µ1 that will bear the same proportion to the whole purchase
money bid for such premises, or for such particular lot or . tract, 
as tho share proposed to be rodeemed bears to the whole number
of shares hi. such premises, or lot, or tract, together. with tho 
interest on such sum at the rate of ten per cent. ayear. . 
SECTION 58. Jjpon such payment being made .by any person 
~ en. t. itled to redeem any real estate so sold, the sale of the 
~µiiscs so redeemed, and the certificates of such sale, shall be 
n~1d void. 
· · ON 59. In case the persons, entitled as hereinbeforo
pro cd, shall omit to redeem the premisee so sold, or any part 
of them, within the two rearsaborn prescribed, then the interest
Tested in the purchaser by such sale may be acquired within 
months after the expiration of such two years, by the
.rsons and on the terms hereinafter prescribed. 
SECTios 60. .Any creditor of the person against whom such
execution issued haring in his own name or as assienee 
• , • • , o· 
r resentanve, trustee, or otherwise, a Judgment rendered at. 
y time before the expiration of twenty-seven moutbs from the
· e of such sale, and which shall be a lien and charge upon 
th premises sold, by paying the sum of money which was paid
on the sale of such premises, together with interest thereon at 
h rate of seven per cent. a year from the time of such sale,
thereby acquire all the rights of the .origiual purchaser, 
u liect to be defeated in the manner hereinafter mentioned. 
SECTION 61. If such judgment be a lien on any lot, tract,
or parcel that shall have been separately sold, the creditor
having the same, by paying as before provided the sum which 
hall have been bid for such lot, tract, or parcel, with interest
above mentioned, shall thereby acquire all the rights of the 
original purchaser, subjoot to be defeated in the manner here­
inafter mentioned. 
SECTION 62. H such judgment be a lien on a specific portion
only of any lot, tract, or parcel so sold; the creditor having the 
ame, may acquire. the title of the purchaser to the whole of
such lot, tract, or parcel, in the same manner as if such lion. 
e tended to the whole.. 
SECTION 63. Any such creditor having such judgment which
i a lien. upon any undivided share or interest on any real
e tate sold under any execution, may-within the same time, on
the same terms, and in the same manner, acquire the title of
the original purchaser fiO eueh share or interest, by paying such
p of the whole purchase money of such real estate as shall.
be in a just proportion to the amount of such share or interest. 
SECTION 64~ Whenever any such creditor shall have acquired
the title of the original purchaser, pursuant to the foregoing
provisions, any other creditor who might have acquired such
titl~ according to the. 'said rovi ions may become a uroha r 
thereof from the first or ditor ho ac uir th am up u th
following conditions :- 
1. By reimbursing to uoh fir or i or hi
entatives or assigns, the um hich m y h 
hi to acquire such title tog th r 'th int
rate of ten per cent.· a yea.r fr m the i f
the time of such reimb ment. 
2. If the judgment by virtue · of wliich the first creditor
acquired the title of the original purchaser, be prior to the
judgment of such second creditor, then such second creditor
shall also pay to such first creditor the amount due on hia 
judgment. ,
3. But if such judgment of the first creditor, at the time of 
his acquiring the title of the original purchaser, shall have
ceased to be a lien as agai.B6t such se<;P1.d creditor, it shall not 
be necessary to pay the amount thw· . 
~Oij 66. In tbe same mallh .. ny third or other creditor, 
who might according to the foregoing provisions acquire the
title of the original purchaser, may become a purchaser thereof
from the second, third, or any other creditor who may have
become such purchaser from any other creditor, upon the same
terms and conditions specified in the last section. 
66. If the original purchaser of any premises so
sold, shall also be a creditor of the defendant against whom the 
execution issued, and as such · might acquire the title of any
purchaser according to the preceding provisions, he may avail
himself of his judgment, in the same manner and on the same
terms herein prescribed, to acquire the title which any creditor
may have obtained. 
SEm'ION 67. The plaintifff under whose execution any real
estate shall have been sold, shall not be authorized to acquire 
the title of the original purchaser or of any creditor to tho
premises so sold, by virtue of the judgment on which such exe­
cution issued; but if he have any other judgment which would
entitle him to acquire such title according to the preceding pro­
visions, he. may avail himself of such other judgment in the
same manner and on the same terms as any other creditor. 
SECTION 68. The sums required to be paid by the foregoing
provisions to acquire the title of the original purchaser' or to
become a purchaser from any creditor, may be paid to such pur- 
chaser or creditor, his representatives or assigns, or to the officer
who made the sale, for the use of the -purehaser or creditor enti­
tled. to the same; upon such payment being made, the title of
the original purchaser shell be thereby transferred to the creditor
acquiring the same, pursuant to the foregoing provisions, and
from such creditor to any other creditor becoming a purchaser
thereof, as hereinbefore provided. 
69. To entitle any creditor to acquire the title of the
original purchaser, or to become a purchaser from any other 
creditor, pursuant to the foregoing provisions, he shall present
to and leave with such purchaser or creditor, or the officer who
made the sale, the following evidence of his right. 
1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under which he
claims the right to purchase, duly certified by the clerk of tho
court, or of the county in which the same is docketed. 
2. A true copy of ail the assignments of such judgment, which
are necessary to establish his claim, verified by his affidavit, or 
by the affidavit of some witness to such assignments.
S. An affidavit, by such creditor, or by his attorney or agent, 
of' the true sum due on such judgment at the time of clp.iming
such right to purchase. 
SEc-rION 70. The right and title of the person against whom
the execution was issued, to any real estate which shall be sold 
thereby, shall not be divested by such sale until the expiration
of twenty-seven months from the time of such sale; and if such 
real estate shall not have been redeemed as herein provided,
and a deed sho.11 be executed in pursuance of a sale, the grantee 
in such deed shall be deemed vested with the legal estate from
'the time of the sale on such execution, for the purpose of main- 
taining an action for any injury to such real estate. 
SECTION 71. After the expiration of twenty-seven months 
from the time of the sale of any real estate, if any part of tho
premises sold shall remain unredeemed by the person against 
whom the execution issued, or by any person entitled to redeem
the same within two years from the time of such sale, according 
to tho foregoing provisions, then the officer making such sa1o
shall complete the same, by executing a couveyance of tho
premises so remaining unredeemed, either to the original purchaser, or to the creditor who may have acquired the title of
such original purchaser, or to the creditor who may have purchased such title from any other creditor, as the case may be,
which conveyance shall be valid and effectual to convoy all the
right, title, and interest, which was sold by such officer. 
SECTION 72. In case tho person, who by the provisions of the
preceding sections would be entitled to a conveyance of any 
real estate sold by virtue of an execution, shall die previous to
the delivery of such conveyance, the officer making such salo 
shall execute and deliver such conveyance to the executors or
administrators of the person so deceased. 
8Ect10~ 73. The real estate so conveyed shall be held in 
trust for the use of the heirs of such deceased person, subject
to the dower of his widow, if there be any, but ma.y be sold for 
the payment of his debts by the order of any judge of the
county court, in the same manner as lands whereof such
deceased person died seized. 
SECTIO~ 7-:1:. If any sheriff to whom any execution shall be
delivered die or be removed from office before such execu- 
tion be s~tisfied, his under sheriff shall proceed thereon, in the
same manner as the sheriff might have done; and if a sheriff 
who has sold any real estate die or be removed before executing 
any conveyance in pursuance of such sale, such conveyance shall
be executed by his under sheriff, in the same manner and with 
the like effect as if done by the sheriff.
SECTio~ 75. If there be no such under sheriff, the court from 
which the execution issued may, on the application of the plain·
tiff, appoint some suitable person to proceed on such execution
and complete the same, instead of such under sheriff; and on
the application of any person entitled to a conveyance, the court 
may appoint a proper person to execute the same. The person
so appointed shall give such security as the court may require,
and shall have the same power in relation to the object of his 
appointment, as the sheriffs so dying or removed. 
8BCT10~ 7 6. If any sheriff shall dio or be removed from
office after having made sale of any real estate, the monies 
herein required to be pa.id to him for the redemption of such
estate, or for the purpose of acquiring the title of the original
purchaser, may, be paid to his under sheriff, or to the clerk of the
court, in the same manner and with the like effect as if paid to 
such sheriff. 
SECTION 77. If the purchaser of any real estate sold by
virtue of an execution, his heirs or assigns, shall be evicted 
from the possession of such real estate; or if in an action 
for the recovery thereof, judgment shall be rendered against 
him in couscquenee,- 
irregularity in the. proceedings concerning such
sale ; or- 
2. Of the judgment upon which such execution issued, being
Vf!,Co.ted or reversed,- 
Such purchaser, his heirs or assigns, may recover of the party
for whose benefit such real estate was sold, the amount paid 011 
the purchase thereof, with interest. 
SECTION 78~ The party for whose benefit such real estate was 
sold, and his personal representatives, upon such recovery being
bad against him in consequence of any irregularity in the· pro­ 
ceodings concerning such sale, may have further execution upon
the judgment by virtue of which such sale was made, to levy
the sum . pa.id on such sale, with interest; and such judgment
shall be deemed valid and effectual for that purpose, against tho
defendant therein, his personal representatives, heirs, and devi­
llees; but not against any purchaser in good faith, or any incum­
braucer by .mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, whose title or
whose incumbranoe shall have accrued before the levy of such
further execution. 
SECTION 79. When lands and tenements in the hands of sev­
eral persons shall be liable to satisfy any judgment, and the whole 
of such judgment or more than a due proportion thereof shall be
levied upon the lands of any one or more of such persons, the per­ 
sons so aggrieved, or their personal representatives,,mny compel
a just and equal contribution. by all the persons whose lands and
tenements ought tocoutribute to the satisfaction of such judgment. 
. SEOTION 80. Suchlands and tenements shall be liable to such
contribution in the following order:- 
1. If theywere conveyed by the defendant in the execution,
they shall be liable in succession, commencing with the lands last 
conveyed.
2. If they were sold under execution against the defendant, 
tboy shall also be liable in succession, commencing with the lands
sold under the last and youngest judgment. 
3. If there be lands so liable which. were conveyed by the
defendant in· the execution, and also lands which have been sold
wider execution against such defendant, they will respectively
be liable in succession .according to the order herein pr.escribed. 
· SECTIO~ 81. If a complaint be filed in the circuit court to
compel such contribution; the person aggrieved shall be entitled 
to use the original judgment, and by virtue thereof to levy the
amount which ought to be contributed by the lands and tene- 
ments subject to such.judgment, and for. that purpose such judg­
ment shall remain a lien and charge upon such lands and tcno­
ments for the term of ten years from the docketing thereof, to 
the extent, of the sum which ought to be so contributed, not­
withstanding such sum.or. any part thereof may have been paid
by the party seeking such contribution. 
·, SBOTION 82 .. , But such original judgment shall. not remain a
lien upon. any lands, nor shall they be. subject to .an execution as
herein provided, unless the person aggrieved, within twenty days
after _ the. .payment of .any sum of'. money by him for which he
shall claim a contribution, shall file an affidavit. with the clerk of
the court in which the original judgment was rendered, stating 
the sum paid, and his. claim to use such judgment for the reimbursemeut thereof. 
SECTio~ 83. On the filing of such 'affida¥it, the clerk shall
make an entry in the margih of the docket of such judgment, 
stating the sum so paid, and tha.t such judgment is claimed to
be a. lien to that amount. 
SECTIO~ 84. The same fee shall be paid on filing any such
affidavit, as for the filing and docketing a record of judgment. 
SECTlO~ 85. A creditor by mortgage on real estate, his 
assignee or representative, where the mortgaged premises or any
part thereof have been sold on an execution, shall have tho same 
right to acquire the interest of the purchaser or such real estate
so mortgaged and. sold, as is. given to a judgment creditor by this 
chapter, and ou acquiring such interest, shall ho subject to all 
the provisions of this chapter in relation to the rights of other
creditors, as a.re uow applicable to judgment creditors. 
SEctlO.S 86. To entitle a creditor by mortgage, bis assignee
or representative, to acquire the title of the original purchaser, 
or to be substituted as a purchaser from any other creditor, pursuant to this chapter, he. shall present to and leave with such
purchaser or creditor,or the officer who made tJ1~ sale, the follow- 
ing evidence of his right:- ·
1. .A. copy of the mortgage under which he claims the right tQ 
purchase, duly certified by the register or the county where such
mortgage is registered or recorded. 
2. .A copy of the assignments, where the mortgage has been
assigned, verified by his affidavit, or the affidavit of some other
person. 
3. A copy or tho letter of administration, or letters testament­
ary, where an administrator or executor applies to be substituted
as a purchaser. 
4. An affidavit by such mortgage creditor, his assignee or
representative, or by his attorney 01· agent, stating the true sum 
due or to become due on such mortgage, at the .time of claiming
such right to. purchase, over and above all payments. 
SECTJOS 87. In all cases where real estate has been or shall
hereafter be sold in pursuance of law, by virtue of an execution, 
it shall be the duty of the officer or his successor in office, or
other person, who sold orshall.hereafter sell such real estate, to
execute a deed of the premises so sold and unredeemed agreeshie to the provisiona .of law, either to the original purchaser, or
to the creditor who may. have acquired the title of such original
purchaser, or to the creditor who ~y have purchased such tit.it)_ 
from auy otl1~r creditor, or to the assignee, as the case may be,
of the certificate of sale executed on such sale, to the purchaser
of the premises therein described. 
~ROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY.
8.ECl'ION 88. When an execution against propertf of the judg- 
mcnt debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the, same judgmcnt, issued to the sheriff of the county where ho resides, or it
he do not reside in the state, to the sheriff of a county where a 
judgment roll .01· a transcript of a justice's judgment for. ten dol-.
l irs or upward, exclusiveof costs, is filed,~ returaed un•is~
whole or in part, th« judgment creditor, at a.ny time after such
return is made, is entitled to an order from the judge of the court, 
or a county judge, or court commissioner of the county, to which
tl . . d . . . 1 . .1 d b 
ie execution was issue , rcqmrmg sue 1 judgment e tor to
appear and answer concerning his property before such judge, nt
a time and place specified in the order, within tho county to
which 'the execution was issued. After the issuing of nu execu­
tion against property, and upon proof by affidavit of a party or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of tho court or a judge thereof, a
county judge, or a court commissioner, that any judgment debtor
residing in the county where such judge or officer resides, has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply toward the satisfac­
tion of the judgment, such court or judge may by an order
require the judgment debtor to appear, at a specified time and
place, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may 
thereupon be had for the application of the property of the judg­
ment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment, as prodded
upon the return of an execution. On an examination under this
section, either party may examine witnesses on his behalf, and the
judgment debtor may he examined in the same manner as a
witness. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of judg­
ment debtor, the judge may, upon proof by affidavit, or other­
wise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of the judgment
debtor's leaving the state or concealing himself, and that there is
reason to believe he has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply to such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of
any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring
him before such judge. 
SECTIO:'i 89. Upon being brought before the judge he may be
examined 011 oath, and if it then appears that there is danger of 
the debtor's leaving the state, and that be has property which ho
has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, he may be
ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more sureties,
that he will from time to time attend before the judge as ho
shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendcncy ef the
proceedings, dispose of any portion of his property not exempt
from execution, In default of entering into such undertaking,
ho may be committed to prison by warrant of the judge, as for a
contempt. Xo person shall, on examination pursuant to this
chapter, be excused from answering any question on the ground
that his examination will tend to convict him of the commission
of a fraud, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. 
SECTION 90. After the issuing of execution against property,
any person indebted to the judgment debtor may y,ay to the 
sheriff the amount of his debt, or EO much thereof as shall be
necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's receipt shall
be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid. 
91. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor or any one of several
debtors in the same judgment, and upon an affida,;t that any
person or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or 
is indebted to him in an amount exceeding ten dollars, the judge 
may by an order require such person or corporation, or any 
officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified timo and
place and answer concerning the same. The judge may also,
his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to bo gi von 
any party to the action, in such manner as may seem to him
proper. 
~ECTION 92. Witnesses may be required to appear and testify
on any proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner 
upon the trial of an issue. 
8ECTION 93. The party or witness may he required to attend
before the judge, or before a referee appointed by tho court 
judge ; if before a referee, the examination shall be taken by
the referee and certified to the judge ; all examinations and
answers before a judge or referee, under this chapter, shall be
on oath, except that when a corporation answers, the answer
shall be on oath of an officer thereof. 
SECTION 9-1. The judge may order any property of the judgmcnt debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either 
himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor,
be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment, except that 
the earnings of tho debtor for his personal services at any time
within sixty days next preceding the order, cannot be so applied, 
when it is made to appear, by the debtor's affidavit or otherwise,
that such earnings are necessary for the use of a family supported
wholly or in part by his labor. 
SECTION 95. The judge may also by order appoint a receiver
of tho property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, 
and with like authority as if the appointment was made by the
court according to section thirteen of chapter one hundred and 
thirty [one hundred and twenl!fnine] of the revised statutes; but
before the appointment of such receiver, the judge sho.11 ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party or otherwise, whether
any other supplementary proceedings are so pending against the
judgment debtor; the plaintifff therein shall have notice to appear
before him, and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent
proceedings in relation to such receivership; no more than one
receiver of the property of a judgment debtor shall be appointed;
the judge may also by order forbid a transfer or other disposition
of the property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execu- 
tion, and interference therewith. 
SECTION 96. If it appear that a person or corporation, alleged
to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, 
claims an interest in the property adverse to him, Or denies tho
debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an action 
. ] . b I . b I . d
against sue 1 person or corporation, y t 10 receiver, ut.t re JU ge 
may by order forbid a transfer or other disposition of such
property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the 
receiver to commence the action, and prosecute the same to
judgment and execution; but such order may be modified or 
dissolved by the judge granting the same, at any timo, on such
security as he shall direct. 
SECTION 97. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon or approved by him, to report tho 
evidence of the facts. 
SECTION 98. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor, 
·or to any party so examined, whether a party to the action or 
not, witnesses' fees and disbursements, and a fixed sum in addi­ 
tion, not exceeding fifteen dollars, as costs.
99. If any person, party, or witness disobey an order 
of the judge or referee duly served, such person, party, or wit­
ness may be punished by the judge as for a contempt; and in all 
cases of commitment under this chapter, the person committed
may, in case of inability to perform the act required, or to 
endure the imprisonment, be discharged from imprisonment by
the court or judge committing him, or the court in which the
judgment was rendered, on such terms as may be just. 
Chapter 62, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. Whenever any person in whose favor a judgment
has been or shall hereafter be rendered in any court in this 
state, shall have died before payment or satisfaction of such
judgment, it shall not be necessary to revive. such judgment by
action, but execution may be issued therein in the same manner
and with the like effect as though the person in whose favor the
same was rendered was still living. 
SECTION 2. If there shall be executors or administrators of
such deceased person, at the time of the issuing or return of 
, b 11 d h ·
such execution, the monies to e co ecte t ereon shall be paid 
over to such executors or administrators ; but if there be no
executors or administrators of such deceased person in office,
the money shall be collected for the use of the heirs or next of
kin ( as the case may be) of such deceased person ; but tho
judge of the court in which, or the justice before whom, such
judgment was rendered or shall be rendered, may, upon appli­
cation of any person interested, require the monies so collected 
to be paid over to the county 'judge, to be disposed of according
to the rights of the respective parties . 
.Approved April 28th, 1858. 
Chapter 131, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. The owner of a homestead under the laws of this
state, may remove therefrom, or sell and convey the same, and 
l l d h 11 d )
such remova , or sa e an conveyance, s a not ren er sue 1 
homestead subject or liable to forced sale on execution or other
final process hereafter issued on any judgmentor 'decree of o.uy 
court of this state, or of the district court of the United States
for the state of Wisconsin, against such owners, nor shall any
judgment or decree of any such court be a lien on such home­
stead for any purpose whatever : provided, that this act shall not
be so construed as to in any manner relate to judgments or
decrees rendered on the foreclosure of mortgages, either equita­
ble or legal. 
SECTION 2. On the death of the owner of such homestead tho
same shall descend to his widow, and she shall take and hold 
the same during her widowhood, freed from the encumbrance of
all judgments and claims against the deceased or his estate,
except mortgages lawfully executed thereon. 
Chapter 148, Acu of a ge11eral 'llllhln of 18Mt
SECT1os 1. That the earnings of all pe~ns for ~i:s:ty days 
eedin 
h
• • f r, . t f 
next pre g t e issumg o any process trom auy cour o
record or justice of the peace against them, shall he exempt from 
levy, seizure, or sale upon such process; and the same shall not
be liable to be garuisheed, or seizure by attachment, or levied 
upon by execution or sale, on any final process issued from any
court of this state. 
Apprornd llay 17th, 1858. 
Cllapter 89, Acts of a general nahu'e of 1858. 
80CTIO~ 1. .All fire engines, apparatus and equipments, ineluding hose, hose carts, and hooks and ladders, belonging to 
or which may hereafter belong to any town, city, or village in
this state, and which are kept and . used for the protection of 
property in such town, city, or village from fire, together with
the engine houses for the protection of the same, shall not be
subject to seizure or sale upon any attachment, execution, or
other final process of any court, for a.ny debt or liability of such
town, city, or village. 
Approved May 13th, 1858. 
CHAPTER CXXXV. 
OF TIIB SURVIVAL OF .ACTIONS, il"D OF DEATH, KARRI.AGE, OR OTHER 
DISABILITY, OCCURRING .AFTER THE CODENCEU.~ OF
THE ACTION. 
8ECTJON 1. No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or 
other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if tho cause of action survive or continue. In case of 
death marriaze or other disability of a party the court on 
, o , ' ' 
motion at any time within one year thereafter, or afterward on
a supplemental complaint, may allow the action to be continued
by or against his representative or successor in interest. In 
case of any other transfer of interest, the action shall be con·
.. tinned in tho name of the original party, or the court may allow 
tho person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in tho
action. After a verdict shall be rendered in any action for n. 
wrong, such action shall not abate by the death of any party, but
tho case shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases
where the cause of action now survives by law. 
SECTION 2. In addition to the actions which survive by tho
common law, the following shall also survive, that is to sny: 
actions for the recovery of personal property, or the unlawful
conrersion thereof;· actions for assault and battery, or false im­
prisonment, or for goods taken and carried away ; and actions
for damages done: to real or personal estate. 
SECTION 3. When· any action mentioned in tho preceding
section, shall be prosecuted to judgment against the executor or 
administrator, the plaintifff' shall be entitled to recover only for 
the value of the goods taken, or for the damages actually sus­
tained, without any vindictive or exemplary damages, or dam­
ages for alleged outrage to. the feelings of the injured party. 
SECTION 4. When there are several plaintifffs or defendants
in any personal action, the cause of which survives, either by the 
common law or by the provisions of this chapter, and any of
them shall die before final judgment, the action shall proceed at 
the suit of the surviving plaintifff, or against the surviving de­
fendant, as the case may be. 
SECTION 5. If, in such case, all the plaintifffs or all the defend­
ants shall die before final judgment, the action may he prose- 
• · • • 
cuted or defended by or against the executor or administrator
of the last surviving plaintifff or defendant, respectively, in the 
same manner as if such survivor had originally been the only
plaintifff or defendant. 
SECTIOX 6. In all actions for the recovery of real property, 
if tl 1 . "ff l 11 d. b e. fi I . d t I . I . . I . 
1 re P ainti s ia re erore na JU gmeu , us reir, wit 1111 
such time as the court shall allow, may appear and prosecute
the action in the same manner as if the action had been origin- 
ally commenced by him; or the action may be prosecuted by the
executor or administrator for the benefit of the heir or the
creditors of the deceased. 
SEcTJO~ 7. If there are several plaintifffs in such action, and
any of them shall die before final judgment, the heir, executor,
or administrator of the deceased party may be admitted, on
motion, to prosecute the action jointly with the survivors, in the
same manner as if he had joined with them in commencing the
action. 
SECTION 8. If the interest of the deceased party passes to
tho surviving plaintifffs, or if there be no motion for the admis­
sion of another person as heir, executor, or administrator,
within the time allowed by the court for that purpose, the sur­
viving plaintifffs may prosecute the action for so much of the
premises in question as may be claimed by them. 
SECTION 9. When there are several defendants in any action
for tho recovery of real property, and any of them shall die 
b f fi 1 . d l . b d . 1
e ore na JU gment, t re action may e prosecute against t ie 
surviving defendants, for so much of the premises as they shall
hold or claim. 
SECTION 10. If during the pendency of any action, either
party shall become insane, the action may be prosecuted or
defended by his guardian, in like manner as if it had been com­
menced after the appointment of the guardian, or the court
may appoint a guardian for the action, as the case may require. 
SECTION 11. When any action is brought by or in the name
of any public officer or by any trustee appointed by virtue of 
, 
any statute, his death or removal shall not abate the writ; but
it may be prosecuted by his successor, provided there be a sue- 
cessor who might have originally commenced and prosecuted
the like action. 
SECTION 12. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused
by a wrongful act, neglect, or default, and the act, neglect, or 
default is such as would (if death had not ensued) have entitled the party injured to maintain an action and recover dam- 
age in respect thereof, then and in every such case the person
who or the corporation which would have been liable, if death
had not ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages, notwithstanding the death of the person injured : provided, that such
action shall be brought for a death caused in this state, and in
somo court established by the constitution and laws of the same. 
SECTION 13. Emry such action shall be brought by and in
the name of the personal representative of such deceased person; and the amount recovered shall belong and be paid over
to the husband or widow of such deceased person, if such relati ve survive him or her; but if no husband or widow survive
tho deceased, the amount recovered shall be paid over to his or
her lineal descendants, and to his or her lineal ancestors in
default of such descendants; and in every such action the jury
may give such damages, not exceeding five thousand dollars, as
they shall deem fair and just in reference to the pecuniary injury 
resulting from such death to the relatives of the deceased specified in this section : provided, every such action shall be commenced within two years after the death of such deceased
person. 
• CHAPTER CXXXVI. 
OF WRITS A.ND PROCESS. 
SECTION 1. . The style of all writs and process issuing from
courts of record in this state shall be, " The state of Wiscon- 
sin," and such process shall be tested in the name of the chief
justice, or presiding judge, or one of the judges of the court 
from which the same shall issue, be sealed with the seal of the
court, and dated the day it issued, and made returnable on the
first day of the next succeeding term, except where a different return day is specially provided by law, and subscribed or
indorsed with the name of the attorney or other officer by whom
tho same shall be issued. 
SECTION 2. All process issuing out of any court of record in
this state shall be scaled with the seal of the court from which
it issues, and the clerks of the several courts of record in this
state, are hereby authorized to issue and deliver to any attorney
of their respective courts, blank process and seals to be used in
sealing process under such rules as may be prescribed by tho
supreme, circuit, or county courts. 
CHAPTER CXXXVII. 
OF THE ISSUING AND SERVICE OF SUBPCENAS, AND THE LIABILITY
OF WITNESSES THEREON. 
SECTION 1. Every clerk of a court of record, and every jus­
tice of the peace, may issue subpoenas for witnesses in all civil 
cases pending before any court, or before any magistrates, arbi­
trators, or other persons authorized to examine witnesses, and
the subpoena shall be in the form heretofore adopted and com­
monly used. 
SECTION 2. Such subpeena may be served by any person, by
exhibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy 
thereof, or by leaving such copy at the place of his abode.
SECTION 3. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness, 
unless the fees are paid or tendered to him which are allowed 
b 1 l': d , d · d " 1· 
y aw ror one ay s atten ance as a witness, au tor trave mg
to and returning from the place where he is required to attend. 
SECTION 4. If any person, duly subpoenaed and obliged to
attend as a witness, shall fail to do so without any reasonable 
excuse, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure, to be recovered in an action by such party. 
SECTION 5. Such failure to attend as a witness in any court
or record, shall also be considered a con tempt of the court, and
may be punished by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars. 
SECTION 6. The court, in such cases, may issue an attach­
ment to bring such witness before them, to answer for the con­ 
tempt, and also to testify as a witness in the cause in which he
was summoned. 
OF TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES WITHIN THIS STATE. 
SECTION 7. Depositions may be taken in the manner and
according to the regulations provided in this chapter, to be
used before any magistrate or any other persons authorized to 
examine witnesses in any other than criminal cases.
SECTION 8. When a witness whose testimony is wanted in 
any civil cause pending in this state, shall live more than thirty
miles from the place of trialvor shall be about to go out of the
state, and not to return in time for the trial, or is so sick, infirm,
or aged as to make it probable that he will not be able to attend
at the trial, his deposition may be taken in the manner hereinafter provided. . 
SECTION 9. At any time after the cause is commenced by the
service of process, or otherwise, or after it is submitted to arbi,
trators or referees, either party may apply to any justice or the 
peace, who shall issue a notice to the adverse party to appear
before the said justice, or any other justice of the peace, at the
time and place appointed for taking the deposition, and to put
such interrogatories as he may think fit. 
SECTION 10. The said notice may be served on the agent or
attorney of the adverse party, and shall have the same effect as 
if served on the party himself. 
OF EVIDENCE. 
SECTION 11. W11en there are several persons plaintifffs or
defendants, or parties on either side in the cause, a notice served 
on either of them shall be sufficient. 
s
12
Tl
. l all b d b , d 
ECTION • ie notice s 1 o serve y e rvenng an
attested copy thereof to the person to be notified, or by leaving 
such copy at his place of abode, allowing in all cases not less
than twenty-four hours after such notice before the time appointed
for taking the depositions, and also allowing time for his travel to
the place appointed, after being notified, not less than at the
rate of one day, Sundays excepted, for every twenty miles
travel. 
SECTION 13. The written notice above prescribed may be
wholly omitted, if the adverse party or his attorney shall in 
writing waive the right to it. 
SECTION 14. The deponent shall be sworn to testify the truth,
tho whole truth, and nothing but the truth, relating to the cause 
for which the deposition is taken ; and he shall then be examined
by the parties, if they think fit, or by the justice, and his testimony shall be taken in writing. 
S~CTION 15. The party producing the deponent shall be
allowed first to examine him, either upon verbal or written 
interrogatories, on all points which he shall deem material, and
then the adverse party may examine tho deponent in like manner, after which either party may propose such further interrogatories as the case may require. 
SECTION 16. The deposition shall. ~e written by the j!1sticc,
or by tho deponent, or by ~ome disinterested person in tho 
_presence and under the direction of the justice, and it shall be
caref ully read to or by the deponent, and shall then be sub- 
scribed by him. 
SECTION 17. The justice shall annex to the deposition a certificate substantially as follows:- 
State of Wisconsin. I 
conn s- 
t 
SS. 
I, A. B., justice of tho peace in and for said county, do hereby
certify that tho above deposition was taken before me, at my
office, in .tho town of , in said county, on the
day of , 18 , at o'clock ; that it was taken
at tho request of the plaintifff", [or defendant,] upon xerbal [ or
written] interrogatories ; that it was reduced to writing by my­
self, [ or by deponent, or by , a disinterested person,
in my presence, and under my direction ;] that it was taken to
be used in the action of A. B. vs. 0. D., now pending in 
court, and that tho reason for taking it was (hero state the
true reason ; ] that attended at the taking of such
deposition, [ or that a. notice, of which the annexed is a copy,
was served upon him on the day of , 18 ;] 
that said deponent, before examination, was sworn to testify the
truth, tho whole truth, and nothing but the-truth, relative to
said cause, and that said deposition was carefully read to [ or
by 1 said deponent, and then subscribed by him. 
l>ated, • 
1.
. 
.A. B., justice of the peace. 
SECTION 18. The deposition shall be delivered by the justice 
to the court, Or arbitrators, or referees, before whom the cause
is pending, or shall be enclosed and sealed by him, and directed 
to them, and shall remain sealed until opened by the said court,
or clerk thereof, or arbitrators, or referees. 
SECTION 19. No deposition shall be used, if it shall appear
that the reason for taking it 110 longer exists : prorided, how­ 
ever, that if the party producing the deposition in such case
shall show any sufficient cause then existing for using the depo­
sition, it may be admitted. 
SECTION 20. Every objection to the competency or admissi­
bility of the deponent, and to the propriety of any question put 
to him, or of any answer made by him, may· be made when the
deposition is produced, in the same manner as if the witness
were personally examined on the trial : provided, that all objec­
tions to any interrogatory shall be made before it is answered,
and if the interrogatory is not withdrawn, the objection shall
be noted in the deposition, or otherwise the objection shall not be 
afterward allowed. · 
SECTION 21. When the plaintifff in any action shall discon­
tinue it, or become nonsuit, and another action shall afterward 
be commenced for the same cause between the same parties, or
their respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken
for the first action may be used in the second, and subject to
the same conditions and objections as if originally taken for the
second action : provided, that the deposition shall have been .
duly filed in the court where the first action is pending, and
shall remain in the custody of the court from the termination _
of tho first action until the commencement of the second. 
SECTION 22. When an action shall have been appealed from
one court to another, all depositions lawfully taken to be used 
• l b 1 b d . l 11 • 1 
in t ie court e ow, may e use m t ie appe ate court, m t io
same manner, and subject to such exceptions for informality or
irregularity, and none other, as were taken to such depositions, in
writing, in the court below. 
SECTION 28. The courts may from time to time make such
rules as they shall find proper and convenient, as to the time 
d f fili d · · d 1 "- k · l f
an manner o 1 mg epositions, an t 10 sate cepmg t iereo , 
and any other regulations concerning the taking and using of
depositions, which may not be inconsistent with the provisions
of law. 
24. Any witness may be summoned and compelled
to give his deposition at any place within twenty miles of his 
abode, in like manner, and under the same penalties, as he may
be summoned and compelled to attend as a witness in any court. 
OF TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES OUT OF THIS STATE.
SECTION 25. The deposition of any witness without this state 
may be taken under a commission issued to one or more eompe­
tent persons in any state or country, by the court in which the 
cause is pending, and the deposition may ho used in the same
manner, and subject to the same conditions and objections, as if
it had been taken in this state. _ 
SECTION 26. Every such deposition shall bo taken upon writt • t t • t b l ibi d ti d t. l . 
en in crroga ones, o c ex u ite to 10 n verso par y or us 
. · 
attorney, and cross interrogatories, to be filed by him if he shall
think fit. 
SECTION 27. The courts may make rules as to the issuing of
commissions, either in vacation or term time, and the filing of 
interrogatories, and all other matters relating to depositions
taken out of the state: prooided, that such rules be not inconsistent with the provisions of faw. 
SECTION 28. All depositions and affidavits taken out of the
state in any other manner than is prescribed in the three prcced- 
ing sections, if taken before any notary public or other person
authorized by the laws of any state or country to take deposi- 
tions, may be admitted or rejected, at the discretion of the court:
provided, that no such deposition or affidavit shall be admitted 
unless it shall appear that the adverse party had sufficient notice 
ot the taking thereof, and opportunity to cross-examine the
witness. 
OF PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESSES
WITHIN THIS STATE. 
SECTION 29. When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate
the testimony of any witness, he shall make a statement in writ- 
ing, setting forth briefly and substantially his title, claim, or
interest in or to the subject concerning which he desires to
perpetuate the evidence, and the names of all other persons
interested or supposed to be interested therein, and also the
name of the witness proposed to be examined, and shall deliver
tho said statement to a judge of a court of record, requesting
him to take the deposition of the said witness. 
SF.CTION 30. The said judge shall thereupon cause notice to
be given of the time and place appointed for taking the dcposi- 
tion, to all persons mentioned in the said statement as interested
in the case, which notice shall be given in the same manner as is
prescribed in this chapter respecting notice upon taking a deposition in this state, to he used in any cause here pending. 
SECTION 31. The deponent shall he sworn and examined, and
his deposition shall be written, read, and subscribed, in the same
manner as is prescribed respecting the other depositions before 
mentioned, and the judge shall annex thereto a certificate under
his hand, of the time and manner of taking it, and that it was
taken in perpetual remembrance of the thing; and he shall also
insert in the certificate the names of the persons at whose
request it was taken, and of all those who were notified to
attend, and of all who did attend the taking thereof. 
SECTION 32. Tho deposition, with the certificate, and also the
written statement of the party at whose request it was taken, 
shall, within ninety days after the taking thereof, be recorded in
the registry of deeds in the county where the land lies, if the 
deposition relates to real estate ; otherwise in the county where 
tho parties, or some of them, reside. 
SECTION 33. If any action shall, either at the time of taking
such deposition, or at any time afterward, be pending between 
the person at whose request it was taken and the persons named
in the said written statement, or any of them, who were notified
as aforesaid, or any person claiming under either of the said 
parties, respectively, concerning the title, claim, or interest set
forth in the statement, the deposition so taken, or a certified
copy of it from the registry of deeds, may be used in such
action, in the same manner, and subject to tho same conditions
and objections, as if it had been originally taken for the said
action. 
34. Any witness maytbe summoned and compelled
to give his deposition in perpetual remembrance of the thing, as 
before prescribed, in like manner and under the same penalties
as are provided in this chapter respecting other depositions taken 
in this state. 
OF PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESS&S OUT
OF THIS STATE. 
35. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of wit .. 
1· · · 1 t tl t b t k · t te ·
nesses ivmg Wit iou re sta e, may o a en m any s a , or 111 
any foreign country, upon a commission to be issued by any
t f d · 1 l · f · d d 
cour Q recor , m t 1e manner ierema ter pron e . 
SECTION 36. The person who proposes to take the deposition
shall apply to any such court, and file therein a statement like
that before prescribed, to be delivered to the judge, or justice
of the peace, upon taking such a deposition within this state;
and if the subject of the proposed deposition relate to real estate
within this state, tho statement shall be filed in the county
where the land, or any part thereof, lies ; otherwise in the
county where the parties, or some of them, reside. 
SECTION 37. The court shall order notice of such application
and statement to be served on all the persons mentioned therein
as adversely interested in the case, and living within the state ;
which notice shall be served fourteen days at least before the
time therein appointed for hearing the parties. 
38. If, upon such hearing of the parties, or of the
application alone should no adverse party appear, the court
shall be satisfied that there is sufficient cause for taking the dep­
position, they shall issue a commission therefore in like manner
as for taking a deposition to be used in any cause pending in 
the same court. 
SECTION 39. The deposition shall be taken upon written
interrogatories, filed by the applicant, and cross interrogatories,
filed by any party adversely interested, if he shall think fit;
and it shall be taken and returned substantially in the same
manner as if taken to be used in any cause pending in the same
court. 
SECTION 40. The person who proposes to take the deposition
may, at his election, file his statement in the clerk's office in 
vacation, and may cause notice thereof to be given to the persons
therein named as adversely interested, by serving them with an 
attested copy of the said statement, fourteen days at least before
the next term of the said court ; and the · court may thereupon
proceed to hear the parties, and to issue the commission, as before
provided. 
SECTION 41. The supreme court may, from time to time,
make rules as to taking depositions to perpetuate the testimony 
of witnesses without the state, when taken under a commission 
from any court of record, and as to the filing and recording of
such depositions: provided, t~at such rules be not inconsistent 
with the provisions of law. 
SECTIO:S 42. .All depositions to perpetuate the testimony of
. witnesses, taken at any place without this state, according to 
the provisions of this chapter, may be used in like manner as if 
taken within this state. 
OF PROCEEDINGS TO PERPID'UATE THE TESTIMONY OF WITh~
WITHIN AND WITHOUT THE STATE, AS AGAINST ALL PERSONS. 
SECTIO:S 43. Depositions to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses, within or without the state, so that the same may be evidence against all persons, may be taken upon a commission, to
be issued, after public notice, by any court of record. 
SECTIO~ 44. The person who desires to have such deposition
taken, may apply to any such court, in the manner before pre­
scribed in the case of taking a deposition to perpetuate the tes­
timony of a witness living without the state ; and all the
proceedings thereon shall be the same as are prescribed in tho
case last mentioned. 
SECTIO:S 45. The court shall, in addition to the proceedings
as before prescribed, inquire upon the oath of the applicant or
otherwise, at their discretion, as to all persons known or supposed to be interested in the case; and shall in the commission
direct the commissioner or commissioners to publish in such
newspaper or newspapers, within or without the state, or both,
or in such other manner as the court shall consider most effectual, such notice of the time and place of taking such deposition,
and of the subject matter thereof, as the court shall think proper;
which notice shall be addressed, specially by name, to all persons
who are known or supposed to be interested in the case, and
generally to all others, that they may attend and propose cross
interrogatories to the witness ; and the court may also require
personal notice of the time and place of taking, and of the subject
matter of such depositions, to be given to such persons and in 
such manner as under all the circumstances shall seem proper. 
SECTION 46. Such deposition having been taken and returned 
to the court by whose order the commission issued, and being
found by the court to have been taken according to law and tho 
directions contained in the commission, the court shall order it
to be recorded within thirty days in the registry of deeds for tho
county in which the land lies, if the deposition relate to real
estate; otherwise in the county in which the parties, or some of
them, reside. 
SECTION 4 7. Any deposition taken and recorded under tho
provisions of the four preceding sections, or a. certified copy 
thereof from the registry, may be used by the person at whose
request it was taken, or by any person claiming under him,
against any person whatever, in any action or process wherein
shall be. brought in question the title, claim, or interest set forth
in the statement upon which the commission was founded, in 
the same manner and subject to the same conditions and objections, as if it had been originally taken for said action or process. 
OF DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS STATE, TO BE USED IN COURTS OF
OTHER STATES AND COUNTRIIB. 
48. Any witness may be summoned and compelled,
in like manner and under the same penalties as are prescribed 
in this chapter, to give his deposition in any cause pending in a.
court in any state or government, which deposition may be taken 
before any justice of the peace in this state, or before any commissioners that may be appointed under the authority of the
state or government in which the action is pending, and if the
deposition is taken before such commissioners, the witness may
be summoned and compelled to appear before them, by process
from any justice of the peace in this state. 
OF THE COMPETENCY OF CERTAIN PERSONS AS WITNESSES.
SECTION 49. In all cases in which any county, citg, town, 
district, precinct, or any parish, or incorporated or legally organ­
ized religious society, or any school district, or any incorporated
mutual fire insurance .company, or railroad or plank road com­
pany, shall be in their corporate capacity parties to or interested
in any action, whether of a civil or criminal nature, any member
of such corporation may be admitted as a competent witness, to
testify on trial, or to give his deposition: provided, there is no
sufficient objection to his competency except that of his being
such member of the corporation. 
SECTION 50. No person shall be disqualified as a witness in
any civil action or proceeding, by reason of bis interest in the
event of the same as a party or otherwise, except in the cases
specified in the next section, but such interest may be shown for
the purpose of affecting his credit. 
51. A party to a civil action or proceeding shall not
be examined as a witness on the trial, when the opposite party 
sues or defends as administrator or lega1 representative of any
deceased person; nor shall he be examined in relation to any
matter in controversy in such action or proceeding, which the
plaintifff or defendant claims as assignee, when the original as­ 
signor is dead; nor in relation to any matter in controversy 
arising out of any transaction managed or conducted by an agent
of the opposite party, or by an agent of the original assignor of 
such party, unless such agent is living; and no assignor of a
contract or thing in action shall be admitted as a' witness on
the trial, in behalf of the person claiming title through or from
him against an assignee, or against an executor or administrator,
unless the other party to such contract or thing in action whom
the plaintifff or defendant represents is living, and his testimony
can be procured. 
SECTION 52. Notice of the intended examination of a party
in his own behalf shall be given to the opposite party, for such 
time as the court shall deem reasonable, in order to enable such
opposite party to be present at the trial, or to have his deposition 
taken to be used on such trial; but in cases where a party shall
be sworn pursuant to such notice, or where the original assignor 
of a contract or thing in action is sworn on behalf of the party
claiming title through him, the opposite party shall be permitted 
to testify without such notice. 
SECTION 53. Any party to an action or proceeding who resides
out of this state, or more than thirty miles from the place of 
trial, may have his deposition taken to be used on such trial. and
. h d b" h l . id d 
m t e same manner, an su ~ect to t e same ru cs, as is pron e
by law for taking the depositions of other witnesses. 
SECl'ION 54. No action to obtain discovery under oath, in aid
or the prosecution or defense or another action, shall be allowed; 
b
. be . d . l 
ut a party to an action may examine as a witness, at t ie
instance of the adverse party, or of any one of several adverse 
parties, and for that purpose may be compelled to give testimony
in the action, in the same manner and subject to tho same rules
of examination as any other witness. 
SECTIO~ 55. The examination provided for in the last section
may be had either on the trial of the action, or at any time be- 
i>re trial, at the option or the party claiming it, before a judge
of the court? or county judge, on a previous notice to the party 
to be examined, and any other adverse party, of at least five
days, unless for good cause shown the judge order otherwise.
But the party to be examined shall not be compelled to attend
in any other county than that of his residence, or where he may
be served with a summons for his attendance. The party to be
examined may be compelled to attend in the same manner as
other witnesses, and the examination shall be taken and filed by the
judge in like manner, and may be read by either party on tho trial. 
SECTION 56. When such adverse party is not a resident or
this state, his testimony may be taken upon commission, in the 
. r L'. 
same manner as provided by law, and by the rules o court, JOr
the taking of the testimony of other witnesses upon commission. 
SECTIO~ 57. The examination or deposition of the party thus
taken, may be rebutted by adverse testimony. 
SECTION 58. If a party refuse to attend or to testify as in the
1 
~ . ·,1 d h be • h d ~
ast JOUr sections provrce , e may pums e as JOr a con- 
tempt, and his complaint, answer, or reply may he stricken out. 
SECTION 59. A party examined by an adverse party, as in
this chapter provided, may be examined on his own behalf in 
respect to any matter pertinent to the issue; but if he testify to
any new matter not responsive to the questions put to him by 
the adverse party, or necessary to explain OJ qualify his answers
thereto, or discharge when his answers would charge himself,
such adverse party may offer himself as a witness on his own
behalf in respect to such matter, and shall be so received. 
SECTION 60. No person shall he deemed an incompetent witb 
f
h · · d • unl h h 
ness y reason o avmg eommitte any crune, ess e as
been convicted thereof. 
OF THE PRINTED BTATUTm OF rars STATE, OF THE RECORDS AND
PROCEEDINGS OF COURTS .AND THE LAWS OF OTHER STATF.S, 
AND OF FOREIGN LAWS, .AS EVIDENCE.
SECTION 61. The records and judicial proceedings of any 
court of any state or territory, or of the United States, shall be
admissible in evidence in all cases in this state, when authenti- 
cated by the · attestation of the clerk, prothonotary, or other
officer having charge of the records of such court, with the seal
of tbc court annexed. 
SECTION 62. The printed copies of all statutes, acts, and re­
solves of this state, whether of a public or private nature, which 
shall be published under the authority of the state, shall ho
admitted as sufficient evidence thereof in all courts of law, and 
on all occasions whatsoever.
SECTION 63. Printed copies of the statute laws and all acts 
and resolves of the legislature of any state or territory of the
U it d St 'f . b bl' 1 d d l I 
m e ates, 1 purportmg to e pu is ie un or t 10 aut 10rity of their respective governments, or if commonly admitted
and read as evidence in their courts, shall be admitted in all 
courts and on all other occasions in this state as prima facie
evidence of such laws, acts, and resolves; and hereafter it shall
not he necessary to set forth the same in the pleadings, hut such
statutes, laws, acts, or resolves may be given in evidence under
pleadings and allegations, in the usual form, in all courts in this 
state.
SECTION 64. The unwritten or common law of any state or 
territory of the United States may be proved as facts bv parol
id d l ho k f f di d d · .J l · 
evi ence, an t re o s o reports o cases a uu ge m t ieir
courts may also be admitted as evidence of such law. 
SECTION 65. The existence and the tenor or effect of all for­
eign laws may be proved as facts by parol evidence; but if it 
shall appear that the law in question is contained in a written
statute or code, the court may in their discretion reject any evi­
dence of such law that is not accompanied by a copy thereof. 
OF THE EXEMPLIFICATION OF JUSTICES' JUDGMENTS IN OTHER STATES. 
SECTION 66. Au exemplification of a judgment rendered by
any justice of the peace in any state or territory of the United
States, officially certified by such justice as a full and correct
copy of all the proceedings in that case, from his docket, with a
certificate of magistracy thereon, signed' and authenticated by a
clerk of a court of record in the county where such judgment
was rendered, with the seal thereof attached, shall be good and
legal evidence in any court or legal proceedings in this state, to
prove the facts contained in such exemplification. 
OF DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE AND THE PRESERVATION THEREOF, &C. 
SECTION 67. When notice of any application to any court or
Jt"udbicial bo1~cherdf?r any proceeding authorized by laffiwd, is ;tequfirthed 
o e pu is e · m one or more newspapers, an a avi o e
printer of such newspaper, or of his foreman or principal clerk, 
annexed to a printed copy of such notice, taken from the paper
in which it was published, and specifying the time when and the
paper in which such notice was published, may be filed with the 
proper· officer of the court or with the judicial officer before
whom such proceeding shall be pending, at any time within six
mouths after the last day of the publication of such notice,
unless sooner specially required. 
SECTION 68. When any notice of a sale of real property is
required by law to be published in any newspaper, an affidavit 
of the printer of such newspaper, or his foreman or principal
clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, taken from the 
paper in which it WM published, and specifying the times when
and the paper in which such notice was published, may be filed 
at any time within six months after the last day of such publication, with the register of deeds of the county in which the
premises sold are situated. 
SECTION 69. The original affidavit so filed pursuant to the
two last preceding sections, and copies thereof duly certified by
the officer in whose custody the same shall be, shall be presumptive evidence, in ell casee and in every court or judicial proceeding, of the facts contained in such affidavit. 
SECTION 70. The affidavit of the printer, or foreman of such
printer, of any public newspaa:r published in this state, of the 
bli
. f . . hi I b l f 
pu cation o any notice or a vertisement w c 1 y any aw o
this state shall be required to be published in· such newspaper,
shall be entitled to be read in evidence in all courts of justice 
in this state, and in all proceedings before any officer, body, or
board, and shall be prima f acie evidence of such publication and
of the facts stated therein. 
SECTION 71. Whenever a certified copy of any'affidavit, record,
document, or other paper is allowed by law to be evidence, such 
copy shall be certified by the officer in whose custody the same
is required. by tn.w to be, to have been compared by him with
the original, and to ho a correct transcript therefrom ; and if 
such officer have any official seal by law, such certificate shall be
authenticated by such seal. · 
SECTION 72. But the preceding section shall not be construed
to require tho affixing of the seal of a court to a certified copy 
of a rule or order made by such court, or of any paper filed
therein, when such copy is used in the same court, or before
any officer thereof. 
SECTION 73. Every written instrument, except promissory
notes and bills of exchange, and except the last wills of deceased 
b d k 1 d d
. l 
persons, may e prove or ac now e ge m t 10 manner now providcd by law for taking the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real estate, and the certificate of the proper officer indorsed 
thereon, shall entitle such instrument to be read in evidence in
all courts of justice, and in all proceedings before any officer, 
body, or board, with the same effect and in the same manner as
if such instrument were a conveyance of real estate. 
SECTION 7 4. The register of deeds and the clerk of any court
of record in every county of this state, upon being paid the foes 
allowed therefore by law, shall receive and deposite in their offices
respectively any instruments or papers which any person shall 
offer to them for that purpose, and if required, shall give to such
person a. written receipt therefore. 
SECTION 75. Such instruments or papers shall be properly
indorsed, so as to indicate their general nature, and the names of 
the parties thereto shall be filed by the officer receiving the same,
stating the time when received, and shall be deposited and kept by 
him and his successors in office, in the same manner as his official papers, in some place separate and distinct from such papers. 
SECTION 76. The instruments or papers so received and depositcd shall not be withdrawn from such office, except on tho order 
of some court for the purpose of being read in evidence in such 
court, and then to be returned to such office; nor shall they be
delivered without such order to auy perrnn, unless upon tho
written order of the person who deposited the same, or his exec­
utors or administrators. 
SECTION 77. Such instruments or papers so deposited shall
be open to the examination of any person desiring the same, 
upon tho payment of the foes allowed by law.
SECTION 78. Whenever any officer to whom tho legal custody 
of any document, instrument, or paper shall belong, shall certify
under his official seal, that he has made diligent examination in 
his office for such paper, instrument, or document, and that it
cannot be found, such certificate shall be presumptive evidence
of the facts EO certified in all causes, matters, and proceedings,
in tho same manner and with the like effect as if such officer had
personally testified to the same in the court, or before the officer,
before whom such cause, matter, or proceeding may be pending. 
OF THE PRIVILEGE OF WITNESSES IN CERTAIN CASE3. 
SECTION 79. Any competent witness in a cause shall not be
d f · · 1 · ti · 
excuse rom answering a question re evant to ie matter m
issue, on the ground merely that the answer to such question 
may establish or tend to establish that such witnc\s owes a debt,
or is otherwise subject to a civil action. But this provision shall
not be construed to require a witness to give any answer which
shall have a tendency to accuse himself of any crime or misde­
meanor, or to expose him to any penalty or forfeiture, nor in
any respect to vary or alter any other rule respecting the exam­
ination of witnesses. 
SECTION 80. No person duly authorized to practice physic or 
surgery, shall be compelled to disclose nny information which ho
may have acquired in attending any patient in a professional 
character, and which information was necessary to enable him
to prescribe for such patient as a physician, or to do any act for 
him as a surgeon. 
OF THE LOSS OP IN&TRUMENTS, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.
SECTION 81. Whenever a party to any action shall have been 
permitted to prove by his own oath the loss of any instrument, in
order to admit other proof of the contents thereof, the adverse 
party may also be examined by the court 011 oath, to disprove
such loss, and to account for such instrument. 
SECTION 82. In any action founded upon any negotiable
promissory note, or bill of exchange, or in which such note, if 
produced, might be allowed as a set-off in the defense of any
action, if it appear on the trial that such note or bill was 106t
while it belonged to tho party claiming the amount due thereon,
parol or other evidence of the contents thereof may be given on
such trial, and notwithstanding such note or bill was negotiable,
such party shall be entitled to recover the amount due thereon,
as if such note or bill hod been produced. 
8EcTION 83. But to entitle a party to such recovery, he shall
execute a bond to tho adverse party in a penalty at least double 
the amount of such note or hill, with two sureties to be approved 
- 
by the court in which the trial shall be had, conditioned to
indemnify the adverse party, his heirs and personal representatives, against all claims by any other person on account of such
note or bill, and agaiust all costs and expenses by reason of such
claim. 
OF CERTAIN ~ONY RELATIVE TO ~RPORATIONS. 
SECTION 84. In actions by or against an aggregate corporation, the admission of any ~ember thereof, not. named ~ll the 
record as a party to such action, shall not be received as evidence
against such corporation, unless such admission was made con- 
corning some transaction in which such member was the authorized agent of such corporation. 
SECTIO'.'i 85. .Any member of a corporation aggregate, not
named on the record as a party to an action brought by or 
against such corporation, shall be received as a competent wit- 
ness to testify to any matter against the interest of such corporation. 
SECTIO'.'i 86. · Whcne,er an assessment is made on any pre- 
' t • t l · '"mmm no c given o any mutua insurance company tor any 
hazard taken l>y said company, or as a consideration for any
policy of insurance issued or to be issued by said company, and 
action is brought for the recovery of such assessment, the certificute -of the secretary of said company, specifying such assessment
and the amount due to said company on such note by means
thereof, shall be taken and received as prima facie evidence
thereof in all courts and places whatsoever. 
SECTION 87. A copy of the certificate of organization or of the
articles of association of any incorporated company, filed with the 
secretary of state in pursuance of any law of this state duly eertificd under the hand and seal of the secretary of state, shall be 
prima f acie evidence of the incorporation of said company in all 
courts and places. 
OF ACCOUNT BOOKS, INSTRUMENTS, AND JUSTIC:E~' DOCKETS AS
EVIDENCE. 
SECTIO!tl 88. Whenever a. party in any cause or proceeding
shall produce at the trial his account books, and swear that the
same are his account books kept for that purpose; that they contain the original entries of charges for goods or other articles
delivered, or work and labor or other services performed, or
materials found, and that such entries are just to the best of his
knowledge and belief; that said entries are in his own handwriting, and that they were made at or about the time said goods
or other articles were delivered, said work and labor or other
services were performed, or said materials were fonnd,-the party
offering such book or books as evidence, being subject to all tho
rules of cross examination by the adverse party that would· be
applicable by the rules to any other witness giving testimony
relating to said book or books,-if it shall appear upon the exam.
ination of said party that all of the interrogations in this section
contained are satisfactorily established in the affirmative, then the
said book or books shall be received as pri,ma f aci,e evidence in
proof of the charges therein contained. 
SECTION 89. Whenever the original entries mentioned in tho
preceding section arc in the handwriting of an agent, servant, or
?lerk of the party, the oath of such agent, servant, or clerk may 
lll like manner be admitted to verify the same, and said books
shall be testimony in tho same manner as· the books mentioned in 
tho preceding section: prooided, that such books, mentioned in
this and tho preceding section, shall not be admitted as testimony
of any item of money delivered at one time, exceeding fiv&
dollars, or of money paid to third persons, or of charges foe 
rent. 
SECTION 90. Where a hook has marks which show that the
items have been transferred to a ledger, the book shall not be
testimony unless the ledger be produced. 
SECTION 91. Any entries made in a book by a person author­
ized to make the same, he being dead, may ho received as 
evidence in a case proper for the admission of such books as 
evidence. 
SECTION 92. Every written instrument, purporting to have
been signed or executed by any person, shall be proof that it was 
so signed or executed until the person by whom it purports to 
have been signed or executed shall deny the signature or execution of the same by his oath or affidavit; but this section shall 
not extend to instruments purporting to have been signed or
executed hy any person who shall have died previous to tho
requirement of such proof. 
SECTION 93. Either party may exhibit to the other or his
attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper material to the 
action, and request au admission in writing of its genuineness.
If the adverse party or bis attornev fail to give the admission
within four days after the request, "'and if the party exhibiting 
the paper be afterward put to •the expense in order to prove its
genuineness, and the same be fully proved or admitted on the
trial, such expense, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by 
the party refusing the admission, unless it appear to the satisfac­
tion of tho court that there were good reasons for the refusal.
The court before which an action is pending, or a judge thereof, 
may in their discretion, and upon due notice, order either party
to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection and 
copy, or permission to take a copy, of any books, papers, and
documents in his possession, or under his control, containing 
evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense
therein. If compliance w uh the order be refused, the court, on
motion, may exclude the paper from being given in evidence, or
punish the party refusing, or both. 
94. Whenever it shall become necessary in an action
before a justice of the peace, to give evidence of a judgment, or 
other proceedings, had before him, the docket of such judgment,
or other proceeding, or a transcript thereof, certified by him,
shall be good evidence thereof before such justice. 
, SECTION 96. A transcript from the docket of any justice of
the peace, of any judgment had before him, of the proceedings
in the cause previous to such judgment, of the execution issued
thereon, if any, and of the return to such execution, if any,
'\"hen certified by such justice, shall be evidence to prove tho 
facts coutaiuod in such transcript, in any court in the county
where such judgment was rendered. 
SECTIO:i 96. To entitle such transcript to be read in evidence
in a different county than that in which the judgment was 
rendered, or-the proceedings originated, there shall be attached
thereto, or indorsed thereon, a certificate of the clerk of the 
circuit court of the same county in which such justice resides,
under the seal of said court, specifying that the person subscribing
such transcript was, at the date of the judgment therein mentioned, a justice of the peace of such county. 
SECTION 97. The proceedings in any cause, had before a
justice, not reduced to writing by said justice, nor ~i!1g _the 
contents of any paper or document produced before said Justice,
unless such paper or document should be lost or destroyed, may 
be proved by the oath of the justice. In case of his death or
absence, they may be proved by producing the original minutes
of such proceedings, entered in a book kept by such justice,
accompanied by proof of his handwriting; or they may be
proved by producing copies of such minutes, sworn to by a competent witness, as having been compared by him with the
original entries, with proof that such entries were in the handwriting of the justice. 
OF THE EFFECT OP CERT.A.IN ALLEGATIO:SS IN PLEADINGS. 
SECTION 98. Whenever in any action tho plaintifff or defendan t shall allege in their pleadings that the plaintifff, or defendant, 
or third persons were partners at any particular time, or that as
such partners they used any particular partnership name or style 
under which business was done, such avermcnts shall be taken
to be true, unless expressly denied by tho affidavit of the opposite 
party, or some one in his behalf, within the usual time of
pleading. 
SECTION 99. On actions against two or more defendants 
upon contracts in writing, alleged to have been executed by
such defendants, as partners, or otherwise, proof of tho joint
liability of the defendants shall not be required, to entitle the 
plaintifff to judgment, unless such proof shall be rendered necessary by answer denying the execution of such writing, verified
by affidavit. 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
SF.CrION 100. In all actions brought on promissory notes, or 
bills of exchange, by the indorsee, the possession. of the note
shall be prima f acie evidence that the same was indorsed by the 
persons by whom it purports to be indorsed. 
SECTION 101. .All notices required by this chapter to be
given to or by an adv_erse party, may be given by or to the agent*'~~~~:~«!.~ 
or attorney of the said party. 
SECTION 102. The depositions of persons out of this state, to 
b
d
· befi · · f I · hi hi 
e use in cases ore Justices o t ie peace, wit m t is state,
may be taken in the same manner, and under the same regulations, as depositions ar~ now authorized by law to be taken of 
persons within this state, and shall be subject to the same 
exceptions: provided, that in no case shall more than forty daya' 
notice of the-taking of such depositions be required to be given
to the adverse party. 
103. The receiver's receipt or certificate of purchase
of public lands, signed by the receiver, and the official certificate 
of any register or receiver of the entry or purchase of any tract
or tracts of land, or the location of any tract or tracts by a
military land warrant, shall be prima facie evidence in any court
in this state that tho title of the lands mentioned or described in
said receipt or certificate is in the pe~.on or persons named the. ein,
bis, her, or their heirs or assigns, but the said certificate shall
not be construed to apply to cases in which the land was held,
owned, or occupied by any person or persons, as mineral ground,
at the time of said entry, and on which discoveries of lead or
copper ore had been made : provided, the same shall be held by
the original claimant, or his legal or equitable assignee. 
SECTION 104. Copies of any record, plot, file, paper, or memo­
randum of the purchase or entry of any land, made or kept in 
any land office of the United States located in this state, when
certified by the register of the land office, having the charge or 
custody thereof, in like form as is by statute required as to other
records, plots, files, or papers, shall be, in or 'before any court or
tribunal, evidence of the matters or things so certified. 
SECTION 105. All deeds, mortgages, or other instruments in
writing, relating to real estate situate within this state, which 
h 11 I be d d . l ffi f . f d d 
s a iave en rccor e m t ie o ce o any register o ce s
before this section shall take effect, purporting to have been 
k I d d d . I l . d 1 . 
ac now e ge or prove wit rout t ns state, au iavmg upon
them substantially the ordinary form of a certificate of acknowledgment or proof, purporting to have been signed by some officer in
1tnother state or country, shall be deemed prime facie in all legal
proceedings to have been acknowledged or proved ( as the case may
be) before the proper officer, and in conformity with the laws of
such state or country where it purports to have been acknowl­
edged or proved, and the records of all such deeds, mortgages,
and instruments, certificate of acknowledgment and proof, may
be read in evidence, in like manner and with the same effect as
the originals. 
106. Any creditor or creditors to whom two or more
persons are jointly indebted, either upon contract or the judg­
ment of any court of record, may release one or more of the per­
sons so jointly liable from such joint indebtedness; and such
release shall operate as a satisfaction or discharge of such joint 
d b
e t only to the amount of the proportion which the perrnn so 
released ought in equity, as between himself and the other joint
debtor or debtors to pay; and as to the balance of such joint
debt, the contract or judgment, as the case may be, 011 which
the same is owing, shall be and remain in full force as to the
joint debtor or debtors not so released, and may be enforced
against him or them alone, the same as if such joint contract or
judgment had been made by or rendered against him or them
alone : provided, that if the amount paid by the person released 
in any case to procure his release, shall exceed the proportion
of such joint debt, which he, as between himself and his co-debtor
or creditors ought to pay, then such joint debt shall thereby be 
satisfied to the extent of the sum actually paid to procure such
release : and provided, also, that if the person released is only a 
surety, his release shall operate as payment of such joint debt to
the extent of the money actually paid by him to procure his 
release, and no further. 
HECTmN 107. The provisions of the preceding section shall
not so apply to joint dehts, owing by one or more person or per- 
sons as principal and another or others as surety or sureties, as
to permit the principal debtor or debtors to be released, without
the discharge of his or their surety or sureties. 
OF ADMINISTERING OATHS. 
SECT?o~ 108. Whenever any oath or affidavit is or may be
required or authorized by law, ( except oaths to jurors and witnesses in the trial of a cause, and such other oaths as are required 
by law to be taken before particular officers,) the same may be
taken before any judge, judge of probate, court commissioner,
clerk of any court of record, notary public, town clerk, or justice
of the peace, and when certified by any such officer to have been
taken before him, may be read and used in any court of record
or not of record, within this state, and before any officer, judicial,
executive, or administrative, 
SECTION 109. Every person, who shall declare that he has
conscientious scruples against taking any oath, or swearing in 
any form, shall be permitted to make his solemn declaration or
affirmation. 
SECTIOY 110. Wheneverthe court heforewhichanypersonsball
be offered as a witness shall be satisfied that such person has any 
l
. d f · hi 1 · l d bl. to 
pccu iar mo e o swearmg, w re 1 is more so emn an o 1ga ry,
in the opinion of such person, than the usual mode, the court may, 
in its discretion, adopt such mode of swearing such person. 
SECTION 111. Every person believing in any other than the
Christian religion shall he sworn according to the peculiar cere­
monies of his religion, if there be any such ceremonies. 
bECTIOY i12. The court before whom an infant or a person
apparently of weak intellect, shall be produced as a witness, may 
· l · 11· · d l l h
examine sue 1 person to ascertain is capacity, an w act ier e 
understands the nature and obligations of an oath ; and any 
court may inquire of any person what are the peculiar ceremonies observed in swearing, which he deems most obligatory. 
8ECTJON 113. In all cases in which an oath or affidavit is
required or authorized by law, the same may be taken in any of 
1
l
f 
d
. ffi . d l 
t 10 usua orms, an every person swearmg, a rmmg, or ec ariug in any such form, shall be deemed to have been lawfully 
sworn, and to be guilty of perjury for corruptly or falsely swearing, affirming, or declaring in any such form . 
C!,.apter 134, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. No person shall be disqualified as a witness in any
civil action or proceeding by reason of his interest in the event 
of the same as a party or otherwise, except in the cases specified
in the next section; but such interest may be shown for the pur- 
pose of affecting his credit as a witness. 
• 
SECTION 2. A party to a civil action or proceeding may be
examined as a witness in his or her own behalf on the trial,
except in actions in which the opposite party sues or defends as 
d . . l l . 1· d d
a muustrator or ega representative o any ecease person; 
but such party shall not be examined in relation to any matter
in controversy in any action or proceeding in which the plaintifff
or defendant claims as assignee, when the original assignor is dead,
nor in relation to any matter. in controversy arising out of any
transaction managed· or conducted by an agent of the· opposite
party, or by an agent of the original assignor of such party,
unless such agent is living. 
SECTION 3. Notice of the intended examination of a party in
his own behalf shall be given to the opposite party for such time 
as the court shall deem reasonable, in order to enable such oppo- 
site party to be present at the trial or to have his deposition 
taken to be used on such trial; but in cases where a party shall
be sworn pursuant to such notice, or where the original assignor
of a contract or thing in action, is sworn on behalf of the party
claiming title through him, the opposite party shall be permitted
to testify without such notice. 
SECTION 4. Any party to an action or proceeding who resides
out of this state, or more than thirty miles from the place of 
.trial, may have his deposition taken to be used on such trial, in
the same manner and subject to the same rules as provided by
law for taking the depositions of other witnesses. 
Approved May 17th, 1858. 
Cliapter 44, Acts of a ger.,eral nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. That in all actions and proceedings in the courts 
of this state, in which the area of towns and counties shall be 
called in question, townships not returned as fractional by the
surveys under the authority of the United States, by reason of
being bounded on navigable lakes, or the state line, shall be 
taken and held to be six miles square, conformably to which sur­
vey sales of'-land have been or arc made by the United States. 
SECTION 2. Townships shown to be fractional by the surveys
of the United States, by reason of being bounded as aforesaid,
shall be taken and held to contain the number of miles and frac­ 
tions of miles shown by the plots of the aforesaid surveys. 
SECTION 3. Copies of the United States plots aforesaid, certi­
fled by the surveyor general of the district within which this state 
is situated, shall be received in evidence in all such actions and
proceedings in this state. 
Approved March 30th, 1858. 
CHAPTER cxxxvm. 
OF THE LillITATION OF .ACTIONS. 
SECTION 1. Civil actions can only be commenced within tho
periods prescribed in this chapter, cxccP.t when in special cases o. 
different limitation is prescribed hy statute. But the objection
that tho action was not commenced within the time limited, can 
only be taken by answer. 
8ECTTON 2. No action for the recovery of nny lands, tenemen ts, Or horcditaments, Or for the recovery of the possession
thereof, shall be maintained, unless it appears that the plaintifff, 
his ancestor, predecessor, or granter, was seized or possessed of
the premises in question, within twenty years before the com­
mencement of such action. 
8ECTIO~ 3. No cause of action or defense to an action,
founded upon the title to real property or to rents or services 
out of the same, shall be effectual, unless it appear that tho person
prosecuting the action or making the defense, or under whose 
title the action is prosecuted or the defense is made, or the
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor of such person, was seized or 
possessed of the premises in question, within twenty years before
the committing of the net in respect, to which such action is
prosecuted or defense made. 
SECTION -1. Ko entry upon real estate shall be deemed suffi- 
eient or valid, as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereupon within one year after the making of such entry, and within 
twenty years from the time when the right to make such entry
descended or accrued. 
SECTIOS 5. In every action for the recovery of real estate, or
tho possession thereof, the person establishing a legal title to 
. h 11 b d 1 be d 1 f
the premises s a e presume to iave en possesse t iereo 
within the time requirod by law, and the occupation of such
premises by another person shall be deemed to have been under
and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that such
premises have been held and possessed adversely to such legal
title for ten years before the commencement of such action. 
SECTION 6. Whenever it shall appear that the occupant, or
those under whom he claims, entered into the possession of any 
premises under claim of title, exclusive of any other right,
founding such claim upon some written instrument, as being a 
conveyance of the premises in question, or upon the judgment
of some competent court, and that there has been a continual 
occupation and possession of tho premises included · in such
instrument or judgment, or of some part of such premises, under
such claim for ten years, the premises so included shall be
deemed to have been held adversely: except that when the
premises so included consist of a tract divided into lots, the pos- 
session of one lot shall not be deemed tho possscssion of any
other lot of the same tract. 
SECTION 7. · For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by any person claiming a. title founded upon some 
writtcn instrument or somo judgment, land shall be deemed to 
have been possessed and occupied in the following cases:1. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.
2. Where it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
3. Where, although not enclosed, it has been used for the 
supply of fuel, or of fencing timber, for the purpose of hus­
bandry, or the ordinary use of the occupant. 
4. Where a known farm or a single lot has been partly 
improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may have been
left not cleared or not included according to the usual course
and custom of the adjoining country, shall be deemed to have
been occupied for the same length of time as the part improved 
or cultivated. 
SECTION 8. Where it shall appear that there has been an
actual continued occupation of any premises under a claim of 
title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon any
written instrument, or any judgment or decree, the premises so 
actually occupied, and no other, shall be deemed to be held
adversely. 
9. For the purpose of constituting an adverse pos- 
• b l l f d d
session y a person c aiming tit e not oun e upon some written 
instrument, or some judgment or decree, land shall be deemed to
have been possessed and occupied in tho following cases only:- 
1. When ,it has been protected by a substantial enclosure.
2. When it has been usually cultivated or improved. 
10. An adverse possession of ten years, under the
sixth and seventh sections, or of twenty years under the eighth 
and ninth sections of this chapter, shall constitute a bar to an
action for the recovery of such real estate so held adversely, or 
of the possession thereof. 
11. Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant
shall have existed between any penons, the possession of the 
tenant shall be deemed the possession of the landlord until the
expiration of ten years from the termination of the tenancy, or 
where there has been no written lease, until the expiration of
ten years from the time of the last payment of rent, notwith­
standing such tenant may have acquired another title, or may
have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord ; but such pre­
sumption shall not be made after the periods herein limited. 
8ECTION 12. The right of any pcrwn to the possession of any
real estate shall not be impaired or affected by a descent being 
cast in consequence of the death of any person in possession of
such estate. 
13. If a person entitled to commence any action for
the recovery of real property, or to make an entry or defense 
founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out
of the same, be, at the time such title shall first descend or 
accrue, cither- 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or- 
2. Insane ; or8. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution upon 
conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than for life ;­ 
or- 
4. A married woman,The time during which such disability shall continue shall not 
be deemed any portion of the time in this chapter limited for
the commencement of such action, or the making of such entry
or defense ; but such action may be commenced, or entry or 
defense made, after the time limited, and within five years after
the disability shall cease, or after the death of the person enti­
tled, who shall die under such disability; but such action shall
not be commenced, or entry or defense made, after tbat period. 
SECTION 14. The periods prescribed in section one of this
chapter for the commencement of actions other than for the 
recovery of real property, shall be as follows :- 
SECTION 15. Within twenty years :- . 
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any
record of this state. 
2. An action upon a sealed instrument, when the
action accrues within this state. 
SECTION 16. Within ten years :- 
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of record
of any state or territory within the United States, or of any
court of the United States. 
2. An° action upon a sealed instrument when the cause of
action accrued without this state. 
SECTION 17. Within six years :- 
1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability, express
or implied, excepting those mentioned in sections fifteen and six- 
teen of this chapter.
2. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a 
penalty or forfeiture. ·
8. An action for a trespass upon real property. 
4. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring any goods or
chattels, including actions for the specific recovery of personal 
property. 
5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another, not arising on contract, and
not hereinafter enumerated. 
6. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases which
were heretofore solely cognizable by the court of chancery ; the
cause of action in such case not to be deemed to have accrued
until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts consti­
tuting the fraud. 
SECTION 18. Within three years :- 
1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, upon a
liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity,
and in virtue of his office, or by the omission of an official duty,
including the non-payment of money collected upon an execution. But this section shall not apply to an action for an
escape. 
SECTION 19. Within two years:1. Au action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where 
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party
and the state, or to the state alone, except where tho statute
imposing it prescribes a different limitation. 
2. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, or false impris­
onment. 
SECTION 20. Within one year :1. An action against a sheriff, or other officer, for the escape 
of a prisoner, arrested or imprisoned on civil process. 
SECTION 21. In actions brought to recover the balance due 
upo n a mutual and open account current, the cause of action
shall be deemed to have accrued at tbe time of the last item 
• 
proved m such account. _ 
SECrIQN 22. An action for relief not herein before provided 
court of 
cause of 
• 
for, must be commenced within ten years after tho cause of
action shall have accrued. 
SECTION 23. None of the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to any action brought upon any bills, notes, or other evi- 
deuces of debt issued by a.oy bank, or issued or put in circula- 
• 
tion as money. 
SECTION 24. All personal actions on any contract not limited
by this chapter or any other law of this state, shall be brought 
within ten years after the accruing of the cause of action. 
SECTIQN 25. AU the provisions of this chapter shall apply to
the case of any debt, obligation, or. liability on contract, express 
or implied, alleged by way of set-offs. or counterclaims l.Jy a
defendant, and the time of· limitation of such set-off or counter
claim shall be computed in like manner as if. an action had
been commenced therefore, at the time the plaintifff's action was
commenced. · 
. SECTio~ 26.. The. limitations prescribed in this chapter shall
apply to actions brought in the name of the state, or for its 
benefit, in the same manner as to actions l>y private parties.
27. Au action shall be deemed commenced as to 
each defendant when the summons is served on him or on a 
o-d e. d 'b , , , h · ' · d ·
c eien ant, w o is a joint contractor or ot erwise unite m 
interest with him. An attempt to .commence an action shall be
deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the
meaning of this chapter, where the summons is delivered with
th~ intent that it shall be acttU1l9.· served, to the sheriff or other
proper officer of the county in which the defendants, or one of
them, usually or last resided; or if a corporation be defendant, 
to the sheriff or other proper officer of the county in which
said corporation was established by law, or where its general 
business is transacted, or where it keeps an office for the transaction of business; or if the defendant be a non-resident or a 
non-resident corporation, to the sheriff or other proper officer of
tbe county in which plaintifff shall bring his action. But such
an attempt must be followed by the first publication of the sum­
mens, Qr the service thereof within sixty days. 
SECTION . 28. If when the cause of action shall accrue against
any person. he shall be out of this. state, such action may be 
commenced within the terms herein respectively limited, after
the return of such person into this state. But the foregoing
provisions shall not apply to any case where, at the time the
cause: of action shall accrue, neither the party against or in
favor of whom the same shall accrue are residents of this state;
and if after a cause of action shall have accrued against any
person, he shall depart from and reside out of this' state, the
time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of
the time limited for the commencement of such action. 
SECTION 29. If a· person entitled to appeal or bring au action 
mentioned in this chapter, except actions for the recovery of a
penalty or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer for an 
escape, or for the recovery of real property, or. the possession.
thereof, be at the time the cause· of action accrued; either,- 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or,- 
2. Insane; or,- 
3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under
sentence of a criminal court for a term less than his natural 
life; or4. A married woman,The time of such disability is not a part of the time limited for 
the commencement of the action, except that the period within
which the action must be brought, can not be extended more
than five years by any such disability, except infancy; nor can
it be so extended in any case longer than one year after the
disability ceases. 
SECTION 30. If a person, entitled to bring an action, die before
the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, 
and the cause of action survive, an action may be commenced
by his representatives after the expiration of that time, and within 
one year from his death. If a person, against whom an action
may be brought, die before the· expiration of the time limited for
the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survives, an
action may be commenced against his executors or administrator
after the expiration of that time, and within one year after the
issuing of letters testamentary or of administration. 
SECTION 31. When a person shall be an alien subject, or
citizen of a. country at war with the United States, the time of 
the continuance of the war shall not be part of the period limited
for the commencemont of the action. 
SECTION 32. If an action shall be commenced within the time
prescribed therefore, and a judgment therein for the plaintifff be 
reversed on appeal, the plaintifff, or if he die and the cause of
action survive, his heirs or representatives, may commence a new 
action within one year after the reversal. 
SECTION 38. When the commencement of an action shall be
stayed by injunction, or statutory prohibition, the time of the 
continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be .part of
the time limited for the commencement of the action. 
SEC'rION 34. No person shall avail himself of a disability,
l 
. . d I l . . h f . d
un ess 1t eziste w ien us rig t o action accrue . 
· SECTION 35. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at
the time the right of action accrued, the limitation shall not 
attach until they all be removed.
SECTION 36. This title shall not affect actions against directors 
or stockholders of a moneyed corporation or banking associations,
to recover a penalty or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a Iia- 
bility created by law; but such actions must be brought within
six years after the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts 
upon which the penalty or forfeiture attached, or the liability~=~=was created. . 
SF.CTION 37. No acknowledgment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take
the case out of the operation of this chapter, unless the same be 
contained in some writing signed by, the pariy to. be charged
thereby. 
SECTION 88. If there are two or more joint contractors, or joint
exeen tors or- administrators of any contractor, no such joint con- 
traetor, executor, or administrator shall lose the benefit of the
provisions of this chapter, so as to be chargeable, by reason only 
acknowledgment or promise made by any other or others
of them. 
SECTION 39. In actions commenced against two or more joint
contractors, or joint executors or administrators of any contract­
ors, if it shall appear on the trial or otherwise, that the plain tiff 
is barred by the provisions of this chapter as to one or more of
the defendants, but is entitled to recover against any other or
others of them, by virtue of a new acknowledgment or promise,
or otherwise, judgment shall be given for the plaintifff as to any
of the defendants against whom he is entitled to recover, and
for the other defendant or defendants, against the plaintifff. 
SECTION 40. If in any action on contract, the defendant shall
answer that any other person ought to have been jointly sued,
and shall verify such answer by his oath or affirmation, and issue
shall be joined thereon, and it shall appear on the trial that tho
action is barred against the person so named in such answer by
reason of the provisions of this chapter, the issue shall be found
for the plaintifff. 
SECTION 41. Nothing contained in the four preceding sections
shall alter, take away, or lessen the effect of a payment of any 
principal. or interest made by any person; but no iudorsement or
memorandum of any such payment, written or made upon any 
promissory note, bill of exchange, or' other writing, by or on
behalf of the party to whom such payment shall be made or pur­
port to be made, shall be deemed sufficient proof of the payment,
so as to take the case out of the operation of the provisions of
this chapter. 
42. If there are two or more joint contractors, or
joint executors or administrators of any contractor, no one of 
them shall lose the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, so as
t.o be chargeable, by reason only of any payment made by any
other or others of them. 
SECTION 43. The provisions of this chapter requiring the
acknowledgment of a debt, or a new promise to pay it, to be in
writing signed by the party to be charged thereby, shall [11ot] 
apply to any such acknowledgment or promise made before the 
rfirstl day of [January,] A. D. 1859; but every such last men­
tionea acknowledgment or promise, although not made in
writing, shall have the same effect as if no provisions relating
thereto had been herein contained. 
CHAPTER CXXXIX. 
OF APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON. 
SECTION 1. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of error
t.o bring up any judgment or order for review before the supreme
court, but the same may be reviewed as prescribed by this chap­ 
ter, by a proceeding which is hereby denominated an appeal, and
the parties to such proceeding shall be known as appellant and
respondent. 
SECTION 2. A.n order made out of court, without notice to
the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without notice by 
the judge who made it, or may be vacated or modified 011 notice,
in the manner in which other motions arc made. 
SECTION 3. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the cases prescribed in this title. · 
SECTION 4. An appeal must be made by the service of a
notice in writing on the adverse party, and on the clerk with 
whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating
the appeal from the same or some specified part thereof. When
a party shall give, in good faith, notice of appeal from a jndgment or order, and shall omit, through mistake, to do any other
act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the
court may permit an amendment on such terms as may be 
just. 
SECTION 5. Upon an appeal allowed by this chapter to the
supreme court from a judgment, the clerk with whom the notice 
• • 
of appeal is filed shall, at the expense of the appellant, forthwith transmit to the supreme court the judgment r<:>11, unless
the circuit court shall direct a certified copy of the judgment
roll to be transmitted instead of the original ; and on an appeal
allowed from an order by this chapter to the supreme court, the
clerk with whom the notice of appeal is filed and the order en tored,
shall forthwith transmit to the supreme court a certified· copy 
of the order, the notice of appeal, and the papers upon which
the appeal was granted. . 
8ECTIO~ 6. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may
review an intermediate order involving the merits and necessa- 
tr. • 1 • d
r y affecting t re JU gment. 
il 
SECTION 7. · Upon an appeal from a judgment or order, the snpreme court may reverse, affirm, or modify the judgment or order 
appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the notice of appeal,
and as to any or all of the parties, and may, if necessary or
proper, order a new trial. When the judgment or order is
reversed or modified, the supreme court shall remit its judgment
or decision to be enforced accordingly. 
SECTio~ 8. Appeals to the supreme court shall be taken from
circuit courts, and from county courts in common law cases, and 
from any court of record having common law jurisdiction, where
no other court of appeal is provided by law. 
SECTio~ 9. Appeals may he taken to the supreme court from
judgments in civil actions, within two years from entry thereof, 
and from orders made by the circuit court, within thirty days
after notice of the same. 
SECI'Io~ 10. The following orders may be carried by appeal
to the supreme court·- 
• 
1,. An order affecting a substantial right made in such action,
whcn such order in effect determines the action, and prevents a 
judgment from which an appeal might be taken.
2. A final order affecting a substantial right made in special 
proceedings, or upon a summary application in an action after
judgment. 
3. When an order grants or refuses, continues or modifies, a
provisional remedy, or grants, refuses, or dissolves an injunction 
attachment; when it grants or refuses a new trial; or when it 
sustains or overrules a demurrer ; or4. When it involves the merits of an action, or some part 
thereof: 
SE~ION 11 .. No appeal shall be taken to the supreme court
from an order made at chambers, unless the same shall be 
affirmed by the circuit court; and from the order of said court, 
.affirming, setting aside, or altering the same, an appeal may be
taken, provided such order is one of those enumerated in sec­ 
tion ten of this chapter. 
SECTION 12. Upon an order made by a circuit judge or court
dissolving or discharging an attachment or injunction, the party
interested in continuing the same may give immediate notice of
appeal to the opposite party, and tender him a written under­
taking, with such surety as the judge shall direct, conditioned
to pay all costs and damages sustained by such party in case the
appeal be decided in his favor; and thereupon the court may
make an order in its discretion to continue such attachment or
injunction in force until the decision on the appeal, unless the
respondent shall, at any time pending such appeal, give a writ­
ten undertaking with sufficient surety to tho appellant, to abide
and perform the judgment in the action if it shall be in favor 
or the appellant. But the court shall discharge such order, if
it shall appear at any time that such appeal is not diligently
prosecuted, and such want of diligence shall be deemed prim.a 
facie evidence of a breach of the appellant's undertaking, 
SECTION 18. Appeals £rom an order made at chambers upon
notice may be taken within ten days after written notice of the 
making of such order, and such appeals shall be taken to a reg­
ular or special term of the circuit court. For the purpose of 
such appeal, either party may require the order to be entered
of record by the clerk, and it .shall be entered accordingly. 
SECTION 14. No injunction or attachment shall be dissolved at
chambers by any other than a circuit judge, but a court com- 
• • di h tt I t id d b 1 
missioner may. isc arge an a ac imen as prov1 e y aw. 
SECTION 15. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, 
• d k' b d 1 f l
a written un erta mg must e execute on t ie part o t 10 
appellant, by at least two sureties, to. the effect that the appcl­
lant will pay all costs and damazes which may be awarded 
e 
against him on the appeal, not exceeding two hundred and fifty
dollars ; or that sum must be deposited with the clerk with 
whom the judgment or order was entered, to abide the event
of the appeal ; such undertaking or deposit . may be waived by 
a written consent on the part of the respondent. 
SECTION 16. If the appeal be from a judgment directing the
payment of money, it shall not stay the execution of the judg­ 
ment, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of
the appellant by at least two sureties, to the effect that if the
judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, he affirmed, the
appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the judg­
~ent, or the part of such amount as to which the judgment
shall be affirmed, only in part, and all the damages which shall 
~_awarded against the appellant upon the appeal. 
~ECTION 17. If the judgment appealed from direct the 
assignment or delivery of documents or personal property, the
execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by appeal unless
tho things required to be assigned or delivered be brought into
court, or placed in the custody of such officer or receiver as the
court shall appoint, or unless the undertaking be entered into 
011 the part ·or the appellant by at least two sureties, and in.such
amount as the court, or a judge thereof, or county judge, shall
direct, to the effect that the apLllant will obey the order of the
appellate court upon the appea. 
8ECTIO~ 18. If the judgment appealed from direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of
the judgment shall not be stayed by the appeal until the instru- 
ment shall have been executed and deposited with the clerk with
whom the judgment .. is .entered, to abide the judgment of the 
appellate court. 
SECTION 19. If the judgment appealed from direct the sale
or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the 
same shall not be stayed unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, . with two sureties, to the
effect that during the possession of such property by the appel- 
laut, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste
thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed, lie will pay the
value of the use and occupation of the property from the time
of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant
to the judgment, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by a judge
of the court by which a judgment was rendered, and which
shall be specified in the undertaking : when the judgment is for
the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a deficiency
arising upon the sale, the undertaking shall also provide for the
payment of such deficiency. 
SECTION 20. Whenever an appeal shall be perfected as provided by SCCtiOnS Sixteen, seventeen, eighteen; and nineteen, Of 
this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in the· court
• below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter 
embraced therein ; but the court below may proceed upon any
other matter included in the action, and not affected by the
judgment appealed from. 
Sscrrox 21. The undertakings prescribed by sections fifteen,
sixteen, seventeen, and nineteen of this chapter, may be in one 
· 1 1 · f h 11 d
instrument or severa , at t ie option o t e appe ant, an a copy, 
including tho names and residence of the sureties, must be
served on the adverse party with the notice of appeal, unless a.
deposit is made as provided in section fifteen of this chapter,
and notice thereof given. 
8ECTIO:i ~2. An undertaking upon an appeal shall be of no
effect unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties that
thoy are each worth double the amount specified therein; the 
respondent may, however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties, within ten days after notice of the appeal; and unless they
or other sureties justify before a judge of the court below, or a
county judge, as prescribed by sections nineteen and twenty of
chapter one hundred and twenty-seven of the revisod statutes,
within ten days thereafter, the appeal sha.11 be regarded a.s if no 
undertaking had been given; the justification shall be upon a.
notice of not less than five days. 
SECTION 23. In the cases not provided for in sections sixteen,
seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, and twenty of this chapter, the
perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking mentioned
in section fifteen, shall stay proceedings in the court below upon
the judgment appealed from, except that where it directs the
sale of perishable property, the court below may order tho
property to be sold, and the proceeds thereof be deposited or
invested, to abide the judgment of the appellate court. 
SECTION 24. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk
with whom the judgment or order appealed from was entered. 
OF WRITS OF ERROR, AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON. 
25. Writs of error, in civil and criminal cases, may
issue of course, out of the supreme court of this state, in vaca­
tion as well as in term time, and shall be returnable to the same
court. 
SECTION 26. No writ of error shall operate to stay or super­
sede the execution in any civil action, unless the plaintifff in 
error, or some person in his behalf, shall give bond to the
defendant with one or more sufficient sureties, with condition
that the plaintifff shall prosecute his action to effect, and shall
pay and satisfy such judgment as shall be rendered thereon. 
27. Tho sufficiency of sureties and the sum for
which the bond shall be given, shall be determined in each case 
by any judge of the supreme court, or by the clerk from whose
office the writ of error is issued, according to such general rules
as the court may from time to time establish. 
SECTION 28. · The bond, if any is given, shall be filed in the
office of the clerk of the supreme court for the use of the 
defendant, and no execution shall be issued thereafter upon the
judgment complained of, during the pending of the writ of
error: and if execution shall have been already issued, the
clerk shall make and sign a certificate of the issuing of the writ 
of error, and the filing of the bond, and after notice of such
certificate to the officer holding the execution, all further pro­
ceedings thereon shall be stayed. 
SECTION 29. The party prevailing on a writ of error in any
civil action shall, in all cases, be entitled to his costs against the 
adverse party, and if the judgment is affirmed, the court shall
adjudge t~ the defendant in error damages for his delay, !lot 
less than at the rate of seven per cent., and not exceedmg
twelve per cent. a year, on the amount recovered on the former 
judgment; and in such case they may also, in their discretion,
award to the defendant double costs .. 
SECTION 80. The proceedings upon writs of error, as to the 
assignment of errors and scire .facias to the defendant, an the
pleadings, judgment, and all other matters not herein provided
for, shall be according to the course of the common law, and
such general rules as shall be made by the supreme court. 
SECTION 81. No judgment in any case whatever shall be
reversed or arrested for any error or defect therein, unless the 
d 
writ of error therein he sued out within four years next after the
rendition of such judgment. 
StCTION 32. If any person or persons against whom a jndgment shall be rendered, shall be, at the time of the rendition 
thereof, either within the age of twenty-one years, or insane, or
· · d · · l 1 J · l f . fu 
nnprisoue on any crunma c iarge t 10 sentence w iereo rs r
less than for life, or a married woman, or without the limits of 
the United States, such person or persons shall be entitled to a
writ of error on any such judgment against him, her, or them, at
any time within two years after the disability ceases: provided, 
the limitation in such cases shall not exceed twelve years. 
SECTIOS 33. No writ of error upon a judgment for any capi- 
tal offense shall issue, unless allowed by one of the judges of the
f 
. . h l f l
supreme court, a ter notice given to t e attorney genera o t ie 
state. · 
SECTIOS 34. Writs of error upon judgment in all other criminal cases shall issue of course, but they shall not stay or delay 
the execution of the judgment or sentence, unless they shall be
allowed by one of the judges of the supreme court with an 
. '· 
express order thereon for a stay of procccdmgs on the Judgment
or sentence. 
P
SECTIOS 35. When a stay of proceedings shall be ordered as 
rovided in the preceding section the judge mav at tho same 
' ~ J ' 
time. make such order as the case may require, for tho custody
of the plaintifff in error, or for letting him to bail, or the party 
may, upon a writ of habeas corpus, procure his enlargement upon
giving bail, if entitled thereto. 
SECTIOS 36. No discontinuance, nonsuit, or dismissal of a 
writ of error in the supreme court shall preclude the party from
. l . f ! l . l . I 
suing out anot ier writ o error m t 10 same cause, wit un t 10 
time limited by law. 
SECTION · 37. If any person who is or may be impleaded before
any court, in any civil action where a writ of error lies to a
higher tribunal, shall allege an exception, such exception, being 
reduced to writing, shall be signed by the judge or judges allowing tho same, or by a majority of them, and shall become a part
of the record, if the party taking the same shall so elect. 
Chapter 61, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. It shall be lawful in all cases tried by a jury in
any of the circuit courts of this state, where exceptions are or 
I
b k
1
. d · · · · f l . d 
rave eon ta en to any ru mg, ecisiou, or opunou o t 10 JU go
b1efore whom1 the case is heardb, for ~he ef xceptin~ pa1rty to take 
t 10 same to tie supreme court y writ o error, m t 10 manner
formerly in use in this state on bill of exceptions, prepared and
settled according to the former rules and practice of said courts,
without any previous applications for new trial or rehearing
before said circuit court. 
SECTION 2. The time within which a writ of error may be
• d . • I b 1· it d t t f h d 
issue m any case, is iere y 1m1 e o wo years rom t e ate
of tho judgment rendered in the case in which the writ is taken. 
Approved .April 24th, 1858. 
140. 
CHAPTER CXL. 
OF l[ISCELLANEOUS PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS, AND GE1'""ERAL 
. PROVISIONS. 
SECTION 1. When a judgment shall be recovered against one
or more of several persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, by 
proceeding as provided in section eleven of chapter one hundred 
~i:;j~d;:t. and twenty-four. of the revised statutes; those who were not
originally summoned to answer the complaint may be summoned
to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment
in the same manner as if they had been originally summoned. 
SECTION 2. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judg­
ment, execution thereon against any property, lands, tenements, 
real estate, or chattels real, upon which such judgment shall be
a lien, either at law or in equity, at the time of the death of such 
defendant, may be issued and executed in the same manner and
with the same effect as if he were still living, except that such 
execution cannot be issued within one year next after the death
of the defendant, norm any case unless upon permission· granted
by the court, or judge of the court, in which such judgment is
entered; and such court or judge, upon sufficient cause shown,
shall make an order granting such execution as aforesaid. 
3. If the plaintifff in an action shall die after judgment, and before satisfaction thereof, an execution may be issued 
l , d • l f h · d ' ' 
on sue 1 JU gment m t ie name o is executor or a ministrator,
at any time after the death of such plaintifff, and within two years 
after the entry of such judgment. Before an execution shall
issue in the name of an executor or· administrator, such executor 
d , . fil . h 1 1 k f 1 . l . 1
or a muustrator must e wit t ie c er o t ie court m w nc t 
such judgment was rendered, a written suggestion of the death
of such plaintifff', together with a certified copy of his letters tes­
tamentary or of administration, and the clerk shall attach such
suggestion and copy of the letters testamentary or of adminis­
tration to the judgment roll in such action, and he shall also
enter at the foot of the judgment in the judgrnen:t book, the fact
of the death of the plaintifff, the time of his death, the name of
bis executor or administrator, and the date of his appointment.
After the expiration of two years from the entry of such judg­
ment, execution may issue in the name of such executor or
administrator on leave of the court, and on filing a suggestion
of the death of tho plaintifff, and a certified copy of letters testamentary or of administration, as aforesaid. 
SECTION 4. The summons provided in the last two sections
[section one of this chapter] shall be subscribed by the judgment
creditor, his representatives or attorney, shall describe the judg­
ment, and require the person summoned to show cause, within
twenty days after the service of the summons, and shall be served
in like manner us the original summons. 1 
SECTION· 5. The summons shall be accompanied by an affidd
vit of the person subscribing it, that the judgment has not be 
satisfied to his knowledge, or information and belief, and sl'be iall
specify the amount due thereon. the 
SECTION 6. Upon such summons, the party summoned: 
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment, 
or setting up any defense which may have arisen subsequently;
and in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against according to
section two of this chapter, he may make the same defense 
which he might originally have made to the action, except the
statutes of limitation. 
HECTIOS' 7. The party issuing the summons may demur or 
repl v to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to tho
I
" d h . b . d d . d b •
rep y, an t e issues may e trie , an JU gmeut may e given 
in tahe same manner as in an action and enforced by execution,
or the application of the property charged to the payment of 
the judgment may be compelled Ly attachment if necessary. 
SECTIO~ 8. The answer and reply shall be verified in the like
cases and manner, and be subject to the same rules, as the 
answer and reply in an action. 
OF SUBMITrINO A CONTROVERSY'1WITHOUT ACTION, AND CONFESSION 
OF JUDGMENT. 
SECTION 9. Parties to a question in difference, which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon 
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends,
and present a submission of the same to any court which would
have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But it must
appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the proceedings
in good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court
shall thereupon hear and determine· the case at a general term,
and render judgment thereon, as if an action were pending. 
SECTIO~ 10. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book as in other cases, but· without costs for any proceeding 
. l • f • 1 Tl l b . • d
prior to t ie notice o tria . ie case, t ie su mission, an 
copy of the judgment shall constitute the judgment roll. 
SECTION 11. The judgment may be enforced in the same 
if . 1 d b d d ' . d 1 11 b
manner as i it ia cen ren ere in an action, an s ia 
subject to appeal in like manner. 
SECTION 12. A judgment up?n a bond _or no.ta and warrant
of attorney may be rendered without action, either for money 
due Or to become due, Or to Secure any person against contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
hereinafter prescribed. 
SECTION 13. The plaintifff shall file with his complaint an
answer signed by tho defendant, or some attorney in his behalf, 
f . l l . d . l l .
con essmg t te amount c anne in t 10 comp amt, or some part 
thereof and in case such answer is signed by an attorney the
' f · h , , . d ' b 
warran t o attorney, or instrument aut onzmg JU gment to
confessed or entered, shall be produced to the judge or commis- 
sioner signing the judgment, and shall be made a part of the
judgment roll. 
SECTION 14. The plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, shall
make and annex to the complaint an affidavit, stating the amount 
r d b
d d 
o money ue or to ecome ue on the note or hon , or 1 such
note or bond is given to secure any contingent liability, the 
affidavit must state concisely the facts constituting such liability,
and must show that the sum confessed does not exceed the 
same. 
if 
SECTION 15. The judgment shall be signed by a judge, or
court commissioner, and the clerk shall thereupon enter and 
docket the judgment as in other cases. Executions may be 
• d d r d h · l · d
issue an eurorce t ereon, m t ie same manner as upon JU g- 
ments in other cases in such court. When the debt for which
l . d . d · 11 d • bl · · 11 
t ie JU gment is recovere is not a uo, or is payau e m iusta ments, and the installments are not all due, tho execution may 
issue upon such judgment, for the collection of such installments 
as have become due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall
have indorsed thereon by the attorney or person issuing the
same, a direction to the sheriff to collect the amount due on
such judgment with interest and costs, which amount shall be
stated, with interest thereon and the costs of said judgment;
notwithstanding the issue and collection of such execution, the
judgment shall remain as security for the installments thereafter
to become due; and whenever any further installments become
due, execution may in like manner be issued for the enforcement
of' the saine. 
SEcTIO~ 16. In an action arising on contract, the defendant
may with his answer serve upon the plaintifff an offer in writing, 
1 if l f ·1 . 1 . d ~ I d b d .
t rat, 1 1e ai m ns erense, t ie amages e assesse at a spec1- 
fied sum, and if the plaintifff signify his acceptance thereof in
writing with or before the notice of the trial, and on the trial 
barn a verdict, the damages shall be assessed accordingly. 
SECTION 17. · If the plaintifff do not accept the offer, he shall
prove his damages as if it had not been made, and shall not he 
• d . . . id d ·r l d d . hi
permitte to give it men ence, an 1 t ie amages assesse in is 
favor shall not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the
defendant shall recover his expenses incurred in consequence of
any necessary preparation or defense in respect to the question
of damages; such expenses shall be ascertained at the trial. 
SECTION 18. If the defendant in any action for slander, or
for publishing a libel, shall set up in his answer that the words 
spoken or published were true, such answer, though not main­
tained by evidence, shall not, in any case, be of itself proof of 
the malice alleged in the complaint.
19. In all actions brought for breach of the condi- 
tions of a bond or to recover a penalty for the non-performance 
' 
of any covenant, contract, or agreement, when the defendant
shall fail to answer; or when it shall appear by verdict, confession,
or otherwise, that the condition is broken, or the penalty for­
feited, judgment shall be entered in the common form, for the
penal sum, but no execution shall issue thereon .except as is 
provided in the following sections.
20. The court shall award an execution in such case 
for so much of the penal sum as shall then be due and payable,
in equity and good conscience, for the breach of the conditions,
or other non-performance of the contract, which sum shall be 
ascertained and dctermine<l by the court, unless either party
shall move to have it assessed by the jury, or unless the court
shall think proper to have the question EO decided; in which
cases the sum so due shall be assessed by a. jury. 
SECTION 21. If any further sum shall afterward become due
on such bond or other contract, the plaintifff, or his executors or 
administrators, may have an action on the judgment in the court
in which it was rendered, against the original defendant or his 
executors, administrators, heirs, devisees, or assigns, as the case
may be, suggesting such further breaches of the contract as shall
ham accrued, and summoning the adverse party to show cause
why execution should not be awarded upon the judgment for the
damages caused by such further breaches. 
8ECTIOY 22. The sum due on such action shall be assessed
and determined in the same manner as in the original action 
d . h ll b d d di 1 d l lik
an execution s a e awar e accor mg y, an t 10 1 e pro- 
ceedings may ho had upon occasion of any further broaches of
the same contract, us often as they shall occur, until tho whole 
of the penalty is exhausted. 
SECTIOY 2a. In all cases where any legal notice is required
by law to be published in any newspaper in any county in this 
·r bl' • • t d ' h l
state, an 1 110 pu re newspaper ts prm e m sue county, sue 
d 
notice shall be required to be published in a newspaper printed
in au adjoining county, if a newspaper be printed therein. 
~EL"l'IO~ :24. It shall he the duty of every association or company formed f?P• the purpose of the transportation of passengers 
or property, either by boats, vessels, or stages, to make a statement of the names of tho persons composing such association or
company, and to file in the clerk's office of each county through
which such association or company may transact its business, a
copy of such statement. 
SECTION 25. Until such statement shall be so filed, any action
to be brouzht against such association or company shall not be 
0 , , 
abated by reason that all the members of the association are not
joined in the action. 
SF..cTION 26. After such statement shall be made and filed as
above provided any action brought against tho persons named 
, ,
in such statement shall not be abated for tho reason that other 
owners may have become interested, unless, thirty days previous
to the bringing of such action, a further statement shall be filed,
as provided in the second preceding section, showing any change
in the several persons composing such association, and the time
when such change took place; nor shall any action become abated
or defeated by reason that any such persons have ceased to be
interested therein, unless, at least thirty days before such action
is brought, a notice thereof shall be filed as aforesaid. 
SECTION 27. All persons, associations of persons, corporations,
or companies engaged in express business, shall be deemed com- 
. d bi all th d ' d Ii bili · f
mon earners, an su ~ect to ue uties an ia 1 ities o com- 
mon carriers. 
OF MOTIONS AND ORDERS.
SECTION 28. Every direction of a court or judge made or 
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. 
SECTION 29. An application for an order is a motion. )Iotions may be made to a judge out of court, except for a new trial 
on the merits.
:Motions must be made within the circuit in which the action 
is triable. Orders made out of court, without notice, may be 
53 
made by any judge of the court, in any part of the state, and
they may also be made by a county judge or court commissioner
of the county where the action is triable, except to stay proceed­
ings after a verdict. No order to stay proceedings for a longer
time than twenty days shall be granted by a judge out of court,
except upon previous notice to the adverse party. 
SECTION 30. When a notice of motion is necessary, it must
be served eight days before the time appointed for the hearing; 
b
1
• d b d l ·1. 
ut the court or JU ge may, y an or er to s iow cause, prescr1uc
a shorter time. 
SECTION 31. In the action in the circuit court, a county judge
and court commissioner, in addition to the powers conferred 
upon them in this chapter, may exercise within their county the
powers of a circuit judge in chambers, according to the existing 
practice, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and their
orders may be reviewed by the circuit court as provided in this 
chapter. But such court commissioners as are mentioned in
this chapter, shall be appointed by the circuit court for the 
express. purpose of performing the duties authorized by this
chapter. ·· 
SECTION 32. The time within which any proceeding in an
action must be had after its commencement, except the time
within which au appeal must be taken, may be enlarged upon an
affidavit showing grounds therefore, by a judge of the court, or
court commissioner, or by a county judge. The affidavit, or a
copy thereof, must be served with a copy of the order, or the
order may be disregarded. 
OF AFFID.A. VITS, NOTICES, FILING AND SERVICE OF PAPERS. 
SECTION 33. It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in
the action; but an affidavit made without a title or with a defec­
tive title, shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose as if 
it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the action or pro­
ceeding in which it is made. 
SECTION 84. The time within which an act is to be done as
herein provided, shall be computed by excluding the first day, 
and including the last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be
excluded. 
SECTION 35. Notices shall be in writing, and notices and other
papers.bmda~ behserved ohn the pt~rty or1 attorney inh the. manne_r 
prescn e m t e next t rec sec ions, w iere not ot erwise provided by this chapter. . 
SECTION 36. The service may be personal, or by delivery to
the party or attorney on whom the service is required to be 
• 
made, or 1t may be as follows:- 
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence
from his office, by leaving the paper with his clerk therein, or
with a person having charge thereof; or when there is no per­
son in the office, by leaving it, between the hours of six in the
morning and nine in the evening, in a conspicuous place in the
office, or if it be not open, so as to admit of such service, then
by leaving it at the attorney's residence with some person of 
suitable age and discretion. ·
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the paper at his 
residence, between the' hours of six in the morning and nine in
tho evening, with some person of suitable age and discretion. 
SECTION 37. Service by mail may be made where tho person
making the service and the person on whom it is to be made 
reside in different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail. 
SECTION 38. In case or service by mail, the paper must be
deposited in the post office, addressed to the person on whom it 
is to be served, at his place of residence, and the postage paid. 
SECTION 39. When the service is by mail, it shall be double
the time required in case of' personal service. 
SECTION 40. Notice of a motion or other proceedings before
a court or judge, when personally served, shall be given at least 
eight days before the time appointed therefore. 
SECTION 41. Where a defendant shall not have demurred or
answered, service of notice or papers in the ordinary proceedings
in an action need not be made upon him unless he be imprisoned 
for want of bail, but shall be made upon him or his attorney, if
notico of appearance in the action has been given. 
SECTION 42. Where a plaintifff or a defendant who bas
demurred or answered, or gives notice of appearance, resides 
out of the state and has no attorney in the action, the service
may be made by mail, if his residence be known ; if not known,
on the clerk for the party. 
SECTION 43: Where a party shall have an attorney in the
action, the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney 
instead of the party. . 
SECTION 44. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
th~ service of _a summons, or other process, or of any paper to 
bring a party mto contempt. 
SECTION 45. Whenever, pursuant to this chapter, the sheriff
b 
· d d
may e require to serve or execute any summons, or er, or 
judgment, or to do any other act, he shall be bound to do so in
like manner as upon process issued to him, and shall be equally
liablo in all respects, for neglect of duty; and if the sheriff boa
party, tho coroner shall be bound to perform the service, as he is
now bound to execute process when the sheriff is a party, and
all the provisions of this chapter relating to sheriffs shall apply
to coroners, where the sheriff is a party. 
SECTION 46. No guardian appointed for an infant shall be
permitted to receive property of the intant, until he shall have 
. ffi . . b d f I
given su cient security; approved ya ju ge o t 1e court, or a 
county judge or court commissioner, to account for and apply
the same under the direction of the court. 
SECTION 4 7. Every referee appointed pursuant to this chaptcr, shall have power to administer oaths in any proceeding 
before him, and shall have generally the powers now vested in a
referee by law. 
SECTION 48. If any original paper or pleading be lost or withheld by any person, the court may authorize a copy thereof to be
filed and used instead of the original. 
SECTION 49. The various undertakings required to be given
by this chapter, must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless 
the court expressly provides for a different disposition thereof; 
except that the undertakings provided for by the chapt£r on the
claim and delivery of personal property, shall, after ti~ justifica­ 
tion of the sureties, be delivered by the sheriff tor the parties
respectively, for whose benefit they are taken. \ 
50. On an appeal from a justice of the p6ace, if the 
appellate court shall give judgment against the party appealing, 
h • · } ..... 
sue Judgment may be entered up against t ie appellant and surety
jointly; but it shall not be collected of the surety by' the officer 
h. l . . di d ·r h fl d ffi .
to w om t ie execution is irecte , I e can n su cient 
property of the principal to satisfy the same, and the party
issuing execution, shall indorse a direction thereon to that effect. 
SECTION 51. When a judgment shall be entered up against
either party, in an action for the claim and delivery of personal 
property, such judgment may be entered up as well against the 
principal as against any surety, who shall have signed a written
undertaking with him for a return or delivery of the property,
as prescribed in this chapter; and in case where the officer to
whom the execution is directed, may collect the value of the
property, or any damages or costs, of the principal, he shall, if he 
cannot find sufficient property of the principal to satisfy the
same, collect the whole, or any part of the judgment which may
remain unsatisfied, of the property of such surety or sureties,
and the party issuing execution shall indorse a direction thereon
to that effect. 
SECTION 52. The time for publication of legal notices shall
be computed so as to exclude the first day of publication and
include the day on which the act or event, of which notice is 
given, is to happen, or which completes the full period required
for publication. 
SECTION 53. In all actions brought to compel a specific per­
formance of a contract, or foreclosure of any mortgage, made by 
l h di d . l . 1 . . h 
any person or persons, w 10 ave re , mt ier wit nu or wit out
this state, and the name or names of his, her, or their heir or 
heirs, or any of them, whether resident of this state or not, are
unknown to the plaintifff or plaintifffs, it shall be lawful for him, 
her, or them to proceed against such unknown heir or heirs, as
against absent defendants, and he, she, or they may be made
defendant or defendants to the complaint in the cause by the
name or description of "the unknown heir or heirs, or minor
heir or heirs, [ as the case may be,] of deceased ; "
filling the blank with the name or names of the deceased person
or persons, and with a further statement of his, her, or their last
place of abode, when living, if known, whose heir or heirs may
be proceeded against ; and by such name or description notice
shall he given by publication as in case of actions against other
non-resident defendants ; and after due publication of such
notice and proof thereof, the court snail, in all cases of infant 
defendants, appoint a guardian ad litem, by such name or 
description as is given in the complaint. 
SECTION 54. And any judgment made against such unknown
heir or heirs shall be as valid and binding in all respects as if
bis, her, or their respective names had been inserted in such
complaint and proceeding. 
Chapter 56, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. That when personal property is divisible and
owned by tenants in common, and one tenant in common shall 
claim and hold possession of more than his share or proportion
thereof, his co-tenant, after making a demand in writing, may 
sue for and recover bis share or the value thereof; and the court
may direct the jury, if necessary, in any such action, to find what
specific articles, or what share or interest, belongs to the respective parties, and the court shall enter up judgment in form, of
one or both of the parties against the other, according to such 
verdict. ·
.Approved April 21st, 1858. 
C/iapter 97, Acts of a genera/, nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. The defendant may, at any time before the trial or
verdict, serve upon the plaintifff au offer in writing to allow judg- 
ment, to be taken against him for the sum, or property, or to the
effect, therein specified, with costs. If the plaintifff accept tho
offer and give notice 
0thereof
in writing within ten days, he may 
file the summons, complaint, and offer, with an affidavit of notice
of acceptance, and the clerk must thereupon enter judgment
accordingly. If notice of acceptance be not given, the offer is
deemed to be withdrawn and cannot be given as evidence ; and
if the plaintifff fail to obtain a. more favorable judgment, he cannot recover costs, but must pay defendant's costs from the time
of the offer. 
OF ACTIONS RELATING TO REAL ESTATE. 
Oiu.P. 141. Actions for the recovery of real property.
142. Of the partition of lands owned by several persons. 
148. Of waste.
144. Of actions for private nuisance.'
145. Of actions for the foreclosure of a mortgage.
146. General provisions concerning actions relating to real estate. 
ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY. 
SECTION 1. Actions for the recovery of specific real property,
or of the possession thereof, shall be commenced and proceeded
in, in the same manner as other civil actions, except as herein­ 
after provided. 
TITLE XXIV. 
CHAPTER CXLI. 
SECTION 2. No person can recover in such action unless he
has, at the time of commencing the action, a valid subsisting 
interest in the premises claimed, and a right to recover the same
or to recover the possession thereof, or of some share, interest,
or portion thereof, to be proved and established at the trial. 
SECTION 3. If the premises for which the action is brought
are actually occupied by any person, such actual occupant shall
be named defendant in the complaint; if they arc not so occu­
pied, the action must be brought against some person exercising
acts of ownership on the premises claimed, or claiming title
thereto or some interest therein, at the commencement of the
action. 
SECTION 4. The complaint in such action shall set forth, that
the plaintifff has an estate or interest in the premises claimed,
( describing them as hereinafter specified.) particularly stating 
the nature and extent of such estate or interest, whether in fee,
in dower, for life or a term of years, specifying such life or lives,
or the duration of such term, and that he is entitled to. the pos­ 
session of such premises, and that the defendant unlawfully
withholds the possession thereof from him, to his damage, such
sum as the plaintifff claims for bis damages, and ~hall contain a
demand for the relief to which the plaintifff supposes himself
entitled. 
• SECTION 5. In such complaint the premises claimed shall be
described with convenient certainty, designating the number of 
the lot or township, if any, in which they shall be situated; if
none, stating the names of the last occupants of lands adjoining
the same, if any ; and if none, describing such premises by metes
and bounds, or in some other way, so that from such description
possession of the premises claimed may be delivered. 
SECTION 6. No action for the recovery of specific real 
property or the possession thereof, shall be commenced by an
attorney, unless he has written authority from each one of the 
plaintifffs for commencing the same: any written· request of such
plaintifff or his agent to commence such action, or written rccog- 
nition of the authority to commence the same, duly proved by
the affidavit of such attorney or other competent witness, shall be
sufficient presumptive evidence of such authority: such affidavit
shall be annexed to and filed with the complaint. 
SECTION 7. The defendant may demur to or answer the complaint as in other personal actions; he may also in his answer set 
up any matter as a defense which would have heretofore formed
an equitable defense, in which case the answer shall contain a
demand for such relief as he supposes himself entitled to. 
SECTION' ~- It shall not be necessary for the plaintifff to prove
an actual entry under title, nor the actual receipt of any profits 
of the premises demanded, but it shall be sufficient for him to
show a right to the possession of such premises at the time of the 
commencement of the action, as heir, devisee, purchaser, or
otherwise. 
SECTION 9. It shall not be necessary on tho trial for the
defendant to confess, nor for the plaintifff to prove, lease, entry, 
and ouster, or either of them, except as provided in the next section ; but this section shall not be construed to impair nor in any 
way to affect any of the rules of evidence now in force in regard 
to the maintenance and defense of the action. 
SECTION 10. If the action be brought by one or more tenants
in common, or joint tenants, against their co-tenants, the plaintifff,
in addition to all other evidence which he may be bound to give, 
shall be required to prove, on the trial of the cause, that the
defendant actually ousted such plaintifff, or did some other act
amounting to a total denial of his right as such co-tenant. 
SECTION 11. If the action be brought against several defendants, and a joint possession of all be proved, the plaintifff shall be 
entitled to a verdict against all, whether they shall have
answered separately or jointly. 
S·ECTION 12. When the action is against several defendants,
if it appear on the trial that any of them occupy distinct parcels 
in severalty or jointly, and that other defendants possess other
parcels in severalty or jointly, the plaintifff shall elect at tho
trial against which he will proceed, which election shall be made
before the testimony in the cause shall be deemed closed, and
a verdict shall thereupon be rendered for the defendants not so
proceeded against. 
SECTION 13. The plaintifff in any action for the recovery of
specific real property, or of the possession, shall also be entitled 
in the same action to recover damages for the rents and profits
of the premises recovered, during the time the same are uulawfully withheld. But if the action is brought for the recovery of
the dower, the plaintifff shall be entitled to recover such damages
as the court and jury deem proper. Provided, that the plaintifff
shall not be entitled to recover the rents and profits of the premises recovered, for a longer term than six years. 
SECTION 14. In the following cases the verdict shall be rende red as follows:- 
1. If it be shown on the trial that all the plaintifffs have a. 
right to recover the possession of the premises, the verdict in
that respect sho'll be for the plaintifffs generally. 
2. Ir it appear that one or more of the plain tiffs have a right 
to the possession of the premises, and that one or more have not
such right, the verdict shall specify for which plaintifff the jury
find, and as to which plaintifff they find for the defendant. 
3. If the verdict be for any plaintifff and there be several
defendants, the verdict shall be rendered against such of them as
were in possession of the premises, or as claimed title thereto, at
the commencement of the action. 
4. If the verdict be for all the premises claimed, as specified
in the complaint, it shall in that respect be for such premises
generally. 
5. If the verdict be for a part of the premises described in
such complaint, the verdict shall particularly specify such part,
as the same shall have been proved, with the same certainty
hereinbefore required in the complaint, in the description of' the
premises claimed. 
6. If the verdict be for an undivided share or interest in the
premises- claimed, it shall specify such share or interest, and if 
for an undivided share in part of the premises claimed, it shall
specify such share and shall describe such part of the premises
as hercinbefore required. 
7. The verdict shall also specify the estate which shall have
been established on the trial by the plaintifff in whose favor it
shall be rendered, whether such estate be in fee for his own life 
or for the life of another, stating such lives, or whether it be a
term for years, and specifying the duration of such term. 
15. In all cases where the jury find the plaintifff is
entitled to recover the lands claimed, or any estate, share, or
interest therein, the same jury shall assess the plaintifff's dama­ 
ges for the unlawful withholding of the premises, including the
mesne profits received by defendant in cases where plaintifff is 
entitled to recover such mesne profits. 
16. On the trial of such action the defendant shall
have the same right to set off permanent improvements made on 
the premises, to the amount of the plaintifff's claim, as is now
allowed by law. And in estimating the plaintifff's damages, the
value of the use by the defendant of any improvements made
by him shall not bo allowed to the plaintifff. 
SECTION 17. If the right or title of a plaintifff in ejectment
expire after the commencement of the action but before the 
trial, the verdict shall be returned according to the fact, and
judgment shall be entered that he recover his damages by reason 
of the withholding of the premises by the defendant, to be
assessed, and that as to the premises claimed, the defendant go 
thereof without day .
18. In cases where no other provision is made, the 
judgment in the action, if the plaintifff prevail, shall be that the
plaintifff recover the possession of the premises according to the
verdict of the jury, if there was such verdict, or if the judgment
be by default, according to the description thereof in· the com­
plaint, with costs to be taxed. 
SECTION 19. F.Rcry judgment in the action for the recovery
of specific real property, or of the possession thereof, rendered 
upon verdict, shall be conclusive as to the title established. in
such action, upon the party against whom the same is rendered, 
and against all persons claiming from, through, or under such
party, by title accruing after the commencement of such action,
subject to the exceptions hereinafter contained. 
SECTION 20. The court in which such judgment shall be rendered, at any time within one year thereafter, upon the applica- 
tion of the party against whom the same was rendered, his heirs
or assigns, and upon payment of all costs recovered thereby,
shall vacate such judgment and grant a new trial in such cause.
But no more than one new trial shall be granted under this 
section. 
SECTION 21. Every judgment in such action rendered upon
the defendant's failure to answer, shall, from and after two years 
from the time of docketing the same, be conclusive upon the
defendant and upon all persons claiming from or through him 
by title accruing after the commencement of the action. But
within two years after the docketing of such judgment, on the
application of the defendant, his heirs or assigns, and upon paymen t of all costs and damages recovered thereby, the court shall
vacate such judgment and grant a new trial. 
SECTION 22. But if the defendant in such action at the time
of the docketing of such judgment be either- 
1. Within the age of twenty-one years; or2. InsOJ1e ; or- 
3. Imprisoned on any criminal charge, or in execution upon
some conviction of a criminal offense, for any term less than for 
life; or4. A. married woma.n,The time during which such disability shall continue shall not 
be deemed any portion of the said two years ; but any such
person may bring an action for tho recovery of such premises
after that time, and within two years after such disability shall
be removed, but not after that period. 
SECTION 23. If the person entitled to commence such action
shall die during the continuance of any disability specified in 
tho preceding section, and no determination or judgment be had
of or upon the t~le, right, or action so to him accrued, his heirs
may commence such action after the time above limited for that
purpose, and within two years after his death. 
SECTION 24. If the plaintifff shall have taken possession of
the premises by virtue of any recovery in such action, such pos- 
.session shall not in any way be affected by the vacating of any
judgment as herein provided; and if the defendant recover in 
any new trial hereby authorized, he shall be entitled to an execution in the same manner as if he was plaintifff. 
SECTION 25. Upon vacating any judgment, as provided in
section twenty-one, the defendant shall answer the complaint as
bereinbefore provided ; and upon any new trial granted as herein
provided, the defendant may show any matters in bar of a. 
vacancy, which he might show to entitle him to the possession
of the premises, if ho were plain tiff in the action. 
SECTION 26. If the action be brought to recover the dower
of any widow, which shall not have been admeasured to her 
before the commencement of such action, instead of an execu­
tion being issued, such plaintifffs shall proceed to have her dower 
assigned to her in manner following :1. Upon the filing of the record of judgment, the court, 
upon the motion of the plaintifff, shall appoint three reputable
and disinterested freeholders, commissioners for the purpose of
making admeasurement of the dower of the plaintifff out of the
lands described in the record, and the commissioners so appointed
shall proceed immediately to the discharge of their duties. 
2. The report of the commissioners may be appealed from by
any party to the action. 
3. Upon the confirmation of the report of the commissioners,
an execution shall be issued to the sheriff' of the proper county,
describing the premises assigned for the dower, and command­
ing the sheriff to put the plaintifff in possession thereof. 
27. The costs and expenses incurred in such
admeasurement of dower shall be subject to the order of the ,
court. 
28. No action shall be maintained by a mortgagee,
or his assigns or representatives, for the recovery of the posses­ 
sion of the mortgaged premises, until the equity of redemption
shall have expired. 
SECTION 29. Any person having the possession and legal title­
to land may institute an action against any other person setting
up a claim thereto, and if the plaintifff shall be able to substan­
tiate his title to such land, the defendant shall be adjudged to 
release to the plaintifff all claim thereto, and to pay costs; unless
the defendant shall, by his answer, disclaim all title to such
land, and give a release to the plaintifff, in which case the defend­
ant shall be entitled to costs, except the court, on a hearing of
the cause, shall otherwise order or adjudge. 
OF IMPROVEMENTS ON REAL ESTATE. 
30. Whenever any person claims title to any lands
or town lots and tenements under through or by virtue of any 
' 
deed or conveyance heretofore executed or hereafter to be executed, by any officer authorized by the laws of this state to exe- 
cute the same, on account of any sale of any lands or town lots
and tenements for the payment of any tax heretofore or here­
after lawfully assessed thereon, or who shall claim title in fee
simple, under or by virtue of a deed from any other officer or per­
son, and an action to recover such lands and town lots or tene­
ments shall be instituted by any person claiming title from any
other source, on the trial of such action, if the jury to whom the
cause is submitted shall find the plaintifff entitled to such lands and
tenements so claimed, an execution shall be awarded by the
court, provided no permanent and valuable improvements have
been made on such lands and tenements in good faith by the
defendant, or those under whom he claims, since the execution
of such deed, or since the execution of a like deed to those
from whom he claims as aforesaid, and before the commence­
ment of said action. 
SECTION 31. If the defendant in any such action, against
whom a verdict may be found, shall claim that he or any person 
or persons throuzh whom he claims title has in good faith since 
. o ' ' 
the execution of such deed or deeds, and before the commencemeut of said action made valuable and permanent improve- 
men ts on the said lands or town lots, the court in which the said
cause is tried shall cause an issue to be made up between the 
parties forthwith, in which the defendant in the original action
shall be plaintifff, and the plaintifff in such action defendant; and
a jury shall be empanneled at such terms, or at such subsequent
term, as the court shall appoint, to try the issue so made up, and
assess the value of said improvements; and if they find that the
plaintifff is entitled to recover any sum for or on account of such
improvements, judgment shall be rendered for such sum as they
shall so assess and award. 
SECTION' 32. If the plaintifff in the original action shall elect
to pay the defendant in such action the value of such improve- 
ments, as assessed by the jury, with interest thereon from the
time of such assessment, and costs of the suit for the assessment 
of the value of such improvements, and all taxes assessed upon
said premises, and paid by said defendant or those under whom
he claims as aforesaid, with interest thereon, within three years
after the assessment of such damages, and final judgment rendered thereon, the court shall, upon satisfactory proof of the
payment or the tender of the payment of the same, award an
execution; and if the said plaintifff shall not pay or offer to pay
the same within such time, he shall be deemed to have aband d 
hi 1 . f ti l h . . . d 1 d
one is c aim o it e to t e premises m question, an 10 an 
all persons claiming under him shall be forever barred of a
recovery of the premises so claimed, but shall nevertheless be
liable for the costs of such suit for the assessment of such
improvements; and said defendant shall not be liable to pay for
the use or occupation of said premises during the time any part
of such sums shall remain unpaid. 
SECTION 33. In all cases where a recovery shall be made of
lands, tenements, or hereditaments, on which the party in pos-:, 
session, or those under whom he claims, holding adversely by
color, or title asserted in good faith, founded on descent or any 
· · h 11 h ad 1 bl d
wri tten mstrument, s a ave m e va ua e an permanent 
improvements, such party shall have lien on such real estate for
the value of such improvements, and the court in which any 
action may he brought to recover possession of any lands so
improved, may summon a jury to assess and ascertain tho value
of such improvements, and judgment shall thereupon be rendered by said court, to be euforced as other judgment liens on
said real estate are enforced by law. · 
SECTION 34. If any person entitled to commence any action 
specified in the foregoing section shall, at the time such title 
shall first descend or accrue, be within the age of twenty-one
years, a married woman, insane, imprisoned, or absent from the
United States, such person may bring such action within three
years next after the removal of such disability, but not afterward. 
CHAPTER CXLII. 
OF THE P .ARTITION OF LANDS OWNED BY SEVERAL PERSONS. 
SECTION 1. All persons holding lands as joint tenants, or
tenants in coparceny or common, may have partition thereof, 
in the manner provided in this chapter.
SECTION 2. Any one or more of the persons so holding lands 
may institute an action in the circuit court for the county in
which·the lands or any portion theteof lie, by complaint, for a divis­
ion and partition thereof' according to the respective rights of the
parties interested therein, and for a sale of such premises, if it
shall appear that the partition thereof cannot be made without
great prejudice to the owners : provided, that when action is
thus instituted, if the plaintifff's complaint does not ask for a
division and partition, or sale, of all the lands so owned by the
parties to the complaint, either of the parties thereto may cause
said complaint to be so amended as to include all the lands thus
owned : provided, also, that when there shall be no appearance
on the part of the defendant or defendants to the action, the
plaintifff shall pay the costs of suit and partition, unless his com­ 
plaint asks for a division and partition, or sale, of all the lands
owned by said parties as in the first section of this chapter men­
tioned, or unless the said defendant or defendants shall have 
been served with personal notice.
SECTION 3. Such action may be maintained by any person 
who has an estate in possession in the lands of which partition
is sought, but not by one who has only an estate therein in 
remainder or reversion.
SECTION 4. The complaint for a. partition or sale of any such 
lands sh~l be verified by o~t~1, and shall particularly des~ribe
the premises sought to be divided, and shall set forth' the rights 
and titles of all persons interested therein, so far as the same
are known to the plaintifff, including the interest of any tenant.
for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower, and the persons
entitled to the reversion, remainder, or inheritance after the
termination of any particular estate therein, and every person
who, by any contingency contained in any devise, grant, or oth­
erwise, may be or become entitled to any beneficial interest in
the premises. 
SECTION 5. Every person having any such interest as afore­
said, whether in possession or otherwise, and every perrmn enti­ 
tled to dower in such premises, if the same. has not been admeas­
ured, may be made a party to such action. 
SECTION 6. In case any one or ~ore of such parties, or the
share or quantity of interest of any of the parties be unknown 
, • 
to the plaintifff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership
of the inheritance shall depend upon an executory devise, or
the remainder shall be a contingent remainder, so that such
parties cannot· be named, the same shall be set forth in the com­
plaiu t. 
SECTION 7. It shall not be necessary in the first instance to 
make any creditor having a lien on the premises in question, or
any part thereof, by judg~ent, mortgage, or otherwise, a party 
to the proceedings, nor shall the partition of the premises alter,
affect, or _impair ~he lien of any_ such creditor, except in the 
cases provided for m the next section. 
SECTION 8. When the lien is on the undivided interest or
estate of ~ny of the parties, such lien, if partition be made of 
the premises, shall thereafter be ~ charge only on the share
assigned to such party, and such share shall be first charged
with its just proportion of the costs of the proceedings in partition, in pref ere nee to any such lien. 
SECTlON 9. But the plaintifffs may, at their election, make
every creditor having a specific lien on the undivided interest 
or estate of any of the parties, by mortgage or otherwise, a party
to the proceedings, and in such case the complaint shall set forth
the nature of every such lien or encumbrance. 
SECTION 10. In every action for the partition or sale of any
lands pursuant to tho provisions of this chapter, the defendants, 
or such of them as reside in this state and can be found therein,
shall be served with a summons to appear and answer the com- 
plaint, as in other cases. 
SECTION 11. If any parties having an interest in such lands
k 
if . l f th k . id f I
are un nown, or 1 mt ier o e nown parties rest e out o t ie 
state or cannot ho found therein, and such facts be made to
appear to the court by affidavit, an order may be made by the
court or the judge thereof, containing a sufficient description
of the premises whereof partition is sought, and requiring all
parties interested to appear and answer the complaint, by a day
in such order to be specified, which order shall be served personally, or shall be published once in each week successively in 
such paper as may be designated in such order, and for such
time as the court shall designate, not exceeding three months. 
SECTION 12. The proof of personal service, or of the pnblication of such order, shall authorize the court to proceed to final 
. d . 11 1 k . d
JU gment against a sue 1 un nown parties, an persons not 
resident in this state or not found therein, as shall not appear
and answer by the day mentioned in the order, or on such further day as the court may appoint, in the same manner as provided in other cases of failure to answer tho complaint; and' all
such unknown parties as may appear shall be entitled to be made
parties to the action, and the complaint may be amended accord- 
ingly. . 
SECTION 13. The general guardians residing in this state, of
all minors and other persons under guardianship, who should 
he parties to such proceedings for partition, upon giving bond
as hereinafter directed, shall represent their respective wards
therein, whether such wards shall reside in or out of this state;
and the court shall appoint guardians for all such minors who shall
he interested in the premises as have no general guardians in
this state, for the special purpose of taking charge of the interests of such minors in relation to the proceedings ; and the acts
of all such guardians of minors or others under guardianship,
shall be binding on their respective wards, and shall be as valid
as if done by them respectively when of full age or under no
legal incapacity. 
SECTION 14. Every such guardian shall give bond to the 
people of this state, to be filed with the clerk of the court, in 
such penalty and with such surety as the court shall direct, conditioned for the faithful performance of the trust reposed in 
such guardian, and to render a just and true account of his
guardianship in all courts and places, when thereunto required,
and for the observance of the orders of the court in relation to
said trust. 
15. When a complaint shall be filed for the partition
or sale of any lands, in pursuance of this chapter, and any of 
I d f d 1 · · 1 d d
t ie e en ants t ierem are minors or ot ter persons un er guar - 
ianship, and the general guardian, or person appointed guardian by the court, shall fail to give the security hereinbefore
required, it shall be the duty of the court, on the application
of the plaintifffs, to appoint the clerk of said court the guardian
of such minors or other persons, for the purpose of such parti­
tion, and to dispense with the securities hereinbefore required. 
SECTION 16. Any defendant may deny the joint tenancy or
tenancv in common of any co-defendant, and any issue of fact 
J 
between the parties may be tried by a jury, as in the other cases. 
SECTION 17. Either before or after the trial of such issue, the
court may permit the complaint and all subsequent proceedings 
to be amended so as to represent truly the rights claimed by
any party, or so as to make any person a defendant who shall
have appeared in the course of the proceedings to be interested
in the premises, and who might originally have been made a
defendant if his interest had then existed or been known; but
no person shall be so made a defendant, unless by his consent,
without twenty days' notice of the motion to this effect being
personally served on him, or published once in each week suc­
cessively for one month, in such paper as the court may direct. 
SECTION 18. After any such amendment, any party whose
rights are affected thereby, and who has not had an opportunity
to sustain his claim, shall have the right to answer the complaint, 
or to put in a. further answer thereto, and to maintain his claim,
as the circumstances of the case may render proper. 
SECTION 19. In case any of the defendants, whether known
or unknown, shall fail to answer the complaint, the court shall 
take proof of the title of the plaintifffs, and the plaintifffs shall
exhibit before such court proof of their title, and an abstract 
of the conveyance by which the same is held. 
SECTION 20. Upon the hearing of the cause the court shall
ascertain from the proofs so taken, in case of failure to answer the 
complaint, or from the complaint and answer, or pleadings and
proofs, if the defendants appear and answer, and shall declare, the 
rights, titles, and interests of the parties to such proceedings,
plaintifffs as well as defendants, so far as the same shall have 
appeared, and shall determine the rights of the said parties in
such lands, and shall render judgment that partition be made
between such of them as shall have any right therein, according
to such rights. 
SECTION 21. If upon the hearing of the cause, the part or
interest of any parties who shall not have appeared and answered 
the complaint, whether known or unknown, in and to such prem­
ises, shall not ham appeared by the proofs in the cause, then tho 
court shall adjudge that partition be made so far as the rights or
interests of the parties who are known, and who have appeared
in the cause, have been ascertained, and tho residue of the premises shall remain for the parties whose interests have not been
asccrtaiued, subject to division between them at any future time. 
SgCTION 22. Upon rendering judgment for partition as providcd in t~e two last preceding se~tion~, a? order sl~all ~e entered 
referring it to a proper person to mquire into the situation of the
premises, and to report whether such premises, or any part of
them, are so circumstanced that a partition and division thereof
amongst the parties interested cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners. 
8ECTIO!'i 23. If upon the coming in of the report of such persou, the court shall be satisfied that partition of the premises 
between the parties interested therein can be made without
prejudice to the owners, such court shall, by an order to be 
entered in its minutes, appoint three discreet and disinterested
freeholders, commissioners to make tho partition so adjudged
according to the respective rights and interests of the parties, as
the same were ascertained and determined by. such court, and in
such order the court· shall designate the part or shares, if any,
which shall remain undivided for the owners whose interests
shall be unknown or ascertained. ' 
SECTION 24. If the persons so appointed commissioners, or
either of them, shall die, resign, or neglect to serve, the court
may, from time to time, appoint others in their places. 
8ECTION 25. The commissioners, before proceeding to the
execution of their duties, shall severally be sworn, before any 
officer authorized to administer oaths, honestly and impartially
to execute the trust reposed in them, and to make partition as
directed by the court, which oath shall be filed with the clerk of
the court, on or before the coming in of the report of such com­
missioners. 
SECTION 26. In making partition, the commissioners shall
divide the said real estate and allot the several portions and 
shares thereof to the respective parties, quality and quantity
relatively considered, according to the respective rights and
interests of the parties so adjudged by the court, designating the
several shares and portions by posts, ssones, or other permanent
monuments; and they may, if necessary, employ a surveyor, with
the necessary assistants, to aid them therein. 
SECTION 27. The commissioners· shall make an ample report
of their proceedings, under the hands of any two of them, specify- 
ing therein the manner of executing their trust, and describing
the land divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with convenient certainty, and the items of their charges. 
SECTION 28. All the commissioners must meet together in
the performance of any of. their duties, but the acts of a majority
so met shall be valid. 
SECTION 29. The expenses of the commissioners, including
the expenses of a. surveyor and his assistants, when they shall be
employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and the
amount thereof, together with such compensation as shall be
allowed to the commissioners. by the court for their services, shall 
plaintifffs, and shall be allowed to them as part of
the costs to be taxed. 
SECTION 30. On good cause shown, the court may set aside
the report, and commit the case to the same, or appoint new
commissioners, as often as may be necessary, who shall proceed
in like manner as hereinbefore directed. 
81. Upon the confirmation of the report of any commissioners by the court, judgment shall thereupon be entered
that such partition be firm and effectual forever, and such judg­
ment shall be binding and conclusive- 
1. On all parties named therein, and their legal representa­
tives, who shall at the time have any interest in the premises
divided, as owners in fee, or as tenants for years, or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or inheritance of such premises,
after the termination of any particular estate therein; or who,
by any contingency contained in any will or grant, or otherwise,
may be or become entitled to any beneficial interest in the prem­
ises; or who shall have any interest in any undivided share of the
premisesvas tenant for years, for life, by the curtesy, or in dower. 
2. On all persons interested in the premises who may be
unknown, to whom notice shall have been given by personal
service or by publishing the same as is herein before directed; 
and- 
3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons,
or either of them. 
SECTION 32. But such judgment and partition shall not affect
any tenants, or persons having claims as tenants in dower, by the 
curtesy, or for life, to the whole of the premises which shall be
the subject of ·such partition, nor shall any such judgment and 
partition preclude any person, except such as are specified in the
last preceding section, from claiming any title to the premises in
question, or from controverting the title or interest of the parties
between whom such partition shall be made. 
SECTION 33. If the person to whom reference shall be made
as herein before provided, shall report to the court that the lands 
or tenements of which division and partition is sought, are so
situated, or that any distinct tract, lot, or portion thereof, is so
situated, that a partition and division thereof amongst the persons
interested therein cannot be made without great prejudice to the
owners, and if the court shall be satisfied that such report is just
and correct, the court may thereupon make an order that the
sheriff sell the premises so situated, at public auction, to the
highest bidder. 
SECTION 84. The court shall direct in such order the terms
of credit which may be allowed for any portions of the purchase 
money of which it shall think proper to direct the investment,
and for such portions of such purchase money as are required by
the provisions hereinafter contained to be invested for the benefit
of any unknown owners, any infants, any parties out of the state,
or any tenants for life, in dower, or by the curtesy, 
SECTION 35. The portions of the purchase money for which
credit shall be allowed, shall always be secured at interest by a
mortgage of the premises sold, by the bond of the purchaser,
and by such other security as the court shall prescribe. 
SECTION 86. The sheriff may take separate mortgages and
other securities for such convenient shares or portions or the 
purchase money as are directed by the court to be invested, in
the name of tho clerk of the court in whose office the origi- 
nal bill for a partition was filed, and his successors in office, and
for such shares as any known owner of full age shall desire to 
have so invested, in tho name of such owner. 
SECTION 37. Upon such sales being confirmed as hereinafter
mentioned, the said sheriff shall deliver such mortgages and 
other securities, to the tlerk of the court, or to tho known
owners whose shares were so invested. 
SECTION 88. Before making any order for the sale of the
said premises, where the creditors having specific liens shall not
have been made parties, the court shall direct the plaintifff to
amend his complaint by making every creditor having o. 'specific 
tien on the undivided interest or estate of any of the parties, by
mortgage or otherwise, a party to the proceedings. 
SECTION 89. If it shall appear by the proceedings in such
complaint, or by such report, that there are any existing in cum- 
brances upon the estate or interest in the premises of any
party named in the proceedings in the suit, the court shall, in
the order· of sale, direct. the sheriff to bring into court, and pay
to the clerk, the portion of monies arising from the· sale c,f the
estate and interest of such party, after deducting the portion of
the costs, charges, and expensesto which it shall be Iiable.: 
SECl'ION 40. · Such party may apply to the court to order such
monies, or such part 'thereof as he shall claim, to be paid to 
him ; which application shall be accompanied1. By his own affidavit,- stating the true amount actually due 
on each encumbrance, the owner or such encumbrance, and his
residence, as far as known to such party. 
2. By proof, by affidavit, of the due service of a notice on
each owner of any encumbrance, of the intention to make such
application, o.t least fourteen days previously. IC such owner
reside in this state, such notice shall be served personally, or if
be be absent from his residence, by leaving a. copy there, with
some person of his household of proper age. If such owner
reside out of this state, such notice may be served on hitn per­
sonally, thirty days previously, or by publishing the same in
such paper as the court may direct, three weeks successively,
once m each week. · 
SECTION 41. Upon such application and proof of notice, the
court shall proceed to hear the proofs and allegations of the 
parties ; and if any question of fact shall ··arise, which in' the
opinion of the co.irt cannot be satisfactorily determined without
a trial by jury, the court shall direct an issue to be made, which
8hall be tried as in other cases, and the costs of such trial shall
be paid by the party failing, which payment shall be enforced
by attachment as in other cases. 
SECTION 42. When the amount or existing encumbrances 
sl1all have been · ascertained, the court shall · proceed to order a
distribution of the monies so brought into and remaining in 
court, among the several creditors having such Incumbrances,
according to the priority thereof respectively. 
SECI'ION 43. The clerk of the court by whom any such
encumbrance shall be paid off shall procure satisfaction thereof, 
to be acknowledged in the form required by law, shall cause
such encumbrance to be duly satisfied or canceled of record, 
and shall defray the expenses thereof out of the portion of
the monies in court belonging to the party by whom such 
encumbrance was payable. 
SECTION 44. The proceedings to ascertain and settle the
amount of encumbrances as herein provided shall not affect any
other party in such suit for partition, nor delay the paying over
or investing the monies to or for the benefit of any party upon
whose estate in the premises there shall not appear to be any
existing i,nCumbrances. 
SECTION 45. Whenever the estate of any tenant in dower,
or by curtesy, or for life, in jhe whole or any part or share of 
the premises in question, has been admitted by the parties, or
ascertained by the court, to be existing at the time of the order
for such sale, and the person entitled to such estate has been
made a party to the proceedings, the court shall first consider
and determine under all the circumstances of the case, whether
such estate ought to be excepted from such sale, or whether the
same should be sold, and in making such determination, regard
shall be had to the interests of all parties. 
SECTION 46. If a sale of the premises including such estate
shall be ordered, the estate and interest of every such tenant or
person shall pass thereby, and the purchaser, his heirs and
assigns, shall hold such premises free and discharged from all
claims by virtue of any such estate or interest, whether the
same be to any undivided share of a joint tenant, or tenant in
common, or to the whole or any part of the premises sold. 
47. Upon such sale being ma.de of any such interest
or estate, the court shall direct the payment of such sum in 
d l f. h l d
gross, out of the procee st iereo , tot e person entit e to such 
estate in dower, tenancy by the curtesy, or tenancy for life, as
shall be deemed, upon the principles of law applicable to annui­ 
ties, a reasonable · satisfaction for such estate or interest, and
which the person so entitled shall consent to accept in lieu
thereof, by an instrument under seal, duly acknowiedged or
proved in the manner that deeds are required to be acknowl­
edged or proved to entitle them to be recorded. 
SECTION 48. In case no such consent is given at or before
the coming in of the report of sale by the sheriff, then the court 
shall ascertain and determine what proportion of the proceeds of
such sale, after deducting all expenses, will be a just and rea­
sonable sum to be invested for the benefit of ~e person entitled
to such estate or interest in dower, by the curtesy, or for life, and
shall order the same to be brought into court for that purpose. 
SECTION 49. The proportions of the proceeds of such sale to
be invested shall be ascertained and determined in the several 
eases as follows :1. If an estate in dower shall have been included in such 
order of sale, its proportions shall be one-third of the proceeds
of the sale of the premises, or of the sale of the undivided 
share in such premises, upon which such claim of dower existed. 
2. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life, shall be
inciuded in the order of sale, its proportion shall be the whole
proceeds of the sale of the premises, or of the sale of the undivided share thereof, in which such estate shall be. 
And in all cases the proportion of the expenses of the pro­
ceedings shall be deducted from the proceeds of such sale. 
SECTION 50. If the persons entitled to any such estate in
dower, by the curtesy, or for life, be unknown, the court shall
take order for the protection of the rights of such persons, in
the same manner, as far as may be, as if they were known and
had appeared. 
SECTION 51. The sheriff shall give notice of any sale to be
made by him, for the same time and in the same manner as is 
required by law on sales of real estate by sheriffs on execution.
SECTION 52. The terms of such sale shall be made known at 
the time, and if the premises consist of distinct lots, tracts, or
parcels, they shall be sold separately. 
SECTION 53. No such sheriff, nor any person for his benefit,
shall be interested in the purchase, nor directly or indirectly
purchase any of the premises sold ; nor shall any guardian of
any infant party in such action purchase, or be interested in the
purchase of, any lands being the subject of such action, except
for the benefit or in behalf of such infant; and all sales contrary to the provisions of this section shall be void. 
SECTION 54. After completing such sale, the sheriff shall
report the same to the court, with a description of the different
parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name of such purchaser, and the price bid by him, which report shall be filed in 
the court. 
SECTION 55. If such sales be approved and confirmed by the 
court, an order shall be entered directing the sheriff to execute
conveyances pursuant to such sales, which such sheriff shall be
authorized to do upon the entry of such order. 
SECTION 56. Such conveyances so executed shall be recorded
in the county where the premises are situated, and shall be a bar 
against all persons interested in any way, who shall have been
named as parties in the said proceedings, and against all such 
parties as were unknown, if notice of the order to appear and
answer shall have been given by such publication or service of
notice as is hereinbefore directed, and against all other persons
claiming from such parties or either of them. 
SECTION 57. Such conveyance shall also be a bar against all
persons having specific liens. on any undivided share or interest 
therein, who shall have been made parties to the proceedings
but no creditor having any such specific lien shall be affected by
such sale or conveyance, unless he shall have been made a. party
to the proceedings. 
SECTION 58. The costs and expenses of the proceedings shall
be deducted from the proceeds of every sale made by the sheriff;
and shall be by him, in the first instance, paid to the plaintifffs
or their attorney. 
SECTION 59. The proceeds of every sale, after deducting
costs, shall be divided among the parties whose rights and interests shall have been sold, in proportion to their respective rights 
in the premises; and the shares of such of the said parties as are
of full age shall be paid to them or their legal representatives by 
the sheriff, or shall be brought into court for their use. 
SECTION 60. When any of such known parties are infants, the
court may,· in its discretion, direct the shares of such infants to 
be paid over to the general· guardian, or to be invested in per­
manent securities, at interest, in the· name and for the benefit 
of such infant. 
· SECTION 61. Where e.ny of the parties whose interests have
been sold are -absent from 'the state, without· legal representa­
tives in this state, or not known or named in the proceedings, 
the court shall direct the shares of such parties· to be invested
in permanent securities, at interest, for the benefit of such par­ 
ties, until claimed by them or their legal representatives:
62. · Where the proceeds ()f e. sale belonging to any 
tenant in dower, or by the eurtesy, or for life, shall be brought
into court as herein before provided, the court shall direct tho
same to be invested in permanent securities, at interest, so that
such interest shall annually be paid to the parties entitled to
such estate; dnring their lives, respectively. · 
SECTION 63. The court may, in its· discretion, require all or
any of· the parties, before they shall receive any share of the 
monies arising from such gales, to give security to the satisfac­
tion of such court, to refund the said share, with interest thereon, 
··in case it shall thereafter appear that such party was not entitled
thereto. 
SECTION 64~ When any 'secu'rity is directed to be taken by
the court, ·or ·any investment to be made, or any security shall 
be taken by a sheriff on the sale of any real estate, 'as heretofore 'directed, except iv here provision shall be made for taking 
the same in the name of any known owner, the bonds, mortgages, or other evidences thereof shall be taken in the name of
the clerk of the -eourt in whose office· the original complaint wasfiled, and his successors in office, who shall hold the same by
virtue of his office, and shall · deliver them to his successor. 
SECTION · 65. Such clerk shall receive the interest or princi­
pal of any sums as they become due, and apply or re-invest tho 
same, according to' the circumstances of: the case, as the court
shall· direct, ·und shall once in· every year 'render to the court an 
account in writing, and on oath, of all monies received by him
and of the application thereof. 
·Si!:CTION 66. · All investments or re-investments under the provisions of this chapter;' shall be made on bond and mortgage upon 
unincumbered real estate; of at least double tho value · of such
investment, exclusive of buildings, or in other equivalent secu­ 
rity; · and no such seourity, bond, mortgage, or other evidence
of such investment shall be discharged, transferred, or impaired
by any act of the clerk without the order· of the court entered
in the minutes thereof. · 
SECTION 67. Any person interested ~n such investment may,
with the leave of the court, prosecute the same in the name of
the ·existing clerk, and no -action 'shall be abated by the death,
removal from office, or resignation of the c1erk to whom such
securities or evidences were executed, orof any ot his successors. 
SECTio~ 68. When a judgment confirming tho partition
made by any commissioners shall be entered as provided in this 
chapter, the court shall also adjudge that each of the parties
concerned therein, other than the plaintifffs, pay to such plain- 
tiffs a proportion of the costs and charges of the proceedings, to
be ascertained by the court according to the respective rights of
the parties, and the proportion of such costs and charges
assessed upon the unknown' owners, to be chargeable on the
part remaining undivided ; and upon such judgment execution
may issue as in other cases, and may be levied on the property
of the parties respectively charged with such costs, arid upon any
share or part of the premises allotted on any such division to
any owner unknown or not named, and upon every portion
remaining undivided, for the proportion adjudged to be paid by
such-owners, or chargeable to the part rcma.ining undivided. 
SECTION 69. A sale of the premises of such owner unknown
upon such execution, shall be as valid as if such owner had 
been named in the proceedings and in such execution. i 
SECTION 70. If a complaint for partition, shall be dismissed,
or the action shall be discontinued, the plaintifff shall pay costs,
to be collected as in other cases. 
81-~CTION 71. Any of the parties to an action for the partition
or sale of any premises, under the provisions of this chapter, and
any party interested in the premises though not named in the
proceedings, may jointly or separately, and without the consent 
of any co-plaintifff or co-defendant, appeal from any judgment
or order of the said court upon any such proceedings, within the
same time, and under the like regulations, as in other cases. 
SECTION 72. Whenever it shall appear satisfactorily to the
court by due proof, that any infant holds real estate in joint 
, · l l . ld
tenancy, or m common, or m any ot ier manner w rich wou 
authorize his being made a party to an action in partition, and
that the interest of such infant, or of any other person concerned therein, requires that partition of such estate should be
made, such court may direct and authorize the general guardian
of such infant to agree to a division thereof, or to a sale of such
premises, or of such part thereof as in the opinion of the court
shall be capable of partition, or as shall be most for the interest
of such infant to be sold. 
SECTIO:'i 73. Such guardian shall report to the court on oath,
the partition or sale so made by him, a. nd if the same be ap- 
d
1
pro vcd and confirmo by t 10 court, an order shall be entered
authorizing such guardian to execute conveyances of the right
of such infant to such part of the said estate as shall have been
sold to tho purchaser thereof; or to execute releases of the
rights of such infant to such part of the said estate as in the 
division falls to the shares of the other joint tenants, or tenants
in common. 
SECTION 7 4. Such deeds shall be as valid and effectual to 
convey the share and interest of such infant as if the same bad
been executed and duly acknowledged by such infant after ar- 
riving at full age; and in case of the sale of any part of such
estate, the infant shall be deemed a ward of the court, and such
order may be taken as the court may direct, for securing, invest- 
applying the proceeds of the sale, and for requiring
security from the guardian for that purpose. 
SECTION 75. Whenever such infant shall be a married woman,
the court may, upon petition, appoint her husband asher guard­ 
ian, and in case of the appointment of the husband, the provisions of the three last preceding sections shall apply to such
husband. 
SECTION 76. Whenever it shall appear to the court, on the
application of the guardian of any idiot, lunatic, spendthrift, or
person mentally incapable of managing his affairs, holding any 
estate in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner
to authorize his being made a party to an action in partition,
that the interest of such idiot, lunatic, or other person aforesaid,
or of any of the parties interested in such estate, requires o. 
partition thereof, it shall be referred to some proper pers<fn to
inquire into and report upon the circumstances. 
SECTION 77. Upon the coming in of the report, and a hearing
and examination of the matter, the court may authorize such 
guardian to agree to a partition of such estate, and to execute
releases of the right of such idiot, lunatic, or other person as
aforesaid, in and to the shares of such estate falling to the other
joint tenants, or tenants in common. 
SECTION 78. Such releases shall be as valid and effectual to
convey the share of such idiot, lunatic, or other person as afore­ 
said, as if the same had been executed by them respectively,
when of sound mind and understanding, and not subject to
guardianship, and for a valuable consideration. 
SECTION 79. When any lands shall be held by the state and by
individuals, as tenants in common, proceedings for the partition 
thereof may be had against the state, in the circuit court, in the
same manner as against individuals, and the like orders and
judgments shall be had therein, and the proportion of the costs
and expenses of such partition adjudged to be paid by the state,
shall be certified by the attorney general, and paid out of the
state treasury on the warrant of the secretary of state. 
SECTION 80. The summons, and all notices required to be
served in other cases, shall be served on the attorney general, 
~ho shall appear in behalf of the state, and attend to its
mtcrests. 
SECTION 81. The authority given by this chapter to proceed
for the partition of real estate shall not authorize the revival 
or prosecution of any claim to lands which would or otherwise
might be barred by the statute of limitations, or by the acqui­
escence of any party having any such claim. 
SEC'l!oN 82. Whenever partition shall be adjudged by any
circuit court, if _it sh~ll appeai: t~at it cann?t bo ma~e equal 
between the parties without prejudice to the rights and interests 
o\ some ot them, the court may order compensation to be made
by one party to the other for equality of partition, accordiug to 
.the equity of the case. 
OF WASTE. 
SECTION 1. If any guardian, or any tenant by the curtesy,
tenant in dower, or for a term of life, or years, or the assigns
of any such tenant, shall commit or suffer any waste, during 
tbeir several terms or estates, of the houses, gardens, orchards,
lands, or woods, or of any other thing belonging to the tenemen ts so held, withcut having a lawful license in writing so to
do, they shall respectively be liable to au action for such waste. 
SECTION 2. In case any such tenant shall let or grant his
estate and still retain possession thereof, and commit waste, the 
party entitled to the reversion of the tenements may maintain
his action for such waste against such tenant. 
SECTION 8. If one joint tenant, or tenant in common, shall
commit waste of the estate held in joint tenancy or in common, 
he shall be subject to an action for such waste, at the suit of his
co-tenant or co-tenants. 
SECTION 4. An heir, whether of full age or not, after coming
into possession of the inheritance, may maintain an action for
waste done in the timo of his ancestor as well as in his own time, 
unless a recovery shall ha!e been had therefore by the executor
or administrator of such ancestor. 
SECTION 5. Such action may be brought by the person having
the next immediate estate in fee, or for life, or years, in the
premises in question; or by any person who has the remainder, 
or reversion in fee, or for life, after an intervening estate for 
lifo or years; and each of them shall recover damages. according
to his estate in the premises. 
SECTION 6. If the plaintifff in such action prevail therein, he
shall have judgment for double the amount of damages found
by the jury. 
SECTION 7. After the commencement of any action for waste,
or of any action for the recovery of land, or of the possession of 
land, the defendant shall not make any waste of the laud in
demaad or premises in question during the pendency of the
action; and if such defendant shall commit any waste thereon, or
shall threaten or make preparations to commit waste thereon, the
court in which the action is pending, or any judge of the supreme
oourt, or judge of any court of record, either in term time or
vacation, shall have power, on the application of the plaintifff, to
make an order restraining tho defendant from tho commission
of o.ny waste or further waste thereon. 
~ECTION 8. If any person shall commit, or threaten I: make
preparations to commit, any waste on any real estate wluch shall' 
be attached or levied upon by execution in any civil action, the
court from which such execution or attachment shall have
issued, or any one of the justices of the supreme court, or a
judge of any court of record, shall, on the application of the
plaintifff, either in term time or vacation, make an order restraining such person from committing any waste or further waste 
thereon. 
CHAPTER CXLIII. 
S~CTIOS 9. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be sold 
by virtue of a power of sale in a mortgage, the person to whom 
a certificate of sale may be executed by the sheriff pursuant to
such sale, may maintain an action for waste against any person 
for any waste committed by such person on the premises after
such sale. 
SECTION 10. But no person lawfully entitled to the possession
of any premises so sold, shall be liable to any such action for
doing either of the acts authorized in the next section. 
SECTION 11. Any person entitled to the possession of lands
or tenements sold under execution, or by virtue _of a power of 
sale in a mortgage, may, until the expiration of twenty-seven
months from the time of such sale, use and enjoy tho same, as
follows, without being deemed guilty of waste:- 
1. He may in all cases use and enjoy the premises sold, in like
manner, and for the like purposes, in and for which they were
used and applied prior to such sale, doing no permanent injury
to the freeholder. · 
2. If the premises sold were buildings, or any other erections,
be may make necessary repairs thereto, but he shall make no
alterations in the form or structure thereof. 
3. If the premises sold were land, be may use and improve the
same in the ordinary course of husbandry or mining, and ho
shall be entitled to any crops growing thereon, at the expiration
of two years after sale. · . 
4. He may apply any wood or timber, on such land, to the
necessary reparation of any fences, buildings, or erections which
may ham been thereon at the time of such sale. 
5. If the land sold is actually occupied by such person, ho may
take necessary firewood therefrom for the use of his family. 
SECTION 12. If the person against whom any order shall he
made to restrain waste, as provided in this chapter, shall, after
the service of a cop.f thereof, commit any waste inviolation of
tho said order, he snail be liable to be proceeded against and
punished in the same manner as for a violation of an iujunction
to stay waste. 
SECTION 13. When complaint shall be made of the violation
of any such order to restrain waste, the court or judge may 
order notice to be given to the person complained of, to show
cause why he should not be committed. 
SECTION 14. Upon satisfactory proof of such violation, such
court or judge shall issue a warrant to the sheriff of the county,
reciting such order and the violation thereof, and thereby com­
manding such sheriff to commit such person to close confinement
for such term of time, not more than one year, as shall be deemed 
expediegt, · 
SECTI~ 15. The sheriff shall execute such warrant accord­
ingly, and shall commit the person named therein, without allow- 
ing him the liberties of the jail. 
· SECTION 16. Such warrant may he suspended, and such person may be discharged, by the court or judge committing him,
upon receiving a bond, in such penalty and with such sufficient 
sureties as such court or judge may approve, to the person
applying for the warrant of commitment, conditioned th~t such
prisoner shall not commit any waste on such premises, which 
bond shall ho delivered to such applicant for his use, and to be
prosecuted by him for any breach of the conditions thereof. 
OF ACTIONS FOR PRIVATE NUISANCES. 
SECTION 1. In actions for a private nuisance, when the plaintiff prevails, he shall, in addition to the usual judgment for 
damages and costs, also have judgment that the nuisance be
abated and removed, unless the court before whom any issue 
of fact joined therein shall be tried, shall certify in the minutes
of such trial, that the abatement thereof is unnecessary. 
SECTIO~ 2. In case of the judgment that · the nuisance be
abated and remove.d, the plaintifff shall have execution in the 
common form for his damages and costs, and a separate warrant
to the proper officer, requiring him to abate and remove the 
nuisance at the expense of the defendant, in like manner as
public and common nuisances are abated and removed. 
SECTTO~ 3: The court may, on the application of the defendant, order a stay of such warrant for such time as may be neces- 
sary, not exceeding six months, to give him an opportunity to
remove the nuisance, upon his giviug satisfactory security to do
so within the time specified in the order. 
SECTIO:'i 4. Tho expense of abating and removing the nuisanco pursuant to such warrant, shall be collected by tho officer 
• 
SECTION 17. The circuit court for each county shall have
• · d. · f all · t d 
JUrlS iction o matters concernmg was e, an may gran
injunctions to stay or prevent waste. 
CHAPTER CXLIV. 
m the same manner as damages and costs are collected upon
execution ; excepting that the materials of any buildings, fences, 
or other things that may be removed as a nuisance, may be sold
by the officer in like manner as goods are sold on execution for
the payment of debts, and the officer may apply the proceeds of
such sale to defray the expenses of the removal, and shall pay
over the balance thereof, if any, to the defendant upon demand,
and if the proceeds of the sale are not sufficient to defray the
said expenses, he shall collect the residue thereof as before provided. 
8ECTIO~ 5. The circuit court for any county shall have jurisdiction in all matters concerning nuisances, and may grant
injunctions to stay or prevent nuisances. 
SECTJO~ 6. A purchaser from the United States, his heirs,
· I · b f 1 d l · 
assigns, or grantees, as t 10 case may o, o an ymg on a
meandered river, may proceed by injunction against any other 
person or persons illegally obstructing the flow of water of such
river over land lying between tho meander line and middle of 
such river, in cases where such person or persons shall have no
legal or equitable right or title to such land so lying between
such meander line and the middle of such river. 
CHAP.145. 
CHAPTER CXLV. 
OF ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOS'CRE OF A MORTGAGE. 
SECTION 1. In actions for the foreclosure or satisfaction of a
mortgage, if the plaintifff recover, the court shall order a sale of 
the mortgaged premises, or such part thereof as may be sufficient
to discharge the amount due on the mortgage, with costs. 
SECTION 2. The proceeds of every sale made under such
order shall be applied to the discharge of the debt adjudged by 
such court to be due, and of the costs awarded; and if there
shall be any surplus, it shall be brought into court for the use of 
the defendant, or of the person who may be entitled thereto,
subject to the order of the court. 
SECTION 3. If such surplus or part thereof shall remain in
the said court for the term of three months, without being 
applied for, the judge shall direct the same to be put out at
interest, under the direction of the court, for the benefit of the
defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them by
the order of such court. 
SECTION 4. Whenever an action shall be commenced for the
satisfaction or foreclosure of any mortgage, upon which there 
shall be due any interest, or any portion or installment of the
principal, and there shall be other portions or installments to 
become clue subsequently, the action shall be dismissed upon the
defendant's bringing into court, at any time before the order of
sale, the principal and interest due, with costs. 
5. If after an order for sale entered against a. 
defendant in such case, he shall bring into court the principal
and interest due, with the costs, the proceedings in tho action
shall be stayed ; but the court shall enter a judgment of fore-· 
closure and sale, to be enforced by a further order of the court
upon a subsequent default in the payment of any portion or
installment of the principal, or of any interest, thereafter to
grow due. 
6. If the defendant shall not bring into court the
amount due, with costs, or .if .for any other cause . a judgm?nt 
shall be entered for the plam tiff, the court shall direct a refer­
ence to a proper officer to ascertain and report the situation of 
the mortgaged premises; and if it shall appear that the same can
be sold in parcels without injury to the interests of the parties,
the judgment shall direct so much of the said premises to be
sold as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due on such
mortgage, with costs, and such judgment shall 'remain as
security for any subsequcne default. 
SECTION 7. If in the-tease mentioned in the preceding section
there shall be any default subsequent to such judgment, in the
payment of any portion or installment of the principal, or of any
interest due upon such mortgage, the court may, upon petition
of the complainant, by a further order, founded upon such first
judgment, direct a sale of so much of the mortgaged premises, 
to be made under the said judgment, as will be sufficient to
satisfy the amount so due, with the costs of such petition and 
the subsequent proceedings thereon; and the same proceedings
shall be had as often as a default shall happen. · 
SECTION 8. If, in any of the foregoing cases, it shalf appear to
the court that the mortgaged premises are so situated that the 
sale of the whole will be most beneficial to the parties, the
court shall order and adjudge the sale of the whole accordingly. 
SECTION 9. In such case the proceeds of such sale shall be
applied as well to the interest, portion or installment of the
princi pal due, as toward the whole or residue of the same, 
secured by such mortgage, and not due and payable at the time
of such sale ; and if such residue do not bear interest, then the
court may direct the same to be paid, with a deduction of the
rate of legal interest for the time during which such residue
shall not be due and payable, or may direct the balance of the
proceeds of such sale, after paying the sum due, with costs, to
be put out at interest for the benefit of the plaintifff, to be paid
to him as the installments, or portions of the principal, or the
interest, may become due, and the surplus for the benefit of the
defendant, his representatives or assigns, to be paid to them on
the order of the court. 
C!,apter 49, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. That in all suits hereafter brought, or iii all com
plaints hereafter filed, or in suits or complaints now pending in 
f
1
f 1
. . f f . di ld 1 ·1 d 
any o t ie courts o t us state, in avor o in 1v1 ua s, or rai roa
or other companies, or their assigns, to enforce the collection of 
any note or notes, or to foreclose mortgages given to secure the
payment thereof, the maker of any such note or notes, or mortgagor, may set up by plea or answer in his or her defense, that
the note or notes or mortgage sued or complained on, was 
· obtained by fraud or false representations; and if upon the trial
or hearing, the said defense should be sustained by the proofs,
then the verdict of the jury or decision of the court shall be for
the defendant or defendants, and he, her, or they shall have
judgment for costs. 
SECTION 2. That in case of mortgages, commonly called farm
mortgages, to railroad oo other incorporated companies, intended 
l 
1, • f di · b r k f h 
as tie uasis o ere it, or m exc ange ior stoc o sue company
or companies, all the written contracts between any such com- 
pany and the mortgagor, connected with or referring to the
making of the note, or the execution of the mortgage to secure 
tho payment thereof, and any fraudulent, false, or uutrue statements relating to the pecuniary circumstances of such company,
the route over which any such road would be built, and when to
be completed, shall be taken and deemed by the said courts
of this state as part of the contract, and shall run with said
note and mortgage, and be held as obligatory, as well on the
contracting parties as on the assignee or assignees of said note
and mortgage; and no assignee who has sued, or may sue or
complain, on any such note or mortgage, shall be permitted to
reply to the defense provided in the first section of this act, that
he is an innocent purchaser without notice. 
Cltapter 113, Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. · That in all actions and proceedings at law hereafter commenced under that portion of chapter eighty-four (one 
hundred and forty-jive) of the revised statutes, entitled "of the
powers and proceedings of courts in chancery on bills for the 
foreclosure or satisfaction of mortgages," the defendant or
defendants in such action or proceedings shall have six months'
time to answer the bill or complaint filed therein, after the
service of summons or publication of notice as now required b'y
law, and no default shall be entered in any such action until
after the expiration of such time, any law· "to the contrary
notwithstanding. . 
SECTION 2. Whenever in such action or proceeding judgment
shall be entered, or an order made by the court, for the sale of
mortgaged premises, it shall before [be for] the sale of said premiises, upon six months' notice of such sale, as hereinafter provided,
and in all cases where, before the passage of this act, judgment
has been rendered in any of the courts of this state, or in the 
district court of the United States for the district of Wisconsin,
in an action to foreclose a mortgage or mortgages, or where an
order or decree has been made by any such court, for the sale
of mortgaged premises, the mortgaged· premises shall be sold
only upon six months' notice given of the time and place of such
sale, which notice shall be given in the manner provided in this
act for giving notices of the sale of mortgaged premises. 
3. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, deputy sheriff,
or other officers appointed by the court to make sale of the 
premises, immediately after receiving a copy of the order
for the sale of mortgaged premises upon which such pro­
ceedings have been instituted, to publish or cause to be pub­
lished notice of the sale of such premises, ( unless otherwise or­
dered by the court,) describing the same therein, as now required
by law, in some newspaper of general circulation in the county
in which such premises are situated, at least once in each month,
for the period of six months before sale of the same ; and if no
newspaper be printed or published in said county, then the same
shall be published in some newspaper in an adjoining county,
for the time aforesaid ; and no sale of mo•rtgaged premises, under
foreclosure by action, shall be valid, unless made in accordance
with the provisions of this act. · 
. SECTION 4. So much of any law and such parts of all acts as 
contravene the provlaions of this act are, for the purposes of this
act, hereby repealed . 
CHAPTER CLXVI. 
GB..~RAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING ACTIONS RELATING TO
REAL ESTATE. 
SECTION 1. If any tenant for life, in dower, or by curtesy, or
any tenant for years, be impleaded, and the person to whom the
reversion or remainder appertains shall come into court Lefore
any trial shall Le had in such action, or before judgment by
default therein, and pray to be received to defend his right; ho
shall be received for that purpose, and shall he permitted to
plead to the action upon such terms as the court may deem just. 
SECTION 2. If any tenant for life or years make default, or
give up any lands demanded, so that judgment be given 011 such
default or surrender, the person· to whom the reversion or 
remainder of such lands appertains may, after the termination
of the estate of such tenant, have an action to recover the same
lands. 
SECTION 3. When a husband and wife shall be impleaded, if
the husband absent himself or will not defend the rights of the
wife, if she apply before judgment she· shall be admitted by the
court to defend without her husband. · · _ 
SECTIO'.'i 4. If the husband lose by default any land which
was the tight of his wife, the wife, after tho death of her husband, 
may have an action to recover the same, and the judgment by
default shall be no bar to such action. " · 
SECTION' 5. 'Al! recoveries· had by agreement of parties,' or
b f
d 
. t fi li t>. • d . . b th t
y rau , agams any tenant or 11e, in ower, or y o cur esy, 
of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall be void as
against all persons to whom any reversion or remainder of such
lands shall appertain; and as against their heirs, unless . the
appearance of the person having such reversion or remainder,
shall have been duly entered in the court whore such recovery
shall be had. 
SECTION 6. No execution shall be avoided by means of any
feigned recovery, but ·an persons entitled to have execution of 
the lands, tenements, or hereditaments shall have the like means
to avoid and falsify tho ~ame recoveries as a tenant of the freehold, who was neither party nor privy to such 'recovery, has by 
the course of common law. · · · · · 
SECTtO:.f 7. A lessee · for years may falsify for his term only
recoveries in the same manner as a tenant Qf the freehold, who 
was neither party nor privy to the recovery, may do by the
course of the common law, and such lessees, and their personal
representatives and assigns, notwithstanding any recoveries that
may be· so· falsified, shall hold their terms according to their
demises, as if such recovery had not been had. 
8ECTION 8. After any recovery had, the recoverers, their
heirs and assigns, shall have the like remedies against any lessees 
for years, their representatives and assigns, for any rents or
services reserved, coming duo after such recoveries, and also
like actions for waste done after such recoveries, as the lessors 
might have had if such recoveries had not been made. 
SECTION 9. When any person shall die, leaving heirs, either 
different degrees, and where several persons
shall be in any other way entitled to real estate as tenants in 
common, or as joint tenants, they may bring a joint action for
the recovery thereof, or may bring several actions for their
respective shares or interests. 
8ECTION 10. Actions relating to real property shall not ho
delayed, nor shall the remedy of any plaintifff Le superseded, by 
reason of the infancy of an.y defendant therein, but guardiaus
to defend the rights of infant defendants shall be appointed as
in personal actions ; and in all such actions against an infant, if
he do not procure the appointment of a guardian within the
time required for .his appearance therein, the plaintifff may pro­
ceed to have such guardian appointed as in personal actions. 
SECTION 11. Whenever the court in which any action relating
to real property shall be pending, shall be satisfied that any 
survey of any premises in the possession of either party, or of
any boundary line between the lands of either of them and the
lands of other persons, is necessary or expedient to enable either
party to prepare his pleadings, or prepare for trial, or for any
other proceeding in such action, it may, by rule of court, upon
the application of either party, order that such party have leave
to make such survey. 
SECTION 12. Such order shall specify the premises or
boundary line to be surveyed by a description as definite as may 
be, and a copy of the same shall be served, previous to such
entry, on the owner or occupant of the premises upon which it 
may be necessary to enter to make such survey.
SECTION 13. The party obtaining such order, his necessary 
surveyors, assistants, and agents, may enter upon any premises
necessary for the purpose of making such survey, and may there
make the same, after having served a copy of such rule as here­
inbefore directed ; and for so doing no person acting under
such order shall be liable to any action for trespass or other 
action ; but every such person shall be responsible in an action
for any unnecessary injury caused by him. 
SECTION 14. No imparlance, voucher, aid-prayer, or receipt
shall be allowed, but whenever any action shall be brought 
• h 1 d 1 Id b 1 · l
a.gamst any tenant to recover t e an ie y um, or t ie pos- 
session of such land, the landlord of such tenant, and any person
having any priority of estate with such tenant or with such land­
lord, in the premises in question, or in any part thereof, may be
made defendant with such tenant, in case he shall appear for 
that purpose.
SECTION 15. ' Whenever any action for the recovery of any 
lands pr tenements, or for the recovery of the possession thereof,
shall be commenced against any person in possession of the 
premises in question, or in the receipt of the profits thereof, such
action shall not be barred or delayed by reason of any alienation
or conveyance made by such person to any other, either before
or after the commencement of such action. 
16. If the defendant in any action for the recovery
of land, or the possession of land, shall aliene the land in question 
pending the suit, and shall have no property whereof the damages for the issues and profits of such land recovered against him 
may be levied, every person to whose hands such land shall have
come, shall be liable to an action for such damages for the time
that he shall have possessed the premises. 
SECTION 17. Whenever an execution for the delivery of the
possession of real property shall he issued upon a judgment in
any action relating to real property, the plaintifff may include in 
the same process, an execution against the property of the
defendant to collect the costs or damages which 'may be due, in 
the same cases in which he would be authorized to issue such
execution separately. 
SECTION 18. The practice in actions relating to real estate,
shall be the same in all respects as in personal actions, except
where otherwise specially provided by law, and all the provisions
of law respecting pleadings, process, records, and judgments in
personal actions, shall, so far as the nature of such actions will 
admit, apply to actions relating to real estate. 
TITLE XXV. 
ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN SPECIAL CASES. 
CBAP. 147. Of actions and proceedings by and against executors, administra­
tors, and infants, and against the next of kin, heirs, legatees, . 
and devisees, in certain cases. 
148. Of proceedings by 'and against corporations. 
149. Of proceedings as for contempts, &c. 
150. Of proceedings f'or the collection of demands against boats· and
vessels. 
151. Of forcible entry, and unlawful detainer.
152. Of actions by persons holding claims on United States lands.
153. Of the lien of mechanics and others. 
154. Of the foreclosure of mortgages by advertisernenl 
155. Of the collection of penalties, forfeitures, and fines. 
156. Of proceedings to compel the delivery of books and papers, 'by
public officers, to their successors. 
157. Of actions against the state. 
158. Of writs of habeas eorpus.
159._ Of writs of mandamus and prohibition, 
160. Of actions and writs of ,cirejaciaa and quo u,arranto. 
• CHAPTER CXL VII. 
OF ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS, ADHIN·
ISTRATORS, AND INFANTS, AND AGAINST THE NEXT OF KIN, 
HEIRS, LEGATEES, AND DEVISEES, IN CERTAIN CASES. 
1. For wrongs done to the property, rights, or inter­
ests of' another, for which an action might be maintained against 
d I · b b 1 b I 
the wrong oer, sue 1 action may e roug 1t y t re person
injured, or after his death, by his executors or administrators, 
against such wrong doer, and after his death, against his execu­
tors or administrators, in the same manner and with the liko
effect in all respects, as actions fdunded upon contracts. 
SECTION 2. But the preceding section shall not extend to
actions for slander, for libel, for assault aud battery, or false 
imprisonment ; nor to actions for injuries to the person of the
plaintifff, or to the person of the testator or intestate of any exec­
utor or administrator. 
SECTION 3. No executors or administrators shall be held to
bail in any action against them in their representative character, 
unless such action be brought to charge them with waste.
4. Nor shall they be held to bail in such action, 
unless upon an order of the judge of the dcourt in which such
action shall be brought, founded on an affi avit of the facts and 
circumstances to support such charge. 
SECTION 5. In actions against several executors or administrators, they shall all be considered as one person, representing 
their testator or intestate; and such of them as shall be first
d 
· h h 11 fli · h · h ll
serve wit process, or ass a rst appear m t e action, s a 
answer the plaintifff. Judgment shall be rendered, and in the
cases where execution may be issued against the property of the 
testator or intestate, it shall be in form against such as shall
have appeared and the others named in the first process, in the 
same manner as if they had all appeared. · 
SECTION 6. But no judgment rendered in such action shall be
deemed evidence of any admission of assets in the hands of any 
executor or administrator, who was not served with process in
such action, or who did not actually appear therein. 
SECTION 7. The preceding section shall not deprive any plaintiff of the usual remedies to bring into court all the executors 
d
· ' t · h tl t" • b ht 
or a ministra ors against w om 10 ac ion is roug . 
SECTION 8. The term of eighteen months after the death of
any testator or intestate, shall not be deemed any part of the 
time liniited by law for the commencement of actions against
hi! executors or administrators. 
SECTION 9. The time which shall have elapsed between the
death of any person, and the granting of letters testamentary, or 
of administration, on his estate, not exceeding six months, and
the period of six months after the granting of such letters, shall 
not be deemed any part of the time limited by any law for the
commencement of actions by executors or administrators. 
SECTION 10. No executor or administrator shall be made
personally liable for any debt, damages, or costs, by reason of his 
having inserted in his plea?ings ant false matter' u~less such
pleading shall have been verified by his oath or affidavit. 
SECTION 11. An executor of an executor shall have no
authority to commence or maintain any action or proceeding 
relating to the estate, effects, or rights of the testator of the first
executor, or to take any charge or control thereof as such 
executor. 
SECTION 12. The real estate which belonged to any deceased
person shall not be bound or in any way affected by any judg- 
· t h' d • · t 1 ll · b
ment agams is executors or a ministra ors, nor s ia it e 
liable to be sold by virtue of any execution issued upon such
. d t 
JU gmen. 
SECTION 18. Any · subsequent executors or administrators
shall have execution upon any judgments that may have been 
recovered by any person who preceded them in the administration of the same estate,within one year from tho time of dock- 
eting of such judgment, without reviving the same by scire facias, 
and without any other proceedings to give notice to the defendant in such judgment. 
SECTION 14. In any action against executors or administrators, in which the fact of their having administered the estate 
of their testator or intestate, or any part thereof, shall come in
issue, and the inventory of the property of the deceased, made
and filed by them, shall be given in evidence, the plaintifff or 
defendant may rebut the same by proof- 
55 
property or effects have been omitted in such
inventory, or were not returned therein at their true value. 
2. That such property has perished or been lost, without the
fault of such executor or administrator, or that it has been fairly
sold by. them at private or public sale at a less price than the
value so returned, or that since the return of the inventory such
property has deteriorated or enhanced in value. 
SECTION 15. In every such action the defendant shall not be
charged for any demands or rights in actions specified in their
inventory, unless it appear that such demands or rights have 
b 11 . d . l l b 11 d . h d dill
een co ecte , or mig 1t rave een co ecte wit ue 1 gence. 
SECTION 16. The two last sections shall not be construed to
vary any rules of evidence in respect to any proof which an 
t d .. t t k b 1
execu or or a mims ra or may ma e y aw. 
SECTION 17. No person shall be liable to an action as execu­
tor of his own wrong, for having received, taken, or interfered 
with the property of a deceased person ; but shall be responsible
as a wrong doer in the proper action to the executors .or gen­
eral or special administrators of such deceased person, for the 
value of any property or effects so taken or received, and for all
damages caused by his acts to the estate of the deceased. 
SECTION 18. When administration of the effects of a deceased
person, which shall have been left unadministerod by any previ­ 
ous executor or- administrator of the same estate, shall be
granted to any person, such person may bring a writ of error or 
l • d b · d · l ·
appea upon any JU gment o tame against sue 1 previous exec- 
utor or administrator of the same estate, or against the original
testator or intestate, and shall defend any writ of error or appeal 
brought upon any such judgment, and shall have the same rem­
edies in the prosecution or defense of any action by or against
such previous executors or administrators, and for the collection
and enforcing of any judgment, as they would have by law. 
SECTION 19. Whenever an action shall be brought by any
legatee against an executor or administrator, and "the ·want of 
assets to pay all the debts of the deceased, and all the legacies
bequeathed by him or any of them, shall be alleged in the 
defendant's answer' the cause shall be referred to referees, to
examine the accounts of the defendants, and to hear and report
upon the allegations and proofs of the parties in respect to such
answer. 
SECTION 20. Such referees shall· proceed in the manner provided by law in respect to referees of actions in which there is a 
long account; and all the provisions of law in relation to such
referees shall apply to referees appointed pursuant to the last
section, and to their proceedings and judgment thereon. 
SECTION 21. In all cases the costs of the action, or of either
party, shall be paid as the court may direct, out of the estate of
the deceased, or by the defendants personally, if their refusal to
pay such legacy, or their defense of the action, shall appear to 
have been unreasonable. 
SECTION 22. If the plaintifff in any such action shall recover
only part of his demand, for the want of assets in the hands of 
the defendants, and assets shall afterward come to their hands,
he shall have a new action for the recovery thereof, or for the 
proportionate share thereof to which he may be entitled; and
the same proceedings, in all respects, shall be had in such action. 
SECTIO!'i 23. When the executor or administrator of a trustee,
carrier, or other person who claimed only a special property in 
any goods, to hold them for the use and benefit of another, shall
recover such goods or the value thereof, or damages for the
taking or detention thereof, for any injury done to the same,
the goods or money so recovered shall not be considered assets in
llis hands, but shall, after deducting the costs and expenses of
the action, be paid over and delivered to the person, for whose
use or benefit they were so claimed or held by the deceased
_person. 
SECTION 24. When judgment for a return in an action to 
recover the possession of personal property, shall be rendered
against an executor or administrator, the goods returned by him
shall not be considered assets in his hands ; and if they shall
have been included in the inventory, it shall be sufficient dis­
charge, for the executor or administrator, to show that they have 
been returned in pursuance of such judgment. 
OF PROCEEDINGS AG.A.INST NEXT OF KIN, HEIRS, LEGA~, AND DEVI· 
I 
BEES, IN CERTAIN CA.SES. 
SECTIO~ 25. Actions against the next of kin of any deceased
person, to recover the value of any assets that may have been 
paid to them by an executor or administrator, may be brought
against all of the said relatives jointly, or one or more of them,
for the amount received by each of them. 
SECTION 26. In such action the plaintifff shall be entitled to
recover the Value Of all the assets received by all the defendants
in the action, if necessary to satisfy his demand ; and the amount 
of the recovery shall be apportioned among the defendants, in
proportion to the value of the assets received by each; and no
allowance or deduction shall be made from such amount on
account of thero being other relatives to whom assets have also
been delivered. 
SECTION 27. Any of the next of kin, against whom a recovery shall be had, pursuant to the preceding sections, may main- 
tain an action against the other relatives of the testator, to whom
any such assets may have been paid, jointly, or against any of 
them separately, for a just and equal contribution; and shall be
entitled to recover of each defendant, such an amount as shall be
in the same proportion to the whole sum collected of the plaintiff, as the value of the assets delivered to such defendant bore to
the value of all the assets delivered to all the relatives of the
deceased. 
SECTION 28. Actions by creditors of any deceased persons to 
recover the value of any assets that may have been paid by any
executor or administrator, to any legatees of their testator, may
be brought against all of such legatees jointly, or against any 
single legatee -separately. 
SECTION 29. In such action the plaintifff shall not be entitled
to recover unless he shows·- 
• 
l. That no assets were delivered by the executor or adminis- 
trator of the deceased to his next .of kin; or- 
2. That the value of such assets have been recovered by some
other creditor; or- 
3. That such assets arc not sufficient to satisfy the demands
of the plaintifff. · 
An<l in the last case he shall be entitled to recover the deficiency. 
30. The whole amount which the plaintifff shall be 
• l d l ll
entit e to recover s ra be apportioned among all the legatees 
of the testator in proportion to the respective amounts of their
several legacies, and such proportion only shall be recovered of 
each legatee. 
SECTION 31. If any action be brought against several relatives
jointly, or against several legatees jointly, for assets delivered to 
them, if a recovery be had against them, the costs of such action
shall be apportioned to the several defendants in proportion to 
the amount of the debt or damages recovered against each of
them. 
SECTIO~ 32. In every such action the judgment shall express
the amount recovered against each defendant for debt or dam- 
ages and costs, and the execution thereon shall correspond to
such judgment. 
. SECTIO~ 33. In case of any judgment against several relatives
f • • f: 
o a testator, or against several legatees, the payment or satis action of the amount reserved against any one of the defendants 
shall discharge such defendant, and shall exonerate him and his
property from judgment, and from tho execution thereon. 
SECTION 34. The heirs of every person who shall have died
intestate, and the heirs and devisees of any person who shall 
have died after the making of his last will and testament, shall
respectively be liable for the debts of such person, arising by
simple contract or by specialty, to the extent of the estate, 
interest, and right in the real estate which shall have descended
to them from or been devised to them by such person. 
SECTION 35. But such heirs shall not be liable for any such
debt unless it shall appear that the personal assets of the deceased
were not sufficient to pay and discharge the same, or that after
due proceedings before the proper county court, and at law, the
creditor has been unable to collect such debt, or some part
thereof, from the personal representatives of the deceased, or
from his next of kin or legatees. 
SECTION 36. In case the personal assets were sufficient to pay
a part of such debts, or in case a part thereof shall have been 
collected, as in the last section mentioned, the heirs of such
deceased person shall be liable· for the residue unpaid or
unsettled. 
SECTION 37. But the two last sections shall not affect or
impair the liability of heirs for any debt of their ancestor, where
such debt was by his will expressly charged exclusively upon the
real estate descended to such heirs, or where such debt is by such
will expressly directed to be paid out of the real estate descended,
before resorting to the personal estate. 
SECTION 38. It shall be incumbent on the creditors seeking
to charge any heirs, to show the fact and circumstances herein 
required to render them liable.· 
SECTION 39. In cases where the next of kin, heirs, and devisocs are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided, 
they shall give preference in the payment of the same, and shall 
1. 1· bl h f . l "' 11 • d
uc ra e t ere or, in t ie 10 owmg or er:- 
1. Debts entitled to a preference under the laws of the United
States. 
2. Judgments docketed against their ancestors, according to
the priority thereof respectively. 
3. Recognizances, bonds, sealed instruments, notes, bills, and
unliquidated demands and accounts. 
SECTIO:'<i 40. No preference shall be given by any next of kin,
legatee, heir, or devisee, to any debt, over other debts of the same
class, except those specified in. the second class of the last section;
nor shall a debt due and payable, be entitled to a preference over
debts not due ; nor shall the commencement of an action against
any next of kin, legatee, heir, or devisee, for the recovery of any
debt, entitle such debt to any preference over others of the same
class. 
SECTION 41. The next of kin, legatee, heirs, and devisees may
show that there are debts of a prior class unsatisfied, or that there 
are unpaid debts of the same class with that on which the action
is brought, and if it appear that the value of the personal property
delivered to them, or of the real estate descended or devised to
them, does not exceed the debts of a prior class, judgment shall
be rendered in their favor. 
SECTIO~ 42. If the personal property delivered to such next
of kin, or legatee, or if the real estate descended or devised to 
h
I
. d d . d h f d b , hi 1 
sue ieirs an evisees, excee t e amount o e ts w ic 1 are
entitled to a preference over the debt for which the action is
brought, judgment shall be rendered against them only for such
a sum as shall be a just proportion to the other debts of the same
class with that on which the action is brought. 
SECTION 43. If any debt of a prior class to that on which the
action is brought, or of the same class, shall have been paid by 
any next of kin, legatees, heirs, or dcvisees, they may give evidence
of such payment, and the amount of debts so paid shall be estimated in ascertaining the amount to be recovered, in the same
manner as if such debts were outstanding and unpaid, as prescribed in the two last sections. 
SECTION 44. The heirs of any person who may be liable to 
any creditor of such person,. in consequence of lands having
descended to them, shall be prosecuted jointly, in the circuit court. 
SECTION 45. Actions against heirs or devisees shall not be
delayed, nor shall the remedy of the plaintifffs be suspended, by 
reason of the infancy of any such heir or devisee ; but guardians
to defend their rights in such actions shall be appointed as in 
other cases. 
SECTION 46. In any complaint filed against heirs to charge 
them on account of any lands and tenements, or hereditaments,
d
d d
h 
• 'ff 1 11 if • h •
oscen o to t em, t ie p ainti s ia speer y, wit convenient 
l
I 
certainty, the real estate so descended. 
SECTION 47. In such action any heir may show that at the 
t
• f h t 1 f h } d hi h d 
une o t e commencemen t iereo , e ia not mg y cscent,
or that he had not sufficient to ~atisfy the plaintifff's demand. 
SECTION 48. If it appear that the lands or tenements have
descended to such heir, the court shall inquire and ascertain the
value .thereo~, either by reference to a proper officer, or by 
awarding 'an issue for that purpose. 
SECTION 49. If it appear that the lands, tenements, or hereditaments so descended, were not aliened· by such heir, at the time 
of the commencement of the action, or if the heir confess the
action, and show what lands, tenements, or hereditaments have
descended to him, the court shall adjudge that the debt of the
plaintifff, or the proportion thereof which he is entitled to recover,
shall be levied of such real estate so descended, and not otherwise. 
SECTION 50. Every final judgment rendered in such action,
shall have preference as a lien on the real estate descended, to 
• d d b . d . h h . 11
any JU gment or ecree o tame against sue err persona y, 
for any debt or demand in his own right.
51. When it shall appear in any such action that 
before the commencement thereof, any such heir has aliened the
lands, tenements, or hereditaments descended to him, or any 
part thereof, he shall be personally liable for the value of the
estate so aliened; and judgment shall be rendered therefore, and
execution awarded, as in actions for his own debt. 
SECTION 52. In such cases the preference hereinbeforc
d 1 d ' d d ' h f h h ' 
cc are , m respect to eman s against t e ancestor o sue err,
shall apply, and such heir may show the same matters hereinbeforc 
allowed, and the same proceedings and judgment shall be had
thereon. 
SECTION 53. But no lands, tenements, or hereditaments
aliened in good faith, by any heir, before any action commenced
against him, shall be liable to execution, or in any manner 
affected by a decree against such heir. 
54. In actions brought against several heirs jointly,
Or several devisees jointly, the amount Which the plaintifff Shall 
be entitled to recover shall be apportioned among the heirs of
the ancestor, or among all the devisees of the testator, in pro­
portion to the value of the real estate descended to such heirs,
or devised to such devisees, respectively, as the case may be ; 
and such proportion only shall be recovered of each heir or of
each legatee. • 
SECTION 55. The costs of such action shall be apportioned
h 1 d t'. d • . • } d b 
among t e severs eten ants, m proportion to t ie e t or
damages recovered against each of them ; the judgment shall
express the amount recovered against each defendant for debt,
or damages and costs; and the execution issued thereon shall 
conform to such judgment. 
SECTIO:'.'i 56. When a judgment shall be rendered against
any heirs or dovisees who are infants, no execution issued 
thereon shall be executed against them, until the expiration of 
one year after the rendition of such judgment; but such execu­ 
tion may be executed against any defendants in the same action
who are of full age. 
SECTION 57. The attorney issuing an execution in every such
case shall indorse thereon the names of the defendants who are 
' c. d h ll di I h 'ff h
infants, an s a irect t 10 s en not to execute t e same 
against such infants until the time specified in the last section. 
SECTION 58. Devisees made liable by the foregoing provisions
to the creditors of their testator, shall not be so liable unless it 
shall appear that his personal assets, o.nd the real estate of the
testator, descended to his heirs, were insufficient to discharge 
such debt ; or unless it shall appear that after due proceedings,
before the proper county judge, and at law, the creditor has been
unable to recover such debt, or some part thereof, from the
personal representatives of the testator, or from hiA next of kin,
or legatees, or from his heirs. 
SECTION 59. In either of the cases specified in the last section,
the amount of the deficiency of the personal assets, and of the
real estate descended, to satisfy the debt of the plaintifff, and the 
amount which such plaintifff may have failed to recover from the
personal representatives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees,
and heirs, may be recovered of the devisees of such testator, to
the extent of the real estate devised to them respectively. 
SECTION 60. But the two last sections shall not impair or
affect the liability of devisees for any debt of their testator,
where such debt was by his will expressly charged exclusively
upon the real estate devised, or made payable exclusively by
such devisee by the terms of the will, or made payable out of
the estate devised, before resorting to the personal estate, or to
any other real estate, descended or devised. 
SECTION 61. It shall be incumbent on the creditor seeking to
charge any devisees, to show on the trial the facts and circum- 
stances herein required to render them liable.
SECTION 62. The provisions herein contained, with regard to 
heirs, and to proceedings by and against them, shall be applicable
to actions and proceedings against devisees, who shall in like
manner be sued jointly. 
SECTION 63. Devisees shall be liable in the same manner,
and to the same extent, as heirs, notwithstanding they may have 
1
. d l al d . d b e • b h . 
a iene t ie re estate evise erore action roug t against
them ; but no real estate aliened in good faith by any devisee,
before the commencement of an action against him, shall be
liable to execution upon or in any manner affected by a. judgment against such devisee. 
OP INFANTS BORN AFTER MAKING A WILL, &C. 
SECTION 64. In cases where, by the provisions of any statute,
a child born after the making of a will shall be entitled to sue- 
ceed to a portion of the testator's real and personal estate, such
cl~ild ~hall have the same rights and rc!D:edies to compel a dis- 
tribution of the personal estate, and partition of the real estate,
as are provided by law for the next of kin, and for heirs ; and 
shall, in all respects, be liable in the same manner and to the
same extent to the creditors of his ancestor, in respect to the
personal property delivered to him, and the real estate descended
to him, as are herein prescribed in relation to next of kin and
heirs. 
SECTION 65. Such child shall be authorized to recover of the
legatees who may have received any property or effects of the
testator, the portion of such property or effects to which he may
be entitled; and shall also be entitled to recover of the devisees 
estate, under the will of the testator, such portion
of such real estate as shall belong to him. 
SECTION 66. In cases where a distribution of such personal
estate shall not have been made by the judge of the county
court, to any such child born after the making of a will, the
court shall have power to compel the same ; and the said court
shall have power also to compel just and equal contribution by
the legatees 'under such will; to make up the portion of personal
property to which such child shall be entitled. 
• ~ECTION 67. The c~urt shall also have power to compel partition between the devisees of any real estate and such child so 
entitled to a portion of such real estate, so as to enforce a just
and proportionate contribution by each devisee. · 
SECTION 68. The foregoing provisions relative to a child born
after the making of a will shall apply equally in all respects to 
every person who, being a witness to a will, shall be entitled,
by the provisions of any statute, to recover any portion of tho 
personal or real estate of the testator from the legatees and
devisees named in such will. . 
CHAPTER CXL vm. 
OF PROCEEDINGS BY AND AG.A.INST CORPOR.A.TION8. 
SECTION 1. Actions against corporations may be commenced
in the same manner that personal actions are commenced against 
individuals. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy
thereof to the president or other head of the corporation, secre­
tary, cashier, treasurer, director, or managing agent thereof; but
such service can be made in respect to a foreign corporation,
only when it has property within this state, or the cause of
action arose therein. 
2. When such summons shall have been duly served,
the plaintifff may proceed thereupon in such action in the same
manner as in personal actions against natural persons. 
SECTION 3. 111 actions by or against any corporation created
by or under any statute of this state, it shall not be necessary to 
prove on the trial the existence of such corporation, unless the
defendant in his answer shall have denied that the plaintifff is a
corporation, and annexed thereto an affidavit of the truth of
such answer. 
SECTION 4. In actions by or against any corporation created
by or under any law of this state, it shall not be necessary to
recite the act or acts of incorporation, or· the proceedings by
which such corporation was created, or to set forth the sub­
stance thereof; but the same may be pleaded by reciting the 
title of such act.
5. In actions or proceedings by or against any cor­ 
poration, a mistake in the naming of such corporation shall be
stated in the defendant's answer, together with the true name 
of such corporation, and shall be verified by affidavit; otherwise
such mistake shall be deemed to have been waived. 
SECTION 6. An action for the recovery of money against. a
corporation created by or under the laws of any other state, 
b
l
. h l . l l . 
government, or country, ut w uc ias, m w 10 e or in part,
ceased to act as a body corporate from any cause whatever, may 
be commenced and prosecuted to final judgment in the same
manner as actions against foreign corporations ; and satisfaction
of the plaintifff''s debts or demand in such action may be
enforced out of any monies, credits, effects, or property lying or
being in this state, and belonging to, or owned by, or in which
any such corporation has an interest, or which would belong to,
or would be owned by, or in which any such corporation has or
would have an interest, had the same not ceased to act as aforesaid, whether held, managed, or controlled by such corporation,
or by a trustee or trustees, assignee or assignees, agent or
agents, for the use and benefit, in whole or in part, of such corporation, or the creditors thereof, or for the use and benefit of
both such corporation and creditors, however created, made,
constituted, or appointed. 
SECTION 7. The plaintifff or plaintifff's in all actions for the
recovery of any such debt, claim, or demand as aforesaid, shall, 
to the extent of the final recovery in such actions, in all cases
have a lien, by virtue of such action, upon all monies, credits,
effects, property, and interests aforesaid, from the time an
appearance to the action shall be or has been · entered on the
part of the defendant, (which shall be such corporation in its
corporate name,) unless such corporation or some one on its
behalf shall make to such plaintifff a bond in the penal sum of
double the amount claimed to be due, executed by two or more
sureties, resident freeholders of this state, who shall swear that
they are each worth, of real estate lying in this state, and liable
to execution, at least one-half of the penal sum therein named,
over aud above all debts and legal liabilities, which bond shall
be conditioned to pay and satisfy the final judgment that may
be rendered in favor of such plaintifff or plaintifffs for debt or
damages, or both damages and costs, within sixty days from the
rendition of such judgment ; the provisions of this section shall 
· "" t · l"d 1· d · db
in no case anec or mva 1 ate any ten create or acquire y 
the execution, or extending a warrant of attachment upon any
di fli t . ~ id ·1 
monies, ere its, e cc s, property, or utterest atoresai , unti
such bond as aforesaid shall be filed with the clerk of, and be
approved by, the court in which the action is pending; the judgment rendered in any such action as aforesaid shall be a lien as
in other cases, from the time of the rendition thereof; 
SECTJOS 8. In all actions under the provisions of this chapter,
where an attachment shall be issued, the officer to whom the
same is directed shall attach the monies, credits, effects, and
property of the defendant, lying or being in this state, or in
which such corporation hasan interest, or which would belong 
to, or be owned by, or in which such corporation has or would
have an interest, had not the same ceased to act as such corporation, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaintifff's demand,
with costs, whether held, managed, or controlled by such corpo- 
ration, or by a trustee or trustees, assignee or assignees, agent or
agents, for the use and benefit, in whole or in part, of such cor­
poration, or the creditors thereof, or for the use and benefit of
both such corporation and creditors, however created, made,
constituted, or appointed, and shall also summon the defendant
to appear and answer the plaintifff in the action. 
SECTION 9. In actions against corporations created by or
under the laws of any other state, government, or country, and 
which have, in whole or in part, ceased to act as a body corporate, .service may be made upon any officer of any such corpora­
tion, or upon any trustee, assignee, or agent thereof, and such
service shall be as binding and effectual as personal service in 
actions between individuals in other cases.
SECTION 10. In actions mentioned in the last preceding sec­ 
tion, process shall conform, as near as may be, to process in other
cases; and from the issuing of summons to final judgment and 
satisfaction, all the provisions of law shall apply to actions commenced or to be prosecuted under this chapter, so far as the
same are consistent with, and not repugnant thereto, and no 
further.
SECTION 11. A foreign corporation, created by or under the 
law of any other state government or country may prosecute in
the courts of this state, in the same manner as corporations
created under the law~ of ~his state, upon giving security for tho 
payment or costs of action, in the same manner that non-residents
arc required by law to do. 
SECTION 12. But where, by the laws of this state, any net is
forbidden to be done by any corporation, or by any association
of individuals, without express authority by law, and such act
shall have been done by a foreign corporation, it shall not be
authorized to maintain any action founded upon such act, or
upon any liability or obligation, express or implied, arising out
of, or made or entered into in consideration of, such act. 
SECTION 13. Upon a complaint being filed under the direction
of tho attorney general, in any circuit court, such court shall 
have power to restrain, by injunction, any corporation from
assuming or exercising any franchise, liberty, or privilege, or
transacting any business, not authorized by the charter of such
corporation ; and in the same manner to restrain any individu­
als from exercising any corporate rights, privileges, or franchises, 
not granted to them by any law of this state.
SECTION 14. Such injunction may be issued before the answer, 
upon satisfactory proof that the defendants complained of have
usurped, exercised, or claimed any franchise, privilege, liberty, 
or corporate right, not granted to them; and after the answer,
such "injunction may be continued until judgment shall have 
been rendered.
SECTION 15. The circuit court shall have jurisdiction over 
directors, managers, trustees, and other officers of corporations:­
1 .. To compel them to account for their official conduct in the 
management and disposition of the funds and property commit­
ted to their charge. 
2. To order and compel payment by them to the corporation
whom they represent, and to its creditors, of all sums of money, 
and of the value of all property which they may have acquired 
to themselves, or transferred to others, or may have lost or
wasted by any violation of their duties as such directors, managers, trustees, or other officers. 
3. To suspend any such trustee, or other officer, from exer­
cising his office, whenever it shall appear that he has abused his
trust. 
4. To remove any such trustee or officer from his office, upon
proof or conviction of gross misconduct. 
5. To direct, if necessary, new elections to be held by the
body or board duly authorized for that purpose, to supply any
vacancy created by such removal. . 
6. In case there be no such body or board, or all the members
of such board be removed, then to report the same to the gov­
ernor, who shall be authorized to fill such vacancies. 
7. To set aside all alienations of property made by the trustees
or other officers of any corporation, contrary to the provisions
of law, or for purposes foreign to the lawful business and objects
of such corporation, in cases where the person receiving such
alienation knew the purpose for which the 'same was made ; 
and8. To restrain and prevent any such alienation in cases where 
it may be threatened, or there may be good reason to apprehend
that it is intended to be made. 
SECTION 16. When any visitorial powers over any corporation
are or shall be vested by statute in any corporate body or public 
officer, the provisions of the preceding section shall not be construed to divest or impair the powers so vested. 
SECTIO~ 17. The jurisdiction conferred by the fourteenth [fiftee nth] section of this chapter shall be exercised as in ordinary 
cases, on complaint or petition, as the case may require, or as the
court may direct, at the instance of the attorney general prosecuting in behalf of this state, or at the instance of any creditor
of such corporation, or at the instance of any director, trustee,
or other officer of such corporation, having a general superin- 
tendence of its concerns. 
SECTION 18. Whenever a judgment shall be obtained against
any corporation incorporated under the laws of this state, and 
an execution issued thereon shall have been returned unsatisfled, in whole or in part, upon the petition of the person obtain- 
ing such judgment, or his representatives, the circuit court
within the proper county may sequestrate the stock, property,
things in action, and effects of such corporation, and may appoint
a receiver of the same. 
SECTION 19. In the final order on any such petition, the court
shall direct a just and fair distribution of the property.of such
corporation, and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among the 
fair and honest creditors of such corporation, in proportion to
their debts respectively, who shall be paid in the same order as 
provided in the case of a voluntary dissolution or a corporation. 
SECTION 20. Whenever any incorporated company shall have
remained insolvent for one whole year, or for one year shall have
neglected or refused to pay and discharge its notes or other evidences of debts, or for one year shall have suspended the ordi- 
nary and lawful business of such corporation, it shall be deemed
to have surrendered the rights, privileges, and franchises granted
by any act of incorporation, or acquired under the laws of this
state, and shall be adjudged to be dissolved. 
21. Whenever any corporation having banking pow­
ers, or1 h~vindgbth1e power tokm.ake loans, o1r p11Icbdges, o~ dep1osits, 
or aut iorize y aw to ma e insurance, s ia · ccome mso vent,
or unable to pay its debts ; or shall neglect or refuse to pay its
notes, or evidences of debt, on demand ; or shall have violated
any of the provisions of its act or acts of incorporation, or of
any other law binding on such corporation,-any court having
jurisdiction may, by injunction, restrain such corporation and 
its officers from exercising any of its corporate rights, privileges,
or franchises, and from collecting or receiving any debts or
demands, and from paying out, or in any way transferring or
delivering to any person, any of the monies, property, or effects 
of such corporation, until such court shall otherwise order.
22. Such injunction may be issued on the applica­ 
tion of the attorney general in behalf of this state, or on the
application of any creditor or stockholder of such corporation, 
upon complaint filed for that purpose, and upon due proof of
any of the facts in the lust section required to authorize the
issuing of the same. Whenever such injunction shall issue
against any bank, for any violation of its charter, on the appli­
cation of any creditor, the court shall proceed to final judgment
in such case, and adjudge a forfeiture, if the proof is sufficient,
notwithstanding such creditor may settle with such corporation;
and in all such cases the attorney general, under the direction
of the governor, or any creditor, shall have the right to appear
and prosecute such action ; and such action shall not be discon­
tinued, if either of them so appear and prosecute such action
to final judgment. 
SECTION 23. Upon such application being made in any stage of
the proceedings thereupon, the court may appoint one or more 
receivers to take charge of the property and effects of such corporation, and to collect, sue for, and recover the debts and
demands that may be due, and the property that may belong to
such corporation, who shall in all respects be subject to the 
control of the court.
24. Such receivers shall possess all the powers and 
authority conferred, and be subject to all the obligations and 
• d ·
duties imposed, upon receivers appomte m the case of the vol- 
untary dissolution of a corporation.
SECTION 25. If such application be made by e. creditor of 
any corporation, whose directors or stockholders arc made liable
f } d b · 
by law for the payment o sue 1 e t, m any event or coutingency, such directors or stockholders, or any of them, may be
made parties to the action, either at the commencement thereof
or in any subsequent stage of the proceedings, whenever it shall
become necessary to enforce such liability. 
SECTION 26. If any creditor of a corporation desires to make
such direct?rs or ~tockholders part~es to the action, after a Judg- 
.meut therem against the corporation, he may do so by filmg a.
~omplaint against them founded upon such judgment; and if 
such judgment was rendered in a proceeding instituted by the
attorney general, such creditor may, on his application, he made 
plaintifff therein, and may in like manner make the directors
and stockholders sought to be charged defendants in such action. 
SECTION 27. Whenever any creditor of a corporation shall
k
l
1 
di l , di
sec to c iarge t ie irectors, trustees, or ot ier superiuten mg 
officers of such corporation, or stockholders thereof, on account
of any liability created by law, he may commence an action for
that purpose in any circuit court which shall possess jurisdiction to enforce such liability, 
SECTIO~ 28. The court shall proceed therein as in other 
cases, and, when necessary, shall cause an account to be taken
of the property, and debts due to and from such corporation, 
and shall appoint one or more receivers, who shall possess all the
powers conferred, and be subject to all tho obligations imposed,
on receivers in case of the voluntary dissolution of a corporation. 
SECTION 29. But if upon the filing of the answer, or upon the
taking of any such account, it shall appear that such corporation
is insolvent, and that it has no property or effects to satisfy such 
creditor, the court may proceed, without appointing any receiver,
to ascertain the respective liabilities of such directors and stockholders, and enforce the same · by its judgment, as in other
cases. · 
SECTION 80. Upon a final judgment being made upon any
such application to restrain a corporation, or in any action com- 
mcnced against directors or stockholders, the court shall cause a
just and fair distribution of the property of such corporation,
and of the proceeds thereof, to be made among its fair and
honest creditors, in the order and in the proportions prescribed
in tho case of a voluntary dissolution of a corporation. 
SECTION 31. In all cases in which the directors or other officers of a corporation, or the stockholders thereof, shall have been 
made parties to an action in which judgment shall be rendered,
if the property of such corporation shall be insufficient to dis- 
charge its debts, the court shall proceed to compel each stockholder to pay in the amount due and remaining unpaid on the
shares of stock held by him, or so much thereof as shall be
necessary to satisfy the debts of the company. 
SECTION 32. If the debts of the company shall remain unsatisfiod, the court shall proceed to ascertain the respective liabili- 
tios of the directors or other officers, and of the stockholders,
and to adjudge the amount payable by each, and enforce such
judgment as in other cases. 
8ECTIO~ 33. Upon any application to tho court having jurisdiction, in a.ny of the cases provided in this chapter, such court 
may compel such corporation to discover any stock, property,
things in action, or effects, alleged to belong or to have belonged
to it, the transfer and disposition thereof, and the consideration,
and all the circumstances of such disposition. 
SECTION 34. Every officer, agent, or stockholder of any corporation, against which proceedings shall be instituted accord- 
iug to the provisions of this chapter, and every person to whom
it shall be alleged that any transfer of property or effects of such
corporation has been made, or in whoso possession or control 
pelled, in tho discretion of tho court, to answer an action com­
menced to obtain any discovery in the preceding section speci­
fied, notwithstanding such answer may expose the corporation of
which he is a member, to a forfeiture of its corporate rights, or
any of them. 
35.' The answers of the officers and agents of o.ny
corporation shall be evidence against the corporation, in the 
same manner and to the same extent as if such answers had
been given upon an examination of such officers or agents as
witnesses in the cause ; and such officers or agents may subse­
quently be examined as witnesses by either party, under tho
order of the court; but no such answer shall be compelled,
unless by special order of the court. 
36. Neither the answer of any such officer or agent,
nor his testimony upon any such subsequent examination, shall 
be used as evidence· upon any indictment or other criminal
prosccu tion or proceeding against him. 
37. Whenever any action shall be commenced, or
any application shall be made, against any corporation, its direct- 
ors or other superintending officers, or its stockholders, according
to the provisions of this chapter, the court may by injunction, 011 
the application of either party, and at any stage of the proceed­
ings, restrain all proceedings by any creditor against the
defendants in such action; and whenever it shall appear neces­
sary or proper, may order notice to be published in such manner
as the court shall direct, requiring all the creditors of such cor­
poration to exhibit their. claims and become parties to the
action within a reasonable time, not less than six months from
the first publication of such order, and in default thereof, to be
precluded from all benefit of the judgment which shall be made
in such action, and from any distribution which shall be made
under such judgment. 
SECTION 38. The provisions of this chapter shall not extend
to any incorporated library or lyceum society, to any religious 
corporation, or any incorporated academy or select school, nor
to the proprietors of any burying ground, incorporated under the 
laws of this state. 
CHAPTER CXLXIX. 
OF PROCEEDINGS AB FOR CONTEMPTS TO ENFORCE CIVIL REllEDIES,
AND TO PROTECT THE RIGHTS OF PARTIES IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
SECTtON 1. Every court of record shall have power to ~nish, by fine and imprisonment, or either, any neglect or violatii'.ft\.._ 
of duty, or any misconduct, by which the rights or remedies of"..._..1 
a party in a cause or matter depending in such court, or triable
therein, may be defeated, impaired, impeded, or prejudiced, in 
the following cases :. 1. All attorneys, counselors, clerks, registers, sheriffs, coro- 
ners, and all other persons in anymannerdulyelected or appointed
to perform any judicial or ministerial services.for any misbehavior
in such office or trust, or for any willful neglect or violation of
duty therein ; for disobedience of any process of such court, or
of any lawful order thereof, or of any lawful order of a judge of
such court, or of any officer authorized to perform the duties
of such judge. 
2. Parties to actions, for putting in fictitious bail or sureties,
or for any deceit, or abuse of tho process or proceedings of the
court. 
3. Parties to actions, attorneys, counselors, and all other
persons, for the non-payment of any sum of money ordered by
such court to be paid, in cases where, by law, execution cannot
be awarded for the collection of such sum ; and for any other
disobedience to any lawful order, judgment, or process of such
court. 
4. All persons, for assuming to be officers, attorneys, [or] coun­
selors of any court, and acting as such without authority; for
rescuing any property or person which shall be in the custody
of any officer by virtue of process issued from such court; for
unlawfully detaining any witness or party to an action, while
going to, remaining at, or returning from the court where such
action shall be noticed for trial; and for any other unlawful
interference with the process or proceedings in any action: 
5. All persons summoned as witnesses, for refusing or neglect­
ing to obey such summons, or to attend, or to be sworn, or
answer as such witnesses. 
6. Persons summoned as jurors in any court, for improperly
conversing with any party to an action to be tried at such court,
or with any other person, in relation to the merits of such action;
for receiving communications from any such party, or from any
other person, in relation to the merits of such action, without
immediately disclosing the same to tho court. 
7. All inferior magistrates, officers, and tribunals, for disobe­
dience of any lawful order or process of a superior court, or for
proceeding in any cause or matter contrary to law after such
cause or matter shall have been removed from their jurisdiction;
and,- 
8. All other cases where attachments and. proceedings as for
contempts have be(¥1 usually adopted and practiced in courts
of record, to enforce the civil remedies of any party, or to protect
the rights of any such party. , 
SECTION 2. When any misconduct punishable by fine and
imprisonment as declared in the last section, shall be committed 
in the immediate view and presence of the court, it may be
punished summarily, by fine or imprisonment, or both, as
hereinafter prescribed. 
SECl'ION 3. · When such misconduct is not so committed, the
· court shall be satisfied by due proof, by affidavit, of the facts 
charged, and shall cause a copy of such affidavit to be served on
the party accused, a. reasonable time to enable him to make his
defense, except in cases of disobedience to any rule or order
requiring the payment of money. 
SECTION 4. When any rule or order of the court shall have 
made for the payment of costs, or any other sum of money,
and proof by affidavit shall be made of the personal demand of 
such sum of money, and of a refusal to pay it, the court may
issue a precept to commit the person so disobeying to prison,
until such sum, and the costs and expenses of the proceedings,
shall be paid. . 
SECTION 5. In all cases other than that specified in the last
section, the court shall either grant an order on the accused 
party to show cause, at some reasonable time to be therein
specified, why he should not be punished for the alleged miscon­ 
duct, or shall issue an attachment to arrest such party, and to
bring him before such court to answer for such misconduct. 
SECTION 6.' ,vhen a rule shall have been entered in any
court according to the practice thereof, requiring any officer, or 
other person to whom any process of such court may have been
directed and delivered, to return the same, an attachment for
disobedience of such rule may issue according to the practice
of the court, to arrest such officer or person, to answei· for such 
disobedience, without special application to the court. 
SECTION 7. If the party charged with misconduct be in the
custody of any officer, by virtue of an execution against his 
body, or. by virtue of any process for any other contempt or
misconduct, the court may award a writ of habeas corpus to
bring the body of such person, to answer for such misconduct, 
SECTION 8. In cases where a party is entitled to an attach­
ment against any person without the special order of the court, 
and such person shall be in custody as specified in the last section, a writ of habeas corpus to bring up such person, may be
allowed by any judge of the court, or by any officer authorized
to perform the duties of such judge, in vacation. 
SECTION 9. Such writ of habeas corpus shall authorize the
sheriff in whose custody such person shall be, to remove and
bring him before the court to which the same shall be returna­
ble, and to detain him at the place where such court shall he
sitting, until some order be made by the court for his disposition. 
SECTION 10. When an attachment shall be issued according
to the provisions of this chapter, by the special order of any
court, such court shall direct the penalty in which the defendant
shall give bond for his appearance to answer. 
SECTION 11. In all other cases when a p8jl'ty shall ho entitled
to an attachment without the special order of tho court, he shall 
~1. l . . d f 1 ffi
mase app ication to a JU ge o . t re court, or to some o cer 
authorized to perform the duties of such judge, who, upon due
proof of the facts and circumstances, shall direct tho penalty in
which the defendant shall give bond for his appearance to answer
the matters alleged against him, and shall indorso such order on
the attachment. 
SECTION 12. Upon arresting any defendant upon an attach­
ment to answer for any alleged misconduct, the sheriff shall keep 
such person in his actual custody, and shall \}ring him personally
before the court issuing the attachment, and shall keep and
detain him in his custody until such court shall have made some
order in the premises, unless such defendant· shall entitle him­
self to be discharged, as prescribed in the next section. 
SECTION 18. In cases where a sum shall have been indorsed
on any attachment issued by the special order of tho court, and 
where any sum shall have been so indorsed by any judge or
other officer as hereiubeforo prescribed, the defendant shall be 
discharged from arrest on such attachment, upon executing and
delivering to the officer making the same, in his name of office,
and to his assigns, at any time before the return day of such
writ, a bond with two sufficient sureties, in the penalty indorsed
on such attachment, with a condition that the defendant will
appear on the return of such attachment, and abide the order
and judgment of the court thereupon. 
SECTIO~ 14. When an attachment shall be issued by the
special order of the court, a certificate to that effect shall be 
iudorsed thereon by the clerk of such court ; and if no sum be
specified in which the defendant shall be held to bail on such
writ, he shall not be entitled to be discharged from the arrest
thereon, upon executing any bond, or in any other manner,
unless upon the special order of tho court issuing the attachment. 
SECTIO~ 15. When an attachment shall he issued without
tl 
· l d f 1 d d · f · th
re specia or er o t ie court, an an or er speer ymg e sum 
in which the defendant is to be held to bail, is not indorscd
thereon, the defendant shall ho discharged from the arrest
thereon, on executing a bond in the penalty of one hundred
dollars, with sureties, in the same manner and with the like
condition as hereinbefore specified. 
SECTIO:-i 16. Upon returning any attachment, the officer execu ting the same shall return the bond, if any, taken by him of 
the defendant, which shall be filed with such attachment. 
8ECTIO:-i 17. The sheriff, or other officer, to whom any
attachment shall be delivered, shall return the same by the 
return day specified therein, without any previous rule or order
for that purpose; and in case of default, an attachment may be
issued against him of course, upon being allowed by a judge of
the court, or by an officer authorized to perform the duties of
such judge, upon proof of such default; and in such allowance
the cause of issuing the same shall be stated, and that the
defendant is not to be discharged upon bail, or in auy other
manner, but by the order of the court. 
SECTIO~ 18. The officer to whom such last mentioned attachment shall be delivered, shall execute the same by arresting and 
keeping the defendant in his custody, bringing him personally
before the court, and detaining him in such custody until the
order of the court. 
SECTION 19. When any defendant, arrested upon an attachmeut, shall have been brought into court, or shall have appeared 
therein, the court shall cause interrogatories to be filed, specifying the facts and circumstances alleged against the defendant,
and requiring his answer thereto; to which the defendant shall·
make written answers, on oath, within such reasonable time as
the court shall allow; and the court may receive any affidavits,
or other proofs, contradictory of the answers of the defendant,
or in confirmation thereof, and upon the original affidavits, such
answers, and such subsequent proof, shall determine whether the.
defendant has been guilty of the misconduct alleged. 
56 
SECTION 20. If the court shall adjudge the defendant to have
been guilty of the misconduct alleged, and that the misconduct 
was calculated to or actually did defeat, impair, impede, or prejudice the rights or remedies of any party in a cause or matter 
depending in such court, it shall proceed to impose a fine, or to
imprison him, or both, as the nature of the case shall require. 
~ECTJON 21. If an actual loss or injury has been produced to
any party by the misconduct alleged, the court shall order a 
sufficient sum to be paid by the defendant to such party, to
indemnify him, and to satisfy his costs and expenses, instead of
imposing a fine upon such defendant ; and in such case the pay­
.ment and acceptance of such sum shall be an absolute bar to any
action by such aggrieved party, to recover damages for such
injury or loss. 
SECTION 22. In all cases other than that specified in the pre­
ceding section, the fine shall not exceed two hundred and fifty
dollars, over and above the costs and expenses of the proceedings. 
SECTION 23. When the misconduct complained of consists in
the omission to perform some act or duty which is yet in the 
power of the defendant to perform, he shall be imprisoned only
until he shall have performed such act or duty, and paid such
fine as shall be imposed, and the costs and expenses of the
proceedings. 
SECTION 24. In such case the order and process of commitment shall specify the act or duty to be performed, and the 
amount of the fine and expenses to be paid. .
SECTION 25. In all other cases where no special provision is 
'") • d b l if · · t be d d 't l 11 
o. ierwise ma e y aw, 1 impnsonmen or ere , 1 s ia
be for some reasonable time, not exceeding six months, and 
until the expenses of the proceedings are paid, and also, if a
fine be imposed, until such fine be paid ; and in the order and 
process of commitment the duration of such imprisonment shall
be expressed. 
SF.CTION 26. Persons proceeded ag ilnst according to the provisions of this chapter shall also be liable to indictment for the
same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense ; but the court
before which a conviction shall be had on such indictment, shall
take into consideration the punishment before inflicted in forming its sentence. 
SECTION 27. If the defendant, against whom an attachment
shall have been issued and return served, do not appear on the
return day thereof, the court may either award another attach­
ment, or may order the bond, taken on the arrest, to be prose­
cuted, or both. 
SECTION 28. Such order shall operate as an assignment of
the bond to any aggrieved party who shall be authorized by the
court to prosecute the same; and such party may maintain an
action thereon, in his own name, as assignee of the sheriff or
officer to whom the same was given, in the same manner as in
other actions on bonds with condition to perform covenants
other than the payment of money. 
SECTION 29. The measure of the damages to be assessed in
such action shall be the extent of the loss or injury sustained 
by such aggrieved party, by reason of the misconduct for which 
the attachment was issued, and his costs and expenses in prosecuting such attachment. 
SECTION 30. If there be no party aggrieved by the misconduct for which the attachment was issued, the court, in case the 
defendant shall fail to appear, according to the condition of. the
bond taken on the arrest, shall order the same to be prosecuted 
by the attorney general, or by the district attorney for the county
in which the bond was taken, in the name of the officer who
took such bond. 
SECTION 31. In such case the whole penalty of the bond shall
be forfeited and recovered ; and from the money collected thereon 
the court shall order such sum to be paid to the party prosecuting the attachment, as the court ordering the prosecution shall
think proper, to satisfy the costs and expenses incurred by him,
and to compensate him for any injury he may have sustained by
the misconduct for which such attachment was issued; and the
residue of such monies shall be paid into the state treasury to
the credit of the school fund. 
SECTION 32. If on the return of an execution duly issued
. d b . d h b d . h 11 
upon any JU gment o tame upon sue on , 1t s a appear
that the sureties taken therein were, at the time of taking them,
insufficient, and that the officer taking them had reasonable
ground to doubt their sufficiency, he shall be liable in an action 
to the party aggrieved who may have prosecuted such action, for
tho amount of the judgment recovered by him, and for his costs
and expenses in such action ; or if such action was brought by
the attorney general or a district attorney, an action may, in
like manner, be brought by them, in the name of this state, for
the amount of the judgment so recovered; and the same disposition
of the monies collected in such action against such officer shall be
made as directed in the preceding section. 
SECTION 33. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, an
offi.cer is required to keep any person arrested upon attachment 
in actual custody, and to bring him personally before any court,
the inability, from sickness or otherwise, of such person to attend 
such court personally, shall be a sufficient excuse for not bring- 
ing him before such court; nor shall any officer be required, in
any case, to confine any person arrested upon an attachment to 
answer for misconduct, in any prison, or otherwise to restrain
him of his personal liberty, except so far as shall be necessary 
to secure his personal attendance. 
CHAPT:Ell CL. 
OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE OOLLECTIO~ OF DDANDS AGAINST BOATS 
A.SD VESSELS. . 
SECTION 1. Every boat or vessel used in navigating the waters
of this state shall be liable :- 
1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, or
consignee thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use 
vessel; on account of work done or service ren­
dered on board of such boat or vessel; or on account of labor
done or materials furnished by mechanics, tradesmen, or others, 
in and for building, repairing, fitting out, furnishing, or equip­
ping such boat or vessel. 
2. For all sums due for wharfage or anchorage of such boat
or vessel within this state. 
3. For all demands or damages accruing from the non­
performance or mal-performance of any contract of affreight­
ment, or any contract touching the transportation of persons or
property, entered into Ly the master, owner, agent, or consignee
of the boat or vessel on which such contract is to Le performed;
and,- 
4. For all injuries done to persons or property by such boat
or vessel, 
2. Any person having a demand as aforesaid, instead
of proceeding for the recovery thereof against the master, 
owner, agent, or consignee of a boat or vessel, may, at. his
option, institute action against such boat or vessel by name. 
3. Any plaintifff wishing to institute action against
a boat or vessel, shall file his complaint against such boat or 
vessel by name with the clerk of the circuit court of the county
in which such boat or vessel shall lie or be. 
SECTION 4. The complaint shall set forth the plaintifff's
demand in all its particulars, and on whose account the same
accrued. It shall be verified by the affidavit of the plaintifff, or
some credible person or persons for him. 
SECTION 5. Whenever any complaint, as aforesaid, shall be
filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court, it shall he 
his duty to issue a warrant, returnable as a summons, directing
and authorizing the sheriff to seize the boat or vessel mentioned
in the complaint, and detain the same in his custody, together
with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, until discharged from
such custody by due course of law. 
SECTION 6. Upon the return of any warrant issued by virtue
of the next preceding section, proceedings shall be had in the 
circuit court against the boat or vessel seized, in the same manner as if action had been instituted against the person on whose
account the demand accrued. 
SECTIO~ 7. The master, owner, agent, or consignee of the
boat or vessel may appear on behalf of such boat or vessel, and 
plead to the action. 
SECTION 8. The circuit court may, by rule, prescribe the time
and manner of pleading, of exhibiting or filing papers, or tak­ 
ing any needful steps, in any action to be commenced under this
chapter, when the time and manner are not prescribed by this
law. 
SECTION 9. If the master, owner, agent, or consignee shall,
before final judgment in any action instituted by virtue of this 
chapter, give bond to the plaintifff in action, with sufficient sure­
ties, to be approved of by the court, or the judge or clerk thereof
in vacation, conditioned to satisfy the amount which shall be
adjudged to be owing and due to the plaintifff in the determina­
tion of the action, together with all costs accruing, such boat or 
vessel, with the tackle, apparel, and furniture belonging thereto,
shall be discharged from further detention by the sheriff. 
SECTION 10. If judgment shall be rendered against any boat
or vessel in favor of' the plaintifff, the court shall make an order, 
directed to the sheriff, commanding him to sell such boat or
vessel, together with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, to satisfy
the judgment, and all costs that may have accrued in the cause,
which order shall be executed and returned in the same manner 
as executions.
SECTION 11. If bond and security shall have been entered 
into according to the ninth section of this chapter, and judgment
shall have been rendered in favor of the plaintifff, execution shall 
be issued for the amount of judgment and costs, in favor of the
plaintifff, against the principal and security in such bond. 
SECTION 12. J ustices of the peace within their respective
counties shall have cognizance of all cases arising under this 
chapter, when the demand claimed shall .dot exceed the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace. 
SECTION 13. In all their proceedings justices of the peace shall
conform to the provisions of the law governing justices' courts, 
and as near as may be to the provisions of this chapter, as they
apply in the circuit court. 
SECTION 14. Each warrant issued by a justice of the peace
under this chapter, shall be returnable forthwith, and upon the 
return of such warrant, it shall be the duty of the justice of the
peace to hear and determine the complaint of the plaintifff in a 
summary manner.
SECTION 15. All warrants issued under the provisions of this 
chapter shall be served and returned as warrants of attachment
arc served and returned. 
SECTION 16. Whenever an order of sale shall be made for the
sale of a boat or vessel; with its tackle, apparel, and furniture, 
the sheriff or constable shall have power to sell such part thereof,
or such interest therein, as shall be necessary to satisfy the
amount of the judgment rendered in favor of the plaintifff, and
all the costs that may have accrued. 
SECTION 17. Upon good and sufficient cause shown by the
master, owner, agent, or consignee of any boat or vessel sued 
under this chapter, the court or justice of the peace may grant a. 
continuance of the cause, but no such continuance shall operate
as a discharge of such boat or vessel from the custody of the
sheriff or constable. 
SECTION 18. No continuance of a cause under this chapter
shall be granted to the plaintifff. 
SECTION 19. Sheriffs, constables, and other officers shall
receive the same fees and compensation for their services under
this chapter as are allowed in cases of actions of attachment. 
SECTION 20. In all cases arising under this chapter, if
judgment shall have been rendered in favor of a plaintifff, the
master, owner, agent, or consignee of the boat or vessel, or
other person interested, may appeal from the judgment, or
sue out a writ of error, as if they or either of them had been
sued. 
SECTION 21. All actions against a boat or vessel, under the 
provisions of this chapter, shall be commenced and sued within
one· year after the cause of such action shall have accrued. 
Chapter 99, Acts of a genera,/, nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. The twenty-first section of said act (chapter mu, 
hundred and fifty of the revised statutes) is hereby amended hy
adding at the end of said section the following: "Provided, that in 
all actions arising under the provisions of this act against boats
and vessels navigating the inland waters of this state exclusively,
shall be summoned within three months after the cause of action 
shall have accrued, and not after that period."
Approved May 15th, 1858. 
CHAPTER CLI. 
OF FORCIBLE ENTRY A.ND UNLAWFUL DETAP.\"ER. 
1. No person or persons shall hereafter make any
entry into lands, tenements, or other possessions, but in cases 
where entry is given by law, and in such cases not with strong
hand, nor with multitude of people, but onJy in a peaceable
manner; and if any person from henceforth do to the contrary,
and thereof be duly convicted, he shall be punished by fine. 
SECTION 2. Any justice of the peace shall have authority to
inquire as hereinafter directed, as well against those who make 
unlawful or forcible entry into lands, tenements, or other pos­
session, and detain the same, as against those who having 
lawful and peaceful entry into lands, tenements, or other posses­
sions, unlawfully detain the same; and jf it be found upon such 
inquiry, that an unlawful or forcible entry hath been made, and
that the said lands, tenements, or other possessions are unlaw­
fully held, or are detained by force and strong hand, or that the
same, after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then such justice
shall cause the party complaining to have restitution thereof. 
3. When any complaint shall be made in writing to
any justice of the peace, of any such unlawful or forcible entry, 
or unlawful detainer, said justice shall issue a summons, directed
to the sheriff or any constable of the same county, commanding
him to summon the person or persons against wbom such com­
plaint shall have been made, to appear before the said justice on 
a day in such summons named, which shall not Le less than six
nor more than ten days from the day of issuing such summons,
and at the place therein mentioned. 
4. Such summons shall be served upon the person or 
persons against whom the same is issued, by delivering a certified 
copy thereof to such person or persons, at least three days hefore
the return day thereof; and the officer serving the same shall
make a special return of the time and manner of. serving said
summons. 
5. After the return of said summons, served as 
b . b fi . d d d h . d la . ted .
erein e ore pron e , an at t e time an p ce appom m 
said summons, the said justice shall proceed to hear and determine said complaint: provided, that if either party shall call for
a trial by jury, the said justice shall issue a uenire, in the same
manner and upon the same terms as is in other cases provided
for trial by jury in justice's court, and such jury shall be sworn 
as in other cases. 
SECTION 6. If, at the time of making said complaint, it shall
be made to appear that the person or persons against whom said 
I
. . d . 1 f h b f h 
comp amt is ma e, or cit ier o t em, are a sent rom t e county,
it shall be the dnty of the justice before whom the same is made,
to issue his summons, as hereinbefore provided, and make the 
same returnable, not less than six nor more than ten days from
the time of issuing the same; and such summons may be served
by leaving a true and attested copy thereof at the last and usual
place of such person or persons' abode, not less than six days
before the return day thereof; such copy shall be left with some
member of the family, or some person residing at such place, or
suitable age and discretion, to whom the contents thereof shall
be explained by the officer leaving the same, and the said officer
shall make a special return of the time and manner of serving
said summons, and the action shall thereafter proceed the same
as though a personal service were had of such summons. 
SECTION 7. The justice may, at his discretion, adjourn any
trial under this chapter, not exceeding six days; but in all
cases mentioned in section twelve of this chapter, if the defendant, his agent or attorney, shall make oath that he cannot safely
proceed to trial for the want of some material witness, naming
him, that he has made due exertion to obtain said witness, and
believes if an adjournment be allowed he will be able to procure the attendance of said witness, or his deposition, in season
to produce the same upon such trial ; in which case if such person
or persons will give bond, with one or more sufficient sureties,
conditioned to pay the said complainant for all rent which may
accrue during the pendcmcy of such action, and all costs and
damages consequent upon such adjournment, the said justice
shall adjourn said cause for such reasonable time as may appear
necessary, not exceeding three months. 
SECTION 8. The deposition of' any witness whose testimony
may be considered necessary by either party, may be taken for 
the same reasons, in the same manner, and with the same effect,
as is provided by law for the taking of depositions to be used in
justices' courts. 
SECTION 9. If, upon the trial of any complaint under this
chapter, the justice or jury shall 'find that the defendant or 
defendants, or either of them, are guilty of the allegations in
the complaint, the said justice · shall thereupon enter judgment
for the plaintifff, to have restitution of the premises, and shall
impose such fine, not exceeding one hundred dollars, considering
all the circumstances, as he may deem jnst; and he shall tax
the costs for the complainant, and may issue execution in favor
of said plaintifff, for such costs as in other actions, ex delicto;
and the said justice shall also award and issue a writ of restitution ; bu.t if the said justice or the jury find that the person
complained of is not guilty, the complaint in their opinion not 
naving been supported, the said justice shall tax the costs against
the plaintifff and issue execution therefore. 
SECTION 10. If the jury empanneled as aforesaid cannot agree
upon a verdict, the justice before whom the trial is pending may 
discharge saidjury, if, in his opinion, they are not likely to agree
upon a verdict, and issue a uenire, returnable forthwith, or at
some other time agreed upon by the parties, for the purpose of
empanneling a new jury. 
11. The plaintifff of any forcible or unlawful entry,
or of any unlawful detainer, as aforesaid, who shall recover 
against tho person complained of, as aforesaid, shall be entitled
to recover treble damages, with costs of suit, by an action against
the offender or offenders, to be brought before any justice of the
peace, or a court of record, for the purpose : provided always,
that nothing contained in tho foregoing part of this chapter shall 
be construed to extend to any person or persons who have had
the quiet, peaceable, and uninterrupted occupation of any lauds, 
tenements, or other possessions, otherwise than by demise or
lease, for the period of three whole years next before the enter­
ing of such complaint, anything in this chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding. • 
SECTION 12. When any person shall bold over any lands,
tenements, or other possessions, after the determination of the
time for which they are demised or let to him or her, or to the
person under whom he or she holds possession, or contrary to
the conditions or covenants of the lease or agreements under
which he or she holds, or after any rent shall have become due
according to the terms of such lease or agreement, and shall
remain unpaid for the space of three days, in all such cases, if
the lessor, his heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, or attor­
ney, shall make demand in writing of such tenant, that he or
she shall deli ver possession of the premises held as aforesaid,
and if such tenant shall refuse or neglect, for the space of three
days after such demand, to quit the possession of such lands or
tenements, or to pay the rent therefore, so duo and unpaid, as
aforesaid, upon complaint thereof to any justice of the peace of
the proper county, the justice shall proceed to hear, try, and
determine the same, in the same manner as in other cases
hereinbcforo provided for: provided, that in all cases mentioned
in this section, tho justice shall impose 110 fine upon such tenant. 
SECTION 13. The preceding section shall not extend to any
person who has or shall have continued in possession three 
years after the termination of the time for which the premises
were demised or let to him or her, or those under whom he or
she claims, or to any person who continues in possession three
years quietly and peaceably, by disseizin, anything contained in
this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding. 
14. The plaintifff shall be entitled to an action
against the person complained of, and who shall be found guilty 
on the trial, and may recover treble damages from the time of
notice given to quit the premises, and until that time damages 
only. 
SECTION 15. Every person summoned as a juror, or subpee­
naed as a witness, who shall not appear, or who appearing shall 
refuse to serve or give evidence in any prosecution issued by
virtue of this chapter, shall forfeit and pay for every such 
default or refusal, unless some reasonable cause he assigned,
such fine not exceeding ten dollars, as the said justice shall
think proper to impose. 
SECTION 16. All fines imposed by virtue of any provisions of
this chapter shall be paid to the county treasurer of the county 
where the action is commenced, for the use of common schools;
and the said justice may commit the person against whom the 
fine is imposed, to the common jail of the county until such
fine be paid ; or the said justice may issue execution therefore,
as in other cases, ex delicto, 
SECTION 17. If either party shall feel aggrieved by the verdiet of the jury, or decision of the justice, he may appeal 
within ten days, as in other cases tried before justices of the
peace, excepting his bond shall he with two or more sufficient
sureties to be approved by said justice, conditioned to pay all
costs of such appeal, and abide the order the court may make
therein, and pay all rent and other damages justly accruing to
said plaintifff during the pendency of such appeal. 
SECTION 18. Upon the taking of such appeal, all further
proceedings in the case shall be thereby stayed, and the appel- 
late court shall thereafter issue all needful writs and processes
to carry out the provisions of this chapter, according to the
true in tent and meaning thereof. 
SECTION 19. If a writ of restitution shall have been issued
previous to the taking of any appeal, as provided in this chap- 
ter, the justice shall forthwith give the appellant a certificate
of the allowance of such appeal ; and upon the service of such
certificate upon the officer having such writ of restitution, the
said officer shall forthwith cease all further proceedings by
virtue of such writ: and if such writ shall not have been completely executed, the defendant shall remain in possession of
the premises until the appeal shall be determined. 
SECTION 20. In all cases of appeal under the provisions of
this chapter, the appellate court shall not dismiss or quash the 
proceedings for want of form only, provided the proceedings
have been conducted substantially according to the provisions
of this chapter. 
8ECTTO:"i 21. Amendments to the pleadings in matters of
form only, may be allowed by the court, at any time b.efore final 
judgment.upon such terms as to the court shall appear just to 
the parties. 
SECTION 22. All matters in excuse, justification, or avoidance of the allegations in tho complaint shall be pleaded spe- 
cially, or notice thereof given, with the plea of the general
issue. 
SECTION 23. The appellate court shall have power to compel
the justice, by attachment, to make or amend any return which 
shall be withheld, or insufficiently or improperly made. 
SECTION 24. The following or equivalent forms shall be used
in proceedings under this chapter, to wit :- 
Summons.
SCtatetof Wf isconsin. l ss. The state of Wisconsin,- 
oun yo . ! 
To the sheriff or any constable of the county .aforesaid :Whereas, , of , hath exhibited unto 
, a justice of the peace in and for said county aforesaid, a complaint against , of , for that
the said · , on the day of
at , [here insert the substance of the complaint with
legal certainty.] 
Therefore, you are hereby commanded to summon the said
, if to be found in the said county, to appear before 
me at on day of at of
the clock, in the noon, then and there to make answer to
and defend against the complaint aforesaid, and further to be
dealt with according to law ; and make due return to me of
this summons, with your doings thereon. 
Dated at , this day of
the year one thousand eight hundred and 
Writ of restitutum. 
State of Wisconsin. } ss. The state of Wisconsin County of . i ' 
To the sheriff or any constable of the county aforesaid:- .
Whereas, , of , at a court of inquiry 
of an unlawful or forcible entry, and unlawful detainer, held
at , in the county aforesaid, on the
day of , one thousand eight hundred and
before , a justice of the peace in and for the· county, 
aforesaid, by the consideration of the court, recovered judgment
against , of , to have res ti tu tion of
[here describe the premises as in the complaint.] 
Therefore, you are hereby commanded that, taking with you
the force of the county, if necessary, you cause the said
to be immediately removed from the aforesaid premises, and the
said to have peaceable restitution of the same: you
are also hereby commanded that of the goods and chattels of the
said , within said county, you cause to be levied, and
the same disposed of according to law, to ho paid to the said 
, the sum of , being the costs taxed
against the said , for the said , at the
court aforesaid, together with twenty-five cents for this writ;
and thereof, together with this writ, make due return within
thirty days from the date hereof, according to law. 
Dated at , the day of
thousand eight hundred and 
Verdict.
At a court of inquiry, held at , on the 
day of , one thousand eight hundred and ,
before , a justice of the peace, in and for tho 
, justice.
, in 
. 
, justice. ·
, one 
county of , complainant, against ,
respondent : the jury find that the facts alleged in the said com- 
plaint are true; that the said is guilty thereof,
and the said ought to have restitution of the
premises therein described, without delay; [ or, in case the jury
do not find the allegations of complaint proved, the jury find
that the facts alleged in the same complaint are not proved, and
that the said is not guilty thereof.] 
CHAPTER CLIL 
OF ACTIONS' BY PERSONS HOLDING CL.A.IMS ON UNITED ST.A.TES LANDS. 
SEC'MON 1. .Any person settled upon any of the public lands
belonging to the United States, may maintain actions for injuries
done to the possession thereof, and actions for forcible entry
and detainer, unlawful detainer, and forcible detainer. 
SECTIO!{ 2. On the trial of any such cause, the possession or
possessory right of the plaintifff shall be considered as extending
to the boundaries embraced by the claim of such plaintifff,
so as to enable him to have and maintain either of the aforesaid
actions, without being compelled to prove an actual enclosure: 
provided, that such claim shall not exceed, in any case, one
hundred and sixty acres ; and the same may be located in dif- 
ferent parcels, to suit the convenience of the holder. 
SECTION 3. Every such claim, to entitle the holder to
maintain either or the aforesaid actions, shall be marked out so
that the boundaries thereof may be readily traced, and tho
extent of such claim easily known; and no person shall be entitled to maintain either of said actions, for possession of or injury
done to any claim, unless he occupy the same, or shall have made
improvements thereon to the value of fifty dollars . 
. 8ECTION 4. A neglect to occupy or cultivate such claim for
the period of six months, shall be considered such an abandon- 
ment as to preclude. the claimant from maintaining either of the
af oresaid actions. 
CHAPTER CLIII. 
OF THE LIEN OF HECH .. un:cs .A.ND OTHERS. 
• SECTION 1. Every dwelling house and other building hereaftor constructed, erected, or repaired ; all machinery hereafter 
constructed, put up, or repaired, in such manner as to become
a fixture, within the state of Wisconsin; together with the right,
title, and interest of the person or persons owning such dwelling
house, building, or machinery, in and to the land upon which 
, foreman.
, justice. 
situated, not exceeding forty acres; or, if
within the limits of any incorporated city or village plot, the lot 
on which such dwelling houses, buildings, or machinery shall be
situated, not exceeding in extent one acre,-shall be subject to
the payment of the debts contracted for, or by reason of, any
work done, or materials found and provided, by any brick layer,
stone cutter, mason, lime merchant, carpenter, painter and gla­
zier, ironmonger, plasterer, lumber merchant, machinist, or any
other person employed in erecting or furnishing materials in the
erection, construction, or repairing of such dwelling house,
building, or machinery, before any other lien which originated
subsequent to the commencement of such house, building, or
repairs. 
SECTION 2: If such dwelling house or other building, or any
portion thereof, shall have been constructed, erected, or repaired,
or such machinery shall have been constructed, put up, or
repaired, under contract or contracts entered into by the owner
thereof, or his or her agent, with any person or persons, no per­
son who may have done work for such contractor or contractors,
or furnished materials for him or them, .on his or their order or
authority, shall have qr possess any lien on said house or other
building, or machinery, for work done or materials furnished;
unless the person or persons so employed by such contractor to
do work or furnish materials for such building or machinery,
shall, within thirty days after having performed work or fur­
nished materials, as aforesaid, give notice in writing to the owner
or owners of such building, or to his or their agents, that he or
they are so employed to work or to furnish materials, or ham
done work or furnished materials, and that they claim the ben­
efit of the lien granted by this chapter. 
SECTION 3. No claim of any sub-contractor shall be a lien,
under this chapter, except so far as the owner may be indebted
to the contractor at the time of giving such notice, as aforesaid,
of such claim, or may become indebted afterward to him as
such contractor. 
SECTION 4. No such debt for work and materials shall remain
a lien upon such lands, houses, or other buildings or machinery,
longer than one year from the time of furnishing of materials
or the performance of the labor, unless a petition or claim for
the same be filed, and an action for the recovery thereof be
instituted, within the said year. 
SECTION 5. The claim or petition shall contain a brief state­
ment of the contract or demand on which it is founded, and of 
the amount due thereon, with a description of the premises, and
all other material facts in relation thereto, and may be filed in
the county or circuit court of the proper county, either in term
time or in vacation, either at or before the commencement of
action ; and no transfer of the premises or property by the.
owner, agent, or occupant shall in any way bar any claimants
from availing themselves of the provisions of this chapter. 
SECTION 6. Each and every person having received satisfac­
tion for his or their debt, for which a claim is, or has been, or 
shall be filed, or action brought, shall, at the request of any
person interested in the building on which the same was a lien, 
or in having the same lien removed, or of his or their legal representatives, on payment of the costs of the claim or action, and
on tender of the costs of office for entering satisfaction, within 
six <lays after such request made, enter satisfaction of the claim
in the office where such claim was or shall be filed or such action
brought, which shall forever thereafter discharge, defeat, and 
release the same. 
SECTION 7. If such person, having received satisfaction as
aforesaid, by himself or his attorney, shall not, within six days 
after request and payment of the costs of the claim or action,
and tender as aforesaid, by himself, or bis attorney, duly authorized, cuter satisfaction as aforesaid, he, she, or they neglecting
so to do shall forfeit and pay unto the party or parties aggrieved 
any sum of money, not exceeding one-half of the debt for which
the claim is filed or action brought, as aforesaid, to be sued for
and recovered by the person or persons damnifi.ed, in like manner as other debts arc now or may hereafter be recovered, by
existing laws for the recovery of debts. 
SECTION 8. In all cases. of lien created by this chapter, the 
person havinrr a claim filed in accordance with its provisions 
o • ' • • ' 
imy proceed to recover 1t by personal action against the debtor,
his executors or administrators; or when the plaintifff is a sub- 
contractor, the owner of the building may be made a party to
such action ; and the court may render judgment therein, which 
shall be a lien upon such building and premises. 
HECTlON 9. When judgment is rendered in favor of the
plaintifff iu such action, execution may issue and be levied upon 
the premises subject to such lien, and sale thereof be made in 
tl ib d b I ' di 
10 manner prescri e y aw in or mary cases. 
SECTIO~ 10. If any part of the premises can be separated
from the residue and sold without damage to the whole, and if
the value thereof shall be sufficient to satisfy the judgment which
may be rendered and costs of snit and expenses of sale, the
court may order a sale of that part, if it shall appear to be most
f Jr the interest of the parties concerned. 
SECTION 11. The officer who makes the sale shall give notice
of the time and place appointed therefore, in the manner pre- 
scribed i11 relation to the sale of real estate on executions, unless
the court shall order other and different notice to be given; and 
such officer shall give to the purchaser a deed of conveyance of
the premises sold, which shall be valid and effectual to pass all
the right, title, and interest of the defendant in and to said premises absolutely, whether the same be held in foe simple, for life,
or for years. 
SECTIOX 12. Any person or persons performing manual labor
upon any land, timber, or lumber, for or on account of tho owner, 
· 1 f il h l f l f '
agent, or assignee t iereo , may avai t emse ves o t 10 oregomg 
urovisious of this chapter and upon complying with the require- 
r ~ ' . . t"1 
mcnts thereof, shall have a like hen thereon for the amount of
work and labor done and performed, and the said lien may he
carried into force u.nd effect pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this chapter. 
SECTION 13. In all cases under the foregoing provisions of
this chapter, whenever judgment shall be rendered in favor of
plaintifff, such judgment shall be for damages and costs of
suit. 
OF CERTAIN LIENS OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
SECTION 14. .Any mechanic or artisan who shall make, alter,
or repair any article of personal property at the request of tho
owner or legal possessor of such property, such mechanic or
artisan shall have a lien on such property so made, altered! or
repaired, for his just and reasonable charges for his work done
and materials furnished, and may hold and retain the possession
of the same until such just and reasonable charges shall be paid ;
and if not paid for the space of six months after the work shall
have been done, such mechanic or artisan may proceed to sell
the property by him so made, altered, or repaired, at public auc­
tion, by giving three weeks' public notice of such sale, by adver­
tisement in some newspaper published in the county in which
the work may be done, or if there be no such newspaper, then
by posting up of notices of such sale in three of the most public
places in the town where such work was done; and the proceeds
of said sale shall be applied first to the discharge of such lien
and the costs and expenses of keeping and selling such property,
and the remainder, if any, shall be paid over to the owner thereof. 
Chapter 59, .Acts of a general nature of 1858. 
SECTION 1. Chapter one hundred and twenty (one hundred
and fifty-three) of the revised sta.tutes, entitled "Of the lien of
mechanics and others," is hereby so amended that the lien therein
created shall be available in favor of any person or persons who
shall furnish, at the request of the owner thereof, materials, or
do any work, in filling up any water lot, or in erecting or con­
structing any wharf or other permanent fixture thereon, or in
dredging out the channel in front of such lots, under contract
with the owner thereof, and all such persons shall be entitled to
enforce the lien herein allowed in the manner prescribed in and
by said act. 
Approved April 24th, 1858. 
CHAPTER CLIV. 
OF THE FORECLOSURE OF :MORTGAGES BY ADVERTISEHE~TT. 
1. Every mortgage of real estate, containing a
power of sale, upon default being mad~ in any c~mdition of such 
mortgage, may be foreclosed by advertisement, lll the cases and
in the manner hereinafter specified. 
2. To entitle any party to give a notice as hereinafter
prescribed, and to make such foreclosure, it shall be requisite,- 
1. That some default in a condition of such mortgage shall
have occurred, by which the power to sell became operative. 
2. That no action or proceeding shall have been instituted at
law to recover the debt then remaining secured by such mort- 
gage, or any part thereof; or if any action or proceeding has
been instituted, that the same has been discontinued, or that an
execution upon the judgment rendered therein has been returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in part ; and- 
3. That the mortgage containing such power of sale has been
duly recorded ; and if it shall have been assigned, that all the
assignments thereof shall have been recorded. 
Sscrrox 3. In cases of mortgages given to secure the payment o~ money by installments, each of the installments men- 
tioned in such mortgage, after the first, shall be taken and
deemed to be a separate and independent mortgage; and such
mortgage for each of such installments may be foreclosed in the
same manner and with like effect as if such separate mortgage
were given for each of such subsequent installments; and a
redemption of any such sale by the mortgagor shall have the like
effect as if tho sale for such installments had been made upon
an independent prior mortgage. 
SECTIO:i 4. Notice that such mortgage will be foreclosed by
a sale of tho mortgaged premises, or some part of them, shall be 
given by publishing the same for six successive weeks, at least
• once in each week, in a newspaper printed in the county where 
the premises intended to be sold, or som~ part of them, are
situated, if there be one; andif no public newspaper is printed
in said county, such notice shall be required to be published in
a newspaper printed in an adjoining county, if a newspaper be
printed therein; and if no newspaper be printed in such adjoin­
ing county, then such notice shall be published in a paper pub­
lished at the seat of government. 
SECTJO~ 5. Every such notice shall specify :1. The names of the mortgagor and of the mortgagee, and the 
assignee of the mortgage, if any.
2. The date of the mortgage, and when recorded.
3. Tho amount claimed to be due thereon at the date of the 
notice.
4. A description or the mortgaged premises, conforming sub­ 
stantially with that contained in the mortgage; and5. The time and place of sale. · 
SECTJO~ 6. The sale shall be at public vendue, between the
hour of nine o'clock in the forenoon and the setting of the sun,
in the county in which the premises to be sold, or some part of 
them, are situated, and shall be made by the person appointed
for that purpose in the mortgage, or by the sheriff, under sheriff,
or a deputy sheriff of the county, to the highest bidder. 
SECTIO:i 7. Such sale may be postponed from time to time,
by inserting a notice of such postponement, as soon as practicable, in tho newspaper in which the original advertisement was 
published, and continuing such publication until the time to
which the sale shall be postponed, at the expense of the party
requesting such postponement. . 
8ECTION 8. If the mortgaged premises consist of distinct
farms, tracts, or lots, they shall be sold separately ; and no more
farms, tracts, or lots shall be sold than shall be necessary to satisfy the amount due on such mortgage, at the date of the notice
of sale, with interest, and the costs and expenses allowed by law. 
SECTION 9. The mortgagee, his assigns, or his or their legal
representatives, may fairly and in good faith purchase the prem­ 
ises so advertised, or any part thereof, at such sale.
10. Whenever anv lands and tenements shall ho 
sold by virtue of a power of sale contained in any mortgage, it 
1 11 b l d f I ffi 1 · 
ia e t 10 uty o t io o cer or ot ier person making the sale,
to give to the purchaser or purchasers a certificate in writing, 
under seal, setting forth a description of each tract or parcel of
the premises sold, the sum paid therefore, and the time when the
purchaser or purchasers will be entitled to a deed for the
same, unless they shall be redeemed, as provided in this
chapter : and such officer shall, within ten days from the time.
of sale, file in the office where the mortgage is recorded a dupli­
cate of such certificate, signed by him; and such duplicate cer­
tificate, or a copy certified by the register, shall be taken and
deemed evidence of the facts therein contained. 
SECTIO~ 11. It shall be lawful for the mortgagor, his heirs,
executors, administrators, or assigns, whose lands shall be sold 
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, within two
years from and after such sale, to redeem such lands or tene­
ments, or any distinct parcel or tract thereof separately sold,·
by paying to the purchaser or purchasers, his or their executors,
administrators, or assigns, or to the proper sheriff, under sheriff,
or deputy sheriff, the sum of money which was bid therefore,
together with interest on such purchase money, at the rate of
ten per centum per annum from the time of such sale ; and such
payment being made as aforesaid, the said sale and the certificate
granted thereon as aforesaid shall 1Je null and mid, anything in
this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding ; and the bail of
the said sheriff shall be responsible for the faithful payment to
the purchaser aforesaid of all monies received by him, or any
of his deputies aforesaid: provided, that in every case the mort- 
enuor may retain full possession in trust for the mortgagee or 
e M , ,.., 
purchaser, of all premises mortgaged Ly him, until the title shall
absolutely vest in the purchaser of such mortgaged premises, 
according to the provisions of this chapter.
12. If such mortgaged premises, rn sold as aforesaid, 
shall not be redeemed as aforesaid, it shall be the duty of tho 
ffi l . • fl" I l ) 11 1 
o ccr, or us successor m o ice, or ot ier perrnn w 10 s ia rave 
sold the same, or his executor or administrator, or some person
appointed by the circuit court fer the purpose, to complete such
sale, by executing a deed of the premises so sold to the original
purchaser, or to the creditor who may have acquired the title of
such original purchaser, or to the creditor who may have pur­
chased such title from any other purchaser, or to the assignee,
as the case may be, of the certificate of sale. 
SECTION 13. If after sale of any real estate, made as herein
prescribed there shall remain in the hands of the officer or 
• ' • . 
other person making the sale, any surplus money, after satisfying the mortgage on which such real estate was sold, and pay­
men t of the costs and expenses of such foreclosure and sale, the 
surplus shall be paid over Ly such officer or other person on
demand, to the mortgagor, his legal representatives or assigns. 
14. Any party desiring to perpetuate the evidence 
of any sale, made in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter,
may procure:- 
1. An affidavit of the publication of the notice of sale, and of
any notice of postponement, to be made by the printer of the 
newspaper in which the same was inserted, or by some person in
his employ knowing the facts ; and- 
2. An affidavit of the fact of any sale pursuant to such notice,
to be made by the person who acted as auctioneer at the sale,
stating the time and place at which the same took place, the sum
bid, and the name of the purchaser. 
SECTION 15. The affidavits specified in the last preceding section, may be taken and certified by any officer authorized by law
to administer oaths. 
SECTION 16. Such affidavit shall be recorded at length by the
register of deeds of the county in which the premises are situated, 
in a book kept for the record of mortgages ; and such original
affidavits, the record thereof, and certified copies of such record,
shall be presumptive evidence of the facts therein contained. 
SECTION 17. A note referring to the page and book where the
evidence of any sale having been made under a mortgage, is
recorded, shall be made by the register recording such evidence,
in the margin of the record of such mortgage, if such record be
in his office. 
SECTION 18. A record of the affidavits aforesaid, and of the
deed executed on the sale of the premises, shall be sufficient to 
pass the title thereto; and the said conveyance shall be an entire
bar of all claim or equity of redemption of the mortgagor, his 
heirs and representatives, and all persons claiming under him or
them, by virtue of any title subsequent to such mortgage ; but
no title accruing prior to the execution of such mortgage, shall
be affected thereby. 
SECTION 19. Any person to whom a subsequent mortgage
may have ~eon executed, shall be enti~led to the same privilege 
of redemption of the mortgaged premises, that the mortgagor
might have had, or of satisfying the prior mortgage, and shall
by such satisfaction acquire all the benefits to which such prior
mortgagee was or might have been entitled. 
SECTION 20. When the mortgaged premises, or any part · of
them, shall have been purchased at such sale by the mortgagee, 
his legal representatives, or his or their assigns, as hereinbefore
provided, the affidavits of the publication and affixing notice of 
sale, and of tho circumstances of such sale, shall be evidence of
the sale, and of the foreclosure of the equity of redemption, as
herein specified, without any conveyance being executed, in the
same manner, and with the like effect, as a conveyance executed
by a mortgagee upon such sale to a third person. 
SECTION 21. When notice of any sale by virtue of a mortgage,
shall be published in "Other than the county in which the premi- 
sos are situated, a copy of such notice shall be served at least-cremases
four weeks before the time of such sale, on the person in posses- 
sion of the mortgaged premises, in all cases where the same are
occupied ; and where they are not occupied, and the mortgagor,
his heirs or personal representatives, shall reside in the county
where such premises lie, then upon such mortgagor, his heirs or 
57 
personal representatives, as the case may be. Proof of the service
of such notice may be made, certified, and recorded in the samo 
manner, and with the like effect, as proof of the publication of a
notice of sale under a mortgage. 
OF THE COLLECTION OF PEN.A.LT!~, FORFEITURES, A~'1> FINES. 
1. In all eases not otherwise specially provided for
by law, where a penalty or forfeiture shall be incurred by any 
person, and the act or omission, for which the same is imposed,
shall not also be a misdemeanor, such penalty or forfeiture may
be sued for and recovered in a civil action. 
2. Every such action, unless otherwise directed, shall
be brought in the name of the state of Wisconsin, and shall he
conducted and prosecuted in the same manner as personal 
actions, and shall be subject to all the provisions of law concern­
ing personal actions, not repugnant to the provisions of this 
chapter. 
'\ 
CHAPTER CLV. 
SECTION 3. In actions to recover any penalty or forfeiture
imposed by any statute, it shall be sufficient, without setting
forth the special matter, to allege in the complaint, that the
defendant is indebted to the plaintifff in the amount of such pen­
alty or forfeiture, according to the provisions of the statute by
which such penalty or forfeiture is imposed, specifying the sec­
tion and chapter, as the case may require, or in some other
similar terms referring to such statute. The complaint shall
contain. a demand for judgment for the amount of such penalty
or forfeiture. 
SECTION 4. In an action brought to recover any goods or
other things, forfeited by the provisions of any statute, the com­ 
plaint may allege that such goods or other things were forfeited
according to the provisions of such statute, referring to the same, 
as prescribed in the last section, and the complaint shall contain
a demand of judgment for the delivery of the property, or of the
value thereof. 
5. In actions for the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture, all tho pleadings subsequent to the plaintifff's complaint 
shall be subject to the same rules as are provided hy law for
other personal actions. 
6. When a penalty or forfeiture is imposed by law
for any act or omission, not exceeding any specified sum, an 
action may be brought for the highest sum so specified ; and the
jury or justice before whom the trial shall· be had, shall award
the sum so specified to the plaintifff, or such part thereof, within
the limitation prescribed by law, as shall be deemed proportionate
to the offense. 
SECTION 7. In all cases where the forfeiture or penalty shall
be one hundred dollars or more, such penalty or forfeiture may 
be recovered by indictment in the proper court of the county. 
SECTION 8. When any act or omission is punishable according
to law, by a fine; penalty, or forfeiture, and i91prisonment, or 
by a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, or-imprisonment, in the discre. f h t h t . . 1 11 b d d . d 
t1011 o t e cour , sue ac or onnssion s ra e ecme a mis emeunor for the purposes contemplated in this chapter. 
8ECTION 9. It shall be the duty of the chairman of town
supervisors, unless otherwise specially provided, whenever he 
't.. b
1. 
h l
shall know, or nave reason to e ieve, t at any pena ty or for-, 
feiture has been incurred within his town which shall be recoverable by action before a justice of the peace, according to the
foregoing provisions of this chapter, forthwith to commence and
prosecute an action in the name of this state, for the recovery
thereof. 
HECTJON 10. It shall be the duty of evory other town officer
who shall know, or have good reason to believe, that any penalty 
or forfeiture has been incurred within his town, forthwith to give
notice thereof to such supervisor. 
SECTION 11. Whenever any such supervisor shall know, or
have good reason to believe, that any penalty or forfeiture has 
b
· d · I · l · l · l 1. d b "- 
~C ll incurre wit 1111 us town, w uc 1 cannot oo recovere etore
a justice of the peace, it shall be his duty forthwith to give
notice thereof to the district attorney of his county. 
SECTIOS 12. In the cases mentioned in the preceding section,
and in all other cases where the district attorney shall know, or 
have good reason to believe, that a penalty or forfeiture has been
incurred within his county, it shall be tho duty of such attorney, without delay, to prosecute for such penalty or forfeiture;
and in all cases where any action shall be instituted by such
supervisor as provided in this chapter, it shall be. the duty or
such attorney, if requested by such supervisor, to attend to and
conduct such action in behalf of the plaintifff 
SECTION 13. All sums of money collected on account of any 
pe
nalty or forfeiture, by any sheriff or other officer, except jus. f I d . f 
tlCCS o t 10 peace an town treasurers, m pursuance o the
foregoing provisions of this chapter, shall be paid by ~uch officer
or person collecting the same, to the treasurer of the county
within which such penalty or forfeiture was incurred, within
twenty days after the collection or receipt thereof, to be by him
paid into the state treasury as provided by law, to tho credit of 
tho school fund. 
SECTIO~ 14. If any sheriff or other officer mentioned in the
last preceding section, shall neglect to pay over any monies 
collected or received by him on account of any penalty or forfeiturc, within the time therein limited, the county treasurer
shall proceed to collect the same by an action in his name or
office, together with twelve per cent. interest thereon. 
8ECTION 15. It shall be tho duty of the town treasurer of
each town in this state, on the first Monday in the months of 
July, October, January, and .April in each year, to visit each
justice of the peace in his town, and to demand and receive of
and from said justice of the peace, any and all monies which
may and shall have been received by such justice of the peace,
on account of any fines, forfeitures, or penalties adjudged and
collected by him against and from any individual or persons, on 
account of any complaint or prosecution on the part of this
state. 
SECTION 16. The town treasurer shall be authorized to de­
mand of any justice of the peace of his town, at any time he
shall see fit, an examination of his docket, and of all en tries
made therein relative to any complaint, action, or prosecution
had by the state against any pen;on, and also of all writs, process, and papers of every kind, issued in such cases; and it shall
be the duty of such justice of the peace, on such demand being
made, immediately to present such treasurer for his examina­
tion, his docket kept by him, and all process, writs, and papers
on file in his office, pertaining to any action on the part of the
state. 
SECTION 11. Upon the refusal or neglect of any justice of
the peace to pay o,,.cr immediately and promptly to the town 
treasurer of his town, on the demand of such treasurer, any
and all monies which shall have been paid to or collected by
him, for fines, penalties, or forfeitures as aforesaid, the town
treasurer is authorized, and it shall be his duty, immediately to
prosecute in his own name as such treasurer, the said justice
of the peace and his sureties, on the instrument in writing or
bond given by such justice of the peace, pursuant to law. And
such action may be commenced before any justice of the
peace of the county, if the amount claimed as unpaid does not
exceed the sum of one hundred dollars; and all judgments
obtained shall be binding on the sureties of such justice, when
they have been made parties to the action. 
SECTION 18. It shall be the duty of each town treasurer,
within fifteen days from the first Monday in each of the mouths 
mentioned in the fifteenth section of this chapter, to pay over
and account for all monies collected by him by virtue of this 
chapter, to the county treasurer of his county; and also, at the
time of such accounting and payment, to make out and transmit
to such county treasurer, and to the clerk of the board of super­
visors of his county, a written statement, verified by affidavit,
of each and all sums received and collected by him, setting forth
therein the name of the justice from whom he received the
same, the date of such receipt and collection, the cause of com­
plaint on which such sum was adjudged, and the name of the
defendant, together with the date and time of such complaint
and judgment. 
SECTION 19. In case any town treasurer shall neglect or
refuse to pay over and account for, within the time hereinbefore 
mentioned, any and all sums of money received by him by virtue
of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the county treasurer of the 
t . di I . tl ffi . l b d f
coun y, imme iate y to commence action on ie o cm on o 
such town treasurer, against him and his sureties, and to prose­
cute the same in any court having jurisdiction of the amount
claimed as delinquent, and the said town treasurer and his sure­
ties shall be liable to any judgment that may be obtained for
monies received by such town treasurer, and not paid over
according to the provisions of this chapter. 
SECTION 20. In case any justice of the peace shall hereafter
of his own will release any person complained of or accused 
· before him, unless by order of the district attorney ; or shall,
a.ftor trial and conviction, impose a less fine than is prescribed 
-by law; or after fine imposed, shall remit, release, or forgive any
part of said fine,-he shall be liable to pay the full amount of the
lowest fine imposed by law, or the full amount of the fine actually
imposed by him, as the case may be; and if he shall give any
time or delay to any person upon whom he has imposed any fine,
or shall take any bond or security for the future payment of any
Buch fine, he shall be held personally liable for the prompt paymcnt of the said fine, according to the provisions of this chapter,
and shall not be entitled to any delay or extension of time from
such town treasurer in his accounting for and paying over such
fine as hereiubefore provided. 
SECTION' 21. For the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this chapter, the governor shall appoint so many agents as he 
m iy deem necessaryvwho shall hold their offices for the term of
two. yoars respecti voly, unless sooner removed by the governor; 
and he shall prescribe, aud from time to time fix, the limits of the
districts within which such agents shall respectively act. 
SECTION 22. It shall be the duty of each such agent so often
as he may have reason to believe it necessary, to call for, demand, 
and receive, and when necessary, to sue for and collect, all
monies heretofore paid to or received by any county or town
officer or other person on account of any fine, penalty, or forfeiture, the proceeds of which belong to the school fund or state
treasury, and which have not been paid over by such .officer or
person as required by law, and all monies which shall be hereafter paid to or received by any such officer or person, and which
shall not be paid over within the time required by law. The
production by such agent of his appointment, or of a copy there- 
of, certified by the secretary of state, under the seal of the state,
shall be prima f ucie evidence of his authority to make such 
demand. 
SECTION 23. Any officer or person who has heretofore received
any monies specified in section twenty-two of this chapter, and 
who has failed or shall fail, as the case may be, to pay over the
same as required by law, and who shall fail to pay over the same
to any such agent, lawfully demanding the same, shall be deemed
to be guilty of an embezzlement thereof within the meaning of
this chapter, and it shall be the duty of such agent forthwith to
ea.ase prosecution therefore to be commenced against such delinquent officer or person. All actions and proceedings under this
chapter shall be conducted according to existing laws in respect 
to similar actions and prosecutions. 
. SECTION 24. Such agent, before receiving his appointment,
shall execute to the state treasurer a bond, in such amount and 
form, and with such sureties, as the governor may prescribe and
approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of his duties
under this chapter, and for the payment of all monies collected
by him into the state treasury. He shall be entitled to retain, in 
full for his services and all other expenses, thirty per cent. out
of the monies collected by him, and shall pay the balance into
the state treasury, on the first day of January, A.prll, July, and 
{)ctoher, in each year, and shall at the same time file with the treas- 
urer a detailed statement, verified by affidavit, showing all the
sums so collected by him, the officer or person from whom
received, the time of receiving the same, and the person from
whom the fine, penalty, or forfeiture was recovered. 
SECTION 25. Every such agent shall have full power and 
:~- authority to inspect and examine all records or papers of any
court or officer concerning the proceedings in any action instituted for the recovery of any fine, penalty, or forfeiture, or show­
ing the disposition which has been made of any monies received 
therefore. 
OF PROCEEDINGS TO COMPEL THE DELIVERY OF BOOKS AND p APEB8 
BY PUBLIC OFFICERS TO THEIR SUCCE$0RS. 
SECTION 1. Whenever any person shall be removed from
office, or the term for which he shall have been elected or 
,uo- appointed shall expire, he shall, on demand. deliver over to his
successor all the books and papers in his custody as such officer, 
or in any way appertaining to his office, and every person violating this provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SECTION 2. If any person shall ref use or neglect to deliver
over to his successor any books or papers, as required in the 
preceding section, such successor may make complaint thereof to 
any judge of a court of record for the circuit or county where the
person so ref using shall reside. . 
SECTION 3. If such judge be satisfied by the oath of the complainant and such other testimony as may be offered, that any
such books or papers are withheld, he shall grant an order direct­
ing the person so ref using to show cause before him, within some
short and reasonable time, why he should not be compelled to 
deliver the same. 
CHAPTER CLVL 
SECTION 4. At the time so appointed, or at any other time to
which the matter may be adjourned, upon due proof being made 
of the service of such order, such judge shall proceed to inquire
into the matters set forth in the complaint. 
SECTION 5. If the person charged with withholding such
books and papers shall make affidavit before such judge that he 
has truly delivered over to his successor all such books and
papers in his custody, or appertaining to bis office, within his 
knowledge, all further proceedings before such judge shall cease,
and the person complained against shall be discharged. 
SECTION 6. If the person complained against shall not make
such affidavit, and it shall appear that any such books or papers 
are withheld, the judge before whom such proceedings shall be 
had, shall, by warrant, commit the person so withholding, to the
jail of the county, there to remain until he shall deliver such
books and papers, or be otherwise discharged according to law. 
SECTION 1. In the case stated in the last section, if required 
by the complainant, such judge shall also issue his warrant, 
directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, commandiug them in the day time to search such places as shall be designated in such warrant, for such books aud papers as belonged to
the officer so removed, or whose term of office expired, in his
official capacity, and which appertained to such office, and seize
and bring them before the judge issuing such warrant. 
SECTION 8. Upon any books or papers being brought before
such judge, by virtue of such warrant, he shall inquire and 
examine whether the same appertain to the office from which
the officer so refusing was removed, or o( which the term
expired, and if the same pertain to such office he shall cause
them to be delivered to the complainant. 
SECTION 9. If any person appointed or elected to any office,
shall die, or his office shall in any way become vacant, and any
ho k b l 
. . . l ffi I ll
o s or papers e ongmg or appertammg to sue 1 Q ce, s ia 
come to the hands of any person, the successor in any such office
may, in like manner as hereinbefore prescribed, demand such
books and papers from the person having the same in bis possession ; and if withheld, an order may be obtained, and the person
charged may, in like manner, make affidavit of the delivery of
all such hooks and papers that ever came to his possession ; and
in case of omission to make such affidavit and to deliver up tho
books and papers so demanded, such person may be committed
to jail, and a search warrant may be issued and the property
seized may be delivered to the complainant, as hereinbefore
prescribed. 
OF ACTIONS AGAINST THE STATE. 
SECTION 1. That hereafter it shall be competent for any person or persons deeming him, her, or themselves, or any body 
politic deeming itself, aggrieved by the refusal of the legislature 
to allow any just claim against the state, to exhibit and file a.
complaint, setting forth fully and particularly the nature of such
claim, with the clerk of the supreme court, either in term time 
or vacation. 
CHAPTER CLVII. 
SECTION 2. At the time of filing such complaint the plaintifff
shall also file a bond, running to the state treasurer, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the state treasurer, in
the penal sum of five hundred dollars, conditioned to indemnify
the state against all costs that may accrue in said cause, and to
forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the clerk of said court,
alt costs, in case he (plaintifff) shall fail to prosecute his action,
or to obtain a judgment against the state ; and the cause shall
then be placed upon the calendar. , 
SECTION 3. The said plaintifff, within ten days after having
filed said Complaint and said bond, shall serve a true copy of tho 
complaint upon the attorney general of the state, together with
a notice to answer or demur thereto, within a period of time not 
than thirty days from the time of such service; and the
attorney general shall, thereupon, be required to answer or
demur with.in the time expressed in such notice. 
4. The supreme court shall, in its order; proceed to
h d d t • . id tl 1 d . I t f 
ear an e CI mme sai cause, as ie aw an very rig 1 s o
the case may require ; and in the progress of said cause, if an 
iss~e of fact ~hall be made up, and the supreme court ~hall he
satisfied that 1t shall be necessary to have tho same tried ancl 
determined by a jury, they shall certify the same to any one of
the circuit courts, in any county in the state, and the said 
circuit court shall proceed, at its next regular term, to try, by 
jury, as in other causes, the said question of fact, subject to. the
laws, Tules, and regulations of said court; and the verdict
rendered by the ju.ry shall be sealed up and returned immedi­
ately to the clerk of the supreme court ; and thereupon tho
supreme court shall, in their discretion, enter judgment thereon,
or certify (for cause shown) the same question or questions of
fact back to the same or any other circuit court, to be tried,
who shall try, certify, and return the same, in manner as herein­
before provided ; and the Judgment rendered in the supreme
court shall be conclusive and final ; and the supreme court may
grant a new trial of any issue of fact, as often as they shall be
satisfied there is good cause therefore. 
5. No judgment rendered as aforesaid, against the
state, shall be paid without an appropriation, properly made, by
the legislature ; and no execution shall ever be issued. agaiust the
state upon such judgment. 
CHAPTER CLVIII. 
OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS. 
1. Every person imprisoned or otherwise restrained
of his liberty, except in the cases in the following section 
specified, may prosecute a writ of habeas corpus, accord­
ing to the provisions . of this chapter, to obtain relief from
such imprisonment or restraint, if it shall prove to be unlawful. 
2. The following persons shall not be entitled to
prosecute such writ: .persons committed or detained by virtue 
of .the final judgment or order of any competent tribunal of civil
or criminal jurisprudence, or by virtue of any execution issued
upon such order or judgment; but no order of commitmeut for
any alleged contempt, or upon proceedings as for contempt, to
enforce the rights or remedies of any party, shall be deemed a
judgment or order within the meaning of this section ; nor
shall any attachment or other process issued upon any such
order be deemed an execution within the meaning of this sec­
tion. 
3. ..t\pplication for such writ shall be made by peti­
tion, signed either by the party for whose relief it is intended, 
or by some person in his behalf, as follows : to any judge of the 
supreme, circuit, or county courts, or any court commissioner,
being within the county where the prisoner is detained ; or if
there be no such officer within such county, or if he be absent,
or for any cause be incapable of acting, or have refused to grant
such writ, then to some officer having· such authority residing
in an adjoining county. 
SECTION 4. Whenever application for any such writ shall be
made to any officer not residing within the county where the
prisoner shall be detained, he shall require proof, by the oath of 
the party appearing, or by other sufficient evidence, that there is
no officer in such county authorized to grant the writ, or if there
be one, that he is absent, or has refused to grant such writ, or
for some cause, to be specially set forth, is incapable of acting;
and if such proof be not produced, the ·application shall be 
denied. 
SEt'TION 5. The petition must state in substance :....... 
1. That the person in whose behalf the writ is applied for, is
imprisoned or restrained in his liberty ; the officer or person by
whom he is so confined or restrained, and the place where, naming both parties, if their names are known, or describing them,
if they arc not. 
2. That such person is not committed or detained by virtue 
of any process, judgment, order, or execution, specified in the
second section of this chapter. 
3. Tho cause or pretense of such confinement or restraint,
according to the best of the knowledge and belief of the party. 
4. If the confinement or restraint is by virtue of any warrant,
order, or process, a copy thereof must be annexed; or it must
be averred that, by reason of such prisoner's being removed or
concealed before the application, a demand of such copy could
not be made, or that such demand was made, and the legal
fees therefore tendered to the officer or person having such pris­
oner in his custody, and that such copy was refused. 
5. If the imprisonment be alleged to be illegal, the petition
must also state in what the alleged illegality consists. 
6. It must be verified by the oath of the party making the
application. 
SECTION 6. Any officer empowered to grant any writ applied
for under this chapter, to whom such petition shall be presented,
shall grant such writ without delay, unless it shall appear from
tho petition itself, or from the documents annexed, that the
party applying, therefore is, by the provisions of this chapter, prohibited from prosecuting such writ. . · 
SECTIO~ 7. Every writ of habeas corpus issued under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be substantially in the following
form:- 
" In the name of the state of Wisconsin,-to the sheriff, &e., 
[or to A. B. :]
"You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D., by 
you imprisoned and detained, as it is said, together with the time
and cause of such imprisonment and detention, by wbatsoever
name the said C. D. shall be called or charged, before E. F.,
judge of the circuit court [ or county court, or court commis­
sioner as the case may be,] at, &c., on, &c., [or immediately 
receipt of this writ,] to do and receive what shall then
and there be considered concerning the said C. D. .And have
you then and there this writ. 
" Witness, &c. "
SECTION 8. Such writ of habeas corpus shall not be diso- 
beyed for any defect of form. It shall be sufficient,- 
1: If the person having the custody of the prisoner be designated either by his name of office, if he have any, or by his own
name, or if both such names bo unknown or uncertain, he may be
described by an assumed appellation ; and any one who may be 
served with the writ shall be deemed the person to whom it is
directed, although it may be directed to him by a wrong name 
or description, or to any other person.
2. If the person who is directed to be produced be designated 
by name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he may
be described in any other way so as to designate the person
intended. 
9. If any officer, authorized by the provisions of this
chapter to grant writs of habeas corpus, shall willfully refuse to 
grant such writ, when legally applied for, he shall forfeit, for
every such offense, to the party aggrieved, one thousand dollars. 
SECTION 10. The person upon whom any such writ shall have
been duly served, shall state in his return, plainly and uuequiv- 
· 
ocally :1. Whether he have or have not the party in his custody, or 
under his power or restraint.
2. If he have the party in his custody or power, or under his 
restraint, the authority and true cause of such imprisonment or
restraint, setting forth the same at large. 
3. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant, or
other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the
return, and the original shall be produced and exhibited, on the
return of the writ> to the officer before whom the same is return­
able. 
4. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served
shall have had the party in his power or custody, or under his
restraint, at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ,
but have transferred such custody or restraint to another, the
return shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what
cause, and by what authority, such transfer took place. The
return must be signed by the person making the same, and
except where such person shall be a sworn public officer, and
shall make his return in his official capacity, it shall be verified
by his oath. 
SECTION 11. The person or officer on whom the habeas COf1JII$ 
in
his custody, according to the command of such writ, except in
the case of the sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided. 
SECTION 12. If the person upon whom such writ shall have
been duly served shall ref use · or neglect to obey the same by 
producing the party named in such writ, and making a full and
explicit return to every such writ, within the time required by
the provisions of this chapter, and no sufficient excuse shall be 
shown for such refusal or neglect, it shall be tho duty of the 
officer before whom such writ shall have been ma.de returnable,
upon due proof of tho service thereof, forthwith to issue an 
attachment against such person, directed to the sheriff of any
county in this state, and commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person and to bring him immediately before such
officer; and on such person being so brought, he shall bo committed to close custody in the jail of the county in which such
officer shall be, until he shall make return to such writ, and
comply with any order that may be made by such officer, in
relation to the person for whose relief such writ shall have been 
issued.
SECTION 13. If a sheriff of any county shall have neglected 
to return such writ, the attachment may be directed to any
coroner or other person to be designated therein, who shall have 
full power to execute tho same; and such sheriff, upon being
brought up, may bo committed to the jail of any county other 
than his - own.
SECTION 14. The officer by whom any such attachment may 
be issued, may also, at the same time or afterward, issue a 
• 
precept to the same sheriff or other person to whom such attachmont shall have been directed, commanding him to bring forthwith before such officer tho party for whose benefit such writ
shall have been allowed, who shall thereafter remain in the
custody of such sheriff or other person until he shall be discharged, bailed, or remanded, as such officer shall direct. 
SECTION 15. In tho execution of such attachment or precept,
or either of them, the sheriff or other person to whom they shall 
be directed may call to his aid the power of the county, as in
other cases. 
SECTION 16. The officer before whom the party shall be
brought on such writ shall, immediately after the return thereof, 
d
. . to h f: . d . l d 
procee to examme in t e acts containe m sue 1 return, an
into the cause of the confinement or restraint of such party,
whether the same shall have been upon commitment for any
criminal or supposed criminal matter, or not. 
SECTION 17. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment or restraint, or for the continuance thereoC, such officer 
shall discharge such party from the custody or restraint wider
which he is held. 
SECTION 18. It shall be the duty of the officer forthwith to
remand such party, if it shall appear that he is detained in 
custody, either- 
1. By virtue of process issued by any court or judge of the
United States, in a case where such court or judge has exclusive
jurisdiction ; or- 
2. By virtue of the final judgment or order of any competent
court of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or of any execution issued 
upon such judgment or order; or3. For any contempt, specially and plainly charged in the 
commitment by some court, officer, or body having authority to
commit for the contempt so charged; and- 
4. That the time during which such party may be legally
detained has not expired .. 
SECTION 19. If it appear, on the return, that the prisoner is 
in custody by virtue of civil process of any court legally consti­
tutcd, or issued by any officer in the course of judicial proceed­ 
iugs before him, authorized by law, such prisoner can only be
di l · d . f l " ll . 
isc iarge in one o t 10 10 owmg cases:- 
1. Where tho jurisdiction of such court or officer has been
exceeded, either as to matter, place, law, or person. 
2. Where, though the original imprisonment was lawful, yet,
by some act, omission, or event which has taken place afterward,
the party has become entitled to be discharged. 
3. Where the process is defective in some matter of substance
required by law, rendering such process void. 
4. Where the process, though in the proper form, has been
issued in a case not allowed by law. 
5. Where the person having the custody of the prisoner under
such process is not the person empowered by law to detain
him; or- 
6. Where the process is not authorized by any judgment or
order of any court, nor by any provision of law. 
SECTION 20. But no officer, on the return of any habeas 
corpus issued under this chapter, shall have power to inquire
into the legality or justice of any judgment, order, or execution
specified in tho preceding second section. 
SECTION 21. If it appear that the party has been legally committed for any criminal offense, or if he appear, by the testimony 
offered with the return, upon the bearing thereof, to be guilty
of such an offense, although the commitment bo irregular, the
officer before whom such party shall be brought shall proceed to
let such party to bail, if the case be bailable, and good bail be
offered, or if not, shall forthwith remand such party. 
SECTION 22. If the party be not entitled to his discharge,
and be not bailed; the officer shall remand him to the custody, 
or place him under the restraint, from which he was taken, if
the person under whose custody or restraint he was, be legally 
entitled thereto; if not so entitled, be shall be committed by
such officer to the custody of such officer or person as by law is
entitled thereto. 
SECTION 23. Until judgment be given upon the return, the
officer before whom such party shall be brought may either com­ 
mit such party to the custody of the sheriff of the county in
which such officer shall be, or place him in such care, or under
such custody, as his age and other circumstances may require. 
24. When it appears from the return to any such
writ, that the party named therein is in custody on any process
under which any other person has an interest in continuing his
imprisonment or restraint, no order shall be made for his dis­
charge until it shall appear that the party so interested, or his 
attorney, if he have one, if to be found within the county, shall
have had sufficient notice of the time and place at which such
writ shall have been made returnable. 
SECTION 25. When it shall appear from the return that such
party is detained upon any criminal accusation, such officer
shall make no order for the discharge of such party until suffi­
cient notice of the time and place at which such writ shall have
been returned, or shall be made returnable, shall be given to 
the district attorney of the county in which such officer shall ho,
if to be found within the county. 
SECTION 26. The party brought before any such officer, on
the return of any writ of habeas corpus, may deny any of the 
material facts set forth in the return, or allege any fact to show
either that his imprisonment or detention is unlawful, or that·
he is· entitled to his discharge, which allegations and denials
shall be on oath; and thereupon such officer shall proceed, in a 
summary way, to hear such allegations and proofs as may be
produced in support of such imprisonment or detention, or
against the same, and to dispose of such party as the justice of 
the case may require.
8EcTioN 27. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the 
P
erson directed to be produced by any writ of habeas corpus, 
. 
such person cannot, without danger, be brought before the
officer before whom the writ is made returnable, the party in
whose custody he is may state that fact in his return to the
writ, verifying the same by his oath ; and if such officer be
satisfied of the truth of such allegation, and the return be otherwise sufficient, he shall proceed to decide upon such return, and
to dispose of the matter; and if it appear that the person
detained is illegally imprisoned, confined, or restrained of his
liberty, the officer shall grant a writ of discharge, commanding
those having such person in their custody to discharge him
forthwith ; and if it appear that such person is legally detained,
imprisoned, or confined, and is not entitled to be bailed, such
officer shall cease from all further proceedings thereon. 
SECTION 28. Obedience to any writ of discharge of any prisoner, granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, may 
be enforced by the officer issuing such writ, or granting such
order, by attachment, in the same manner as herein provided
for a neglect to make a return to a writ of habeas corpus, and
with the like effect in all respects ; and the person guilty of such
disobedience shall forfeit to the party aggrieved one thousand
two hundred and fifty dollars, in addition to any special damages
such party may have sustained. 
SECTION 29. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to any
civil action for obeying any such writ or order of discharge ; 
and if any action shall be· brought against such officer for suffering any person committed to his custody to go at large,
pursuant to any such writ or order, he may set forth the same
in his answer, in bar of such action. 
SECTION 30. No person who has been discharged by the order
of any officer upon a habeas corpus issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be again imprisoned, restrained, or
kept in custody for the same cause ; but it shall not be deemed
the same cause- 
1. If he shall have been discharged from a commitment for
the same offense, by the legal order or process of the court
wherein he shall 'be bound by recognizances to appear, or in 
which he shall be indicted or convicted for the same offense;
or- 
2. If, after a discharge for defect of proof, or for any mate­
rial defect in the commitment in a criminal case, the prisoner 
arrested on sufficient proof, and committed by legal
process for the same offense ; or- 
3. If, in a civil action, the party has been discharged for any
illegality in the judgment or process hereinhefore specified, and
is afterward imprisoned by legal process for the same cause oe, 
action; or4. If, in any civil action, he shall have been discharged from 
commitment on mesne process, and shall be afterward committed
on execution. in the same cause, or on mesne process in any
other cause after such first action shall have been discontinued. 
SECTION 31. If any person shall knowingly recommit, im­ 
prison, or restrain of his liberty, or cause to be recommitted,
imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, for the same cause, 
except as provided in the last section, any person so discharged,
or shall knowingly aid or assist therein, he shall forfeit to the
party so aggrieved one thousand two hundred and fifty dollars,
and shall also be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
32. Any one having in his custody, or under his
power, any person who, by the provisions of this chapter, would
be entitled to a writ of habeas corpus to inquire into the cause 
of his detention, who shall, with the intent to elude the service
of any such writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer any 
such prisoner to the custody or place him under the power or
control of another, or conceal him, or change the place of his
confinement, shall be deemed guilty of a· misdemeanor. 
.33. Any one having in his custody, or under his
power, any person for whose relief a writ of habeas corpus shall 
have been duly issued, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
who, with intent to elude the service of such writ, or to avoid the 
effect thereof, shall transfer such prisoner to the custody or
place him under the power or control of another; or conceal
him, or change the place of his confinement, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SECTION 34. Every person who shall knowingly aid or assist in
the violation of either of the two last preceding sections, shall be 
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. 
SECTION 35. Every person convicted of any offense under
either of the four last sections, shall be punished by fine or 
imprisonment, or both, in the discretion of the court in which
he shall be convicted; but such fine shall not exceed one thou­
sand dollars, nor such imprisonment six months. 
SECTION 36. Whenever it shall appear by satisfactory proof
that any one is held in illegal confinement or custody, and that 
there is good reason to believe that he will be carried out of the
state, or suffer some irreparable injury, before he can be relieved
by the issuing of a habeas corpus, any officer authorized to issue
such writs may issue a warrant under his hand and seal, reciting
the facts, and directed to any sheriff, constable, or other person,
commanding such officer or person to take such prisoner, and
forthwith to bring him before such officer, to be dealt with 
according to law.
37. When the proof mentioned in the last section 
shall also be sufficient to justify an arrest of the person having
such prisoner in his custody, as for a criminal offense, committed 
in the taking or· detaining of such prisoner, the warrant shall
• also contain an order for the arrest of such person for such 
offense. 
SECTION 88. Any officer or person to whom such warrant
shall be directed, shall execute the same by bringing the prisoner 
therein named, and the person who detained him, if so commanded by the warrant, before the officer issuing the same; and
thereupon the person detaining such prisoner shall make return
in like manner, and the like proceedings shall be had, as if a writ
of habeas corpes had been issued in the first instance. 
SECTION 39. If the person having such prisoner in . his enstody, shall be brought before such officer as for a. criminal
offense, he shall be examined, committed, bailed, or discharged 
by such officer, in like manner as in other criminal cases of tho
like nature. 
Ssenos 40. Any officer or other person refusing to deliver a
copy of any order, warrant, process, or other authority, by which
he shall detain any person, to any one who shall demand such
copy, and tender the fees thereof, shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detained. 
SECTION 41. Every writ of habeas corpus may bo made
returnable at a day certain, or forthwith, as the case may require. 
SECTION 42. Every such writ shall be indorsed, with a certifieate that the same has been allowed, and with tho <late of such 
allowance, which indorscment shall be signed by the officer
allowing the writ. . 
SEcTIO~ 43. Writs of habeas corpus can only bo served by an
elector of some county within this state ; and the service thereof
shall not be deemed complete, unless the party serving the same
shall tender to the person in whose custody the prisoner may be,
if such person bo a sheriff, coroner, constable, or marshal, the
fees allowed by law for bringing up such prisoner ; nor unless Jae
shall also give bond to such sheriff, coroner, constable, or marshal,
as the case may be, in a penalty double the amount of the sum
for which such prisoner may be detained, if ho be detained for any
specific sum of money, and if not, then in the penalty of one
thousand dollars, conditioned that such person will pay the
charges of carrying back such prisoner, if be shall be remanded,
and that such prisoner will not escape by tho way, either going
to or returning from tho place to which ho is to be taken. 
SECTION 44. Every writ of habeas corpus issued pursuant to
this chapter may be served by delivering the same to the person
to whom it is directed ; if he cannot be found, it may be served 
by being left at the jail, or other place in which tho prisoner may 
be coufiued, with any under officer or other person of proper age,
baying charge for the time, of such prisoner. 
SECTION 45. If the person on whom the writ ought to be
served conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the party 
attempting to serve the same, it may be served by affixing the
same in some conspicuous place on the outside, either of his 
dwelling house, or of the place where the party is confined. 
SECTION 46. It shall be the duty of every sheriff, coroner,
constable, or marshal, upon whom a writ of J,abeas corpus shall 
be. served, whether such writ be directed to him or not, upon 
payment or tender of the bond herein prescribed, to obey and .
return such writ, according to the exigency thereof; and it shall
be the duty of every other person, upon whom such writ shall be
served, having the custody of the individual for whose benefit
the writ shall be issued, to obey and execute such writ according 
to the command thereof, without requiring any bond, or the pay­
ment of any charges, unless the payment of such charges shall
have been required by the officer issuing such writ. 
SECTION 4 7. Every officer allowing a writ of habeas corpus
directed to any other than a sheriff, coroner, constable, or mar­
shal, may, in his discretion, require as a duty to be performed,
in order to render the service thereof effectual, that the charges
of bringing up such prisoner shall be paid by the petitioner; and
in such case he shall, iu the allowance of the writ, specify the
amount of such charges so to be paid, which shall not exceed
the fees allowed by law to sheriffs for similar services. 
SECTION 48. If the writ be returnable at a certain day, such
return shall be made, and such prisoner shall be produced, at 
the time and place specified therein; if it be returnable forth­
with, and the place be within twenty miles of the place of service,
such return shall be made, and such prisoner shall be produced,
within twenty-four hours; and the like time shall be allowed for
every additional twenty miles. 
49. The provisions of the common law, in regard to
the writ of habeas corous treated of in this chapter, are hereby 
-· I"'" 
abrogated, except so much and such parts thereof as may be
necessary to carry into full effect tho provisions herein contained;
and the authority of courts and officers to award such writ, or 
to proceed thereon, by the common law, shall be exercised in
conformity to the provisions of this chapter, in all cases therein
provided for. 
SECTION 50. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be con­
strued to restrain the power of any court to issue a writ of
habeas corpus, when necessary to bring before them any prisoner
for trial, in any criminal case lawfully pending in the same
court; or to bring in any prisoner to be examined as a witness,
in any action or proceeding, civil or criminal, pending in such
court, when they shall think the personal attendance and exam­
ination of the witness necessary for the attainment of justice. 
OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS RELATIVE TO FUGITIVE SLAVES. 
51. The same power is hereby given to and the
same duties imposed upon the judges ·of the county courts of 
the several counties in this state, which are given to and imposed
upon the judges of the circuit and supreme courts by the con­
stitution and laws of this state, for the purposes hereinafter
provided. 
SECTION 52. It shall be the duty of the district attorneys,
within their respective counties, whenever any inhabitant of this 
state is arrested or claimed as a fugitive slave, 011 being informed
thereof, diligently and faithfully to use all lawful means to 
protect, defend, and procure to be discharged every such person
so arrested or claimed as a fugitive slave. 
SECTION 58. The application of o.ny district attorney, in 
writing, to any one of the judges of the supreme court, or to
any judge of the county or circuit courts, signed by said district 
attorney in bis official capacity, stating in substance the name 
d
1 !fh
d
.. 
l
of the person, an t re name o e person etam1ng um or ier, 
ifkuown,and that the person arrested [is] claimed and imprisoned
as a fugitive slave, shall be sufficient authority to authorize the
issuing of the writ of habeas corpus, as provided in this chapter;
and said writ may be signed by anyone of the said· judges, or
by the clerk of the supreme or circuit court; and said writ shall
be made returnable before either the circuit or county court,
when in session in the county where such application is made;
and in vacation said writ may be made returnable, forthwith,
bof ore either of the judges aforesaid. 
SECTION 54. It shall be the duty of all judicial and executive
officers in this state, in their respective counties, who shall know 
or have good reasons to believe that any inhabitant of this state
is about to be arrested or claimed as a fugitive slave, forthwith 
to give notice thereof to the district attorney of the county in
which such person resides. 
SECTION 55. Whenever the writ of habeas corpus is granted
in vacation, as provided in this chapter, or as provided by existing laws, if, upon the hearing of the same before any one of the 
judges aforesaid, the person imprisoned, arrested, or claimed as
a fugitive slave shall not be discharged, such person shall be
entitled to an appeal to the next stated term of the circuit court
in the county where such hearing was had, on furnishing such
bail, and within such time, as the judge granting the writ, on
hearing the case, shall adjudge to be reasonable and proper. 
SECTION 56. The court to which such appeal is taken, and
any other court to which a writ of habeas corpus in behalf of 
any person claimed or arrested as a fugitive slave is made
returnable, may and shall, on the application of either party to
such proceedings, allow and direct a trial by jury, on all
questions of fact in issue between the parties in the matter
aforesaid ; and the taxable costa of such trial shall be chargeable
to the state, whenever the same would be otherwise chargeable
to the person arrested or claimed as a fugitive slave. 
SECTION 57. Every· person who shall falsely and maliciously
declare, represent, or pretend that any free person, within this 
• l . 1 b
state, rs a s ave, or owes service or a or to any person or 
persons, with: intent to procure, or to aid or· to assist in procuring, the forcible removal of such free person from this state as a
slave, he shall pay a fine of one thousand dollars, and be
Imprisoned in the state prison not more than five nor less than
one year : . provided, that nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to any claim of service from an apprentice
for a fixed time. 
SECTION 58. No declaration, representation, or .pretense that 
any person, being or having been in this state, is or was a slave,
shall be deemed proved, except by the testimony of at least two 
credible witnesses, testifying to facts directly tending to establish
the truth of such declaration, representation, or pretense, or 
by legal evidence equivalent thereto ; and any person who, upon
any trial arising under this and the foregoing sections, shall 
58 
1. 
falsely and willfully represent or pretend, with intent to aid any 
party accused under this chapter, that any person was or is a
slave, or owes or did owe service or labor to any person or
persons, shall pay a fine of one thousand dollars, aud be impris­ 
oned in the state prison not less than. one year. 
SECTION 59. Ou the trial of auy prosecution, arising under
l . h d . . l 11 b . d . 
t us c apter, no eposition s ia e receive as evidence,
60. Every person who shall obstruct any officer in 
the service of any warrant, issued in accordance with this
chapter; or who shall aid in the escape of any perrnu accused 
under sections fifty-seven and fifty-eight of this chapter; or who
shall aid in the escape of any person accused under said sections
fifty-seven and fifty-eight, while pursued by such officer, or in
his custody ,-shall ho imprisoned in the state prison not less
than one year . 
til. No judgment recovered against any person or
persons, for any neglect or refusal to obey, or any violations of, 
the act of congress, commonly termed the "fugitive slave act,"
approved September eighteenth, one thousand eight hundred and
fifty,· or. any of the provisions thereof, shall be a lien on any
real estate within this state, nor shall any such judgment be
enforceable by sale or execution of any real estate or personal
property within this state ; but all such sales shall be absolutely
void, and in case of seizure or sale of any personal property, Ly 
virtue of any execution issued on such judgments, the defendant
in said execution may maintain an action of replevin or other
action to secure possession thereof, in the manner provided by
law for such actions, on affidavit filed as required by law, and a
further statement therein, that said execution issued in a judg­
ment rendered under the provisions of the act of congress
aforesaid ; and the provisions of this section shall also apply to
judgments heretofore rendered. 
CHAPTER CLIX. 
OF WRITS OF M.A..ND.A..Mu'S AND PROHIBITION. 
SECTION 1. Whenever any writ ot mandamus shall be issued
out, of the supremo court of this state, the person, body, or 
tribunal to whom the same shall be directed and delivered, shall
make return to the first writ of mandamus, and for neglect so
to do, shall be proceeded against as for a contempt. 
SECTION 2. Whenever a return shall be made to nnr 5;:~ 
writ, the person prosecuting the same may demur, or answer
or any of the material facts contained in the same return; an 
writ had brought his action for a false return. f 
the like proceedings shall be had thereon for the determinatio
thereof, as might havo been had, if the person prosecuting su 
3. Issues of fact, joined in any such proceeding, ; 
be tried at special or general terms of the circuit court, iJ t 
county within which the material facts contained in the nfin ; 
mus shall be alleged to have taken pl~c; and the court shall 
have power to summon a• jury for the purpose, and prescribe the
manner of summoning tho same. 
:-;i,;crw~ 4. In case a verdict shall be found for the person
suing such writ, or if judgment be given for him upon demurrer
or by default, he shall recover damages and costs, in like manner
as he might have do.ie in such action for a false return, as afore- 
said. ; aud a peremptory mandamus shall be granted to him
without delay. . 
SECTIO~ 5. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter,
a~·-1.inst any party who shall have made a return to a writ of 
man-lamus, shall be a bar to any other action against the same 
p.u-ty for the making of such return.
SECTIO~ 6. The suprem:1 court, or any justice thereof, shall 
have the same power to enlarge the time for making a return,
and answering thereto, as in personal actions. 
SEcrIO~ 7. Whenever a peremptory mandamus shall be
directed to any public officer, body, or board, commanding them 
to perform any public duty, specially enjoined upon them by any
provisions of law, if it shall appear to the court that such officor, 
or any member of such body or board, has, without just excuse,
refused or neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court
may impose a fine, to be pa.id to the state treasurer, not exceeding five thousand dollars, upon every such officer or member of
such body or board, or sentence to imprisonment in any jail in
this state, for a term of time not exceeding five years, every such
officer or member of such body or board, or either of said penalties, in the discretion of the court. 
SECTION 8. Writs of prohibition shall only be issued out of
the sup1·eme court; and such writs shall be applied for upon affi- 
davits, by motion, in the same manner as writs of mandamus;
and if the cause shown shall appear to the court to be sufficient,
a writ shall be thereupon issued, which shall command the court
and party to whom it shall be directed, to desist and refrain from 
auy further proceedings ht the action or matter specified
therein, until the next term of the said supreme court, and the
further order of such court thereon ; and then to show cause
why they should not be absolutely restrained from any further
proceedings in such action or matter. 
SECTION 9. Such writ shall be served upon the court and
party to whom it shall be directed, in the same manner as a writ 
of mandamus; and a return shall, in like manner, be made
thereto by such court, which may be enforced by attachment. 
SECTION 10. If the party to whom such writ of prohibition
shall have been directed, shall, by an instrument in writing, to
be signed by him, and annexed to such return, adopt the same 
return, and rely upon the matters therein contained, as sufficient
cause why such court should not be restrained as mentioned in the
Haid writ, said party shall thenceforth be deemed the defendant
in such matter ; and the person prosecuting such writ may take
issue, or demur to the matters so relied upon by such defendant;
and the like proceedings shall be had for the trial of issues of
law or fact, joined between the parties, and for the rendering of 
judgment thereupon, as in personal actions. 
SECTION 11. IC the party to whom such.writ of prohibition·
shall be directed, shall not adopt such return, as above provided, 
the party prosecuting such writ, shall bring on the argument of
such return, as upon a rule to show cause; and he may, by his 
own affidavit, and other proofs, controvert the matters set forth
in such return. 
SECTION 12. The court, after hearing the proofs and allega­
tions of the parties, shall render judgment, either that a prohi­
bition absolute, restraining the said court and party from
proceeding in such action or matter, do issue, or a writ of con­
sultation, authorizing the court and party to proceed in the action
or matter in question. 
SECTION 13. If the party to whom such first writ of prohibi­
tion shall be directed, shall adopt the return of the court thereto 
as above provided, and judgment shall be rendered for the party
prosecuting such writ, a prohibition absolute shall be issued ;
but if judgment be given against such party, a writ of consulta­
tion shall be issued, as above provided. 
CHAPTER CLX. 
ACTIONS AND WRITS OF BC/RE F.AOI.AB AND QUO W.ARR.ANTO. 
SECTION 1. The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo wa"anto, 
and proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto, 
shall be as here prescribed ; and the remedies heretofore obtain­
able in those forms may be obtained by civil action, under the 
provisions of this chapter. But any proceedings heretofore com­
menced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be
affected by this act. It shall not be necessary to sue out such
writs in form. · • 
SECTION 2. Actions of quo wa"anto and mandamus shall be 
tried at special as well as at general terms of the circuit court,
and the court shall have power to summon. a jury for the pur­
pose, and prescribe the manner of summoning the same. 
SECTION 8. An action may be brought by the attorney gen­
eral, in the name of the state, whenever the legislature shall
direct, against a corporation, for the purpose of vacating or
annulling the act of incorporation, or an act renewing its cor­
porate existence, on the ground that such act or renewal was
procured upon some fraudulent suggestion, or concealment of a
material fact, by the persons incorporated, or by some of them,
or with their knowledge and consent. 
SECTION 4. An action may be brought by the attorney gen­
eral in the name of the state, on leave granted by the supreme
court, or judge thereof, for the purpose of vacating the charter
or annulling the existence or a corporation other than munici­
pal, when such corporation shall- 
1. Offend against any of the provisions of the act or acts,
creating, altering, or renewing such corporation. 
2. Violate the provisions of any law by which such corporation shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its powers; or- 
3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or franchises,
by failure to exercise its powers; or- 
4. Whenever it shall have done, or omitted, any act ~hich
amounts to a. surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, or 
franchises ; or- .
5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege not con­ 
ferred upon it by law. And it shall be the duty of the attorney
general, whenever he shall have reason to believe that any of
these acts or omissions can be established by proof, to apply for
leave, and upon leave granted, to bring the action in every case
or public interest; and also in every other case in which satis­
factory security shall be given to indemnify the people of this
state against the costs and expenses to be incurred thereby. 
SECTION 5. Leave to bring the action may be granted upon
the application of the attorney general, and the court or judge
may, in , its discretion, direct notice of such application to be
given to the corporation, or its officers, previous to granting such
leave, and may hear the corporation in opposition thereto. 
SECTION 6. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the name of the state, upon his own information, or upon 
h l
• f · • h , ~ di 
t e comp amt o any private party, against t e parties onen mg,
in the following cases :- 
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, civil or military, or any fran­
chise, within this state, or any office in a corporation created by
the authority of this state ; or- 
2. When any public officer, civil or military, shall have done
or suffered an act which, by the provisions of law, shall make a
forfeiture of his office ; or- 
3. When any association, or number of persons, shall act,
within this state, as a corporation, without being duly incorpo­
rated. 
4. Such action may be brought in the name of the •(people of
this) state, by a private person, on his own complaint, when the
attorney general ref uses to act, or when the office usurped pei:­
tains to a county, town, city, or district. 
SECTION 7. An action may be brought by the attorney general in the name of the state, for the purpose of vacating or 
annulling letters patent, granted by the people of this state, in
the following cases :- 
1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters
patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent suggestion,
or concealment of a material fact, made by a person to whom
the same were issued, or made with his consent or knowledge. 
2. When he shall have good reason to believe that such let­
ters patent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a
material fact ; or- 
3. When he shall have reason to believe that the patentee, or
those claiming under him, have done or committed an act in
violation of the terms and conditions on which the letters patent
were granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interest
acquired under the same. 
SECTION 8. When an· action shall be brought by the attorney
general by virtue of this chapter on the relation or information 
of a person having an interest in the question, the name of such
l 11 b • ' d • h th 1 • • ff. 
person s ia e Jome wit e state as p ainti . 
SECTION 9. Whenever such action shall be brought against
a person for usurping an office the attorney general or person 
complaining, in addition to the statement of the cause of action,
may also set forth in the complaint tho name of the pcr~on right- 
• • · - 
fully entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto,
and in such case, upon proof by affidavit that the defendant has 
received fees or emoluments belonging to the office, and by means
of his usurpations thereof, an order may be granted by a judge
of the circuit court, for the arrest of such defendant, and holding
him to bail, and thereupon he-shall be arrested and held to bail,
in the manner and with the same effect, and subject to the same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions when the defendant
is subject to arrest .. 
SECTION 10. In every such case judgment shall be rendered
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon tho right of. tho
party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the
defendant, as justice shall require. 
SECTION 11. If the judgment be rendered upon the rights of
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor of 
such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of office
and executing such official bond as may be required by law, to 
take upon himself the execution of the office: it shall be his duty
immediately thereafter to demand of the defendant in the action
all the books and papers in his custody, or within his power,
belonging to the office from which he shall have been excluded. 
eECTION 12. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to deliver
over such books or papers pursuant to the demand he shall be 
, • • ' 
gmlty of a misdemeanor, and the same proceedmgs shall be had
and with the same effect to compel delivery of such books and 
papers, as are provided by law. 
8ECTION 13. If judgment be rendered, upon the right of the
person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such person, he may
recover by action the damages which he should have sustained
by reason of the usurpation by the defendant of the office from
which such defendant has been excluded. 
SECTION 14. When several persons claim to be entitled to the
ffi f 1 · ti b b ht ' t 11 
same o ce or ranc use, one ac ion may e roug agams a
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to such office 
or franchise. · 
15. When a defendant, whether a natural person or 
• • h l . h 11 l b b l t 
a corporation, agamst w om sue 1 action s a rave een roug 1 , 
shall be adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into or unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise, or privilege,
judgment shall he rendered that such defendant be excluded
from such office, franchise, or privileges, and also that the plain­
tiff recover costs against such defendant. The court may also in
its discretion fine such defendant a sum not exceeding two thou­
sand dollars, which fine when collected shall be paid into the
treasury of the state. 
SECTION 16. If it shall be adjudged that a corporation against 
which an action shall have been brought pursuant to this chapter, has, by neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate 
rights, privileges, and franchises, judgment shall be rendered
that the corporation be excluded from such corporate rights, 
privileges, and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved. 
SECTIO;s" 17. If judgment be recovered in such action against
a corporation or against persons claiming to be a corporation, the 
. b II . 
co urt may cause the costs therem to e co ected by execution
against the persons claiming to be. a corporation, or by attach- 
men t or process against the directors or other officers of such
corporation. 
SECTION 18. When such judgment shall be rendered against
a corporation, the court shall have the same power to restrain the 
corporation, to appoint a receiver of its property, and to take an
account, and make distribution thereof among its creditors, as 
arc given by law. 
SECTION 19. Upon the rendition of such judgment against a
corporation, or for vacating or annulling of letters patent, it shall 
be the duty of the attorney general to cause a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the office of the secretary of
state.: 
SECTION 20. Whenever by the provisions of law any property,
real or personal, shall be forfeited to the people of this state, or
to any officer for their use, an action for the recovery of such
property, alleging the grounds of the forfeiture, may be brought 
by the proper officer in the circuit court. 
TITLE XXVI. 
l OF THE RELIEF OF INSOLVENT DEBTORS, AND PERSONS CON­
FINED IN JAIL ON CIVIL PROCESS. 
OluP. 161. Of the relief of insolvent debtors. 
162. Of the relief of persons confined in jail on civil process. 
CHAPTER CLXL 
OF THE RELIEF OF INSOLVENT DEBTORS. 
1 .. Every insolvent debtor may be discharged from
his debts, as hereinafter provided, upon executing· an assign- 
ment of all his property, real and personal, for the benefit of
his creditors, and upon compliance with the several provisions 
of this chapter.
SECTION 2. Such insolvent debtor shall petition a judge of 
the supreme or circuit court, praying to be discharged in pur­
suance of the provisions of this chapter, and shall annex to and
deliver with his petition to the officer to whom it shall be pre­
sented, a schedule containing :- 
1. A full and true account of all his creditors.
2. The place of residence of each creditor, if known to such 
insolvent, and if not known, the fact to be stated.
3. The sum owing to each creditor, and the nature of each 
demand, whether arising on written security, on account, or
otherwise. 
4. The true ca.use and consideration of· such indebtedness, in
each case, and the place where such indebtedness accrued. 
5. A statement of any existing judgment, mortgage, or collat­
eral or other security, for the payment of any such debt. 
6. A full and true inventory of all the estate, both real and
personal, of all choses in action, debts due, and monies on hand
of such insolvent; of the encumbrances existing thereon, and of
all the books, vouchers, and securities relating thereto . 
SECTION 3. A.n affidavit, in the following form, shall be
annexed to the said petition, account, and inventory, and shall
be sworn to and subscribed by such insolvent in the presence of 
the officer to whom the said petition is addressed, who shall cer­
tify the same. 
" I, , do swear [ or affirm, as the case may be,]
that the account of my creditors, and the inventory of my
estate, which are annexed to my petition and herewith deliv­
ered, are in all respects just and true, and that I have not, at
any time or in any manner whatsoever, disposed of or made over
any part of my estate, for the future benefit of myself or my
family, or in order to defraud any of my creditors ; and that I
have in no instance created or acknowledged a debt for a greater 
sum than I honestly or truly owed, and that I have not paid,
secured to be paid, or in any way compounded with any of my
creditors, with a. view fraudulently to obtain the prayer of my 
petition. 
SECTION 4. The officer receiving such petition, schedule, and
affidavit, shall make an order requiring all the creditors of such
insolvent to show cause, if any they have, at a certain time and
place, to be specified by him, why· an assignment of the insolvent's estate should not be made, and he discharged from his
debts. 
SECTION 5. The officer granting such order shall direct notice
of its contents to be published in a newspaper printed at the 
seat of government of the state, and in a newspaper printed in the
county in which such application is made, if there be one; and
if one-fourth part in amount of the debts owing by such insolvent
shall have accrued in any other state or territory, or be due to
creditors residing there, such officer shall also designate a newspaper at the seat of government of such state or territory, in
which such notice shall be published. 
SECTION 6. If all the creditors of such insolvent reside
within this state, the said officer shall direct such notice to be
published once in each week for six successive weeks; and if
any of such creditors reside out of the state, the notice shall be
directed to be published once in each week for ten successive
weeks. 
SECTION 7. On the day or at the term appointed in such
order, or any subsequent day or term that the officer or court 
before whom cause is required to be · shown may appoint, the
said officer or court, as the case may be, shall proceed to hear 
the proofs and allegations of the parties ; and before any other
proceeding be bad, shall require proof of the publication
of tho notice as herein directed. 
SECTIO:-i 8. Emry creditor opposing the discharge or an
• I d hi I ti t• · d f 
mso vent, un er t is e tapter, may, at te . ime appom te or
the first hearing, demand of the officer or court before whom 
such hearing shall be had, that the cause of such insolvent be
heard and determined by a jury, and shall be entitled to an
order to that effect, upon filing with such officer or court a specification, in writing, of the grounds of his.objection to such discharge. 
SECTION' 9. Upon such demand being made to any court
before which a hearing shall. be had, a. jury shall be drawn in 
the same manner as for the trial of civil cases, from the jurors
summoned and attending said court, who shall be sworn as pre- 
scribed in this chapter. 
SECTION' 10. If such demand be made to any single officer,
he shall nominate eighteen reputable freeholders of the county,
and shall issue a summons to the sheriff or any constable of the 
county, commanding him to cause the persons so nomiuated to
appear before such officer at a time and place to be specified in
the summons, not less than six nor more than twelve days from
the time of issuing the same. 
SECTION 11. At the time and place so appointed, twelve of
the persons so summoned and appearing shall be balloted for
and drawn in like manner as jurors in a court of record, and 
sworn by such officer, well and truly to hear, try, and
determine the validity of the objections so specified. 
SEC'rIO~ffi· 12. 
St1:ch ju1 ry sdo drawn and sworn, eithe~ by a court
or any o eer, iavmg rear the proofs and allegations of the 
1 
parties, shall determine the matter submitted to them, and for
l 
t iat purpose shall be kept together by some proper officer, to Le
sworn as is usual in like cases in courts of record, until they
agree upon theirverdict; and such verdict shall be conclusive in the
premises, unless reversed on writ of error, as hereinafter directed. 
13. The verdict so rendered shall be recorded by the
court or officer in the minutes of the proceedings. 
14. There shall be but one hearing Lefore a jury in
anr case under this chapter. If s!lch jury cannot agree, af~r 
being left together 3. reasonable time, then they shall Le du-charged, and the court or officer shall decide upon the merits of 
the application, a~ if no jury had been called. 
SECTION 15. .At the hearing of any such petition, before a
jury or otherwise, the insolvent may be examined, on oath, at 
the instance of any creditor, touching his estate or debts, or any
matter stated in his schedule, and may be required to state any
change which may have occurred in the situation of his prop­
erty since the making of his schedule, and particularly whether
he has collected any debts or demands, or made any transfer of
any part of his real or personal estate ; but this shall not be con­
strued to prohibit any such creditor from contradicting or impeach­
ing, by other competent testimony, any evidence given by such
insolvent. 
SECTION 16. If it shall appear on such examination or other­
wise by competent proof, that such insolvent has collected any 
debts or demands, or made any transfer, absolute or condi­
tional, or otherwise, of any part of his real or personal property,
since the making of the schedule annexed to his petition, he
shall be required to pay forthwith to the officer or to the clerk
of the court before whom the hearing shall be had, the full
amount of all debts and demands so by him collected or received,
and the full value of all property so by him transferred, except
such part of the said debts and property as shall satisfactorily
appear to the officer or court to have been necessarily expended
by such insolvent for the support of himself or his family ; and
no discharge shall be granted to him under the provisions ot
this chapter, unless such payment shall Le made, within thirty
days thereafter, to the assignees of such insolvent. 
SECTION 17. If it shall satisfactorily appear to the officer or
court before whom such application is pending, in cases where 
no· jury has been required, or the jury have disagreed, that the
insolvent is justly and truly indebted to the creditors in the
sums mentioned in his schedule and affidavit, that such insol­
vent has hpnestly and fairly given a true account of his estate,
and has in all things conformed to the matters required of him
in this chapter, the officer or court before whom the application
shall be pending, shall direct an assignment of all such insol­
vent's estate in possession, reversion, or remainder, except such
property as may be by law exempt from execution. 
SECTION 18. When any of the matters in the last section 
required to be established previous to granting an order of
assignment, shall have been submitted to a jury, as herein provided, and shall have been found in favor of the insolvent, such
finding shall be conclusive as to such matters, upon tho officer
or court before whom the proceedings are pending, and the
officer or court shall direct an assignment accordingly : provided,
that the jury may increase or diminish the amount of any debt
by such insolvent set forth in his schedule. 
SECTIOS 19. Such assignment shall vest in the assignees
all the interest of such insolvent at the time of executing the 
same in any estate or property, real or personal, whether such
interest be legal or equitable; but no contingent interest shall
pass to the assignees by virtue of such assignment, unless the
same shall become vested within three years after the making 
of the assignment, and in case of its becoming so vested, it
shall p'.lss to the assignees in the same manner as it would have
vested in such insolvent if no assignment had been made by 
him. 
8ECTJO~ 20. Upon such insolvent's producing a certificate
under the hands and seals of- tho assignees, executed in the 
• 
prcsence of such officer, or of two witnesses, and proved by the
affidavit of one of them, stating that such insolvent has assigned 
and delivered for the use of all his creditors, all his estate so
di rected to be assigned, and all the books, vouchers, and securities relating to the same, and upon his also producing a certificate of the register of deeds of the proper county, that such
assignment has been duly recorded in his office, the officer or
court who directed such assignment shall grant to such insolvent a discharge from his debts, which shall have· the effect
declared in the succeeding sections of this chapter. 
SECTJOS 21. 'rho petition, affidavit, order of discharge, and
all the testimony, proceedings, and papers in the cases of such
insolvent shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court, whose duty it shall be. to enter upon the docket of judg- 
men ts in such court, the names of the several creditors mentioned in the schedule of such insolvent as plaintifffs, and the 
name of such insolvent as defendant, and to enter a judgment
in said docket by confession of defendant for the several sums
respectively appearing or shown to be due, in and by such
schedule and proceedings. 
SECTIO~ 22. The said clerk shall also enter a discharge of
such judgment upon the docket by order of the court, and such 
discharge lll iy be pleaded in all cases hereinafter mentioned. 
~EC'l'IO~ 2J. In any action which shall ho brought against
such insolvent or his personal representatives, a discharge 
t I
t t
th
· . . f I . I b 
gran e< pursusn o e provisions o t us c iapter, may e
pleaded or given in evidence under the general issue and notice 
thereof', in bar of any action upon any contract made by such
insolvent, and in bar of any action upon any liability of such 
insolvent, incurred by making or indorsing any promissory note
or bill of exchange previous to the execution of his assignment,
or incurred by him in consequence of the payment by any
party to such note or bill, of the whole or any part of the money
secured thereby, whether such payment be made prior or subse- 
quent to the execution of the assignment iby such insolvent,
provided the same or the consideration be included in such
schedule. 
SECTION 24. Every discharge granted to an insolvent under
this chapter shall be voidable in each of the following cases :- 
1. If bch insolvent shall have willfully sworn falsely in his
affidavit annexed to his petition, or upon his examination, in 
relation to any material fact concerning his estate or his debts,
or to any other material fact. 
2. If after the presentation of his petition he shall sell or in
any way transfer or assign any of his property, or collect any
debts due him, and shall not ·give a just and true account
thereof on the hearing of his application, and shall not also pay
or secure the payment of the money so collected, or the value
of the property so assigned, as hereinbefore directed. 
8. If he shall· secrete any part of his estate, or any books or
writings relative thereto, with intent to defraud his creditors. 
4. If he shall fraudulently conceal the names of any of his
creditors, or the amount of any sum due to any of them. 
5. If he shall pay or consent to the payment of any portion
of the debt or demand of any of his creditors, or shall grant or
consent to the granting· of any gift or reward to any such
creditor, upon any express or implied contract or trust that the
creditor so paid or rewarded should abstain or desist from
opposing the discharge of such irrsolvent. 
6. If he shall be guilty of any fraud whatever contrary to the
true intent of this chapter. 
· SECTION 25. Writs of error from the supreme court may be
sued out within one year next after the rendition of the several
judgments against such insolvent in the circuit court, and if,
upon the hearing of such cause in the supreme court.Tt shall
appear by affidavit that any clause in the last preceding section
has boen violated, then, and in such case, a new trial or hearing
shall be awarded to the circuit court in which such judgments
may have been rendered. · 
SECTION 26. The new hearing to be had in pursuance of the
last preceding section shall be· in all respects conducted accord­
ing to the provisions of this chapter,-and the judgment rendered
in such new hearing shall be final a"nd conclusive in the premises. 
SECTION . 27. No judgment rendered in pursuance of the
provisions of this chapter, shall be or become a lien upon any 
other property than such as may have been assigned in satisfac­
tion thereof. 
SECTION 28. The court in which judgment may have been
rendered in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, may 
f · · k h d f tl di t ib ti f tl
rom time to time ma e sue or ers or 10 ts ri u 10n o ie 
proceeds of tho sale of the property assigned by any insolvent,
as to said court may appear most for the interest of the creditors,
,and for the payment from the proceeds of sales of such property,
of all legal fees and expenses accruing on the application for
discharge by any such insolvent. · 
SECTION 29. Whenever judgments shall be entered against
insolvent debtors, pursuant to section twenty-one of this chap- 
ter, the state tax thereon shall not exceed in all of 'such judg .. 
ments, the sum of one dollar, and the clerk's fees on such
judgments, and discharging the same pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter, shall not exceed five dollars. . 
CHAPTER CLXII. 
OF THE RELIEF OF PERSONS COYFINED .IN JAIL ON CIVIL PROCESS. 
SECTION 1. Every person confined in jail on an execution
issued on a judgment recovered in an action founded on a tort,
shall be discharged therefrom at the end of ten days from his first
confinement, upon the conditions hereinafter specified. 
SECTION 2. Such person shall cause notice to be given to the
plaintifff in the action, his agent or attorney, in writing, that on
a certain day and hour, and at a certain place, he will apply to
two justices of the peace of the county where the person is
committed, stating the names of such justices, for the purpose of
obtaining a discharge from bis imprisonment. 
SECTION 3. Such notice shall be served, by a copy, on the
plaintifff, his agent or attorney, twenty-four hours before the hour
for hearing the application, in cases where the plaintifff, his agent 
or attorney, lives within twenty miles of the place of the hearing; and twenty-four hours shall be added to the time of the
notice, for every additional twenty miles the plaintifff, his agent
or attorney, shall reside distant from such place. 
SECTION 4. At the time and place specified in such notice,
such person shall be taken under the custody of the jailer, or the 
sheriff or his deputy, before such justices, who shall examine the
prisoner on his oath, concerning his estate and effects, and the
disposal thereof, and his ability to pay the judgment for which
he is committed; and they shall also hear any other legal and
pertinent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or the
creditor. 
SECTION 5. The plaintifff in the action may upon such examination propose to the prisoner any interrogatories pertinent to 
the inquiry, and they shall, if required by the creditor, be proposed and answered in writing, and the answers shall be signed
and sworn to by the prisoner; and the plaintifff in the action
may have a copy of the interrogations and answers, certified by
the justices, upon paying therefore the legal fees. 
SECTION 6. If upon such examination the justices shall be 
satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, they shall~
administer to him the following oath, to wit:- 
"I, , do solemnly swear that I have not any estate,
real fir personal, to the amount of twenty dollars, except such
as is by law exempted from being taken in execution, and that I 
have not any other estate, nor conveyed, or concealed, or in any
way disposed of, with design to secure the same to my use, or to
defraud my creditors: so help me God." 
SECTION r. After administering the oath, the justices shall 
make a certificate under their hands as follows:- 
"To the sheriff or jailer of the county of . The
undersigned, two justices of the peace for said county, certify
that , confined in your jail upon an execution at
the suit of , is entitled to be discharged from
imprisonment, if he be imprisoned for no other cause." . 
8. The jailer, upon receiving such certificate, shall
forthwith discharge the prisoner, if he be imprisoned for no 
other cause.
9. If such justices should not discharge the prisoner, 
be shall be entitled to apply for his discharge at the end of every
succeeding ten ·days, in the same manner as above provided,
and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had. · 
SECTION 10. The prisoner, after being so discharged, shall be
forever exempted from arrest or imprisonment for the same
debt, unless he shall be convicted for having willfully sworn 
falsely, upon his examination before the two justices, or in taking
the oath before prescribed. 
SECTION 11. The judgment against any prisoner who is dis­
charged as aforesaid, shall remain in full force against any estate
which may then or at any time afterward belong to him; and
the plaintifff in the action may take out a new execution against
the goods and estate of the prisoner in like manner as if he had
never been committed on the execution. 
· SECTION 12. If the debtor shall undertake to satisfy the
execution, he shall not be entitled to his discharge until he has 
paid all the charges for his support in prison, in addition to the
sum due on the execution, and the costs and charges thereon. 
SECTION 13. The plaintifff in the action may at any time order
the prisoner to be discharged, and he shall not thereafter be 
liable to imprisonment for the same cause of action.
14. Whenever a person is committed to jail on 
execution issued 011 a judgment recovered in a civil action, the
creditor, his agent or attorney, shall advance to the jailer, within 
twenty-four hours after such commitment, sufficient money to
pay for the support of said prisoner during the time for which
he may be imprisoned; and in case the money should not be so
advanced, or if during the time the prisoner may be in confine­
ment, the money should be expended in the support of such
prisoner, the jailer shall forthwith discharge such prisoner from
custody, and such discharge shall have the same effect as a
discharge by order ol the creditor. 

