For the satisfaction of 'ud merits, the party in
' Whose favor the judgment is ren ere%, whether for eht,
damages or costs, may Within a year thereafter, have either
a writ of fieri facias against the lands and goods of the party
against whom the judgment is rendered, or a capias ad satis
faciendum against the body. When the jud ent is for specific property or the alternate value, or for t e possession of
lands, appro riate writs of execution, as hereafter described,
may issue or the satisfaction thereof, which must conform
substantially to the forms hereby prescribed.
[Fz'erz' Faciaa]
The State of Alabama,
County. i To any sheriff of the state. You are
. hereby commanded that of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of A. B., you cause to be made the sum of -dollars, which C. D. recovered of him on the da of ——
18 , by the 'udgment of our circuit court, hel for the
county of , esides costs of suit; and have the same to
render to the said C. D., and make return of this writ, and
the execution thereof according to law.
VVitness my hand, this day of

 

   

E. F., Clerk.
ECapia.s ad .satzls_facz'endum.]
The State of A abama
County. , To any sheriff of the state.

You are hereby commanded to take the body of A. B., if
to be found in your county, and him safely. keep so that you
have his body at the next term of our circuit court to be
held for the county of —, to satisfy C. D. the sum of -dollars, yiirhifchhthe saidhC. D., by the fj udgmiztsigf said cog?
recovere 0 im on e ay 0 es —-~- 0 lars costs of suit; hnd make return of this virit and the execution thereof according to law. Witness my hand, &c.

E. F., Clerk.

Th StEl.gab:‘T‘6A'_f1.(1(.E:.a:S'_Z)0-$3(3«3«S‘?..07'le777» and

e o a ama
County. , i To any sheriff of the state. _

You are hereby commandedto de1iver.to A. B. possession
of the l8.I11)dS alilid tegements wyhich the said A.  §e<:fove1§d
of C. D. t e ju gment 0 our circuit court cl or 6
county 0 , on the —— dayof —, viz: (describe the
land recovered.) You are further directed, of the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements of the said C. D., you cause to

be made the sum of dollars damages, adjudged to the
said A. B., and also the further sum of dollars costs of
suit; and make return of this Writ and the execution thereof,
according to law. Witness my hand, &c. E. F., Clerk.

[For the delivery Qf .sj2ec2_.'fic property, and damages for the
detention.]
The State of Alabama,
County. i To any sheriff of the state.
_ You are hereby commanded to seize and deliver to A. B.,
the following slaves, (or other personal property as the case
may be,) which the said A. B., on the day of , by
judgment of our circuit court, held for the county of ,
recovered of C. D., if the same can be had, if not, you are
hereby directed that of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, of the said C. D., you cause to be made the sum
of dollars, the alternate value of the said slaves, viz:
(here set out the assessed value of each slave or other personal property.) Also the further sum of dollars for
the detention of the said slaves b the said C. D., besides

dollars, costs of suit; and ma 'e return of this writ and
the execution thereof according to law.

Witness my hand, &c. E. F., Clerk.

5' 2423. The clerk must issue executions on all judgments
in favor of the successful party, as soon after the adjournment of the court as practicable, within the time prescribed

   

 

by this code, unless otherwise directed. The writ must be‘

signed by the clerk, and tested on the day it is issued.
