I.

FORMS.
Complaints.

Endo1~see against acceptor of bill of exchange.
A. B., plaintifff, The laintiff claims of the defendant

vs. do lars, due on a bill of exchange,
C. D., defendant, which was drawn by one E. F., on the
day of , for dollars, upon the defendant, and accepted b him, payable to one G. H., on the day of ,
whic bill before maturity was indorsed to the plaintifff, and
with interest is still due, and unpaid.

   

I. J ., Att’y for Pl’if.

Endorsee against endorser.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant,

vs. dollars on a bill of exchange, drawn
C. D., defendant. by E. F., on the day of , upon
G. H. for the payment of dollars on the -—— day of
——to the defendant, by whom the said bill was indorsed to
the laintiff, and the said bill not being paid at maturity (or
not ing accepted, as the case may be,) was duly rotested,
of which the defendant had due notice. The said ill, with
damages, and interest due thereon, is still unpaid.

L. M., Att’y for P1’ff.

Endorsee against drawer.
A. B., plaintifff, s The laintilf claims of the defendant,
.9

v . ———do lars, due on a bill of exchange,
C. D., defendant. drawn by him on the da of ,
on E. F., for the payment of dollars to Gr. ., on the
*day of , by whom the said bill was indorsed to the
piaintiff, and the said bill not being paid at maturity, (or not
ing accepted, as the case may be,) was dul protested, of
which the defendant had due notice. The sai bill, with the

dalmges and interest due thereon, is still unpaid.

J. J ., Att’y for Pl’ff.

N0'rE.—If the bill sued on was a foreign bill of exchange,

the fact should be stated, and the place on which it was
drawn.

On prmnissory note by payee, against maker.

A. B., plaintifff, The laintiif claims of the defendant

vs. ———do lars, due by romisory note made
0- D., defendant. by him on the a of , and payable the —— day of —, with interest t ereon.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

   

On bill single or bond without penalty by obligee against 
A. B., plaintifff. } The laintiff claims of the defendant
vs

do lars, due by bond, executed by

C. D., defendant. him on the day of , payable on

the -—— day of —, with interest due thereon.
E. F., Att’y for Pl’if.

By assignee, against assignor, an assigned note or bond -without
penalty.
A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant
vs. the sum of dollars, as the assignee
C. D., defendant, of a note (or bond, as the case ma be,)
executed on the day of, by one E. F., paya le to
the defendant (or as the case may be) on the day of ,
and assigned to the plaintifff, upon which suit has been brought
according to law to charge the maker, judgment obtained
thereon, execution issued according to law, and returned “ no
property found,” which note with the interest thereon is still
un aid. G. H., Att’y for Pl’if.
§'o'rE.--If there is a sufficient excuse for not suing the
maker, the fact should be concisely stated.

On an account or verbal contract.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant,

vs. —— dollars, due from him by account,
0. D., defendant, on the day of , (or for money
loaned by the plaintifff to the defendant on the day of
, or on account stated between the plaintifff and defendant, on the day of , or for merchandise, goods and
chattels, sold by the plaintifff to the defendant on the
day of , or for money paid by the laintiif, for the defendant, at his request, or for work an labor done for the
defendant, by the plaintifff, on the day of , at his
request,) which several sums of money, (or sum of money)

with the interest thereon, are now due.
E. F., Att’y for Pl’E.

On an account or verbal contract by a transferee.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant,
vs. dollars, due by account, for money
0. D., defendant. loaned by one E. F., to the defendant, on
the -—— day of , (or on an account stated between the
defendant and one E. F., on the day of , or for
merchandise, goods and chattels sold by one E. F., to the
defendant, or for money paid by one E. F. for the defendand, or for work and labor done by one E. F. for the defendant, on the da of , at his re uest ;) which sum (or
sums of money, as t e case may be,) wilh the interest, is now

due, and is the property of the plaintifff.
G. H., Att’y for P1’&'.

For the recovery of clzattels in specie.

A. B., plaintili‘, s The plaintifff claims of the defendant,

vs. the following slaves, (or other personal
C. D., defendant. property, viz: &c., describing it,) with the

 

   

   

 

   

value of the hire or use thereof, during the detention, viz:

from the day of ——.
E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

On an independent covenant or agreement.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant,

-vs. 5 dollars, damages for the breach of a
C. D., defendant, covenant, (or agreement, as the case many
be,) entered into by him on the day of -——, by whi
he promised, (here set out the contract or agreement, and

the breach com lained of.
P ) E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

NO'l‘E.———If a demand is necessary to entitle the plaintifff to
his action, it must be averred.

On a dependent covenant or agreement.

A. B., plaintifff, The laintiif claims of the defendant,

vs. —— do ars, for the breach of a covenant
C. D., defendant. (or agreement, as the case ma be,) entered into by him on the day of , in sulistance as
follows: (here insert a co y or according to its legal eifect,)
yet although the plaintifff as com lied with ‘all its provisions
on his part, the defendant has faifed to compl with the following provisions thereof, viz: (here insert t e matter complained of.) E. F., Att’y for P1’ff.

On bonds with condition.
A. B., plaintifff, } The laintilf claims of the defendant

   

vs. do lars, for the breach of the condiC. D., defendant, tion of a bond (or agreement) made by
the defendant on the day of , payable to the plainH11; in the sum of —— dollars, with condition, (here state the
condition concisely.) And the plaintifff sa. s the condition of
said bond has been broken by the defen ant in this, (here
state concisely the breach or breaches complained of, first,
second, &c.,) to the damage of the plaintifff, as above stated.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

Against a common carrier.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant
vs. -—— dollars, as damages for the failure
C. D., defendant. to deliver certain goods, viz: (here set
them out,) received by him as a common carrier, to be delivered to the plaintifff at , for a reward, which he failed to
do. E. F., Att’y for P1’lf.
1_‘l0'1‘E.—If the injury complained of is the failure to
deliver the goods by the time stipulated, or Within a reasonable time, or for damage to the goods, it should be so stated.

Deceit in sale of chattels.

A.B.,p1aintia; The laintiff claims of the defendant

vs. do lars, as damages for a deceit in
C. D., defendant. i the sale of a horse, which the defendant,
at the time of the sale, knew to be unsound.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’if.

   

Action on a warranty.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant
vs. dollars as damages for a breach of
C. D., defendant. warrant in the sale of a slave b him to
the plaintifff} on t e —- ay of , which the efendant
warranted to be sound in bod and mind, when in fact the
said slave was, at the time of t e sale and warranty, unsound
in body, (the warranty and breach to be stated according to
the facts.) E. F., Att’y for Pl’lf.

On a policy of insurance.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant

vs. dollars, the value of certain oods,
C. D., defendant. which the defendant, on the gay 0
, insured against loss or injury, against rils of the
seas, and other perils in said he mentioned, mm the Iport
of New-York to the port of ob’ e, on board the ship eptune, which goods were wholly lost by the shipwreck of the

said vessel, on her voyage, of which the defendant has had
notice. E. F., Att’y for Pl’1lI

For the conversion of chattels.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant,
vs. dollars, as damages for the converC. D., defendant. sion by him, on the day of —, of
the following chattels, (describing them) the property of the
plaintifff. E. F., Att’y for P1’il'.

For assault and 

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant

vs. —— dama es, for an assault and battery
0. D., defendant. committed y the defendant on the plaintifff, viz: on the day of .

 

 

   

E. F., Att’y for PPR.

For false imprisonment.
A. B., plaintifff, The laintiif claims of the defendant
vs. —— do lars, as damages for maliciously,
C. D., defendant. and without probable cause therefore, arresting and imprisoning, (or, if the case be so, causing the defendant to be arrested and imprisoned,) on a charge of larceny,

(or other felony, as the case may be,) for days, viz: on
day of —. E. F., Att’y for PPR

Verbal slander.
A. B.,p1aintilf, § The plaintifff claims of the defendant
s

v . —— dollars, as damages for falsely and
C. D., defendant. maliciously charging the plaintifff with
perjury, (larcen , or other crime, as the case may be,) by
speaking of andy concerning him, in the presence of divers
ersons, in substance as follows, (here set out the defamatory

anguage,) viz: on the day of .

E. F., Att’y for Pl’1£

   

Libel.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant

vs. -1 dollars, damages for falsely and
C. D., defendant. maliciously publishing, of and concerning
him, in a newspaper published, &'.c., called, &c., (or book or
writing, as the case may be? the following false and defamatory matter, with intent to efame the plaintifff, viz: (here set

out the language charged as libellous,) on the dalg of
—. E. F., Att’y for P’ .

For trespass in taking goods.

A. B., plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant
vs. dollars, as damages for wrongfully
C. D., defendant. taking the following goods and chattels,
the property of t e plaintifff, viz: (here state the oods, &c.)
E. F., Att’y or Pl’ff.

For the recovery of land, or possession thereof; complaint in
the nature of an action for ejectment.

A. B.,p1aintiff, The plaintifff sues to recover the followvs. ing tract of land, (describing it, or the
C. D., defendant. possession, as the case may be,) of which
he was possessed before the commencement of this suit, and
after such possession accrued, the defendant entered thereupon, and unlawfull withholds and detains the same,
together with do lars, for the detention thereof.

E. F., Att’y for P1’ff.

For rent, on demise.

A. B.,plaintifff, § The laintiif claims of the defendant
3

v . -——- do lars, the rent of a tract of land,
0. D., defendant. viz: (describing the land,) demised by the
plaintifff to the defendant, on the day of , said rent

commencin on the day of ——-, and ending on the
-—— day 0 . E. F., Att’y for P1’ff.

For use and occupation of land.
A. B. plaintifff, § The plaintifff claims of the defendant

   

 

 

vs. dollars, for the use and occupation
C. D., defendant. by him of the following tract of land, belonging to the plaintifff, viz: (here describe it), from the —day of —— to the day of .
E. F., Att’y for Pl’tf.

For trespass to land.

A. B. plaintifff, The plaintifff claims of the defendant

vs. —— dollars, as damages, for a. trespass by
C. D., defendant. the defendant on the following tract of
land, belonging (or in the possession of) the plaintifff, (describing it), and for cutting the timber, treading down the
grass, &c., on the day of —.

E. F., Att’y for Pl’ff.

   

PLEAS.

Ton estfactum.

A. B., plaintid, The defendant, for answer to the comvs. plaint, saith, that the note, or bond, as
C. D., defendant. the case may be), upon whi the action
is founded, was not executed by him, or by any one authorized to bind him in the premises; and he makes oath that
this ea is true. (If filed by an executor or administrator,
that e believes it to be true.)

E. F., Att'y for Def ’t.

Not guilty.
A. B., plaintifff, The defendant, for answer to the com?) plaint, saith he is not guilty of the matters alleged therein.
E. F., Att’y for Def’t.

.3.
C. D., defendant,
Payment.

A. B., p1ainti&', The defendant, for answer to the said
vs. complaint, saith that he has paid the debt

0. D., defendant. or demand for the recovery of which this

suit is brought, before the action was commenced.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Infancy.
A. B., plaintifff, The defendant, for answer to the said
vs. complaint, saith, that at the time of the
C. D., defendant. execution of the note, the foundation of
the suit, (or at the time of the creation of the debt, or making of the contract, as the case may be), he was a minor,

under the age of twenty-one years.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Statute of l2°mz'tatz°ons.
A. B., plaintifff, The defendant, for answer to said comvs. plaint, saith, that the (note, bond, or conC. D., defendant. tract, as the case may be), is barred by

the ‘statute of limitations of -——— years.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Usury.
A. B., plaintifff, The defendant, for answer to said comvs. plaint, saith, that the said (note, bond,_or
C. D., defendant. contract, as the case may be), upon which
the action is founded, is usurious and void for the interest

due thereon.
E. F., Att’y for Def’t.

l‘ToTE.—If the usurious interest has been included with th6
principal, the fact should be stated, and the amount.

Set-of

A. B., p1aintii£ The defendant, as a defense to the acvs. tion of the plaintifff, says, that at the time
0. D., defendant. the said summons was sued out, the
plaintifff was indebted to him in the sum of -—-——- dollars, by
note, (bond, li uidated, or unliquidated demand, as the case
mag’ be, and escribing it by its date, amount, and when
an to whom payable), which he hereby offers to set—o&'
against the demand of the laintiff, and he claims judgment
for the residue, (if the set-o exceeds the plaintifff‘ ’s demand.)

E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.

Tender.

A. B., plaintifff, The defendant, for answer to said comvs. g plaint, says, that he tendered to the plainC. D., defendant. tiff the amount due to him, to wit, ——
dollars, before the action was commenced; and now brings
the money into court, (if of ponderous articles, or other personal property), that he has always been ready and wil ing
to rform his contract with the plaintifff, and offered to do

so fore the action was commenced.
E. F., Att’y for Def ’t.
