Against justices of the peace for acting in an
official capacity as such, after their office has been vacated
by removal from the precinct for which they were elected,

.or from any other cause; judgment for forty dollars, one
half to the use of the county, and the residue to any one
who will sue for the same.

. § 2822. For any money received or collected by a justice

‘by virtue of his office, after demand made; judgment ma
be rendered for the amount so received or collected, wi
five per cent. a month thereon.

s § 2823. The motions authorized by the two preceding

gseetions ma be made before any justice of the peace of the
county in w "ch such justice resides, within six months after
tho demand of the money from the justice, or within six
months after the act done.

. § 2824. For acting as such after removal from the recinct
for which they were elected, or after their term of o ce has

ex ired, or is vacated from an cause; judgment for fcm

do ars, one half to the use of t e county, and the other

' to the use of an erson who will sue for the same.

_ § 2825. For ai ing to make the money on any execution
which by due diligence might have been made; judgment

'for the amount of the execution, and interest, and five per
cent. dama es on the amount thereof.

v § 2826. or failing to pay over money collected or received

iin virtue of any execution, summons, or attachment, on demand by the plaintifff, his agent or attorney; judgment for

,the amount so received, and five per cent. per month on

= such amount from the time of demand made; but the demand
must be made, and notice for summary judgment given,
Within six months after the receipt of the money.

. §2827. For failing to execute any summons which by
proper diligence could have been executed; judgment for a
sum not more than ten nor less than nve dollars.

v § 2828. For failing to execute process of attachment, which
b due diligence could have been executed, whereby the
3 aintiif has lost his debt; judgment for the amount of the

ebt, and interest.
