The party in whose favor judgment is given may, at any time
within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of execution for its
enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

. SEC. 2] 2. The writ of execution shall be issued in the name of the Territory, sealed with the seal of the court, and subscribed by the clerk, and‘
shall be directed to the sheriff, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment,
stating the court, the county where the judgment-roll is filed, the name of
the parties, the judgment, and if it be for money, the amount thereof, and

 

the amount actually due thereon, and shall require the sherif substantially
as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with mterest, out of the personal pro_ perty of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
then out of his real property; or if the judgment be a lien upon real
property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or if the execution be issued to a county
other than the one in which the judgment was recovered, on the day, when
the transcript of the docket was filed in the oilice of the recorder of such
county, stating such day, or at anytime thereafter;

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of the personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees,
it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such
Property; . ' '

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require the
sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county, until
he pay the judgment,,.with interest, or be discharged according to law;

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property,
it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly
describin it, the party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the sherig to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits recovered by the
same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it
was rendered, and the value of the property for which the judgment was
recovered, to be specified therein, if a delivery thereof cannot be had; and
if suilicient personal property cannot be found, then out of real property, as
provided in the first subdivision of this section.
