Either party may have the depOsitiOn taheh of a witness in
this Territory, before any judge or clerk, or any justice of the peace, or
notary public in this Territory, on serving upon the adverse party previous
notice of the time and place “of examination, 't‘Ogether With 'a copy of an
afiida'vit shovving that the case is one mentioned in the last section. such
notice shall be at least five days, and in addition one day for every twentyfive miles of the distance to the place of examination from the residence
of thepe'rson to whom the notice is given, unleSs for a cause shOWn a judge,
by Order, prescribe a shorter time. When a shorter time is prescribed, a
copy of that order shall be served with‘ the notice.

, SEC. 1132. Either party mayattend suCh examination an‘dput such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, When completed,
shall be carefully read to the witness and 'c‘o‘rreCte'd by him in any particu«
lar, if desired; it shall then be subscribed by the witness, certified by the
judge er oiiicer taking the deposition, enclosed in an envelope or wrapper,
sealed, and directed to the clerk of the court in ‘which’the action is pending, ’
or to such person as the parties in writing may agree upon, and either '
delivered by the judge cr‘oiiicer to the ‘clerk or such p‘e'rs‘On, or transmitted
through the mail, or by some safe private Opportunity; and thereupon such
deposition may be used by either party upon the trial or other proceeding,
. against any party giving or receiving the notice, subjeCt to all legal exceptions. But if the parties attend at the examination, no- objection to the
form of an interrogatory shall be made at thetrial, unless the same was
stated at the time of the ‘eXamin atio'n. If the deposition be taken by
reason of the absence or intended absence from the county of the witness,
er because he is too infirm to attend, proof by affidavit or oral testimony
s all be made at the trial that the witnesscontinue‘s absent or infirm, to the
best of the deponent’s knowledge or belief. The deposition thus taken
may be also read in case of the death of the witness.
