Any witness who desires it may, at his option, instead of taking
an oath, make his solemn affirmation or declaration, by assenting when
addressed, in the following form: “ You do solemnly affirm, that the evidence you shall give in this issue (or matter), pending between ~ and
~ , shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.”
Assent to this amrmation shall be-made by the answer: “ I do.” A false

. amimation or declaration shall be deemed perjury equally with a false
oat .

v

Inspection of Docurnents, and Mscellaneous Provisions as to Records
and Writings.

. SEC. 448. Any court in which an action is pending, or a judge thereof,
may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other within a specified
time an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any book,
document, or paper in his possession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action, or the defense therein. If compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book, document, or paper from being given in evidence; or if wanted as evidence
by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as he
alleges it to be; and the court may also punish the party refusing for a
contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce books, papers, or documents, when he is examined as a witness.

: 449. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing other than
the writing itself, except in the following cases:

1. When the original has been lost or destroyed ; in, which case proof of

the loss or destruction shall first be made. ' .
_ 2. When‘the original is in the possessionof the party against whom the

evidence is Offered, and he fails to produce it after reasonable notice.

3. When the original is a record or other document, in custody of a public ofIice. ,

4. When the original has been recorded, and a certified copy of the
record is made evidence by statute.

5. When the original consists of numerous accounts or other documents,

 

which cannot be e‘Xamined in Court without great loss of time, and the evideuce sought from them is only the general result of the whole.
