Judgment may be bad, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows:

lst. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of money or
damages only, if no answer has been filed with the clerk of the court within
the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may have been
granted; the clerk, upon application of the plaintifff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment for the
amount specified in the summons, including the costs, against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided
for in section thirty-two. ‘ '

2d. In other actions, if. no answer has been filed with the clerk of the
court within the time specified in the summons, or such further time as
may have been granted; the clerk shall enter the default of the defendant,
and thereafter the plaintifff may apply at the first or any subsequent term
of the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an
account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court .to give
judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the
account or hear the prbof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for
that purpose; and where the action is for the recovery of damages in

I

 

whole or in part, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a
jury; or if, to determine the amount of damages, the examination of along
account be necessary, by a reference as above provided. .
3d. In actions where the service of summons was by publication, the
plaintiii', upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no answer has been
filed, apply for judgment, and the court shall thereupon require proof to be
I made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the defendant be
not a resident of the Territory, shall require the plaintifff or his agent to be
examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made to the
plaintifff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demands, and may
render judgment for the amount which he .is entitled to recover.

0f Issues, and the Manner of their Disposition. .
