Pleadings, how and by whom verified. (a.) I
In all cases of the verification of a pleading, the aiiidavit of

the party shall state that the same is true of his own knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated, on his

information or belief, and as to those matters, that he believes
it to be true. And where a pleading is verified, it shall be
by the affidavit of the party, unless he be absent from the
county where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable
to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his
attorney, or other person verifying the same. When the
pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except the party, he shall set forth in the affidavit the reasons
why it is not made by the party. When a corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof;
or wbn the State, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a
party, the verihcation may be made by any person acquainted
with the facts, except that in actions prosecuted by the Attorney General in behalf of the State, the pleadings need
not, in any case, be verified.

from giving evidence thereof." The Court, or‘ a Judge thereof,

or a County Judge, may order a further account, when the

one delivered is too general, or’is defective in any particular.
N. Y. Code, M58. Abb. Forums, 1101-1119.

1. When and how objected to.—-It is too late to object at the trial that
3 Inn of particulars is not‘ properly verified ‘b the oath of the party.‘ The
put) upon whom a  of ‘particulars is serve if he is not satisned with it,
either because it is defective in form or in substance, or because it is not verined by the plaintiii‘, should immediately return it, or move the Court for a
further or amended bill. Dennison v. Smith, 1 Cal. 437.

2. If he does not, he cannot proceed‘ as if no billof particularswas rendered. Providence Tool Company v. Prader, 32 Cal. 634.

3. To suit on a note,“defenda'nt in general terms, without items, set u an

account for work and labor, ahd for money aid,’etc. Plaintili‘ asked or ‘a’

copy of the account, which defendant furnis ed. Plaintid‘ gave notice that’
he would move the Court “ for a further account of particulars,” etc. ; and on
' , the Court ordered that “ defendant‘ furnish said further bill,” which“
he di On the trial, plaintifff ordered’ this note, and rested: Defendant
ofered evidence of the account set‘ up in the answer, to which plaintiil‘ ob-'
jected, on the ground that “ defendant had not furnished‘ an additional bill of'
particulars,” and the Court ruled out the evidence. Held, that the Court
erred: lint, because the order for ‘a further account was defective, in notf
stating the 'culars in reference to which a further specification was
uired; an because, second, if the bill" of particulars delivered under the
r of the Court was not satisfactory, and plaintiff intended to object to
any evidence u n the subject, he should have obtained, ‘ions to the trial,
an order exclu ' such evidence. Conner v. Hutchinson, 1 Cal. 280.

4. Wimout an order before the ‘trial, excluding evidence of the account in
such cases, the Courtcannot on the trial exclude." Id.

5. Where a copy of the account sued on, or'set forth in the answer, is‘
called for under e iifty-sixth‘ section of the Practice Act, the items of the
account furnished must be set forthwith as much particularity as ‘the nature’
of the case admits of; but the law does ‘not re uire impossibihties, and if the
 vw the items, as definitely as he can e does not ‘forfeit his rights

of his inability to comply with a further demand for particulars. Id.

6. Where the complaint in hazc verba set forth the bill oi’ sale, it was held
to remedy a defect in the description of the quantityioi the goods ‘sold; a
