‘ Whb may issue the execution, its form," to whom directed and what it shall require.

The writ of execution shall be issued in thename of the
people, sealed with the seal of the Court, and subscribed by
the Clerk, and shall be directed to the sherid, and shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the county

where the judgment roll is filed, and if it be‘ for money, the
amount thereof, and the amount actually due thereon, and if

made payable in a specified kind of money or currency, as
provided in section two hundred of this act, the execution
shall also state the kind of money or currency in which the
judgment is payable, and shall require the sheriff, substantially as follows: ‘

First——If it be against the property of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sherid to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of such debtor, and ii sailicient personal property cannot be found, then out of his real
property; or if the judgment be alien upon real property,
then out of the real property belonging to him on the day
when the judgment was docketed; or if the execution be
issued to a county other than the one in which the judgment
was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket
was filed in the oihce of the recorder of such county, stating
such day, or any time thereafter.

Second—If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such
property.

77u'rd—If it be against the person of the judgment debtor,
it shall require the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit
him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment, with
interest, or be discharged according to law.

Fourth——If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a

specified kind of money or currency, as provided in section ,

two hundred of this act, it shall also require the sheriff to
satisfy the same in the kind of money or currency in which
said judgment is made payable, and the sheriff shall refuse
payment in any other kind of money or currency ; and in
case of levy and sale of the property of the judgment debtor
he shall refuse payment from any purchaser at such sale in
any other kind of money or currency than that specified in
the execution. The sheriff collecting money or currency in
the manner required by this act, shall pay to the plaintifff or
party entitled to recover the same, the same kind of money
or currency received by him, and in case of neglect or refusal
so to do, he shall be liable on his ollicial bond to the judgment creditor in three times the amount of the money so collected.

Fzfth—-If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it,to the party
entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require the

sherid to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits, recov§211. ‘When all the defendants were not served with summons, what to direct.

When a writ of execution is issued on a judgment recovered against two or more persons, in an action upon a joint
contract, in which action all the defendants were not served

with summons, or did not appear, it shall direct the Sherid‘ to
satisfy the judgment out of the joint property of all the
defendants, and the individual property only of the defendants who were served or who appeared in the action. In
other respects, the writ shall contain the directions specified

in subdivisions one and four of the last section.

1Amended 1863, 688. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. When judgment is taken jointly against two defendants, it makes no
diference, so far as the are concerned, whether the sherif nrst levied on

joint property or not. Y. Adams, 6 Cal. 277.
