‘Proceedings in foreclosure suits.

There shall be but one action for the recovery of any
debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage
upon real estate or personal property, which action shall
be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. In
actions for the foreclosure of mortgages, the Court shall
have power, by its judgment, to direct a sale of the encumbered property, (or so much thereof as may be necessary),
and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costsof the Court and the expenses of the sale,
and the amount due to the plaintifff; and if it appear from
the Sheriffs return that the proceeds are insufficient, and a
balance still remains due, judgment shall then be docketed
for such balance against the defendant or defendants personally liable for the debt, and shall then become a lien on
the real estate of such judgment debtor, as in other cases
on which execution may be issued. N 0 person holding a
conveyance from or under the mortgagor of the property
mortgaged, or having a lien thereon, which conveyance or

for principal or interest, the Court may, on motion, order
more to be sold. But if the property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to the parties, the whole may be ordered
to be sold in the first-instance, and the entire debt and costs
paid, there being a rebate of interest Where such rebate is
proper.
See notes under § 246.

1. When a debt secured is payable in installments, the mortgagee or his as
signee has a right to bring an action to foreclose the mortgage, when the mat
installment falls due and is not paid. Grattan v. .W'zggins, 23 Cal. 16.

2. Where several notes have been given which are secured by one mortgagee,
and the notes are assigned to different persons, and the assignor has a right, by
agreement with the assignees, to fix the rights of the purchasers of the several
notes to the mortgage security. Id.

3. Where, in such a case, the assi nee of one note, having the first right to the
benefit of the mortgaged security, orecloses when the debt falls due, and obtains a decree under which all the mortgaged property is sold, such foreclosure
and sale operate as an extinguishment of the mortgage. .

4. The holders of the other notes secured by the mortgage have a right to
redeem from the sale made under such foreclosure; but when not made, parties
to the action must assert this right to redeem within four years, or it is barred
by the Statute of Limitations. Id.
