‘Appeal may be taken from County Court, in certain
cases.

An appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court from a final
judgment of the County Court.

First£y—In an action of forcible entry and detainer ; in an
action to prevent or abate a nuisance; in a proceeding in
insolvency ; in an action wherein the legality of any tax, im
post, assessment, toll, or municipal fine is in question ; and in
any special case within the appellate jurisdiction of the Snpreme Court over which the Legislature may require said
County Court to exercise jurisdiction.

Secondlg/—From an order granting or refusing a new trial ;
from an order granting or dissolving, or an order refusing to
grant or dissolve an injunction; and from any special order
made after final judgment in the cases in this section before

enumerated.

‘Amended 1853, 277; 1854, 93; 1865-6, 846.

1. N o appeal was allowed by law from a County Court to the Supreme Court,
prior to the first day of July, 1854. Middleton v. Gould et aL, 5 Cal. 190.

2. An objection that a County Court has no jurisdiction in cases on appeal,
where no appeal bond is given as required by the statute, should be made in
tbhe Court below. It is too late to raise the question here. Howard v. Harman,

Cal. 7 8. 3. Where such an objection is made within the proper time, it is the duty of
the presiding Judge to hear the excuse of the party failing to produce it, and
if sufficient, to allow him to file a bond. Id.

4. Where a party appealed from a J ustice‘s Court to a County Court, and the
Justice neglected to send up with the record the notice of the appeal : Held, that
it was error to refuse to allow appellant the opportunity of moving to compel
the Justice to send it up, by peremptorily dismissing the appeal. Sherman v.
Rolberg, 9 Cal. 17.

5. The Supreme Court has jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals from
the judgment of the County Court, on questions of fraud made on the petition
(éilan insolvent for a discharge from his debts. Fislc v. His Creditors, 12

. 281.

6. A refusal by the County Court, on appeal from a Justice, to permit an
amendment of the complaint, is matter of discretion, and there being no affidavit of materiality, nor any showing of the importance of the amendment,
this Court will not interfere. Canjield v. Bates, 13 Cal. 606.

7. Where, in an action of forcible entry and detainer, the 'udgment is for
the possession of the premises, and ninety-four dollars, treb e damages, besides costs—the title not being involved—query, whether the Supreme Court
has jurisdiction of an appeal from the County Court. Paul v. Silver, 16 Cal. 73.

8. No appeal will lie from a judgment for two hundred dollars, costs and
per centage. The amount must exceed two hundred dollars—that is, the
amount in dispute. Costs and per cenlage are only incidental to the action.
Zabrislcic v. Terry; Votan v. Reese et al., 20 Cal. 89; Dumphy v. Guindon, 13 Id.
28. [See Meeker v. Harris, 23 Id. 285.]

9. The order of a County Court dismissing an appeal from a Justice's Court
in an action of forcible entry and detainer, is a final ju ent from which an
appeal may be taken to the Supreme Court. Zoller v. cDonald, 23 Cal. 136.

10. The Constitution gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction on appeal from

judgments rendered in contested election cases in the County Courts. Knowles

v. Yeates, 31 Cal. 82.
11. The Supreme Court has appellate jurisdiction from a judgment of the
County Court rendered in an election contest. Day v. Jones, 31 Cal. 261.
