‘ Change of venue in certain cases. Adjournment on
demand of a jury.

If, at any time before the trial, it appear to the satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is brought, by
aliidavit of either party, that such justice is a material witness for either party, or if either party make affidavit that
he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by rea»
son of the interest, prejudice, or bias of the Justice, the
action may be transferred to some other Justice of the
san1e or a neighboring township; and in case a jury be demanded, and affidavit of either party is made that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial, on account of the bias or
prejudice of the citizens of the township against him, the
action may be transferred to some other Justice of the
Peace in the county; but only one transfer shall be allowed
to either party. The Justice to whom an action may be
transferred by the provisions of this section, shall have and
exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as if it had
been originally commenced before him. The Justice or-=.
dering the transfer of the action to another Justice, shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by the party

applying of all the costs that have accrued, all the papers
in the action, together with a certified transcript from his
docket of the proceedings therein. The Justice to whom
the case is transferred shall issue a notice, stating the time
and place when and where the trial will take place, which
notice shall be served upon the parties by any officer authorized to serve process in a J ustice’s Court, or by any

person specially deputized by the Justice for that purpose, at
east one day before the tria . ‘
‘Amended 1353, 279 ; 1863, 502.

Upon the return day of the summons, if a jury be
required, or, if the Justice be actually engaged in other
official business, he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either party, as follows:

1st. When a party who is not a resident of the county
is in attendance, the adjournment not to exceed twentyfour hours; when the defendant in attendance is under
arrest, the adjournment not to exceed three hours;

2d. In other cases, not to exceed five days.

1. Where a Justice is interested in the event of a suit, the statute requires
that he should transfer the case before another Justice. Lame v. Gaskms, 5

Cal. 507.
2. A Justices’ Court to which a case has been transferred from another similar Court, ma ' , for cause shown, change the venue. The People a:
rel. Hayley v. Egfd, 22 Cal. 34.
