‘Venue of actions in Justices’ Courts.
[1867—8]. No person shall be held to answer to any summons issued against him from a J ustice’s Court, in a civil action ,

in any township or city other than the one in which he shall

reside, except in the cases following:
First—When there shall be no J ustice’s Court for the township or city in which the defendant may reside, or no Justice

competent to act on the case.

aSecond——When two or more persons shall be jointly or
jointly and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the ‘same action, and reside in different
townships or different cities of the same county, or in different
counties, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in a Justices’
Court of the township or city in which any of the debtors or
other persons liable may reside.

Thz'rd—In cases of injury to the person, or to real or per.
aonal property, the plaintifff may prosecute his action in the
township or city where the injury was committed.

Fourth—Where personal property, unjustly taken or detained, is claim'ed, or damages therefore are claimed, the
plaintifff may bring his action in any ‘township or city in’
which the property may be found, or in which the property
was taken.

F{fth—When the defendant is a non-resident of the county,
he may be sued in any township or city wherein he may be

found.

Si:cth—When a person has contracted to perform any obligation at a particular place, and reside, in another county
or in a township or city of the same county, he may be sued
in the township or city in which such obligation is to be
performed or in which he resides; and for the purpose of
Justices’ Courts’ jurisdiction under this clause, the township or city in which the obligation is incurred shall be
deemed to be the township or city in which it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract to the contrary.

Seventh—When the foreclosure of a mortgage or the enforcement of a lien upon personal property is sought by the
action, the plaintifff’ may sue in the township or city where
the property is situated.

E'z'ghth—Any person or persons residing in the city of
San Francisco may be held to answer to any summons issued
against him or them from the Court of a Justice for any
township within the corporate limits of the city of San
Francisco, in any action or proceeding whereof Justices of
the Peace of the city or county of San Francisco have, or
may have, jurisdiction by law; provided, nothing herein

contained shall be construed to allow any {Justice of said
city or county to hold a Court in any other township than
the one for which he shall have been elected. (1)

‘Amended Statutes, 1353, 273; 1887-8, 550.

1. Where the record shows that suit was brought in township No. 4,
Sierra county, that the summons was served, by the constable of that township, in township No. 3, and it nowhere a pears either the defendant was a
resident of townshi No. 4, or a non-resi ent of the county, or that the suit
was within an of e other exceptions of the statute. (Wood's Dig. 232.
233.) The ju ent rendered is void, and not admissible as evidence of h'tle
upon a sale e thereunder. Low v. Alexander, 15 Cal. 296.

2. The jurisdiction of Justices’ Courts is special and limited, and the law
presumes nothing in favor of their jurisdiction. A party who asserts a right
under a judgment rendered in a J usu'ce's Court, must show am:-matively every

factnecessary to ‘vs the Court 'urisdiction to rsndeqsuch judgment. Rmnley
v. Howard, 23 Gag‘ 401. J _
