‘The Court may set aside or ajirm the report, and enter
judgment thereupon ; judgment shall be conclusive.

[1867-8.] The Court may condrm‘, change, modify,» or set
aside the report, and, if ‘necessary, appoint new referees.
Upon the report being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which judg-.
ment shall be binding and conclusive:

First-—0n all persons named as parties to the action, and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any interest in the property divided or any part thereof, as owners in
fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of such property,
or of any part thereof, after the determination of a particular estate therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who have
an interest in any undivided share thereof as tenants for

years or for life.
Sccond—On all persons interested in the property, who
may be unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of

the action for partition by publication.
TIu'rd—On all other persons claiming from such parties

or persons, or either of them.

And no judgment shall be invalidated by reason of the
decease of any party before final judgment or decree; but
such judgment or decree shall be as conclusive against the
heirs, legal representatives or assigns of such decedent, as
if such iinal judgment were entered before such decease.

‘Amended 1866, 705; 1867-8, 629. Abb. Forms, 1803-1805.

1. Judynent in partition.——A judginent in an action for partition is binding and conclusive as to title, upon the parties who are served with summons or- appear-,and a bar toanew action. Morenlooutv. Higuera, 32 Cal.

89.
8. If the complaint in 'tion avers that a defendant has, or claims to

have, some interest in the d, which interest is unknown to plaintii, and a
summons is served on such defendant, and he fails to ap , and the judgment does not give such defendant any interest, it is res ' icata, and estops
him from recovering in a new action. Id.

3. The etect of a judgment in dpartition is to be determined by our statute,

ndnotbythecommonlaw. I. ,
