Actions to be tried where causes of action arose.

Actions for the following causes shall be tried in the county

where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject to the
like power of the Court to change the place of trial:
’ 1st. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by
statute; except, that when it is imposed for an offense committed on alake, river, or other stream of water, situated in
two or more counties, the action may be brought in any
county bordering on such lake, river, or stream, and opposite
to the place where the offense was committed:

2d. Against a public ohicer or person especially appointed
to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his
office, or against aperson who, by his command, or in his aid,
does anything touching the duties of such officer.

N. Y. Code, § 124. See post, M 20, 21.

1. Proceedings foramandamusto com the execution of a sheriR's deed

a redemptioner, after six da from e redemption, under section two
undred and thirty-two of e e, can be commenced in the county where
therelator resides. The provision of the statute that w&o t a public
officerfor actsdone b him invirtue of his oiiice, etc., set f in this section, applies onl ‘ to a ative acts of the officer, by which in the execution
of process, or o erwise, he interferes with the property or right of third,
and not to more omissions or neglect of omcial duty. McMillan v.

iiacnards, 9 Cal.-120.

I, § 20. ‘Actions to be tried where parties reside.

A In all other cases, the action shall be tried in the county
which ‘the defendants, or any of them, may reside at the commencement of the action; or, if ‘none of the defendants reside in the State, or, if residing in this State, the county in
which they so reside be unknown to the plaintifff, the same
may be tried in any county which the plaintifff may designate in his complaint; and if any defendant or defendants
may be about to depart from the State, such action may be
tried in any county where either of the parties may reside_
or service be had; subject, however, to the power of the
Court to change the place of trial as provided in this Act.
mmended Stat. 1858, 82. N. Y. Code, $125. See post, $91. _

1. Probate proceedings notwlthin the Aot.--—Proosedlnge for the settlement ofan estate, and matters connected therewith,are notcivll actions
within the meaning of this Title 2d, so as to transfer them from one county
to another. Estate of Scott, 15 Cal. 220.

1. Corporation. residence of.--The prinei place of business of a corgration is its residence within the mean’ 0 that term, as used in section

ofthePracticeAct,£xing the place 0 trial. Jenlcinsv. the Oalifomia
&Ig¢ Company, 22 Cal. 637.

3. Habeas Corpus.-—'l‘he writ of habeas corpus should not issue to run out
of the county, unless for good cause shown, as the absence, inability or refusal to act, of the local Judge, or other reason showing that the ob)ect and
reason of the law requires its issuance. Ea: parts Ellis, 11 Cal. 225.
