Parties in interest, when to be joined. When one or

I more may sue or defend for the whole.

Of the parties to the action, those who are united in interest shall be joined as plaintifffs or defendants ; but if the consent of any one who should have been joined as plaintifff cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the question
is one of a common or general interest, of many persons. or
when the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to

bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.
Applicable to Justices’ Courts; N. Y. Code, § 119.

1. Construction of this sectlon.—'1‘he fourteenth section of the Practice
Act was intended to a ly to suits in equity, and not to actions at law.
Andrews v. Molcelumnc ill 00., 7 Cal. 330.

2. Generally.—The rule requiring all ersons materially interested to be
made parties to a suit is dispensed with, w en it is impracticable or very inconvenient, as in cases of joint associations, com osed of numerous individuals. Gorman v. Russell, 14 Cal. 531; Van Salim‘ tv. Huntington, 1 Cal. 55.

3. When one partner sues for an injury to the partnership property, and
makes his copartner a defendant for want of his consent to join as plainti.&',
the recovery must be entire for the whole injury. Query: Whether such non'oinder of Harties laintif! is permissible. N igfilingale v. Scannell, 6 Cal. 506.

he lawIydvi not to erate a division of a joint right of action into several actions. .

4. In an action upon a bond or written undertaking, there can be no conatlrlucgisve parties jointly liable with the proper obligors. Lindsay v. Flint, 4

5. All the parties having a part interest in the subject matter should be
joined as plaintids, but the defect must be taken advantage of by answer or
a portionment of damages, where it does not appear on the face of the comp °nt. Whitmy v. Stark, 8 Cal. 514.

6. When four of the trustees of a private corporation, owni sudlcient
stock to control its business, conduct the business in a grossly neg igent manner, systematically disregarding the by-laws, keeping no account of receipts
and ex enditures, failing to pay their own assessments, without an excuse:
Held, at a stockholder may sue in equity for an account, making t e corporation and said trustees alone parties-—no objection being taken that all the
stockholders were not parties-—and the trustees will be compelled to make
gpod any loss occasioned by their gross negligence or willful misconduct.

eall v. Hill, 16 Cal. 145.
