‘Duty of ojicer receiving execution. Supplementary
proceedings. .

The Sheriff or Constable to whom the execution is directed, shall proceed to execute the same in the same manner as the Sheriff is required by the provisions of Title
VII, of this Act, to proceed upon executions directed’ to
him; and the Constable, when the execution is directed to
him, shall be vested for that purpose with all the powers of
the Sheriff, and, after issuing an execution, and either before or after its return, (if the same be returned unsatisfled
either in whole or in part), the judgment creditor shall be
entitled to an order from the Justice, requiring the judgment debtor to attend at a time to be designated in the
order, and answer concerning his property before such Justice, and the attendance of such debtor may be enforced
by the Justice. On his attendance, such debtor may be examined under oath concerning his property, and any per.
son alleged to have in his hands property, monies, effects
or credits of the judgment debtor may also be required to
attend and be examined, and the Justice may order any

property in the hands of the judgment debtor, or any
other person, not exempt from execution, belonging to such
debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment; and the Justice may enforce such order by imprisonment until complied with, but no judgment debtor or other

person shall be required to attend before the Justice out of
the county in which he resides.

‘Amended 1854, 98.

1. Where property is levied on by a constable or sherin, by virtue of an
attachment or execution, as the property of the defendant in e suit, and is
claimed by a third party, and 8] is called to try the right of property under the claim, and the verdict of e jury is against the claimant, this verdict
is no protection to the officer in suit brought against him b the claimant,
n3; is it admissible in evidence as a defense. Sheldon at al. v. is, 28 Cal.
1

2. Under sections six hundred and one and six hundred and two of the

Practice Act, a constable magi;-erve an execution out of his township. Infantainc v. Greene et a1., 17 Cal.
