‘Execution issued by the Justice, except when it is to
judgment liens, how created.

The Justice, on demand of the party in whose favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcript thereof, which
may be filed and docketed in the office of the Clerk of the
county where the judgment was rendered. The time of the
receipt of the transcript by the County Clerk shall be noted
by him thereon, and entered in the docket; and from that
time executions may be issued by the County Clerk on such
judgments to the Sheriff of any other county of the State, in
the same manner as upon judgments recovered in the higher
Courts. All process upon judgments recovered in Justices’
Courts, to be executed within the same county, shall be
issued by the Justice or his successors in office. No judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace shall create any
lien ‘upon any lands of the defendant, unless a transcript
of such judgment, certified by the Justice, be filed and

recorded in the office of the Recorder. When such transcript
is to be filed in any other county than that in which the Justice resides, such transcript shall be accompanied with the
certificate of the County Clerk as to the official character of
the Justice. When so filed and recorded in the office of the
Recorder for any county, such judgment shall constitute a
lien upon, and bind the lands and tenements of the judgment
debtor, situated in the county where such transcript may be
filed and recorded, in favor of such judgment creditor, as if
such judgment had been rendered in the District Court of

such county.

1 Amended 1854, 97.

1. Real estate of a judgment debtor, situated in the county where the judgment before the J ustice of the Peace was rendered, may be sold on execution

n the ju ent, whether a transcript of the judgment be filed in the office
the Recor er of such county or not. Campbell v. Wiclcwane, 19 Cal. 145.

2. No tiling of such transcript with the Recorder is necessary, except as to
property situated in a diferent county. With reference to property in the
same county, the provisions for the enforcement of an execution upon a judgpident in a J ustices’ Court are the same as those relating to District Courts.

3. A judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace does not become a lien
on the real estate of the judgment debtor until a copy of the judgment, certined by the Justice, has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
Baglegly. Ward, 27 Cal. 370.

4. e Ming and recording in the Recorder's office of the copies of docket
entries, made by a Justice 0 the Peace, does not constitute the judgment a
lien on the real estate of the judgment debtor. Id. ,

5. The tiling of the transcript of a jud ent of a Justice of the Peace with,
and the docketing of it by the County C erk, do not make it a judgment or
record of the District Court. People v. Doc, 31 Cal. 220.
