XXI.

OF THE EXECUTION 0]’ THE JUDGMENT IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Onarrns I.--The execution.

8:0-non 209. Within what time an execution may issue.

210. Who me issue it; its form; to whom directed; and what
it sh require.

211. When all the defendants were not served wim summons,
what to direct. _

212. When made returnable.

213. Money judgments and others, how enforced.

214. Execution after dve years.

215. When execution may issue against the property of a party
after his death.

218. Execution may be issued to the she:-id’ of any county;
when against the property of the defendent; otherwise
when it requires the delivery of real and personal
v*°Im~

217. What be liable to be seized in execution; not tabs
affected till a levy is made. "

218. Whensproperty is claimed bya third party; how the right
of property to be tried.

219. What roperty shall be exempt from execution.

220. Writ, ow executed

221. Notice of sale under execution, how given.

222. Belling without notice, what enalty attached.

223. Sales, how conducted; neit er the officer conducting it
nor his deputy to be a purchaser; real and personal
Rlroperty, how sold; judgment debtor if resent

'rect order of sale, and the officer follow 1‘
directions.

224. If purchaser refuses to pay purchase money, what proc

225. Court or ustice may proceed in a summarymanner against
a purchaser refusing to pay; omoer may refuse such
purchaser's bid after.

These two sections not to make officer liable beyond a cor»

P mmimomm bl 1 ml deh 1: a 11

ersona property capa e 0 man ‘very, ow e vP mdmilo Pu ' bl f ual d 1: h
erso rortnotca eoman e°ve,ov
sold dgfivgred. Pa - 17

Real property, when absolute sale or not; in the latter-case
what the certificate must contain.

Real property so sold, by whom it may be redeemed.

When it may be redeemed; and redemption money.

When judgment debtor or other redemptioner may redeem.

In case of redemption, to whom the payments are to be
m e.

What must a redemptioner do, in order to redeem.

Until the expiration of redemptiontime, Court may restrain
waste on the property; what shall be considered waste.

i‘:"*° “ad *"°':“:~.,.':’*° ‘° '° '°.;°:*'::,~ ... ....,... —.

urc asero rope e ct or ' an'eI

n the sale, wbatpshallrthe recover, and from whom.

When judgment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by whom made.
