‘Reference ordered upon agreement of parties, in what
cases. '
A reference may be ordered upon the agreement of the
parties filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes:
Fz'rsL——To try any or all of the issues in an action or_ proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a finding
and judgment thereon:
Second»-—To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the Court

to proceed and determine a case.

3d. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the
action; or, i

4th. When it is necessary for the information of the Court
in a special proceeding._

1. Our statute, as to referring cases, ap lies solely to equity causes. The

t of trial by jury in all common law ac one is secured by the Constitution
0 this State. Grim V. Norris, 19 Cal. 140.

2. A Court has not power to send an ordinary suit at law to a referee for trial

against the objection of either party; and this, whether the suit requires the
examination of a long account or not. And a statute authorizing a reference
in such case would be unconstitutional. Id.

8. In an action of law, the necessi oftaking a long aecountwill not
authorize the Court to refer the case wi out the consent of_ parties. Id.

4. And even if one of the parties subsequently waived his objection to the
reference, that will not be sumcient. Id.

'5. The Court may order a reference to ascertain the es sustained
reason of an injunction issued without a cause. Russell v. lliott, 2 Cal. .

6. Action, for balance of an account. Defense, payment‘ by a promissory
note. _ Re lication, that the plaintifff was induced to receive the note by means
of fraud ent representations. Held, that the case was not referable under

iihsdsltagaéga, without the written consent of both parties. Seaman v. Hmiam‘,

7. In an uity case, where the trial of an issue of fact is involved, requiring
the examina on of a 10 account on either side, the Court may order a reference, with directions to e referee to report upon the account, or any issue of
fact involved in the account. Williams v. Benton, 24 Cal. 425. r

8. In an action to dissolve a partnership and obtain a settlement of the
partnership accounts, the Court has power to order a reference for the trial of
all the issues of fact relating to the condition of the ership accounts;
but it has no power, if objection is made, to order a re erence of the trial of

any othefdissue or issues in the case, nor to direct the referee to report a judgment. .

9. When the taking ofan account is required, it is in the discretion of the

Court to take an account, or to refer it to a commissioner or referee to state it.
Hidden v. Jordon, 28 Cal. 301.

10. If the commissioner, to whom a case has been referred to take an account,
commits an error at the threshold which unsettles the account, the Court is not
bound to go over the account and correct the error, but may set aside the report
and again refer the case. Hidden v. Jordon, 32 Cal. 397. [See same case, 28

Cal. 301.]
