‘Title to real esmte cannot be questioned before a Justice. Such cases shall be eertt/ied to a District Court.

The parties shall not be at liberty to give evidence upon

any question which involves the title or possession of real

property, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll,
or municipal tine, nor shall any issue presenting such question be tried by said justice ; and if it appear, from the plaintiil"s own showing on the trial, or from the answer of the
defendant, verified by his oath, that the determination of the
action will necessarily involve the question of title or possession to real property, or the legality of any tax, impost,
assessment, toll, or municipal fine, the Justice shall suspend
all further proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings, or if the pleadings be oral, a transcript of the same,
from his docket to the District Court of the County, and from

the time of filing such pleadings or transcript with the
County Clerk, the District Court shall have over the action

the same jurisdiction as if it were commenced therein.

‘Amended 1863-4, 117.

1. Where in a suit in a Justice's Court for damages to real property, the
answer put in issue the ownership of the roperty, and the defendant moved
to transfer the case to the District Court or trial, which motion was refused;
and after trial before the Justice, judgment was rendered for plaintifff, and
the defendant ap ed to the county Court, where the judgment was set
aside, and an 0 er made transferring the case to the District Court, where,
after trial, plaintifff  had judgment: Held, that the coun Court had
authority, under sections nve hundred and eighty-one and three undred and
sixty-seven of the Practice Act, to transfer the case to the District Court; that
the sheet of the appeal to the County Court was to vest it with authority to
make all orders necessary for the determination of the case; and as the case
was to be tried de now, and the County Court was incompetent, under the

statute, to Cl? it, the transfer to the District Court was necessary. Oullen v.
' , 1 Cal. 67.

2. If upon the filing of the defendant's verified answer in a J ustice’s Court
it aplpears in the answer that the determination of the action will necessarily
invo vs a question of title to real property, the cause should be transferred to a
District Court, and when so transferred, the District Court obtains complete

jurisdiction in the premises. Doherty v. Thayer, 31 Cal. 140.
