‘Omission to make statement or amendment according
to preceding section shall be a waiver thereof.

If the party shall omit to make a statement within the time
above limited, he shall be deemed to have waived his right
thereto; and when a statement is made, and the parties shall
omit within the several times above limited, the one party to
propose amendments, the other to notify an appearance before the Judge, they shall respectively be deemed, the former
to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and the latter
to have agreed to the amendments as proposed, but the Judge
who heard the cause shall, notwithstanding such omission or

implied agreement, have power to correct any misstatement

of facts or of his rulings which such statement may contain.

‘Amended Statutes 1855, 303; 1863, 644.

1. If a statement is served and med within the time required by the three
hundred and thirty-eighth section of the Practice Act, unless the respondent,
within five days thereafter, prepares and serves amendments, he is deemed to
have agreed to the statement; and no settlement thereof or certificate oi 
Judge 18 necessary. wnner v. Morris, 23 Cal. 447. _ f.

2. If the statement on appgal from a ‘jpdgment is not served on the responl,
dent‘s attorney until more 11 twenty ys after the rendition of judgment,
and gt; extension of time is pllitained, a statemept ishwaived, and tlfile a te urtcannot review any eged errors exc sue as a in e u ment roll. Kavanagh v. Mans, 28 Cal. 261. GP ppm: J a8

3. If no amendments to a statement on appeal are served on the appellant,
it may be settled by the Judge without notice to the respondent, but It should
be authenticated either by the certificate of the Judge or by the stipulation ‘of

the parties. Id.
4. If a statement on appeal is not filed and served in time, the opposite party

does not waive the default by not ramming to a pellants’ attorney the copy of
the statement served on him. Bryan v. Maume al., 28 Cal. 238.

5. If the party who appeals from a judgment does not file and serve a statement on appeal within twenty days from the date of the judgment, his right to
make a statement is waived. Harper v. Minor, 27 Cal. 108. '
