‘ What property shall be exempt from execution.

The following property shall be exempt from execution,
except as herein otherwise specially provided:

First-—Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of one
hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor.

Secand—Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture
belonging to the judgment debtor, including stoves, stovepipe, and stove furniture, wearing apparel, beds, bedding.
and bedsteads, and provisions actually provided for individual
or family use suilicient for one month.

Third-—The farming utensils or implements of husbandry
of the judgment debtor; also, two oxen, or two horses, or two
mules, and their harness, four cows, one cart or wagon, and
food for such oxen, horses, cows, or mules, for one month;

also, all seed grain or vegetables actually provided, reserved,

{or on hand for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time
{within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value the
[sum of two hundred dollars.

Faurth—Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan
necessary to carry on his trade, the instruments and chest of
a Surgeon, Physician, Surveyor, and Dentist, necessary to the
exercises of their profession, with their scientific and professional libraries ; the law libraries of Attorneys and Counselors, and the libraries of Ministers of the Gospel.

F{flh—The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding in
value the sum of five hundred dollars ; also, his sluices, pipes,
hose, Windlass, derrick, cars, pumps, tools, implements, and
appliances necessary for carrying on any kind of mining operations, not exceeding in value the aggregate sum of five
hundred dollars; and two horses, mules, or oxen, with their
harness, and food for such horses, mules, ‘or oxen, for one
month, when necessary to be used for any whim, Windlass,
derrick, car, pump, or hoisting gear.

Si.'z:th-—Two oxen, two horses, or two mules, and their harness,
and one cart or wagon, by the use of which a cartman, huckster, peddler, teamster, or other laborer habitually earns his
living; and one horse, with vehicle and harness or other
equipments, used by a Physician, or Surgeon, or Minister of
the Gospel in making his professional visits, with food for
such oxen, horses, or mules, for one month.

Seventh—All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts,
trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of
any fire company or department organized under any law of
this State.

EightIz~—A11 arms, uniforms, and accoutrements, required by _

law to be kept by any person.

M'nth—All Court-houses, Jails, public offices, and buildings,
lots, grounds, and personal property, the fixtures, furniture,
books, papers, and appurtenances, belonging and .pertaining
to the Court-house, Jail, and public offices belonging to any
county of this State, and all cemeteries, public squares, parks

and places, public buildings, town halls, markets, buildings0

for the use of the fire departments and military organizations,
and the lots and grounds thereto belonging and appertaining,
owned or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedicated
by such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or
for the use of any fire or military company organized under
the laws of this State; but no article or species of property
mentioned in this section shall be exempt from execution
issued upon a judgment recovered for its price or upon a
mortgage thereon. . _

Tenth-—The earnings of the judgment debtor for his personal services rendered at any time within thirty days next
preceding the levy of execution (or levy of attachment),
when it shall be made to appear by the debtor’s aiiidavit or

otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of his
family residing in this State, supported wholly or in part by
his labor.
