‘Stay of proceedings. The security on appeal may be
limited in the case of an execution, etc.

Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in the preceding sections in this chapter, it shall stay all further proceedings in the Court below upon the judgment or order
appealed from, or upon the matters embraced therein; and
on appeal, and filing an appeal bond on appeal from an order
disharging an attachment, said attachment shall not be dis‘
solved, but shall remain in full force until the cause be dis’
posed of on appeal ; but the Court below may proceed upon
any other matter embraced in the action, and not affected by
the order appealed from. And the Court below may, in its
discretion, dispense with or limit the security required by
said sections, when the appellant is an executor, administrator, trustee, or other person acting in another’s right; pro.
vided, that an appeal shall not continue in force an attachment,
unless an undertaking be executed and filed, on the part of
the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double the amount

of the debt claimed by him, that the appellant will pay all
costs and damages which the respondent may sustain by
reason of the attachment, in case the order of the Court below be sustained; and unless, also, notice of the appeal be
given within five days after service of the notice of the entry

of the order appealed _from, and such appeal be perfected,
and the undertaking in this section mentioned be filed within

five days thereafter.

‘Amended 1865-6, 707. N. Y. Code, § 339. Bancroft’s Forms, 48d.
1. Where a suit is pending in the Sn reme Court on appeal, the Judgment

below is suspended for all purposes, an it is not evidence upon the riiiitestions
at issue, even between the parties. Woodbury v_. Bowman, 13 Cal. 6 .

2. Proceedings stayed upon a ju ent, pending an appeal, though no undertaking was ‘van. Ross 7. Aust' , 2 Cal. 183. _ O

3. An ajgie from an order of reference stays the proceedings. Svmih v.

al. 9

Poaock, 2 2.
4. Where the sureties to an undertaking, on appeal to the Sn reme Court,

justify in a sum less than double the amount specilied in the un ertaking, but
more than double the amount of three hundred dollars, such undertaking is

snmcient under section three hundred and forty-eight of the Code, though
insiimcient to stay the issuance of the execution. Molcelumne Hill 00. v.

Woo<£1zu'y, 10 Cal. 185. _ _
5. Where the examination of the sureties does not disclose sunicient property to make the undertaking operate as a stay, but does disclose suiiicient to
render the appeal effectual, respondent's remedy is by motion in the Court
below for leave to proceed on the judgment, notwithstanding the undertalnng,
and not by motion in the Supreme Court to dismiss the appeal. Dobbins v.

Dollar-hide, 15 Cal. 37 4.

6. A stay of proceedings, from its nature under an appeal, only operates
upon orders or judgments commanding some act to be done, and does _not
reach a case of injunction. Meroed Mining Co. v. Fremont, 7 Cal. 132; Hicks

V. Michael, 15 Cal. 109.
