Application for a new trial.

The application shall be made upon affidavit and notice.
The atiidavit shall be filed with the Justice, with 8 statement
of the grounds upon which the party intends to rely. The

adverse party may use counter affidavits on the motion, pro»
vided they be filed one day previous to the hearing of the
motion. '

i § 624. ‘Appeal from a judgment qf a Justice may be taken to
the County Court. V

Any party dissatisfied with a judgment rendered in a
J ustice’s Court, may appeal therefrom to the County Court of

the county [at] any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment; the appeal shall be taken by tiling a
notice of appeal with the Justice, and serving a copy on the
adverse party. The notice shall state whether the appeal is
taken from the whole or apart of the judgment, and if from
a part, what part, and whether the appeal is taken on questions of law or fact, or both.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 98. See ante. M 366-367.
1. On appeal from a Jus'ice’s to 9. Con Conrt—the record not showing

that notice of a peal had been served on t e adverse pa?—appellant may
pgalveagghis am avit that such notice was in fact served. endiooa v. Orr, 16

2. The general rule regulating appeals, which provides that notice may be
served on the pang or his attorney, must govern cases arising in J ustices’
Courts. Wellon v. aribardi, 6 Cal. 245.

3. A Justice of the Peace has jurisdiction to grant a peals and to sta prooeedings thereupon; and hisaction cannot beneview on certtorari. 'oulta'
v. Stark, 7 Cal. 245.

4. Under the Constitution, before the amendment: which went into efect
January 1st, 1864, an appeal could be taken to the Supreme Court from a
judgment of the County curt, when the judgment appealed from, inclu '
ch  and interest,exceeded two hundred dollars. Malsonv. Vaughn,

5. One of the conditions upon which an appeal is allowed from a Justice's
Court, is payment of costs. McDe1-molt v. Douglass, 5 Cal. 89.

6.AnapealdoesnotlietotheConn Courtfrcmanordermade a
Justice of t e Peace, directing ro ed to have been stolen, and '
covered and brought before the ustice hy a peace officer, by virtue of a search
varrag. iisipedsby the Justice, to be delivered to the owner. People v. Hallo, . 6 1.

. An appeal to the County Court lies from a judgment rendered in a Jush'ce’s Court, in an action brought to recover the penalty for an overcharge,
pursuant to the provisions of the act of the 14th of April, 1863, concerning
street railroads in this State. Bureau v. Cowles, 25 Cal. 535.

8. A notice of appeal from a judgient rendered in a Justice's Court to the
County Court, in an action of forci e entry and detainer, is not invalidated
because it contains a clause that the “ appeal is taken on questions of law
alone." Zolle v. Mzbonald, 23 Cal. 136.

. § 625. ‘Party appealing on questions of law alone shall prepare a statement. Settlement of statement.

When a party appeals to the County Court on questions of
law alone, he shall, within ten days from the rendition of
judgment, prepare a statement of the case and file the same
with the Justice. The statement shall contain the grounds
upon which the party intends to rely on the appeal, and so
much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain the
grounds, and no more; within ten days after he receives
notice that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the same, may file amendments ; the proposed
statement and amendments shall be settled by the Justice,

and if no amendments be filed, the original statement shall be
adopted. The statement thus adopted or as settled by the
Justice, with a copy of the docket of the Justice, and all
motions filed with him by the parties during the trial, and
the notice of appeal shall be used on the hearing of the

appeal before the County Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99' 1855, 198.
1. On appeal from a Justloe’s Court to a County Court, on questions of law
alone, if a new trial he ordered, it should take place in the County Court.

People v. Evelon, 8 Cal. 518.
