‘Justices’ docket, contents of.

Every Justice shall keep a book denominated a “ docket,”
in which he shall enter:

1st. The title of every action or proceeding;

2d. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum
of money be claimed, the amount of the demand; '

3d. The date of the summons, and the time of its return;
and if an order to arrest the defendant be made, or a writ
of attachment be issued, a statement of these facts;

4th. The time when the parties or either of them appear,
or their non-appearance, if default be made; a minute of
the pleadings and motions; if in writing, referring to
them; if not in writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the pleadings, and of all motions made during
the trial by either party, and his decisions thereon;

5th. Every adjournment, stating on Whose application,
whether on oath, evidence, or consent, and to what time ;

6th. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and the

time appointed for the trial and return of the jury ;

7th. The names of the jury, who appear and are sworn,
the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request ;

8th. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the
jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge ;

9th. The judgment of the Court, specifying the costs included and the time when rendered;

10. The issuing of the execution, when issued and towhom,
the renewals thereof, if any, and when made, and a statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and by
whom;

11th. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed.

‘Amended 1856, 197.

1. The failure of a Justice of the Peace to state in his docket that the summons was returned “ served,” will not vitiate the ju ent on appeal. The
fact of service may be shown by the return of the 0 car on the summons.
Denmark v. Liming, 10 Cal. 93.

2. The record of the proeeedin in a Justice's Court, in which judgment
was rendered, must amrmatively ow that the suit was brought in the proper
township, or the proceedings are coram non judice and void; and the failure
of defendant, after summons served, to appear and object that suit was

brought in the wrong township, is no waiver of the objection. Lowe v. Alec!»ander, 15 Cal. 296.

3. The recital in the docket of a Justice, who had rendered judgment, that
the summons was “ returned duly served," is of no weight to prove proper
service of the summons. The return of the officer is as much a part of the
record as the docket itself ; and if the return fail to show sumcient service,
the recital being based on the return alone, amounts to nothing more than
the opinion of the Justice, and cannot be relied on to give validity to the
judgment. Id.; Rowley v. Howard, 23 Id. 403.
