‘Certified copies of certain papcrsgmaybeadmitted .48
evidence.

A copy of any record, document, or paper in custody of a
public officer of this State, or of the -United ‘States,’ within

this State, certified under the official seal, or verified by the
oath of such officer, to be a true, full and correct copy of the

original in. his custody, may be read  evidencepin an action

or proceeding in the Courts of this State, in the like manner
and with the like effect, as the original could be if produced.

‘Amended 185i, 6 68, p. 102. See M 448, 499.

1. A sworn copy or exemplincation of instruments in the archives of the
Government is evidence, and the ori 'nals o ht not to be removed from the

Government offices. Gregory v. Me hereon, 3 Cal. 674.
2. A certified copy of a deed from the county recorder-’s office, contained in

the margin of the acknowledgement taken before a notary, and in the place
where his seal is usually found, the words [“ No Seal ”]—the conclusion of
the acknowledgement be’ , “ In witness whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and amxed my odic' seal,” etc. The Court below ruled out the co y of
the deed as evidence, on the ground that the acknowledgement did not vs
the no ’s seal. Held, that the Court erred; that the words [“No Seal")
instead 0 im lying that there was no seal adixed, were a mere note by the
recorder of e place of the notarial seal, which he probabl had no means of
copying. Jones v. Martin, 16 Cal. 166. [See Donner v. almer, and cases
there c ted, 31 Cal. 500.]

5 656. Partners may be sued by their common name.

When two or more persons associated in any business,
transact such business under a common ‘name, whether it
comprises the names of such persons or not, the associates
may be sued by such common name, the summons in such
cases being served on one or more of the associates, but
the judgment in such case shall bind only the joint'_property of the associates.

1. If, in a complaint against a company by its company name, under the
six hundred and lifty-sixth section of the Practice Act, there is an entire absence of any statement sho ' the existence of the conditions named in the
section, and (judgment is ren ered against the company by default, is the
judgment vol , or are the conditions matters to be pended in abatement. and
if not thus pleaded, waived? Welch v. Kirkpatric . 30 Cal. 202.

2. If a complaint in an action against a company by its company states
substantial] e conditions mentioned in the six undred and nfty-sixth section of the gractice Act, and the sheriff returns that he has served the summons on one of the members of the company. and judgment by default is
entered up ' t the com y by its name, to be enforced ' the joint
property of e members, e Judgment is not void, but may enforced by
execution against the company property. Id. '

3. Such judgment is not a judgment against the person served with process,
but against the com ny. A complaint which contains no other designation
of the party plain ' than the name of a copartnership firm, is defective; but
such defect can onl be made available to defendant by demurrer for defect of
parties, or by d ' in the answer of any cause of action and objection thereggéler to evidence in support of the claim. Gilman J: 00. v. Oosgroos, 22 Cal.
