Submission may be entered as ma order of Court.
Revocation.
It may be stipulated in the submission, that it be entered
as an order of the County Court, or of the ‘District Court, for
which purpose it shall be Eled with the Clerkof the county

where the parties, or one of them, reside. The Clerk shall,
thereupon, enter in his register of actions a note of the sub~mission, with: the names of the parties, the names of the _
arbitrators, the date of the submission, when £led,~and the

time limited «by the -submission, if «any, within which the

award shall be made. When so entered, the submission shall
not be revoked without the consent of both parties. The
arbitrators may be compelled by the Court to make an award,
and the award may be enforced by the Court in the same
manner as a judgment. If the submission be not made an
order of the Court, it may be revoked at any time before the
award is made.

1. A stipulation in the submission that neither party should a , and 3
power of attorne to confess judgment pursuant to the award, not bar an
appeal from a ju gment on the award; es ecially under our system, where
law and equity are blended together. M row v. Norris, 2 Cal. 74.

2. The report of a referee, and the award of an arbitrator, are in all essentials the same. Grayson v. Guild, 4 Cal. 122.

3. Where the parties entered into a submission to arbitration, in which it
was stipulated that the award be entered as the judgment of the County Court:
Held, it was void in toto. that Court having no 'urisdlction over the subject matter of the award. Williams v. Walton, 9 C . 142.

4. Where a submission to arbitration is made an order of Court, under the
Practice Act, the clerk may enter judgment on the award, in due time, without any further order of the Court. Oarsley v. Lindsay, 14 Cal. 390.

6. An agreementin writing between two parties, to submit matters in dimmence between them to an arbitrator, with t e power to award and adjudge all
matters in difference between them, and to make an award in writing, and
that his award when made may be entered as a judgment of any Court of reoord having jurisdiction, does not give any Court jurisdiction of the parties
litigant, or of the subject matter of the controversy, unless the agreement
further sti ulate that the submission ma be entered as an order of Court,
and the su mission and stipulation are ed with the clerk, and the clerk enter in his register of actions a note of the submission, with the names of the
parties, the name of the arbitrator, etc., as required by the three hundred
glad eighty-second section of the Practice Act. Ryan v. Daugherty, 30 Cal.

8.
