‘Lie pendens,jilz'ng and qfect of.

In an action affecting the title to real property, the plaintill‘, at the time of filing the complaint, and the defendant, at
the time of filing his answer, when ailirmative relief is claimed
in such answer, or at any time afterwards, may file with
the Recorder of the county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties to, and the object of, the action, and a
description of the property in that county affected thereby ;
and the defendant may also, in such notice, state the nature
and extent of the relief claimed in the answer. From the
time of filing, only, shall the pendency of the action be constructive notice to a purchaser, or encumbrance of the property affected thereby.

deputy, it shall be returned with the certificate or affidavit
of the officer of its service, and of the service of the copy
of the complaint, to the oiiice of the clerk from which the
summons issued. When the summons is served by any other
person, as before_ provided, it shall be returned to the office
of the clerk from which it issued, with the aiiidavit of such
person of its service, and of the service of a copy of the
complaint. If there be more than one defendant in . the
action, and such defendants reside within the county, a copy
of the complaint need be served on only one of the defendants.

1 Amended Stat. 1854, 42; 1855, 196; 1859. 39 ; 1860, 298.
1. Courts will take judicial notice of the signature of their cmcers, as such,
but not of parties to a cause. Alderson v. Bell, 9 Cal. 321.

2. —Courts should presume that the sheriff served all process
wiéliiln his j iction, where no place of service is stated. Crane v. Brannon,
3 . 196.

3. Where he states that he served defendant with a certified copy of the
complaint. it will be presumed that the copy was certfiled by the clerk and not
by some one else. Curtis v. Herrick, 14 C 119.

4. Where the levy is made by posting a copy of the writ on the premises, it is
not necessary to show by the return that the premises were at the time unoccupied. Ritter v. Scannell, 11 Cal. 248 ; 0'0onnor v. Blaloe, 29 Cal. 312.

5. Descrlpi:lon.—'l‘he word “ appurtenances ” insuilicient to com rehend
within its  any personal property as the subject of a levy. onroe v.
Ihomas, 5 . 4 .

6. A description in a she:-ifs return of city lots, by numbers, referring to the
omcial map, is sunicient. Watch v. Szdlivan, 8 Cal. 186.

7. Amendment, mistake.—A mistake in the date of a return my be corrected at any time. Bitter v. Scannell, 11 Cal. 248.

8. The sherif has no right to amend his return so as to affect vested rights.
Newhall v. Provost, 6 Cal. 87; Webster v. Haworth, 8 Cal. 26.

9. Return conclusive.—-His return is not traversable, nor can it be attacked

go(l:i:lterally, even if has been guilty of fraud or collusion. Egery v. Buchanan,
. 56.

10. Returns. howmade.--All returns must be made by the deputy in the
name and by the authority of the sheriff. Joyce v. Joyce, 5 Cal. 449.

ll. A summons was served by a deput sheriff and returned with the following signature to the return: Eligah F. Co e, D. S. Judgment was rendered by
default: Edd, that the judgment was null and void; the return should have
been in the name of thesherid by the deputy. Rowley v. Howard, 23 Cal. 401.

12. A$dnvit of 8ervice.—The anidavit of service required by this section
must show that the person serving it was a white male citizen, over twenty-one
years of age, competent to testify in the cause, and that a ccrtiiied copy of the

complaint accompanied the summons. McMillan and Wife v. Reynolds, 11 Cal.
378.
