where property is claimed by Ucirdpersom-i
If any personal property attached he claimed by a,thir.d»
person as his property, the sheriff may summon ajury of six
men to try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings
shall be had thereon, with the like edect, as in case of a
claim after levy upon execution.
IIe§118astothelawandp1-aotice.‘

1.Whe1-epro attachediaelaimedhyathirdvpemomtheahaifmay
petsethimself oreamof sixpersons,andif-theverdictbe favor of

, in
the claimant,,he_ may re uish the levy, unless  If he. just
dlehond of the Indemnity, It will only enure to the benedt of the owner of

the , for the hieh nit fro his acts are
mm” .... D-:.,t..o:,.m..°°"72“a:1f°'22:. *°° '“ °"

I. hsueheaee, thesttaching creditors do not stand inthe positionofjoint

, theseizmnotthsseomulbeinsmbjedtothenut. Id '
3. admission that the property is attached or levied upon as the cpmty
of the debtor, and the mile of the owner to deliver it to the officer. to
prinafaeie evidence 0 ownership in the debtor, and unlessovercolne b proof

I113 0,5 “I0 claimant. must be decisive against him. Blwanv. , 10
ii». 123.“ I

4. ‘I9 overcome. this primafaeie ownership in the debtor, the receiptor must

Eve two Eliingsz lint, that he claimed the, p!'°P°’ty; seconds that line in feet.
0'11.

5. Whae property has been In-ongfullytakenunder attachment, the sheriffand

&attaehingc1-editorsarejoint trespassers. Lqwtov. -lohnaetala. Jan. '1‘.

Q 132. .0‘ plaintzf recavcrjudgvmmt, how sati.s_/led.

If‘ judgment be recovered by the plaintifff, the..eh.en'if shall
satisfy the same out of the property attached by him which
has not been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as.
hereinhefore provided, or subjected to execution on another

Judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it he suilicient for that purpose :

Ist.-‘By paying to the plaintifff the proceeds of all sales of
perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or, credits
collected by him, or so muchias shall be necessary to satisfy
the judgment: ,

2d. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have
been issued Qnthe. judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much of the property, real or personal, as may be
necessary to satisfy the balance, if .enough for that purpose
remain in his hands. Notices of the-sales shall be given, and
the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on execution.

1. The application of an attaching creditor to compel the sheriff to pay

over the proceeds of ods attached, there being conflicting claims between
several attaching ‘tors, may be made by motion. If notice of the motion
is not given, by the party moving, to the other attachingmcgeditors, it is the
duty of the sheriff to do so, if he wishes the decision to ' them. Dicey Y.
Pollock, 8 Cal. 570.
