Any debtor of the judgment debtor may paythe latter’:
creditor.

After the issuing of an execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
Sl1eriE the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution ; and the Sheriii"s receipt

shall be a suilicient discharge for the amount so paid.

See N. Y. Code, § 293. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. B. recovered a judgment %ainst A. and others, and thereafter assigned it
for a valuable consideration to . Subsequent to the assignment, and before
notice thereof to the defendants, the paid the amount of the 'udgment, less
829 50, to the sheriff, who had served a arnishment upon them n D. v. R. and
to a constable on an execution held by him in V. v. B. Action brought by B.

ainst A. and others to recover the amount of his jud ment against them.

dd, that the case did not come under the provisions of the 5th section of the
Practice Act, but under section 240, and that as the defendants were not in fact
debtors of B., but of C., at the time of the payments, the were not disc
from liability on the judgment against them in favor of . In order to b ng
a party within the terms of the 240th section of the Practice Act, there must be
a judgment and an execution thereon against pro erty, and the person making
the payment must be indebted at the instant to in, against whom the execution runs. Brown v. Ayres ct ale, Oct. '1‘., 1867.

2. In an action for a malicious prosecut:lon.—-The plaintifff, after a
verdict in his favor, and before 'udgment assigned the cause of action and verb
dict, judgment having been an uently entered, defendant was eed
under the execution issued on other judgments against the plaint , and aid
to the sheriff the amount of the judgment in favor of the pla ntiif against him,
who applied the same upon the executions. Held, that the assignment was void,
and that the payment by defendant to the sheriff was a satisfaction of the judgment. Lawrence v. Martin, 22 Cal. 173.
