I_fplaintg'f’.s title terminates pending the suits; what
he may recover, and how verdict and judgment to be.

In an action for the recovery of real property, where the
plaintifff shows a right to recover at the time the action was
commenced, but it appears that his right has terminated
during the pendency of the action, the verdict and judgment
shall be according to the fact; and the plaintifff may recover
damages for withholding the property.

Abb. Forms, 1778.

1. Under our Practice Act, if it appear that the  in ejectment had
a right to recover at the commencement of the suit, t that his right has terminated during its pendenc , he cannot recover the possession, but only his

 . Moore v. Tice, 2 Cal. 513.‘

2. e death of the wife, after a suit brought by herself and husband for
the homestead, defeats a recovery by the hue nd, though the right to recover
existed at the commencement of the suit. Gee v. Moore, 14 Cal. 472.

“I3. The defetndalilnt canning prov; ogfthe trial 0? an action olf;a¢;jectment,t:ir
epurposeo sowing at 'n' srigto possession termina
that since the action was comnlienced plaintid has conveyed the land to another person, unless the fact of such conveyance has been set up in the original or supplemental answer. Moss v. Shear, 30 Cal. 467. '

4. If the laintin‘ has conveyed the land demanded pending ejeotment, the
Court, by e consent of both the plaintifff and vendee, may, under the provisions of the Practice Act, make an order continuing the action in the name
of the original plaintid. Id. ' ‘ '

5. If the plaintiff in ejectment transfers the demanded premises pending
the action, and the Court orders the action continued in the name of the

ongmsl plaintid, he may recover judgment for both the possession and the
rents and profits. Id. “A

6. The sale and transfer by the plaintid in ejectment of the demanded
premises pending the action, is a transfer of the cause of action within the
meaning of the sixteenth section of the Practice Act, and the action may be
continued in the name of the original plaintiff. Id. §257. When value of improvements shall be allowed as a
set-of.

When damages are claimed for withholding the property
recovered, upon which permanent improvements have been
made by a defendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claims of the plaintid, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall be
allowed as a set-oh’ against such damages.

on’ motion, upon notice by either party, for good cause shown,
grant an order allowing to such party the right to enter upon
‘the property and make survey and measurement thereof for

‘the purpose of the action.

‘ Amended 1860, 304.
