‘If purchaser of real property be evicted for irregularities in the sale, what he may recover and from whom. When
judgment to be revived. Petition for the purpose, how and by
whom made.

If the purchaser of real property, sold on execution, or his
successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of
irregularities in the proceedings concerning the sale, or of
the reversal or discharge of the judgment, he may recover
the price paid, with interest, from the judgment creditor.
If the purchaser of property at Sheriffs sale or his successor
in interest, fail to recover possession, in consequence of irregularity in the proceedings concerning the sale, or because the
property sold was not subject to execution and sale, the
Court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such
party in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment for the amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with
interest thereon, from the time of payment, at the same rate
that the original judgment bore; and when so revived the
said judgment shall have the same effect as an original judgment of the said Court of that date, and bearing interest as
aforesaid,’ and any other or after-acquired property, rents,
issues, or profits, of the said ‘debtor, shall be liable to levy
and sale under execution in satisfaction of such debt; provided, that no property of such debtor sold bona fide before
the filing of such petition, shall be subject to the lieu of said
judgment; and, provided further, that notice of the filing of
such petition shall be made by filing a notice thereof in the

Recorder’s ethos of the county where such property may be
situated; and that said judgment shall be revived in the
name of the original plaintifff or plaintifffs, for the use of said

petitioner, the party in interest.

‘Amended 1860, 303. Applicable to Justices’ Courts.

1. A urchaser at a sherifs sale is entitled to a notice of motion to set it

Esidei‘ lsgsrsonal service of the notice is not requisite. Eclcstein v. Calder-wood,
an. . .

2. The suit of seire facias is a remedy unknown to our practice, and cannot
be employed for the revival or enforcement of a judgment Humiston v.
Smith, 21 Cal. 129.

3. When the title of a purchaser at a sale in a foreclosure suit fails on account of defect of parties in such suit, he must seek relief by pursuing the
¢(:}oa1l1rs8e8pointed out in Boggs v. Hargrave, 16 Cal. 566. Btu-ton v. Lies, 21

4. The purchaser at sherifs sale is entitled to notice to set it aside. The
fact that he was absent from the State at the time of the sale, or at the time
the motion was made, did not excuse the defendants from serving him with a
copy of the order to show cause. Eclwtein v. Oalderwood, Jan. '1‘. 1868.
