‘ What causes of action may be joined.
The plaintifff may unite several causes of action in the same

complaint, when they all arise out of :

lst. Contracts express or implied.
2d. Claims to recover specific real property, with or without damages, for the withholding thereof, or for waste committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the same : or,
3d. ‘Claims to recover specific personal property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof : or,
4th. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law: or,
5th. Injuries to character: or,

6th. Injuries ‘to person: or,
7th. Injuries to property. But the causes of action so

united shall all belong to one only of these classes, and shall
a&'ect all the parties to the action, and not require different
places of trial, and shall be separately stated :

Provided, however, that an action for malicious arrest and
prosecution, or either of them, may be united with an action

for either an injury to character or to the person.

0

;§ 66. e'What.z29.ia 
A material allegation in axpleading -is one essential to.-the

.claim or defense, and which could not be stricken from the
- pleading « without leaving it insuliieient.

.1. An unessential, or what is. the -sa.me thing, an immaterial allegation, is one

- which can be stricken from the «pleading without leaving it insufllcient ; land, of

course. need not be proved or disproved. Wlzitwell v. Thomas, 9_Cal. 499.
2. The following question .will.deteI7mine, in every case, whetheran allegation
cbe material : “ Can 1t be . made the subject of -a material issue?” In other
words : “ Ifit be denied, will the failure to. prove it decide the case inwhole or
in part 2 ” If it will not, then the fact alleged is not material. It is not one of
those which constitute the causes of action, defense or reply. Green 17. Palmer,

15 Cal. 413.
3. A satement in a complaintthat the contract sued on was made payable
in a specillc kind of money, is an alle tion of, a material fact. Wallace v. El,dredge, 27-Cal. 498 ; seefurther, auto, -50, note, Nos. 6-21.
