General and special verdict: dgined.

The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon
all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintifff or
defendant; a special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only, leaving the judgment to the Court. The
special verdict shall present the conclusions of ‘ fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them;
and those conclusions of fact shall be so presented, as that
nothing shall remain to the Court but to draw from them
conclusions of law.

In an action for the recovery of money only, or specific

‘real property, the jury in their discretion may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the Court may direct

the jurytofind a special verdict in writing, upon all or any of
the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they render a
general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, tobe
stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon.
The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk
and entered upon the minutes. Where a special tinding of
facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former

shall control the latter, and the Court shall give judgment
accordingly.

‘Amended 1354, as; N. Y. Code, gs 261, 262.

1. The Courtmay direct a special verdict to be entered in the action. Burs
rlttv. Gibson, 3Cal. 396.

2. 0on£toun¢.¢eneralandepeclalverd1ct.—Whcnthej aredirected.
bytheConrttonndageneralve1-dict, andalaotomahe a s al  of
factsuponquestionssubmittedtothem,a.ndageneral ve ctis return in
favor of one pug, while the dnding upon the special issues is in favor of
the other party. e Court should render judgment in accordance with the
Ipecnlflndmgs,if theyembrace_all the issues  in the pleadings. If,
however, there is any one in 188110 in the loadings, not covered by the

' 1lndlngs,the' tshouldberenseredonthegeneralverdict

cDcr-mott v. Higby, al. 489.

3. Whenajnry renders a general verdict, and also special nndings, the
latter will control the former, if there is any inconsistency between them;
and the Court will direct 'udgment to be entered in accordance with the
special findings. Lease v. ‘lurk, 20 Cal. 387.

4. Bpeoialluueawithdrawn froma jury.—Where specialissues are
submitted to a jury, and they announce that they cannot agree upon the
special issues, but can upon a general verdict, and by consent of counsel
on both sides, the  s are withdrawn, and a general verdict received
by the Court, no error is committed. Mitchell 1. Hoclcett at 01., 25 Cal. 545.

5.11Icoourtmustaet1lethequestiona.eto.-—Itisthe&:cvinceofa
Courttodetermineastowhatpar-ticularfactsthe' shall dspecially

and neither has the right to dictate the terms oi any articular 

tobesubmrt tothe' . Amcrican0ompanyv.B or-11,27
Bee further, ante, § 174. Jury
