‘Real property, when absolute sale or not; in the latter
case, what the certificate must contain.

Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser shall be substituted to and acquire all the right, title, interest and claim of
the judgment debtor thereto; and when the estate is less
than a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall
be absolute. In all other cases, the property shall be subject
to redemption, as provided in this chapter. The officer shall
give to the purchaser a certificate of sale containing:

Fir3t—A particular description of the real property sold.

Second—The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.

Third+—The whole price paid.

Fourth—When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.

And when the judgment, under which the sale has been
made, is made payable in a specified kind of money or our‘
rency, the certificate shall also state the kind of money or
currency in which such redemption may be made, which shall
be the same as that speciiied in the judgment. A duplicate
of such certificate shall be filed by the officer in the office of
the Recorder of the county.

tion, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and‘ the amount
of any assessment or taxes which the said last redemptioner
may have paid thereon after the redemption by him, with interest on such amount, and in addition the amount of any
liens held by said last redemptioner prior to his own, with
interest; provided, that the judgment under which the pro.
perty was sold need not be so paid as a lien. The property
may be again, and as often as the debtor or a redemptioner
is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty days after the last redemption, with four per cent.
thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or

taxes which the last previous redemptioner paid after the
redemption by him, with interest thereon, and the amount of
any liens, other than the judgment under which the property

was sold, held by the said last redemptioner previous to his

own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall be given to,

the Sheriff ; if no redemption be made within six months
after the sale, the purchaser, or his assignee, shall be entitled
to a conveyance; or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days
have elapsed, and no other redemption has been made and
notice thereof given, the time for redemption shall have expired, and the last redemptioner or his assignee, shall be
entitled to a Sheriffs deed.* If the debtor redeem at any
time before the time for redemption expires, the effect of the
sale shall be terminated and he be restored to his estate,/'
