When counterclaim established exceeds plaint2_'f’s de- A
mand.

If a counterclaim, established at the trial, exceed the plaintiE’s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant shall
be given for the excess ; or if it appear that the defendant is
entitled to any other allirmative relief, judgment shall be given
accordingly.

N. Y. Code, § 263.

5 200. ‘In replevin,judgmcnttobe in tlaeallez-native,andw.itl: A

damages; gold coin or currency iudnmh"

In an 9
judgment
value the
for the c
the plain
ment for
or the v
damages
on a cont
of money
rency, juc
fault or a
and be ms
ified ther
covery of
pacity, on ...
whether
made pa;
received

If a party die after a verdict or decision upon any issue of
fact, and before judgment, the Court may nevertheless render
judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be a lien on the
real property of the deceased party, but shall be payable in
the course of administration on his estate.

1. The continuance of the name of a deceased plaintid’ instead of that of
his executor in a judgment rendered after the substitution, is an error of form
0n¥.wuii date]: not make the j11dg!!10l(lltleEO§)(1.f Gregory avid Haynésga 21 Cal;;(-113.

are e plaintifff in an action ' ore tnal,' a su qnent er
for jpddgment contained a “as fpllgws :1‘:  gong: having begxgmconi
tinu in consequence of the ea 0 t e p in ' , ' executor, ue
Webb, and the jury ha ' found a verdict for plaintiyf," and then awarded
judgment in ffatvlor of ghmlaintiiz Held, tllainathtge  suiilciently showed as]

esuono e dea o the original’ p ' ’ , an acontinuance or reviv

 u:e, in the name of the executor. Id. f In an d

e eathofanap llant, after argument 0 ‘s case on appe , oes
not constitute any grounp: for delaying a decision, or a departing from the
ordinary course of ure, exce t as to the entry of the judgment which
may be rendeI:ed.BM e entry sh6<8> d be of a day anterior to the appellant's
death- Blac v. w, 20 Cal. .

4. The rule is different if the death occurs previous to the argument. In
that. event further proceedings can only be had upon leave given after suggeiuoii alpha diimmm mt?-3’ £5‘. t 'nst a fe a c h b 1. 1r

. irregur on u euagai aenan,onwose eaa
demurrer is on file, without disposing of the demurrer, and a judgment so enmed will be reversed on appeal. Hestres, administrator, v. Clements, 21 Cal.
