The summons shall be served by the Sheriff of the county where the defendant may be
found, and shall be served by delivering a copy thereof, together with the copy of the complaint, as
follows:

1st. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president, or other head of the corporation, secretary,
cashier, or managing agent thereof.

2d. If against a minor, under the age of fourteen years, to such minor personally, and also to his
father, mother, or guardian; or if there be none within the State, then to any person having the
care and control of such minor, or with whom he shall reside, or in whose service he shall be employed.

3d. If against a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting
his own ati‘airs, and for whom a guardian has been appointed, to such guardian, and to the defendant
personally. '

4th. In all other cases to the defendant personally. § 27. When the person on whom the service is to be made, cannot after due diligence be found I
within the State, and that fact shall be shown by the Sheriff ’3 return upon the summons, and also be 1
proved by affidavit to the satisfaction of the Ccurt, or that he is a non-resident of the State, and it shall
appear by affidavit that a cause of action exists against the defendant, in respect to whom the
serv'we is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party to any action, the Court or Judge may
grant an order that the same be made by publication of a summons. The order shall direct the
publication to be made in some one or more newspapers, to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and for such length of time as the circumstances of the case may
require. In case of publication the Court or Judge shall also direct a copy of the summons and
complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post-oi‘n‘ce, directed to the person to be served at his place of
residence, unless it appears by affidavit that such residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by him. If the summons shall not be
personally served on a defendant, he or his representatives shall (except in actions for divorce) be
allowed to defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after notice thereof, and within three
years after its rendition, on such terms as shall be just; and if the defense be successful, and the judgment,
or any part thereof, shall have been collected or otherwise enforced, such rendition may thereupon be
compelled as the Court shall direct. In all cases where publication is made, the summons as published,
shall state the time and place of the filing of the complaint, the nature of the action, with a brief
statement of the complaint, and shall require the defendant to appear and answer at such time as shall
be directed by the order. When the defendant is out of the State, the publication shall be once a
month, for not less than six months.
