‘ Where defendant representative of a deceased P‘3’:3‘_’"'°

No person shall be allowed to testify under the pr0V18l0115
of section three hundred and ninety-two, where the adverse
party, or the party for whose immediate benefit the 8.Ctl0Il. or
proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is the representative
of a deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired
before the death of such deceased person ; and nothing contained in said section shall affect the laws in relation to the
attestation of any instrument required to be attested; nor
shall anything contained in said section render any person
who, in a criminal proceeding, is charged with the commission of any public offense, competent or compellable to SW9

evidence therein for or against himself. (1)
‘Amended 1854, 94; 1863, 701.

1. Where laintid‘ claims under deceased, the admission of deceased in her
lifetime, whge living upon the property in controversy. 30 the 939°‘ that "5
belonged to or was in the ossession of delfggfliant, 9-1'6 °0mP°t°°t °"d°n°°
Iga1nst' laintiif. Bollo v. avarro, Oct. T. . . .

2. This) word “representative, ” used in the three hundred and n1113tY'thu'd
section of the Practice Act, as amended in 1863, ap lies to the executor 01'
administrator of the estate of a deceased erson, an also to the poison 0:
P3-rty who has succeeded to the right 0 deceased. Whether by Pu“ 39° °
descent, or operation of law. Davis V. Dav?-8. 25 093- 34§ 394. ‘Persons who shall not be witnesses.

The following persons shall not be Witnesses:

Fir8t—-Those who are of unsound mind at the time of their
production for examination. _

See-and—Childi-en under ten years of age._ i;vho._ In ?h°
opinion of the Court, appear incapable of receiving Just Impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined,
or of relating them truly. .

Thz'rd——Mongoli'ans, Chinese, or Indians, or persons having

 j

one-half or more of Indian blood, in an action or proceeding
wherein a white person is a party.

Fourth-Persons against whom judgment has been rendered upon a conviction for a felony, unless pardoned by the
Governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal.

1Amended 1854. 94; 1863, 60.

1. There is no precise age within which children are exluded from giving
testimony. Their competency is to be determined, not by their age, but by
gm degree of their understanding and knowledge. The People v. Bernal, 10

al. 6 .

2. It is for the Court to decide the question of their competency when they
are otfered as witnesses. Id.

3. If over fourteen years of age, the presumption is that they possess the
requisite knowledge and understanding; but if under that age, the presum
tion is otherwise, and it must be removed u n their examination by ed:
Court, or under its direction and its presence, fore they can be sworn. Id.

4. People v. Hall (4 Cal. 399), excluding Chinese witnesses in suits to which
white persons are parties. amrmed. Spoor v. See Yup 00., 13 Cal. 73.

5. Where a witness, being sworn, stated that he was fourteen years old and
a Chileno, and did not know “ the obligation of an oath ;" whereupon the
Judge explained to him the nature of such obligation, and he was then permitted to testify—the other party objecting that he did not know the obhgatépp 235 an oath : Held, that the witness was competent. Fuller 7. Fuller, 17
