On judgment on appeal, remittitur shall be certified to
the Clerk of the Court below.

When judgment is rendered upon the appeal, it shall be
certified by the Clerk of the Supreme Court to the Clerk
with whom the judgment roll is filed, or the order appealed
from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judgment, the
Clerk with whom the roll is filed shall attach the certificate
to the judgment roll, and enter a minute of the judgment of

the Supreme Court on the docket against the original entry.
In cases of appeal from an order, the Clerk shall enter at

length in the records of the Court the certificate received,
and minute against the entry of the order appealed from a

reference to the certificate, with a brief statement that such
order has been affirmed, reversed, or modified, as the case
may be, by the Supreme Court, on appeal.

1. The Court below cannot refuse to give effect to the judgment of this
Court; and a‘ judgment entered by the clerk, in such case, is just as bin '
as if entered in the Supreme Court itself. lllclllillan v. Richards, 12 Cal. 46 .

2. Where a case is appealed from the District Court to the Supreme Court,
and the Supreme Court reverses the judgment of the District Court, and

directs the entry of a final judgment, such judgment can be entered by the
clerk of the District Court in e vacation. Id.

M3. The act of the clerk in entering the judgment is a mere ministerial act.

.4. The remittitur from this Court is by the direction of the three hundred and
nt%y~eighth section of the Practice Act, to be attached by the clerk of the viatrict Court to the judgment roll, and a minute of the judgment entered on the

docket against the original entry; the judgment of this Court then stands as
the judgment of the District Court. If it award a new trial, the clerk will place

the cause on the calendar; if costs, he will, on the application of the party,

iszpe execution for the same. Mayor, etc., of Marysville v. Buchanan, 3
C . 212.

5. The District Court has no authority to prevent the immediate execution of
the judgment of this Court so remitted. Id.

6. The judgment of this Court upon appeal, and the costs consequent thereon,
is dual. Id. ‘

7. The clerk of this Court, in entering up the judgment, adds the words “ with
costs,” and annexes to the remittilur a copy of the bill of costs filed. These

words are a sunicient awardin of costs for the clerk of the Court below to
issue execution for the same. (1.

8. This Court loses all control and jurisdiction over a case after the remittitur
has been filed in the Court below. Blane v. Bowman, 22 Cal. 23.

9. A motion, thereforee, to vacate a judgment, on the ground that it was not

rendered by the pro er members of the Court, cannot be entertained after the
remittitur has been ed below. Id.

10. District court has no power to modify judgment of supreme
gourt.—Argen.ti v. City of San Francisco, 30 Cal. 58; Meyer v. Kohn, Oct.
. 1867.
