‘Costs in actions not mentioned in section four hundred

and ninety-fie:e ; costs not allowed, if recovery is less than two
hundred dollars.

In other actions than those mentioned in section four hundred and ninety-live, costs may be allowed or not; and if
allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, on the
same or adverse sides, in the discretion of the Court; but
no costs shall be allowed in an action for the recovery of
money or damages when the plaintifff recovers less than three
hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, when the value of the property is less

than three hundred dollars.

‘ Amended 1865-6, 847. N. Y. Code, 6 806.

1. Costs in e uity are always in the discretion of the Court, and whether
ted or wit eld, are but as incidents to and no part of the relief sought.
3-3; 17. Daugherty et al., 25 Cal. 282.

2. In an action for dam es, where the ‘my found a verdict for plaintid’ for
fifty dollars and costs: eld, that ‘u gment could not be entered for
costs in favor ogglaintif. Shay v. Tao nme Water 00., 6 Cal. 286.

3. The plain ' can only be allowed costs when he recovers two hundred
dollars, in an action for money or damage. Costs are incident to the judgment, and cannot be given by the jury by wa of damages. Id.

4. The position of the appellant is that t e jury, having found that the
ditch was not a nuisance, the case is to be regarded, so far as the costs
are concerned, as a simple action for damages for injuries to the ropert of the plaintifff. If this position be correct, no costs were taxa le to
ei er party under the statute, the damages recovered being less than two
hundred dollars. Vatan v. Reese, 20 Cal. 90.

5. In this, case suit for damages to a mining claim and for an injunction,
plaintifffs had judgment for one hundred dollars and costs, taxed at $———, a
perpetual injunction being granted also. After the 'udgment was entered,
plaintifffs moved that costs for the trial be allowed. otion denied, except as
to the costs accrued by reason of the injunction granted. Held, that this is a
case where the allowance of costs is in the discretion of the Court below.
Esmond v. Chew et al., 17 Cal. 336.
