Controversy, how submitted without action.

Parties to a question in difference, which might be the

subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to any Court
which should have jurisdiction, if an action had been brought.
But it must appear, by aiiidavit, that the controversy is real,
and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The Court shall thereupon hear and determine
the case, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
depending.

N. Y. Code, ยง 372.

1. Where the parties to a controversy make an agreed case, under the three
hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, which is submitted
for decision to District Court, the consideration of the Court is restricted to
the facts submitted in the case. Crandall v. Amador Count . 20 Cal 72.

2. Where the plaintifff claimed that defendant was inde ted to him, and,

under the section above referred to, a case was made and submitted stating the
facts upon between the parties. upon which the District Court decided that
plain ' s demand was not established without proof or other additional facts:
Held. that it was error for the Court instead of rendering judgment for the
defendant to make an order based upon the supposition that plaintiff establish
such other facts. Id.

3. Where an appeal is taken to the Supreme Court from a decision of a
Justice's Court, upon a case submitted on an agreed statement, without action
under the three hundred and seventy-seventh section of the Practice Act, the
transcript on appeal must contain a copy of the atlldavit required by the same

section showing the reality of the controversy and good faith of the proceedMellois v. Chaim, 20 Cal. 679.

4.. Where instead of this affidavit, the record only showed an allegation in
the agreed ment on appeal that the cause was heard in the Court below on

an agreed statement of facts, and the atlldavit of the defendant that the controversy was real, the appeal was dismissed. Id.
