Injunction, what is and who may grant it.

An injunction is a writ or order, requiring a person to refrain from a particular act. The order or writ, may be
granted by the Court in which the action isabrought, or by a
Judge thereof, or by a County Judge ; andwhen made by a
Judge, may be enforced as the order of the Court.

5 112. When it may be granted.

An injunction may be granted in the following cases :

lst. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintifff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any
part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually:

2d. When it shall appear by the complaint or atildavit that
the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintifff:

3d. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plaintin‘ ’s rights, respecting the subject of the action, and tending
to render the judgment ineffectual. '§ 113. At what timeit may begranted and what is required to
obtain it. a

The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the
summons upon the complaint ; and at any time afterwards,
before judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint in the one‘
case, and the affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily
that sufficient grounds exist therefore, N o injunction shall be
grantedon the complaint, unless it be verified by the oath of
the plaintifff, or some one in his behalf, that he, the person
making the oath has read the complaint, or heard the complaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the same is
true of his own knowledge, except the matters therein stated
on information and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it to be true. When granted on-the’ complaint, 9. copy
of the complaint and verification attached shall be served

‘with ehe‘iu5em':eee ; whee; game‘ * ' “a iipoii ililiifaivit, tad copy or
the affidavit shall be served ivith the injunction.
i!'vYri.::a°’mwemng”2b" ord inj cti issought” "us  
. a or or an un on upon e com
itseltit is e usual gractioe to pre_sent_the __oo plaint, in advance of the aling, to’ the , an obtain the order or the loiunce of the writ: andsuoh
mwlg , and not in conflict with our statute. Heyman v. Loaders,"

2. In such case the order not take efect until the  the complaint
mgéi°mdmn3n“ilqmr°d'§q'mjun'ee hasbeeni ed’ the cue
. woman on , ssu ,1s_no un
obey it$g e'mmm  on  Giving him verbal notice that
anlorda  been msde.is not snmbient. Elliottv.  ‘I

4.’ t seems’. H‘ ' ifh   bein  at theitime an iniunction order  inadegd tgus has per-s3nalIl(:1nowledge of the order, that he would bebound hieroBennett.‘  ~,,  V‘,
_ 5. inj, ction order, and due Beririce thereof on theparty enjoined, do
groper-al_,etoen:'la'rgetheti1_ne ‘thin whiehanactisreqmredtobedone by
- P““Y§°“"’-‘3.‘h.°.."-’d°"' d‘ e '. ‘ .. ~  ..- . e

6. The tute points out no mode for service ofpan lngunction; hut in ‘con-I

{ormi with the [ _'sion relative to the summons, dehvery of_a copy is es' ' to parse service where that is required; [but whether it would 
 to exhibit a the original, unless specially requested by, th3’e8J>arty

no opinion is here expressed.  y. Mason, 16 Cal. . ,
. 7. A Jrritplseed ' ‘thesherifs hands on Sunday cannot be omcially re-'
rived by mm on t day. It can onl , be considered omcially in his hands
‘hen Sunday has expired.’  ir. , 13 Cal. 835.

8. when p'Inb?doitIBdéVlb.—Tho is  to an injunction 
the time of issuing the summons ‘on the complaint alone, if it makes ‘a proper
eaIe,Ind ls verified in the manner stated invthe 113th section; but if he asks
for an injunction at an time thereafter, he must do so upon «meme. Fhlb-'
ulhi-ydatf. Luoyet .; A. '1‘. 1868.
