Sharesofstockanddeblsdzwdlgfendantmay be atlaclwdandsold.

The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the

' stock of any corporation or company, together with the inteest and profit thereon, and all debts due such defendant, and
all other property in this State of such defendant not exempt

from execution, may be attached, and if judgment be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

§ [Sec]tions 124 to 141, inclusive, made applicable to Justices’ Courts ; see past,
555.

1. Funds in the hands of a receiver, pointed by a com etent Court, are not
liable to attachment. Adams 17. Has , 6 Cal. 113; Y Oounly v. Adams,

7 Oal. 35.
2. Where an attachment was issued by the Court of nrst instance against the

property of a debtor, and the sheriff had executed the same, and was ordered
to make the amount due the creditor out of the goods, chattels and property of
die debtor: Held, that the sherid could not maintain an action in his own name
to recover I sum owing to the attachment debtor by a third person, for goods

sold and delivered. Bublsue v. Melhado, I CaL 104.

‘ § 125. Writ, haw executed.

The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and delivered,
shall execute the same without delay, and if the undertaking
mentioned in section one hundred and twenty-three be not
given, as follows:

lst. -Real property standing upon the records of the county,

‘ in the name of the defendant, shall be attached, by leaving a

copy of the writ with an occupant thereof ;‘ or, if there be no

occupant, by posting a copy in a conspicuous place thereon, ‘

and filing a copy, together with a description of the property
attached with the recorder of the county.

2d. Real property, or any interest therein, belonging to the
defendant, and held by any other person, or standing on the
records of the county in the name of any other person, shall

be attached by leaving with such person, or his agent, a copy’
“of the writ, and a notice that such real property, (giving a

description thereof), and any interest therein, belonging to
the defendant, are attached pursuant to such writ, and filing

.a copy of such writ and notice with the recorder of the county,

and leaving a copy of such writ and notice with an occupant
of such property, or, if there be no occupant, by posting a
copy thereof in a conspicuous place thereon. a

3d. Personal property, capable of manual delivery, shall
be attached, by taking it into custody. .

4th. Stock, or shares or interest in stock, or shares of any
corporation or company, shall be attached, by leaving with
the president, or other head of the same, or the secretary,
cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a copy of the writ,
and a notice stating that the stock or interest of the defend_ant is attached, in pursuance of such writ.

5th. Debits and credits, and other personal property, not
capable of manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with
the person owing such debts, or having in his possession, or
under his control, such credits and other personal property:
or with his agent, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the
debts owing by him to the defendant, on the credits and other
personal property in his possession, or under his control, helonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of such
writ.

to ‘the defendant, or ‘is -owing any debt to the defendant, the
sheriff shall serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and
a notice that such credits, or other property or debts, as the
case may be, are attached in pursuance of such writ.

£127. Ga.-nubhmenl, when gurniehee liable to plaintgf.

All persons having in their possession, or under their control, any-credits -or other personal property belonging to the
defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of
service upon tbemof a copy of the writ and notice, as provided in the last two sections, shall be, unless such property

be delivered up or transferred, or such debts be paid to the
sheriff, liable to the plaintid, for the amount of such credits,

property, or debts, until the attachment be discharged, or
any  recovered by him be satisfied. '
