‘Proceedings to compel debtor to appear ; in what cases
he may be arrested; what bail may be given.

Aiier the issuing of an execution against property, and upon
proof by affidavit, of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction
of the Court, or of a Judge thereof, or County Judge, that
any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses
to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such
Court or Judge may, by an order require the judgment
debtor to appear at a specified time and place before such
Judge, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning
the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for
the application of the property of the judgment debtor
toward the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon
the return of an execution. Instead of the order requiring
the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may upon

affidavit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if it
appear to him that there is danger of the debtor absconding,

. order the Sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before

such Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he may
be ordered to enter into an undertaking with sufficient surety

that he will attend from time to time before the Judge or
referee, as shall be -directed during the pendency of proceedings and until the final termination thereof, and will not
in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property, not
exempt from execution. In default of entering into such

undertaking he may be committed to prison.

‘Amended 1854, 90. See N. Y. Code§ 292. Applicable to Justices’ Courb.

1. A commitment for contem t, for refusing to obey an order of Court
commanding the imprisonment o the party in contempt, until he shall comply with this order, Csh’<;;l.d6sEtalfo§tl§ that it is in the power of the party to
comp . parte 0 . 1 .

2. Where the plaintit proceeded, under section 239 of the Practice Act, to examine his judgment debtor as to a judgment held by him against A., and, after
examination, obtained an order to ap ly the same to the judgment of plaintil,
it seems that it is not necessary to ma e A. a arty to the proceeding. Id.

3. Though Courts are exclusive judges of t eir own contempts. still, a Barty
cannot be mprisoned for neglecting or refusing to do what it appears it out
of his power to perform. Adams v. Haslcell, 6 Cal. 316.
