Within what time an execution may issue

5?-§§§?3§§;§

The party in whose favor judgment is given, may, at any
time within five years after the entry thereof, issue a writ of
execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in this chapter.

N. Y. Code, § 283. See 99 214, 601, 602. Applicable to Justices’ Courts,

post, Q 601, 602.
1. An execution can only be issued upon a judgment obtained before a justice of the within five years after the entry of the judgment. Wlfile v.

Clark, 8 C . 513. The dve years of limitation within which an execution for

an unsatisfied balance on a foreclosure sale may be taken out, commences to
run from the date of the 'u ent of foreclosure, and not from the date when

the balance was docke owers v. Crury, 30 Cal. 621.

2. Every process which may be required to completely enforce a judgment
must be taken ‘within dve ears after its entry. I .

3. The statute limiting s time for issuing execution upon a jud ent to
'£ve years after its entry, applies to ju ents rendered in suits to oreclose
gfrlnortgage, equally as to mere person judgments. Stout v. Macy, 22 Cal.

4. The period duri which an execution has been stayed by an order of

Court is not to be exc nded from the five years, after the lapse of which an

order of Court was necessary to obtain an execution. Solomon v. Maguire, 29

Cal. 227. '
5. If the defendant in a judgment delivers to the plaintiff therein a remissory note of third parties in satisfaction of the same, which is void use

fl-audulergldy obtained by defendant from the payers, it is not necessary for
the plain ' to return the note before enforcing his judgment by execution.

Mitchell v. Hocloett et at., 25 Cal. 544.

6. If an appellate Court amrms the judgment of the Court below, with
costs, and u n the nling of its mandate of adirmance in the Court below, an
order is e directing a new jud ent to be entered up in’ accordance with

the directions of the mandate, suc new judgment, although it may be erroneous or irre , is not void so as to invalidate an execution issued on the

same. Mul ord v. Estudillo, 23 Cal. 94.
7. As soon as the judgment is entered, an execution may issue, whether the

judgment roll has been made up or not. Sharp v. Lumley, Jan. T. 1868.
