When there may be evidence of the contents of a writing other than itself.’

There shall be no evidence of the contents of a writing,
other than the writing itself, except in the following cases :
lst. When the original has been lost or destroyed"; in
which case proof of the loss or destruction shall first be made ;
2d. When the original is in the possession of the party
against _whom the evidence is offered, and he fails to produce

it after reasonable notice ;
3d. When the original is a record or other document, in

the custody of a public oliicer;

4th. When the original has been recorded, and a certified
copy of the record is made evidence by statute ;

5th. When the original consists of numerous accounts or
other documents, which cannot be examined in Court without
great loss of time, and the evidence sought from them is only
the general result of the whole.

ance or alteration. He may show that the alteration was
made by another, without his concurrence, or was made with
the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly

or innocently made. If he do that, he may give the writing
in evidence, but not otherwise.

1. A party ofering a promissory note in evidence is not obliged, before the
same is admitted, to account for an erasure appearing upon the face of it,
unless the erasure has been made or appears to have been made after the execution of the instrument, and is on a part of the note which is material to the
point in dispute. Corcoran v. Doll, 32 Cal. 82.

2. When a printed form of a promissory note is used, and an erasure is
made only as to the printed matter, the presumption is that it was prior to
the execution of the note, and to suit the terms agreed on by the parties. Id.

3. Where a deed is produced in evidence bg a party claiming under it, and
it appears upon its face to have been altere in a particular material to his
interest and to the prejudice of the other party, it is incumbent on him to
establish by satisfactory evidence that the alteration was made by the grantor
or by his authorit , or the deed will be deemed for the pu oses of the action

to read as it did fore the alteration was made. Galla et at. v. J aclcman,
26 Cal. 79.
