‘Attachment, when and in what cases may issue.(a.)
The plaintifff, at the time of issuing his summons, or at any

fine afterward, may have the property of the defendant attached as securityfor the satisfaction of any judgment that

may be recovered, unless the defendant give security to pay§ 121. ‘Ajidavit for attachment, what to contain.

The Clerk of the Court shall issue the writ of attachment

upon receiving an affidavit by, or on behalf of the plaintifff,
which shall be filed, showing :

lst. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid (speci' fying the amount of such indebtedness, over and above all

legal set-offs or counterclaims), upon a contract, express or
implied, for the direct payment of money, and that such con, tract was made or is payable in this State, and that the payment of the same has not been secured by any mortgage,
lien, or pledge, upon real and personal property: or,

2d. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintid (specifying the amount of such indebtedness as near as may be,
over and above all legal set»otl's or counterclaims), and that
the defendant is a non-resident of the State: and,

3d. That the sum for which the attachment is asked is an
actual bonajidc existing debt, due and owing from the defendant to the plaintid, and that the attachment is not sought and

the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay, or defraud, any
creditor or creditors of the defendant.

1 Amended, 1853, 277; 1858, 153; 1860, 301. Baneroft’s Forms, 496-499;
Abb. Forms, 1367-1374; Clerk to indorse the anldavit. See Rule XLII for
San Francisco.

1. The fact that an affidavit for an attachment omits to aver that the sum
for which the writ is asked is “an actual bona jide existing debt, due and

' owing from the defendant to the plaintifff, and that the attachment is not

sou t and the action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay or defraud any
‘tor or creditors of the debtor,” does not render the attachment issued a
nc1;ll]ity £5 against subsequent attaching creditors. Fridenberg v. Pierson, 18
. 15
8. A junior attaching creditor cannot take advantage of irregularities in the
affidavit or bond given by a prior attaching creditor of a common debtor. Id.
3. An athdavit or attachment is insudicient, which avers that the defendant
is indebted to the plaintiff upon an express or implied contract. Hawtey v.
Batman, 4 Cal. 195.
4. A pledge of personal progrty is a “mortgage," within the mea ' of

the Attachment Act. the word ing there used in its most general ’ ' can

uon, meaning “ security.” Payne v. Beasley, 8 Cal. 260.
