Order to direct publication.

The order shall direct the publication to be made in anewspaper, to be designated as most likely to give notice to the
person to be served, and for such length of time as may be
deemed reasonable, at least once a week; provided, that
publication against a defendant residing out of the State, or
absent therefrom, shall not be less than three months. In
case of publication, where the residence of a non-resident or
absent defendant is known, the Court or Judge shall also
direct a copy of the summons and complaint to be forthwith
deposited in the postodice, directed to the person to be served,
at his place of residence. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the summons and complaint, out of
the State, shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the
postoffice. In either case, the service of the summons shall
be deemed complete at the expiration of the time prescribed
by the order for publication. In actions upon contracts for
the direct payment of money, the Court in its discretion may,
instead of ordering publication, or may, after publication,
appoint an attorney to appear for the non-resident, absent or
concealed defendant, and conduct the proceedings on his part.

against the joint property of all, and the separate property
of the defendant served; or,

2d. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

ApplicabletoJ'ustices’Gourts,pos¢, $685; see alsot 368; N. Y. Code, 138
seepost, § 145, “Ju ents.”

1. When the shows in eral terms the appearance of parties, the
3  confined to parties served with process. Chester V.
, 1 . .

2. C. urchasedgoodsonhis individual account, and directed plaintiffto
charge e same to the joint account of C. and J. In an action by plaintifff:
Held. that although J. was not liable, judgment might be rendered against 0.
The common law rule is modified so far, at least, as to permit judgment against
a portion of the defendants whenever the contract purports on its face to be
the contract of all the parties sued. and it turns out in proof that a rtion
onl are liable. Lewis v. Clarlcin, 18 Cal. 399; Stearns v. Aguirre, 6 C 176in ‘ respect overruled; Chester v. Miller, 13 Cal. 558.

3. The provisions of the thirty-second section‘ of the Practice Act, which in
an action against two or more defendants all of whom are not served, authorizes
judgment to be entered to bind the joint property of all the defendants. does
not apply to actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate. Bowen v.
Kay, 12 Cal. 348.

4. A personal judgment can not be given against a party not served with
process in an action on a joint obligation of several defendants. Treat v. NoChll cl: Brady, 10 Cal. 511.

5. Where in an action against defendants, jointly and not severally liable, a
portion of them onl are served with fprocess, the clerk cannot on the application
of laintld enter jn gment upon de ault against the parties served only. A
jucrgmentso entered is void. Kelly v. Van Austin at al., 17 Cal .564.

6. The proper course in such case is to enter judgment against all the defeudants, but so as to be enforced against the joint property of all and the
separate property of those served. Id.

7. Where the action is against defendants severally liable, a portion only
being served with, the clerk can on a plication of plaintifff enter judgment u on
default a inst the parties served wit out regard to the other parties name in
the comp aint. Id. [See Bond v. Pacheco, 30 Cal. 534 and case there cited.)

8. Where one of two defendants in a joint jud ent pays it, but not with the
intention of discharging it, he is entitled to use a judgment for his protection
and indemnity, and may enforce it a inst his co-defendant for his legal proportion of the debt. 00 ee v. Ilevis, 1 Cal. 239.

9. In an action aga tdefendants jointly indebted, where one onl is served,
Ensleveral judgment may be entered against them. Huchjield v. in, 6

. 607.
