‘Depositions may be taken before a Judge, etc-., upon
notice to the adverse party.

Either party may have the deposition taken, of a witness
in this State, before any Judge, or Clerk, or any Justice of the
Peace, or Notary Public in this State, on serving on the adverse party previous notice of the time and place of examination, together with a copy of an affidavit, showing that the
case is one mentioned in the last section. At any time during
the forty days immediately after the service of summons by
publication has been completed, and at any time thereafter.
when the defendant has not appeared, the notice required by
this section may be served on the Clerk of the Court where
the action is pending. Such notice shall be at’ least five days,
and, in addition, one day for every twenty-five miles of the

distance of the place of examinationfrom the residence of
the person to whom the notice is given, unless, for a cause
shown, a Judge, by order, prescribe a shorter time. When a
shorter time is prescribed, a copy of the order shall be served
with the notice.

‘Amended 1859, 218 ; Bancroft’s Forms, 550-551.
1. A slight error in the title of a cause, where there is no other snit mling between the parties, will not invalidate the notice. M ills v. p, 3
Ca . 94.

2. The decision of such motion'rests in the sound discretion of the Court.

who must decide upon the sulilciency, or otherwise, of the grounds upon
which such motion is made. Id.

3. Proof of notice to take a de osition, where the written notice was defective, was held good, when made y parol and conforming substantially to the
statute. Id.

4. An appearance at the time and place, and cross-examining the witness,
waives whatever objection may be ha because the notice is too short. Jones
v. Love, 9 Cal. 68.

5. An order to take testimony by deposition should specify the notice to be
given to the adverse A deposition taken upon an order without such
specification, where opposite part has not had reasonable notice, ought
not to be read in evidence. Ellis v. aszynslc;/, 5 Cal. 444.

6. Notice of time and place having been given, it is a matter of small importance who took the deposition, particularly in view of the inconvenience
tsznéiaileézgg which would result from a different rule. Williams v. Chadbourne,

7. It being ob'ected by plaintifff to a deposition: lst, that the co y of the
order of the Ju ge. fixing the time for taking it, did not mention e notice
to be given the adverse party; 2d, that no correct copy of said order was
served ; 3d, that no sumcient notice to take the deposition was ever given ;
the objection was overruled, “ because the original order of the Jud e, made
on aliidavit, fixed the time of notice at three days, and because p 'ntii1"s
counsel acknowledged service in writing of a copy thereof March 8th, 1859,
more than three days before the taking of the deposition." Held, that there
was no error; that the objection assigned was matter for the Court, and its
discretion was roperlfy exercised ; that reasonable notice should be given of
the time and p ace 0 taking testimony: but what is reasonable notice, depends on the particular circumstances. Attwood v. Fr-ioot, 17 Cal. 37.

8. To make the testimony of a witness admissible, he must be competent
at the time of takingihis deposition. It is the effect of the interest on the

witness at the time s testimony is taken that disqualfiles him. Kimball v.
Gearhart, 12 Cal. 27.
