‘Notice of mozionfomew trial; whznand how statemeats-or ‘a,$da'vz‘ls lobe made and filed.

The party intending to move for a new trial shall give ‘notice
or the same as follows: When the action has been tried by a
jury, within five days after the rendition of the verdict; and
when tried by a commissioner, referee, or by the Court, within ten days after receiving written notice of the filing of the
indings of ‘the commissioner, referee, or Court, when written

Endings are filed by the Court, or of the rendering of the
decision of the Court when no findings are filed; provided,

the decision be rendered in open Court, and if rendered at
Vacation, than within ten days after receiving written notice
of the filing thereof ; and when amendments are filed to remedy defects in the findings, within ten days after receiving
‘written notice of the tiling of such amendments. The notice
shall designate generally the grounds upon which the motion
will be made. Within dve days after giving such notice, or
within such further time, not exceeding twenty days, as the
Court or Judge ‘thereof or Court Commissioner may by order
grant, the said ‘party shall prepare and file with the clerk the
affidavit or statement required by the last section. If no
affidavit or ‘statement he filed withinfive days after the notice, or within such further time as the parties -may agree
‘upon, or the Court or Judge thereo for Court Commissioner
may by order grant, the right to move for a new trial sh all
be deemed waived. When the notice designates as the
ground upon which the motion will be made the insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the
statement shall specify the particulars in which such evidence
is alleged to be insuilicient. When the notice designates, as
the-ground of the motion errors in law occurring at the trial
and excepted to by the moving party, the statement shall
lpooiiy the particular errors upon which the party will rely.
If nosuch specifications be made, the statement shall be disNgarded. The statement shall contain so much of the evideuce or reference thereto as may be necessary to explain

the particular points thus specified, and no more. Such statement, when not agreed to by the adverse party, shall be
settled by the Judge, upon notice. When agreed to,.it shall
be accompanied by the certificate of the parties or their
attorneys that the same has been agreed upon and is correct.
When settled by the Judge, the same shall be accompanied
with his certificate that the same has been allowed by him
and is correct. On the argument reference may also be made
to the pleadings, depositions, and documentary evidence on
£le and the minutes of the Court. If the application be
made upon affidavits filed, the adverse party may use counter
afhdavits on the hearing. Any counter. affidavits shall be
filed with the Clerk one day at least previous to the hearing.
The affidavits and counter affidavits, or the statement thus
used in connection with such pleadings, depositions, and
minutes of the Court as are read or referred to on the hearing, shall constitute, Without further statement, the papers
to be used on appeal from the order granting or refusing the
new trial. To identify the affidavits, it shall be sullicient for
the Judge or clerk to endorse them at the time as having
been read ‘or referred to on the hearing. To identify any
depositions or minutes of the Court read or referred to on
the hearing, it shall be sufficient that the Judge designate
them in his certihcate as having been thus read or referred to.
