II.—Judgment upon failure to anmoer.

81:0. 150. In what cases judgment may be had upon the failure of the defendant to answer.

Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows’:

lst. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery of
money or damages only, if no answer has been filed with the

Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons,
or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk,
upon application of the plaintiff, shall enter the default
of the defendant, and immediately thereafter enter judgment
for the amount specified in the summons, including the costs,
against the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants in the cases provided for in section thirty-two:

2d. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the

Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the summons, 'or such further time as may have been granted, the Clerk
shall enter the default of the defendant ; and thereafter the

plaintifff may apply at the first or any subsequent term of the '

Court for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to

enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment A

into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the proof;
or- may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in

whole or in part, the Court maykorder the damages to be as- '

sessed by a jury ; or if, to determine the amount of damages,
the examination of a long account be necessary, by a reference as above provided:

3d. In actions, where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintifff, upon the expiration of the time designated in the order of publication, may, upon proof of the
publication, and that no answer has been filed, apply for
judgment; and the Court shall thereupon require proof to
be made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if
the defendant be not a resident of the State, shall require
the plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath, respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintifff, or to any

one for his use, on account of such demand, and may render
Judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
