"Upon the appeal, the Justice shall transmit the case to
the County Court.

‘Upon receiving the notice of appeal and on payment of
the fees of the Justice and filing an undertaking as required in the next section, the Justice shall within five
days transmit to the Clerk of the County Court; if the ap-'
peal be on questions of law alone, a certified copy of his
docket, the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice
of appeal and the undertaking filed; or, if the appeal he
on questions of fact, or both law and fact, a certified copy
of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and other
papers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed, and the Justice may be compelled by the
County Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to
transmit the same; a certified copy of such order may be

served on the Justice by the party or his attorney. In the
County Court either party shall have the benefit of all

legal objections made in the J ustice’s Court.

‘Amended 1853, 280; 1854, 99; 1855, 198.

1. Where a arty appealed from a Justice’s Court to a County Court, and
the Justice neglected to send u with the record the notice of a peal: Held,
that it was error to refuse to ow appellant the opportunity 0 moving to
compel the Justice to send it up, by peremptorily dismissing the appeal.
Sherman v. Rolberg, 9 Cal. 17.

2. Even were this not the case, when such an omission occurs, leave should
be granted to nle a good bond. Billings v. Roadhouse, 5 Cal. 71.

3. The omission of the words “ to pay to ” will not invalidate the obligation of an a peal bond. Id. 4

4. It is ways within the power of a Court, when exercisin proper
discretion, to extend the time fixed by law, whenever the ends 0 'ustice
would seem to demand such an extension. Wood v. Forbes et al., 5 al. 62.

5. A Justice of the Peace may refuse to send up the transcript of a cause
tried before him, until his fees are aid by appellant; but if he sends it up
without receiving his fees, the fact at they are not paid is no ground for dismissing the appeal. .Bra' v. Redman, 6 Cal. 287.

6. An oEer to pay the ustice his costs on appeal, so soon as the appeal
papers are ready to transmit to the County Court, is not a suilicient tender,
under the statute. The fees must be tendered unconditionally. People ea: rel.

v. Harris, 9 Cal. 571.
7. The Justice is not bound that to make out the papers, and then rely on

his fees being afterward paid. Id.
8. An appeal is made by tiling and serving the notice of a peal. Both

P
requisites must exist to comgtzltlg tgeoagpeal. A failure to notify the adverse

party is fatal. Whi v. 641.
9. One of the con 'tions upon which an appeal is allowed from Justices’

Courts, is the payment of the costs of the action.’ McDe1-molt v. Douglas, 5

Cal. 89.
10. Where the a peal is taken on questions of law alone, the Justice sends

up a statement wit a copy of this docket and all motions filed by the parties
during the trial, the notice of appeal and the undertakin on a peal. But
when the appeal is on questions of fact, or both of law an fact, e sends up
no statement. The statement must contain the unds upon which the
parties intend to rely on the appeal, and so muc of the evidence as ma
can ngfgssary to explain the grounds and no more. People v. Freelon,
