Failing to certify.

’ $4159. No cause shall be carried to the Supreme Court upon
any bill of exceptions, so long as the same is pending in the
court below, unless the decision or judgment complained of, if '
it had been rendered as claimed by the plaintifff in error, would
have been a final disposition of the cause. But at any stage of‘
the cause, either party may file his exceptions to any decision,
sentence or decree of the Superior Court; and if the same is
certified and. allowed, it shall .be entered of record in the cam;
and should the case at its dual termination be carried by writ of

error to the Supreme Court by either party, error may be as—
signed upon such bills of exception, and a reversal and new trial
may be allowed thereon when it is manifest that such erroneous
decision of the court has or may have affected the final result of
the case. $4160. Either party in any civil cause, and the defendant in}
any criminal proceeding in the Superior Courts of this State,
may except to any sentence, judgment, decision or decree of such
court, or of the Judge thereof, in any matter heard at chambers. Such bill of exceptions shall specify plainly the
complained of, and the alleged error, and shall be signed by the

party, or his attorney or solicitor.
' $4161. Such bill of exceptions shall be tendered to the Judge:
- who presided in the cause within thirty days from the adjourn-1
ment of the court, or the date of the decision at chambers,
and if the same is true and contains, in connection with the
the transcript of the record, all the facts necessary to the understanding and adjudication of the alleged error, the said Judge
shall sign and certify the same, substantially as follows: “ I dOw
certify that the foregoing bill of exceptions is true, and containsI
all the evidence material to a clear understanding of the errors
complained of, and the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county
of is hereby required and ordered to make out aeomplete
copy of the record of said case, and certify the same as such, and
cause the same to be transmitted to the term of the
district of the Supreme Court, that the errors alleged to have
been committed may be considered and corrected.” This certificate shall be the writ of error.
