If there are more than one party opposing, and they
have not a joint interest, but several independent interests are
represented by different attorneys, copies must be served upon
each, and the right to file cross interrogatories belongs to each.
In every case the court should see that the party really to be effected by the evidence has an opportunity of cross examination§8806. Commissions shall issue generally in blank, allowing

- the party to select his commissioners; but in any case, the oppo~
site party shall have the privilege of naming two competent commissioners, whose names shall be inserted in the commission, and
one of whom shall act in the execution thereof, unless a good and
snfiicient reason be shown for his failure.

-§:}SUT. Nu lujl'snn is emnlretent to art as mazmnissiuner. Whu
would he inmmqietent us :1 litll'ul‘ “I: :m-mmt nt' relationship. or :is
:1 \i’itness ml :iet-c.11111tnt" interest. Imr will the :tiitll'l'lt"'\' of the
party or his elerli. or an agent paiii Tu (lisehnrge this duty. he :1
mmilietent (7mm:tissiener. .\ mimmissiimer. like :‘1'i1ulge. slmuld
slaml pert'eetlr impartial hetxreen the parties. Tth dollars per
(lay shall he. :illnweil e:nmmissiuners lill' their servii-es. in he. paid
hf the party, and taxed with uther Gusts.

5135(th Nu party. or his munsel, or agent. nr Hillel' person on
his behalt'slmuhl he present at the. L‘Xl_‘t'llllllll ut' the mmnnissimi.
and ever'x'thing attending the exerutiun shunhl shuw a perfect
inipzirtinlity :"iml t'l‘t'w'nluiii trim} lniiis.

§I1Htlih it' a witness refuses to appear itt'liil't‘ the mmmissiuners,
'or to {ll't'rsu't‘l‘ the interr::gaturies. ltlhm the m-rtitieate ut' one of the
mmm]issimiers. or the :lllitlzl‘i'll’ ('1' the party or his. :1tt'i'r1'11ey in the
titer, lil'esenteil ti) :1. .l1.11l;_"e 01" The bilqiel‘inl' ul‘ Justit'e Hi. the. Inl'erim- Court. it shall he his ilnty tn issue :11: l'tl"_i‘..‘l‘ tn the Sheril'l'.
his deputy, nr :11ij eunstnfile, tn arrest the. Witness :mul luring him
lu-tin'e sueh Judge. 01‘ .lnstiee. :mt'l utter hearng his exense nml
examinng the llltt-‘t‘l‘ngzlittl‘ii'trl, tn see that the. same are. lt‘;_".=ti. he
shall Ul'llCl‘ the. said witmjss to he lntlgetl in jail until he answers

the same. This provision shall extend to commissions sent from
the courts of other States or the Confederate States.
