53. All notarial acts, of Notaries Public, in relation to bills
of exchange, drafts, and promissory notes, required to be done
by the laws of this State, may be proved by the certificate of
such Notary, under his hand and seal ; Provided, such certificate
is filed in the court at its first term, and permitted there to remain until the trial.

The following acts of Congress, being frequently needed for
reference, are here inserted :

Act qf Congress of May 26, 1790. 1 Gray; Digest 272.
The acts of the Legislatures of the several States, shall be anthenticated by having the seal ot‘ their respective States afl'ixed
thereto. The records and judicial proceedings of the courts of
any State shall be proved, or admitted, in any other court within
the United States. by the attestation ot' the Clerk, and the
seal of the court annexed, it' there be a seal, together with the
certiticate ot' the Judge, Chief Justice, or Presiding Magistrate,
as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.
And the said records and judicial proceedings, authenticated as
aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every
court Within the United States, as they have by law or usage
in the courts of the State from whence the said records are, or

shall be taken.

Act (3f Congress of Alma/t 27, 1804. See. 2, Gray ,' Digest 180.

“ From and after the passage of this act, all records and exemplitications of office books, which are, or may be kept in any
public office of any State, not appertaining to a court, shall be
proved or admitted in any other court or office in any other
State, by the attestation of the keeper of the said records or
btmks, and the seal of his office thereunto annexed. if there be a
seal, together with a certilicate of the presiding justice of the
court of the county or district, as the case may be, in which such
oliice is, or may be kept: or of the Governor, the Secretary of State,
the chancellor or the keeper of the great seal of the State, that
the said attestation is in due form, and by the proper of‘ticer, and
the said certificate, if given by the presiding justice of a court,
shall be further authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary, of the
said court, who shall certify under his hand and the seal of his
oiiice, that the said presiding justice is duly commissioned and
qualitied; or if the said certificate be given by the Governor, the
Secretary of State, the chancellor or keeper of the great seal, it
shall be under the great seal of the State, in which the certificate is made. And the same records and exemplifications, authenticated as aforesaid, shall have such faith and credit given‘
to them in every court and office within the United States,
as they have by law or usage in the courts or oliices of the State
from whence the same are, or shall be taken.”
