If such appeal shall be entered by the attorney at law
or in fact, he may sign the name of the principal to said appeal

bond, and the principal shall be bound thereby as though he had
signed it himself.

r §3538. When several partners or joint contractors sue or are
'sued as such, any one of said partners or joint contractors may
enter an appeal in the name of such iirm or joint contractors, and
sign the name of such firm or joint contractors to the bond required by law, which shall be binding on the iirm, and such joint
contractors, as though they had signed it themselves; and in case

Iof corporations, the appeal may be entered by the President or

:any agent thereof managing the case, or by the attorney of
record.

. §3539. When there shall be more than one party, plaintifff or
defendant, and one or more of said parties, plaintifff or defendant,
desires to appeal, and the others refuse or fail to appeal, such party,
plaintifff or defendant, desiring to appeal may enter an appeal
under such rules and regulations as are provided in this Code.

. §3540. Upon the appeal of either party, plaintifff or defendant,

’as provided in the previous section, the whole record shall be
taken up and all shall be bound by the final judgment, but in
case damages shall be awarded upon such appeal, such damages
shall only be recovered against the party appealing and his security, and not against the party failing or refusing to appeal.

t §3541. Such security shall be bound for the judgment on the
appeal, and in case any such security shall be compelled to pay
off the debt or damages for which judgment may be entered in
the cause, he shall have recourse only against the party for whom
he became security.

_ §3542. Executors, administrators, and other trustees, when

tsued as such, or defending solely the title of the estate, may enter

’an appeal without paying costs and giving bond and security as
hereinbefore required ; but if a judgment should be obtained
against such executor, administrator or other trustee, and not the
assets of the estate, he must pay costs and give security as in
other cases.
