¥-Speclncation. ' _

The Sheriii's shall be entitled to the following fees for the

acts herein specified: .
1. Executing summons, or any other writ or notice, simply

by delivering a copy to the party or his attorney, sixty
cents.“ ' a

2. Per mile, travelling from Court House of his county to
place of service, it out of the-county town, and where immediate service is not required, five cents.

3. As above, where] immediate service is required, ten .
cents.

4. Arrest of a defendant in a civil action and taking bail,
including attendance to justify, and all services connected
therewith, two dollars.

5. Arrest of person indicted, including all service-eonnected-with the taking and: justification of ' bail, one dollar.

6. Impnisonmentloilany personinwcivilornriminal action,
iiftfy center; andreleaee “from prison, thirtyceuta ' .

7. Executing subpoena: on a witness“ without mileage,
twenty4£ve cents. 7 p

8. Conveyingzaoprisener to jail, if oneamile or less, fifty
cents. ‘ j

9. If over one mile, then per: mile» beyond. the 'rst, for .
prisoner, sheriff. and guard, if any necessary, ‘ and approved
by County Commissioners—per mile for each, ten cents.

10. Expense of guard and all other expenses of convey.
ing prisoner to jail, or from one jail to another for any pura
pose, or toQQy place of punishmentr—whateVer may be
allowed by the Commissioners of the county in which the
indictment was issued. ' ' _

11. Feeding prisoners in the county jail per day—to be
fixed by the Commissionersof the county. '

12. Providing prisoners in county jail with suitable beds,
bed clothing, other clothing and fuel, and keeping the prison
and grounds cleanly—whatever shall be allowed by the Commissioners of the county. . .

13. Collecting fine and costs from convict, two and a half
per cent. on the amount collected. '

14. Collecting executions for money in civil actions—two
and a half per cent. on the amount collected.

15. Advertising a sale of property under execution, at each
public place required, fifteen cents. ,

16. Seizing pecific property under order of a court, or
Judge, or executing any other order of a court or Judge not
speciallyprovi‘ded for; to be allowed by the Judge.

17. Taxing any oiiicial bond, including furnishing the
blank, fifty cents. ' . . - '

18. The actual expense of keeping all property seiZed
under process or order of court; to be allowed by the court.

19. A capital execution, including the burial of the body,
twenty-five dollars.

' 20. .Summoning a grand or petit jury for each man‘summoned, thirty cents.

21. Serving any writ or other process, with the aid of the
county, or arresting. any criminal, three dollars, and all
necessary expenses incurred thereby.

22. All just fees paid to any printer for any advertisement
required to be printed by the sheriff.

23. Bringing up a prisoner upon a .habeas corpus to testify .
or answer to any court or. before aJudge, one dollar, and all
necessary expenses.
