IV.

ATTACHMENT.

§l97.—Property of foreign corporations, and of non-resldent, or abseondjng,
V or concealed defendants, may be attached.

In an action arising on contract, for the recovery of money
only, or in an action for the wrongful conversion of personal property, against a corporation created by, or under,
the laws of any other State, government or country, or
against a defendant who is not a resident of this State, or
against a defendant who has absconded or concealed himself, or whenever any person or corporation is about to
‘ remove any of his, or its property, from this State, or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign,
dispose of, or secrete, any of his, or its, property, with intent
to defraud creditors, as hereinafter, mentioned, the plaintifff
at the time of issuin g the summons, or [at] any time afterwards,
may have the property of such defendant or corporation
attached, in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security
for the satisfaction of such judgment as the plaintifff may
recover; and for the purposes of this section, an action shall

be deemed commenced, when the summons is issued; Provided however, that personal service of such summons shall
be made, or publication thereof commenced within thirty
days after obtaining a warrant of attachment.

\3]98.—Publlcatlon to be made.

The plaintifff obtaining a warrant of attachment shall
within the time above prescribed, cause publication to be
made, at least once a week for four" successive weeks, in
some newspaper published in the county in which the
warrant is returnable; or if there be none such published,
then in one published within the. judicial district, in which
such county is, or if there be none such published, then in
any newspaper published in this State. Said publication
shall state the names of the parties, the amount, and in a
brief way, the nature of the demand, the time and place to
which the warrant is returnable, and shall require the
defendant to appear then and. there and answer the complaint. If the place of residence of the defendant be known,
the plaintifff shall send to him by mail, 'a copy of such publication; and the court in which the suit is pending may,
at any time, order notice to be sent by mail to any place, in.
which the defendant may be supposed to reside or be.
