I.

GENERAL PROVISIONS IN REGMRD TO ACTIONS.

(\8.—To what actions these enactments are applicable.
The following enactments are applicable. to:

1. Civil actions, which at the approval, by the government
.of the United States, of the Constitution ad0pted by a Conventiou of this State, on the sixteenth day of March, 1868, were
pending in any County Court, Superior Court of law, or
Court of Equity, of this State, and which were not founded on
contract, as far as they may be, according to the stage of progress of the action, and having regard to its subject and not
to its form.

2. All civil actions which shall be commenced after the ratification of this Act, not founded on a contract made prior to
its ratification.

3. All civil actions commenced prior to the ratification of this
Act, or which shall be commenced hereafter, for causes of action
included within the provisions of an ordinance, entitled “An
Ordinance respecting the jurisdiction 9’ the courts of this State,”
ratified on the fourteenth day of March 1868, shall be governed
in respect to the practice and procedure therein, by the provisions
of that ordinance, and by the existing laws, as far as they may
be, except as to form—[See Appendix.]

4. All actions commenced prior to the ratification of this
Act, or which shall be hereafter commenced, founded on a con- '
tract made prior to the ratification of this Act, and not embraced in the ordinance above-mentioned shall be governed in
reSpect to the practice and procedure therein, up to, and including the judgment, by the laws existing prior to the ratification of this Act, as near as may be, and the practice in such

actions subsequent to judgment, shall be governed by the enactments of this Act.

99,—Delnltlon of Court—To lean Clerk, when.

In those of the following enactments, which confer jurisdiction or power, or impose duties, when the words Superior
Court, or “ Court,” in reference to a Superior Court are used,
they mean the Clerk of the Superior Court, unless otherwise
specially stated, or unless reference is made to a‘regular term

of the Court, in which cases the Judge of the Court alone, is
meant.
