M.—Solicltor’s fees—for what.

The” Solicitors shall receive the following fees:

1. On every conviction for murder, twenty dollars.

2. On every conviction where, by law the punishment
may be hard labor in a Penitentiary for one year or over,
ten dollars. . '

3. On conviction on any other indictment, four dollars,

. 4. On final judgment against a defaulting witness or juror
where no issue is joined, two dollars.

5. On such a judgment when contested, four dollars.6. Judgment on undertaking of bail; or recognizance, if
uncontested, two dollars.

7. On the same if 0 tested, four dollars.

8. On application a: rene'w bond to keep the peace, if
granted, one dollar. I .

9. On an issue in bastardy—'—foun'd against the putative
father, four dollars.

.—

- CHAPTER III.

THE‘ FEES 0F CLERKS OF THE SUPERIOR COURTS.

war—What loos and for what.

The Clerks of the Superior Court shall be entitled to the following fees: ~ '

HR CIVIL CASES.

1. Furnishing blank writ of summons or other writ or
process required to be“ issued by 'him and'takinga bond from
the'plsintiii‘ as security for costs or receivinga deposit from '
plaintiE and giving a certificate to him and'the defendant,
iifty cents. ' '

2. Docketing summons, dve cents. ,

3. Recording 3 return of a sheriff or other ministerial 011i.cer, ten cents.

4. Receiving, filing, and 'notin g on the docket, any pleading or demurrer, and delivering capies filed, to the parties to
whom addressed, ten cents. ‘

5. Order enlarging, or refusing to enlarge, time for" pleading, or for any other act where authorized, fifty cents.

6. Making‘ order of publication where allowed, hfteen.
cents . '

7. Entering judgment against either party in default of a
plea, one dollar. . '

8. Judgment on any question authorized to be decided by
him, if there be no appeal to the Judge, or if the judgment
of the clerk be confirmed on the appeal, one dollar.

9. Preparing statement of case on a peel from his decision to the Judge if the decision s 11 be confirmed, one
dollar.

10. Transcript of record for Judge on issue of law joinedon the pleadings, per copy sheet, ten cents. ,

11. Acknowledging receipt of decision of J udge, and
notifying each attorney thereof, ten cents.

12. Taking an aftidavit except to a witness or juror’s ticket
of attendance, fifteen cents.

13. Taking affidavit to witness or juror’s ticket, ten cents.

14. Transcript of case and record for Supreme Court, per
copy sheet, ten cents. .

15. Mailing transcript, post paid, iifteen cents. 16. Docketing an y j udgment on Execution docket, twenty_ five cents. '

17. Aiiixing seal of court when necessary, twenty-five
cents.

18-. Enterng on‘ record any order or judgment of ‘theJudge, on .a matter. which he has jurisdiction to decide out
. (if-atom, if not more than one sheet-twenty-fzve'eents.

If monethan one cepysheet', bravery copy sheet 
East, ten cents. ‘ ‘

1:9.  on thedeckeitabrief of any complaint, plea,
demurrer or motion, five cents. ' '

20. Entering general verdict, five cents.

21. Entering special .verdict my  sheet, ten cents. .

22. Entering appeal taken, live cents.

23. Issuing subpoena for witnesses, each name, ten cents.

‘ 24. Swearing-a witness, five cents. a"

25. Copy of any record or Writing in his oHice, per copy
sheet, ten cents.

26. Probate or acknowledgment of a deed or writing of
any sort authorized to be proved, (except Where the private
examination of a married woman is taken, for each grantor
therein, fifty cents. ‘

27. Probate 0r acknowledgment of deed or other writing;
and taking, private examinan of married women, with
certificate thereof, one dollar.

28. Probate of a will in common form, with certificate and,
issuing, letters testamentary, one dollar. '

29. Recording will, return or report of executor, administrator, guardian or other trustee required to be recorded ;.
per copy sheet, ten cents. ‘

30. Grant of letters of administration of any sort, and

taking bond of administration, one dollar.
. 31. Every notice required tobe issued by Clerk, ten cents.

32. Grant of guardianship, including taking of bond; for each minor, fifty cents. ‘

33. Apprenticing infant, including indenture, fifty cents.

’34. Entering caveat on contested‘will, twenty cents.

35. Recording articles of agreement of proposed corpora:
tion, including all services, two dollars. 36. Issuing commission of any sort, iifty cents.

37. Entering return to commission and order for registration of deed, ten cents. ’

' 38. Auditing account of executor, administrator, guardian, or other trustee, required to return accounts, one 'per
cent. on the nett amount returned, if not over three hundred
dollars; three fourths of one per cent. if over three hundred
and not over one thousand dollars; one-half of one per
cent. if over one thousand and not over twenty thousand
dollars; due sixth of one per cent. it over twenty thousand

dollars. 39. J ustificationpf sureties, iifty c_ents.

40. Issuing marriage license and making the record required thereof, 'iifty cents.

41. Entry of birth or death when required to be made,
five cents. ~ . .

[lo—IN CRIMINAL ACTIONS. 42. Issuing capias—for each person to be arrested, iift
cents. ._ I.

43. Docketing action, and entering return, ten, cents. _,

44. Taking a recognizancgten cents. .

45. Issuing subpoena—for each witness, ten cents.

46. Entering judgment against a defaulting juror or Witness or on a hail bond or recognizance, fifty cents.

47. Entering verdict and judgment, one dollar.

48. Issuing execution, twenty-Iive cents. ‘ 49. J ustiiication of bail or sureties to an appeal, fifty
cents

50. Aflidavit except to witness or juror’s ticket twentycents. . .

51. Aflidavit to witness or juror’s ticket, ten cents.

52. Ailixing seal when necessary, twenty-five cents.

53. Transcript on appeal—as in civil cases.

54. Mailing transcript as in civil cases. i
