—Annu.al accounts. .

Every executor, administrator, collector and guardian,
shall, within twelve months frOm the date of his qualification or'appointment, and annually, so long as any of the

estate remains in his control, file, in the oilice of the Judge of Probate, an inventory and account, under oath, ot the
amount of property received by him, or invested by him
and the manner and nature of such investment, and his
receipts and disbursements for the past year in the form of
debit and credit. He must produce vouchers, which must
be filed with the J udge of Probate, for all payments. The
' Judge of Probate may examine on oath, such accounting
party, or any other person, concerning the receipts, disbursements or any other matter relating to the estate; and,
having carefully revised and audited such account, if he
approve the same, he must endorse his approval thereon,
which shall be deemed primafaciea evidence of correctness.
Each Judge of Probate must annex or attach a copy of this
section to all letters issued by him. ’

§W9.—Failure to account.

If any executor, administrator, collector 'or guardian omits
to account, as directed in the preceding section, or renders
an insufiicient and unsatisfactory account, the Probate Judge
shall forthwith order such executor, administrator, collector'
or guardian to render a full and satisfactory account, as
required by law, within twenty days after service of the
order. , Upon return of the order, duly served, if such
executor, administrator, collector, or guardian, fail to appear
or refuse to exhibit such account, the Judge of Probate may
issue an attachment against him for a contempt and commit

him till he exhibit 'such account, and may likewise remove
him from office. ‘

tum—Vouchers.

Vouchers are presumptive evidence of disbursement,
- without other proof. unless impeached. If lost, the accounting party must, if required. make oath to that tact, setting
forth the manner of loss, and state the contents and purport
of the voucher. A ‘ ‘

,M81,—Flnal accounts.

An executor, or administrator, may be required to file his
iinal account for settlement in the court of probate by a
citation directed to him, at any time after two years from
his Qualification, at the instance of any person interested in
the estate; and a guardian may be required to file such
account at any time after six months from the ward’s coming
of full age, or the cessation of the guardianship: but such
account may be filed voluntarily at any time; and, whether

the accounting be voluntary or compulsory, it shall be
audited and recorded by the Judge of Probate.
