ll.—Bond to sheriff on attachment, how dlsposed of, on judgment for defendant. ‘

If the foreign corporation, or absent, or absconding, or
concealed defendant, recover judgment against the plaintifff
in such action, any bond taken upon the issuing-of the warrant of attachment, and any bond taken by the sheriff, except
such as are mentioned in the last section, all the proceeds of
 and monies collected by him, and all the property
reattaphed remaining in his hands, shall be deliveredby him
ig‘ngt-he defendant or his agent on request, and the warrant
 shall be discharged and the property released.

i 7 “law—Discharge of attachment, and return of property or its proceeds, to the
A . , defendant, on his appearance in action.

Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in such
action, he may apply to the Court in which the action is
pending, or to the Judge thereof, for an order to discharge
the same; and if the same be granted, all the proceeds of
sale, and monies collected in such action,_e,wfall the pro.
perty attached remaining in the hands-  of the
Court, under any process or ordeirginrs :shall be
delivered or paid to the defendant orihis'agen‘t,and released
from the attachment. ‘

And where there is more than one defendant, and several
pr0perty of either of the defendants has been seized by iv,in
tue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several

property has been seized, may. apply in like manner for A
relief.

 

     

gnaw-undertaking in! Part of the defendant. Discharge of at   ‘ ‘

Upon such application the defendant shall deliv‘éflistto the
Court an undertaking, executed‘by at least two sureties, wwho
are‘resident and free-h olders or house-holders in this State,
approved by such Court, to the effect that such sureties,
will on demand, pay to the plaintifff the amount of judgment

  

that may be recovered against the defendant in the action,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least double the amount claimed by the plaintih’
in his complaint. If it shall appear by affidavit, that the
property attached be less than the amount claimed by the
plaintifff, the Court or Judge may order the same to be
'appraised and the amount of the undertaking shall then be
double the amount so appraised. And in all cases, the
«defendant may move to discharge the attachment, as in the
case of other provisional remedies.

And where there is more than one defendant, and several
prOperty of either of the defendants, has been seized by virtue of the order of attachment, the defendant whose several
property has b'een seized, may deliver to the Court an undertaking, in accordance with the provision of this section, to
the effect that he will on demand, pay to the plaintifff the
amount of judgment that may be recovered against such
defendant. And all the provisions of this section applicable
to such an undertaking shall be applied thereto.

~§214.—When the Shel-m“ m Mum warrant, with his proceedings thereon.

The sheriff shall return the warrant of attachment with a.
statement of his proceedings thereon, at the time and place
at which it is on its face returnable, and upon, or at any I
time after such return, he may obtain from the Court to
which the same was returnable, a certified copy thereof,
which shall be held and deemed for the purpose of giving *
him authority, the same as the original, and when the warrant- shall have been fully executed or discharged, the
sheriff shall return the same, with his proceedings, to the
said Court.
