—Defendant allowed to defend before and after judgment.

The defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his.
representatives, on application and sufficient cause shown at
any time before judgment, must be allowed to defend the
action; and, except in an action for divorce, the defendant
against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives,
may in like manner, upon good cause shown, be allowed to
defend after judgment, or at any time within one year after
notice thereof, and within five years after its rendition, on
such terms as may be just; and if the defense be successful
‘ and the judgment, or any part thereof, have been collected,
or otherwiSe enfOrced, such restitution may thereupon be
compelled as the court may direct; but the title to prOperty
sold under such judgment to a purchaser in good faith shall i
not be thereby affected. And in all cases where publication
is made, the complaint must be first filed, and the summons
as published must state the time and place of such tiling.

(386.—Aetlons for foreclosure of mortgages.

In actions for the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate,
already instituted, or hereafter to be instituted, if any party
' having any interest in or lien upon such mprtgaged premises,

is unknown to the plaintifff, and the residence cf such party
cannot, with reasonable diligence, be' ascertained by him,
and such fact shall be made to appear by affidavit, to the
court, such court may grant an order that the summons be
served on such unknown party by publishing the same for
six weeks once in each week successively, in one newspaper
’ printed in Raleigh, and in a newspaper printed in the county
where the premises lie, if there be any, which publication
shall be equivalent to a personal service on such unknown

party.
tam-Joint and several debtors; Partners,

Where the action is against two or more defendants, and

b

the summons is served on one or more of them, but not on
all them, the plaintifff may proceed as follows:

1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants served,

‘ unless .the court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced against
the joint property of all, and the separate pr0perty of the
defendants served, and if they are subject to arrest, against
the persons of the defendants served; or

2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he
may proceed against the defendants served, in the same
manner as if they were the only defendants. .

3. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may
be taken against any or either of them severally, when the
plaintifff would be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants if the action had been against them .or
any of them alone.

4. If the name of one or more partners, shall, for any
cause have been omitted in any action in which judgment
shall have passed against the'defendants named in the summons, and such omission shall not have been pleaded in
such action, the plaintifff in case the judgment therein shall
remain unsatisfied, may by action recover of Such partner
separately, upon proving his joint liability, notwithstanding
he may not have been named in the original action; but the
plaintifff shall have satisfaction of only one judgment rendered for the same cause of action.
