—Pleadlngs how verilicd.

The verification must be to the effect that the same is true
to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those
matters stated on information and belief, and as to those
matters he believes it to be true; and must be by affidavit of
the paity, or if there be several parties united in interest,

and pleading together, by one at least of such parties
acquainted with the facts, if such party be within the county where the attorney resides, andcapable of making the
aliidavit. The affidavit may also be made by the agent or
attorney, if the action or defense be founded upon a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all
the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading is verified by any other person than the party, he shall
set forth in the affidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of
his belief on the subject, and the reasons why it is not made
by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof; and when the
State, or any ofIicer thereof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with the
facts. The verification may be omitted when an admission
‘of the truth of the allegation might subject the party to
prosecution for felony. And no pleading can be used in a
criminal prosecution against the party, as proof of a fact
admitted or alleged in such pleading.

(HEP—Items of account—particulars, to be furnished when.

It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged; but he shall
deliver to the adverse party, within ten days after a demand
thereof in writing, a copy of the account, which if the pleading is verified, must be verided by his own oath, or that of
his agent or attorney, if within the personal knowledge of
such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be
true,L or be preCluded from giving evidence thereof. The
court or the Judge thereof, may order a further account
when the one delivered is defective; and the court may in

all cases, order a bill of particulars of the claim of either
party to be furnished.

g] l9.—Pleadlngs how construed.
In the construction of a-pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view of substantial justice between theparties.

, §120.—Irrelevant or redundant—Indenan or uncertain.

If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleadin g, it may be stricken out, on motion of any person‘ aggrieved thereby. And when the allegations of a pleading are so
indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge
or defense is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment. '
