—Payment of deposit into court. .

The sheriff shall, within four days after the deposit, pay
the same into court, and shall take from the officer receiving
the same, two Certificates of such payment, the one of which
he shall deliver to the plaintifff, and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same
proceedings may be had on the oiiicial bond of the sheriff, to
collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

yea—Substituting ball for deposit.

If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section one hundred“ and sixty, any time before
judgment; and thereupon the Judge shall direct, in the
order of allowance, that the money deposited be refunded,
by the sheriff, to the defendant, and it shall be refunded

accordingly.

gum—Deposit, how disposed 6?.

When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain on
deposit at the time of an order or judgment for the payment
of money to the plaintifff, the clerk shall, under the direction
of the Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and
after satisfying the judgment, shall refund the surplus, if
any,lto the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the
defendant, the clerk shall refund to him- the whole sum
deposited and remaining unapplied.

gun—sums, when liable as ball.

If, after being arrested, the defendant escape or .be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not

made instead thereof, the sheriff shall himself be liable as
bail. But he may discharge himself from such liability, by
the giving ‘and justification of bail, as provided in sections
one hundred and sixty-three, one hundred and sixty-four one
hundred and sixty-live, and one hundred and sixty-six, at any
time before process against the person of the defendant, to
enforce an order or judgment in the action.

§l72.—Proceedings on judgment against sherln‘.

If a judgment be recovered against the sheriff, upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole 0? in part, the same proceedings may be
had on the oliicial bond of the sheriff, to collect the deficiency,

as in other cases of delinquency.

§l73.—Ball liable to shim:

The bail taken 'upon the arrest, shall, unless they justify,
or other bail be given or justified, be liable to the sheriff by
action, for damages which he may sustain by reason of such
omission. ‘

§l74.—Vacatlng order of arrest, or reducing ball.

A defendant arrested may at any time before judgment,
apply, on motion, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of. bail.

§l75.—,Amdavlts on motion.

If the motion be made upon affidavits on the part of the
defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose the
same by affidavits, or other proofs, in addition to those on.which the order of arrest was made. '
