— Security by plain“! before order of arrest.

Before making the order, the Judge shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sureties,
to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintifff will pay all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking, which shall be at least one hundred dollars.

§l53.—0rder, when made, and Its form—Time to answer or to move to vacate.

The order may be made to accompany the summons, or
issue at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall
require the sheriff of the county where the defendant may
be found, forthwith to arrest him and hold him to bail in a
specified sum, and to return the order, at a place and time
therein mentioned, to the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, and notice of such return shall be served
on the plaintifff or his. attorney as prescribed in section
eighty. ' .

But said order of arrest shall be of no avail, and shall be
vacated or set aside on motion, unless the same is served
upon the defendant, as provided by law, before the docketing of any judgment in the action; and the defendant shall
have twenty days, after the service of the order of arrest, in
which to answer the complaint in the action, and to move

to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of
bail.

o
§l54.——Amdavit and order to be delivered to sheriff, and copy to defendant.

The affidavit and order of arrest shall be delivered to the
sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant, shall deliver to
him a copy thereof.

§l55.—Arrest, how made.
The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law;
and may call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of the arrest, as in case of process. .

§l56.—Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit.
The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be

discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail, or upon
depositing the amount mentioned in the order of arrest, as
provided in this chapter.

§l57.—Ball, how ‘given.

The defendant may give bail, by causing a written undertaking to be executed by two or more suiiicient bail, stating
their places of residence and occupations, to the effect that”
the defendant shall at all times render himself amenable to ‘
the process of the court, during the pendency-of the action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in the third
subdivision » of section one hundred and forty-nine, an
undertaking to the same effect as that provided by section \
one hundred and eighty-one.
