IB.-Judgment delinedd

A judgment is the final determination of the rights of
the parties in the action. ' 7

eat—Judgment on failure of defendant to answer, or for excess over counterclaim.

Judgment may be had, if the defendant fail to answer the
complaint, as follows: i

1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, the plaintifff may file with the clerk proof of
personal service of the summons and complaint on one or
more of the defendants, or of the summons according to the
provisions of section Seventy-six, and that no answer has
been filed. The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for
the amount mentioned in the summons, against the defendant or defendants, or against one or more of several defen-‘
dants, in the cases provided for in section eighty-seven. But
if the complaint be not sworn to, and such action is on an
instrument for the payment of money only, the clerk, on its
productionto him, shall assess the amount (he to the plaintifff
thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the amount which
the plaintifff is entitled to recover in such action, from his
examination, under oath, or other proof, and enter the judgment for the amount so assessedor ascertained. In case the
defendant give notice of appearance in the action, he shall
be -entitled to five days’ notice of the time and place of such
assessment. ‘

Where the defendant, by his answer in such action, shall
not deny the plaintifff’s claim, but shall set up a counterclaim, amounting to less than the plaintifff’s claim, judgment
may be had by the plaintifff for the excess of said claim over
the said counterclaim, in like manner in any such action,
upon the plaintifff’s filing with the clerk of the Court a statement admitting such counterclaim, which statement shall
be annexed to and be a part of the judgment-roll.

2. In other actions the plaintifff may, upon the like proof,
apply to the Court, after the expiration of the time for
answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint. If the
taking of an account or the proof of any fact be necessary
to enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that

purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of money
only, or of specific real or personal property, with damages
for the Withholdin g thereof, the court may order the damages
to be assessed by a jury, or, if the examination of a long
account be involved, by a reference as above provided. If
the defendant give notice of appearance in the action before
the expiration of the time for answering, he shall be entitled
to eight days’ notice of the time and place of application to
the Court for the relief demanded by the complaint.

3. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication,“ the plaintifff may, in like manner, apply for
judgment, and the court must thereupon require proof to be
made of the demand mentioned in the complaint; and if the
defendant be not a resident (f the State must require the
plaintifff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting any
payments that have been made to the plaintiii“, or to any one
for his use, on account of such demand, and may render
judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.
Before rendering judgment the court may, in its discretion,
require. the plaintifff to cause to be filed satisfactory security,
to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of
any estate or effects which may be directed by such judgment
to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money
that may be collected under or by virtue of such judgment,
in case the defendant or his representatives shall apply and
be admitted to defend the action, and shall succeed in such
defense.
