11.

SUPERIOR COURTS.

ilo.—0rlglnl 0|le Jurisdiction of the Superior Courts.

' The Superior Courts shall have exclusive original jurisdico'
tion of all civil actions, whereof exclusive original jurisdiction
is not given to some other Court. (Const. Art. IV, Sect. 15.)

51 l.-—'l'orgs p! the. several Superior Courts.

The terms of the several Superior Courts, of this State, shall
begin in each year, at the times herein stated, and shall continue to be held for two weeks (Sundays and legal holidays
excepted) unless the business be sooner disposed of.

FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Bertie County, on the first Monday in March and October.

Hertford County, on the third Monday in March and October.

Gates County, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday
in March and October. _

Chowan County, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday
in March and October.

Perquimans County, on the eighth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October. .

Pasquotank County, on the tenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.

Camden County, on the twelfth Monday after the first Monday in March and October. . .
Currituck County, on the fourteenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and October.

SECOND JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Tyrell County, on the first Monday in September and Feb
ruary. ~
Washington County, on the third Monday in September and
' February.

Beaufort County, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday in September and February.

Pitt County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday

in September and February. _
Edgecombe County, on the tenth Monday after the third

Monday in September and February.

THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Wayne County, on the first Monday in September and

February. ‘
L Jones County, on the third Monday in September and
February. Onslow County, on the first Monday after the fourth Monday in September and February.
Craven County, on the third Monday after the fourth Monday in September and February. ,
Lenoir County, on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday in September and February. __
Greene County, on the seventh Monday after the fourth

Monday in September and February.
Carteret County, on the ninth Monday after the fourth

Monday in September and February.
Wilson County, on the eleventh Monday after the fourth

Monday in September and February.

‘ FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Robeson County, on the fourth Monday in August and

February.
Bladen County, on the second Monday after the fourth '

Monday in August and February.
Columbus County, on the fourth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February. '

Brunswick County, on the sixth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.

New Hanover County, on the eighth Monday after the
fourth Monday in August and February. '

Sampson County, on the tenth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.
' Duplin County, on the twelfth Monday after the fourth
Monday in August and February.

Martin County, on the second Monday after the third Mon
day in September and February.

Hyde County, on the fourth Monday after the third Mon~
day in September and February.

FIFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Harnett County, on the second Monday in August and
February. .

Moore County, on the second Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Montgomery County, on the fourth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Stanly County, on the sixth Monday after the second Mon—
day in August and February. .

Union County, on the eighth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February. ,,

Anson County, on the tenth Monday after the second Mon-day in August and February. Richmond County, on the twelfth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February. *

Cumberland County, on the fourteenth Monday after the
second Monday in August and February.

SIXTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Granville County, on the second Monday in August and
February.

Warren County on the second Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Franklin County, on the fourth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Johnston County, on the sixth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

Wake County, on the eighth Monday after the second Mon—
day in August February.

Nash County, on the tenth Monday after the second Monday
in August and February.

Halifax County, on the twelfth Monday after the second
Monday in August and February.

   

. Northampton County, on the fourteenth Monday after the
second Monday in August and February.

SEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Guilford County, on the first Monday in March and September.

Rockingham County, on the second Monday after the first
Monday in March and September. '

Caswell County, on the fourth Monday after the first Monday in March and September.

Person County, on the sixth Monday after the first Monday
in March and September.

Orange County, on the eighth Monday after the first Monday
in March and September. ' .
Chatham County, on the tenth Monday after the first Monday

in March and September.
Randolph County, on the twelfth Monday after the first
,Monday in March and September. . .
Alamance County, on the fourteenth Monday after the first
Monday in March and September.

EIGHTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Davie County, on the first Monday in April and September.

Rowan County, on the third Monday in April and September.

Davidson County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Forsyth County, on the fourth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Stokes County, on' the sixth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.

Surry County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.

Yadkin County, on. the tenth Monday after the third Monday
in April and September.

NINTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Polk County, on the first Monday in March and September.

 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

Rutherford County, on the third Monday in March and
September. ‘

Cleaveland County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.

Lincoln County, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Gaston County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday
in March and September.

Mecklenburg County, on the eighth Monday after the third
Monday in March and September.

Cabarrus County, on the tenth Monday after the third Monday in March and September. '

TENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Catawba County, on the first Monday in March and September. A .

Alexander County, on the third Monday in March and September. ’ "

Iredell County, on the second Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Wilkes County, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Caldwell County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

Burke County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday in March and September.

McDowell County, on the tenth Monday after the third

Monday in March and September.

ELEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Alleghany County, on the first Monday in April and September. ' p '

Ashe County, on the third Monday in April and September.

Watauga County, on the second Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Mitchell County, on the fourth Monday after the third Monday in April and September.

Yancey County, on the sixth Monday after the third Monday in April and September.
. Madison County, on the eighth Monday after the third Monday in Apri1_and September. ‘
Buncombe County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

TWELFTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT.

Clay County, on the first Monday in April and September.

Cherokee County, on the third Monday in .April and September.

Macon County, on the second Monday after the third Monday in April and September.

Jackson County, on the fourth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
‘ Haywood County, on the sixth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September. ‘

Transylvania County, on the eighth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.

Henderson County, on the tenth Monday after the third
Monday in April and September.
