—Existing suits—Testimony by a party not responsive to the inquiries,
may be rebuttod by the oath of the party calling him.

A party examined by an adverse party, as in this chapter
provided, may be examined on his own behalf, subject to the
same rules of examination as other witnesses. But if he
testify to any new matter, not responsive to the inquiries
put to him by the adverse party, or necessary to explain or
qualify his answers thereto, or discharge when his answers
would charge himself, such adverse party may Offer himself
as a witness on his own behalf in respect to such new matter,
subject to the same rules of examination as other witnesses,
and shall be so received.

é339.—Existing suits—Persons for whom action is brought or defended may
be examined.

A person for whose immediate benefit the action is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the action, may
be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and subject
to the same rules of examination, as if he were named as a

party.

{palm—Existing suits—Examination of eo-plaintiii' or (so-defendant.

A party may be examined on behalf of his co-plaintifff or
of a co-defendant as to any matter in which he is not jointly
interested 0r liable with such co-plaintifff or ccdefendant,
and as to which a separate and not joint verdict or judgment ‘
can be rendered. And he may be compelled to attend in
the same manner as at the instance of an adverse party;
but the examination thus taken shall not be used in the
behalf of the party examined. And whenever, in the case
mentioned in sections three hundred and ninety and three
hundred and ninety-one, one of several plaintifffs or defendants who are joint contractors; or are united in interest, is

examined by the adverse party, the other of such plaintifffs
or defendants may offer himself asa Witness to the same
cause of action or defense, and shall be so received.

yup—Husband and wife, witnesses.

In any trial or inquiry in any suit, action or proceeding in
any court, or before any person having, by law or consent
of parties, authority to examine Witnesses or hear evidence,
“the husband or wife of any party thereto, or of any person
in Whose behalf any such suit, action or' proceeding is
brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended, shall, except as
hereinafter stated, be competent and compellable to give
evidence, the same as any other witness, on behalf of any
party to such suit, action or proceeding. Nothing herein
contained shall render any husband or Wife competent or
compellable to give evidence for or against the other, in any
criminal action or proceeding (except to prove the fact of
marriage in case of bigamy,) or in any action or proceeding '
in consequence of adultery, or in any action or proceeding
for divorce on account of adultery (except to prove the fact
of marriage,) or in any action or proceeding for or on account
of criminal conversation. N o husband or Wife shall be compellable to disclose any confidential communication made by
one to the other during their marriage. The several sections.
of this chapter shall apply to existing suits.
