II.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

§l76.—Dellvery of personal property.
The plaintifff in an action to recover the possession of personal prOperty, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or
at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of
such property, as provided in this chapter.

§l77.—Amdavits and its requisites.

\Vhere a delivery is; claimed an affidavit must be made,
before the clerk of the court in which the action is required
to be tried, by sections sixty-six, sixty-seven and sixty-eight,
by the plaintifff, or'some one in his behalf, showing:

1. That the plaintifff is the owner of the property claimed
(particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the
possession thereof, by virtue of a special property therein,
the facts in respect to 'which shall be set forth;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant; ' ‘ i

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, information, and belief;

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution
or attachment against the property of the plaintifff; or, if so
seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure; and

5. The actual value of the property.

§l78.——Reqllsltlon to sherif to take and deliver the property. ‘

The clerk of the court shall, thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the aliidavit, require the sheriff of the
county where the pr0perty claimed may be, to take the same
from the defendant and deliver it to the plaintifff; provided,
the plaintifff shall give the undertaking prescribed in the ,
next section.

gum—Security by plaintln‘.

Upon the receipt of the order from the clerk with a written undertaking executed by one or more sufiicient sureties,
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit
for the prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for. any cause,
be recovered against the plaintifff, the sheriff shall forthwith
take the prOperty described in the affidavit, if it be in the
possession of the defendant or his agent, and. retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice, and undertaking, “by ’
delivering the same to him personally, if he can be found,
or to his agent, from whose possession the property is taken;
or,~ if neither can be found, by leaving them at the usual

place of abode of either, with some person of suitable age
and discretion.
