—llaterlal variance.

N o variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof- shall be deemed material, unless it have actually

misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining
his action upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged
that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to
the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been
misled; and thereupon the Judge may order the pleading to
be amended upon such terms as shall be just.

(\129.—Inmaterlal variance.

. 'Where thO variance is not material as provided in the last

section, the Judge may direct the fact to be found according
to the evidence, or may order an immediate amendment
without costs.

glam—A {allure of proof, when.

Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defense to which the proof is directed is unprOved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance
within the last sections, but a failure of proof.

tub—Amendments of course after allowance of demurrer.

Any pleading may be once amended by the party of
course, without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any' time before the period for answering it expires: or it can be so amended at any time within
twenty days after the service of the answer or demurrer to
such pleading, unless it be made to appear to the court that
it was done for the purpose of delay, and the plaintifff or
defendant will thereby lose the beneEt of a term for which
the cause is or may be docketed for trial; and if it appear '
to the ,court or Judge that such amendment was made for
such purpose, the same may be stricken out, and such terms
imposed as to the court or Judge may seem just. In such
case a copy of the amended pleading must be served on the
adverse party. After the decision of a demurrer, the Judge
may, in his discretion, if it appear that the demurrer was
interposed in good faith, allow the party to plead over upon
such terms as may be just. It the demurrer be allowed for

the reason that several causes of action have been improperly
united, the Judge may, in his discretion, and upon such terms
as may be just, order the action to be divided into as many
actions as may be necessary to the proper determination of
the causes of action therein mentioned.

‘
