—Proceedings in case of perishable property or vessel.

If any property, so seized, shall be perishable, or of such
character that the expense of keeping it until the determination of the suit, would be likely to exceed one-fifth of its
value, or if any part of it consists of a vessel, or of any share
or interest therein, the sheriff or other officer having possession thereof, shall immediately apply to the court for author.
ity to sell the same, stating the circumstances, and the same
shall be sold, under the order and direction of the court.

{Wisp—Interest in corporations or associations liable to attachment. '

The rights or shares which such defendant may have, in‘
the stock of any association or corporation, together with
the interests and profits thereon, and all other property in
. this State of such defendant, shall be liable to be attached
and levied on, and sold to satisfy the judgment and execu~
tion. '

Wot—Attachment, how executed on property incapable of manual delivery. 73:,

The execution of the attachment upon any such rights, 
shares, or any debts or other property incapable of manual ‘
delivery to the sheriff, shall be made, by leaving a. certified
copy of the warrant of the attachment, with, the President
or other head of the association or corporation, ‘or the scores
tary, cashier or managing agent thereof, or. with the debtor.
or individual holding such property, with a notice showing
it the property levied on. $208.—Certiiieate of defendant’s interest to be furnished.

Whenever the sheriff. or other lanul officer with a war.
rant of attachment or execution, shall apply to any officer
mentioned in the next preceeding section, or to any debtor
or individual, for the purpose of attaching or levying on, the
property of the defendant in such warrant, such officer,
debtor or individual shall furnish him with .a certificate
under his hand, designating the numberigiiirights‘or shares
of the defendant in such association or  any

. . :;-.:-;t73165::2'.t’é*v}2': a:  "

  

\

dividend or any encumbrance thereon, or the amount-and
description of the property held by such association, corporation, or individual, for the benefit of, or debt owing to the
defendant. If such oilicer, debtor or individual refuse to do
so, he may be required by the Court or Judge to attend.
before him, and be examined on oath concerning the same,
and obedience to such order may be enforced by attachment.

awe—Judgment, how mum.

_- In case judgment be entered for the plaintifff in such
action, the sheriff shall satisfy the same out-of the property
attached by him, if it shall be sufficient for that purpose.

1. By paying over to such plaintifff the proceeds of all
property sold by him, and of all debts or credits collected
by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy such _
judgment.

2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on such judgment, he shall proceed to sell
under such execution, so much of the attached property,
real or personal, except as provided in subdivision four of
this section, as may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if
enough for that purpose shall remain in his hands; and in
case of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a
corporation or association, the sheriff shall execute to the
.purchaser a certificate of sale thereof, and the purchaser
shall thereupon have all the rights and privileges in respect
thereto which were had by such defendant.

3. If any of the attached property belonging to the
defendant, shall have passed out of the hands of the sheriff
without having been sold or converted into money, such
sheriff shall repossess himself of the same, and for that
purpose, shall have all the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment: and any person who shall
willfully conceal or withhold such property from the sheriff,
shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the party
injured. '

4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be
paid, the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and other

evidences of debt, and the debts that may have been seized
or attached, under the warrant of attachment, and to prosecute any bond he may have taken in the course of such
proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof to the paymentof the judgment.

At the eXpiration of six months, from the docketing of
the judgment, the court shall have power upon the petition
of the plaintifff, accompanied by an affidavit setting forth
fully all the proceedings which have been had by the sheriff,
since the service of the attachment, the property attached,
and the dispOsition thereof, and also the affidavit of the sheriff
that he has used due diligence, and endeavored to collect
the evidences of debt in his hands so attached, and that
there remains uncollected of the same, any part or portion
thereof, to order the sheriff to sell the same, upon such
terms and in such manner as shall be deemed proper. Notice
of such‘application shall be given to the defendant or his
attorney, if the defendant shall have appeared in the action.
In case the summons has not been personally served on the
defendant, the court shall make such rule or order, as to the
service of notice and the time of service, as shall be deemed
just. .

\Vhen the judgment and all costs of the proceedings shall
have been paid, the sheriff, upon reasonable demand .shall
deliver over to the defendant, the residue of the attached
property, or the proceeds thereof.
