—-When allowed to either party, In the discretlon of the court.

In other actions, eosts may be allowed or not, in the dish
cretion of the court. '

In all actions where there are several defendants not
united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate
answers, and the plaintifff fails to recover udgment against
all, the court may award costs to such of the defendants as
have judgment in their favor, or any of them. i

In the following cases the costsof an appeal to any couit~
shall be in the discretion of the court:

1. When a new trial shall be ordered;

 When a judgment shall be affirmed in part, and
reversed in part.

swim—Amount of costs allowed.

When allowed costs shall be as follows:

1. To either party for whom judgment shall be given, his
actual disbursements for fees to the officers entitled to receive
fees; and in addition thereto,

2. To the plaintifff when, in any action or proceeding,
judgment shall be rendered for him by confession; or for
want of an answer, or for other plea of the defendant, ten
dollars.

3. To the defendant when judgmen't shall be rendered
for him against the plaintiff by confession, or for want of a '
complaint or pleading of any sort, ten dollars.

4. To either party in whose favor judgment shall be rendered by the Judge, on an appeal from any order or decision
of the Clerk of the Superior' Court, five dollars.

I 5. To either party in whose favor judgment shall be given
by a Judge, on an issue of law joined on the pleadings, if
argued by counsel before the Judge, ten dollars; if not so
argued, five dollars. I

7. To either party recovering judgment upon a trial by
Jury, fifteen dollars; and if the trial shall necessarily occupy
more than one day, five dollars for every additional day.

8. On every order for the postponement- of the trial 'to
another term made before a term at-whioh it is triable, three
dollars, to be paid or not, by the party making the applica-»
tion, in the discretion of the court. - g

9. On every order for the postponement of the trial to
another term, made during a term at which the case is
triable, five dollars, besides the actual disbursements of the
adverse party in procuring the attendance and payment of
his witnesses, to be paid by the party making the application, unless the J udge. in his discretion shall order
otherwise. '

10. In addition to the above, to either party where a new
trial shall be had, for all proceedings after the granting of ‘
' such new trial, including the trial, lifteen dollars; for attending upon and taking the deposition of a witness condition.
ally, or attending to perpetuate his testimony, five dollars;
for drawing interrogatories to annex to a commission for the
taking of testimony, three dollars; for attending the examination of a party before trial, three dollars; for making and
serving a case, or case containing exceptions, five dollars,
except that Where the case shall necessarily contain more

than fifty folios, there shall be allowed live dollars in addition thereto; and for making and serving amendments
thereto, nve dollars; Provided that the costs for making
and serving a case, or case with exceptions, shall only be
' allOwed where the case was not excepted to by the adverse
party, or, when being excepted to, it was approved by the
Judge; and costs for amendments. proposed thereto by the
adverse party, shall only be allowed when the amendments
shall be material and accepted by the adverse party, or' not
being accepted, shall be approved by the Judge. If the case
and amendments proposed be each partly allowed and partly
disallowed by the'Judge, no costs shall be allowed to either
party. To the plaintiii' for procuring the appointment of
a guardian of an infant defendant, two dollars; and no
more shall be allowed for the appointment of guardians in
any one action. I To the plaintifff for procuring an order of
injunction, ten dollars. *

11. To either party on appeal to the Supreme Court,
thirty dollars; and'when a judgment is affirmed, the court
may, in its discretion, also award damages for the delay,
not exceeding ten per cent. on the amount of the judgment.

The same costs shall be allowed to the plaintifff in proceedings under chapter two, title XIV, sections three hundred

and eighteen to three hundred and twenty-four, both inclusive, as upon the commencement of an action.
