—0n appeal, security must be given or deposit made, unless waived.

. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written
undertaking must be executed on the part of the appellant
by at least two sureties, to the effect that the appellant will
pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against
him on the ap'peal,not exceeding five hundred dollars, or
that sum must be deposited with the clerk with whom the
judgment or order was entered, to abide the event of the
appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a
written consent on the part of the respondent.

(330L—Exlsting suits-—-0n judgment for money, security to stay execution—
New undertaking, on suretles in first becoming insolvent.

If the appeal~ be from a judgment directing the payment
of money, it shall not- stay the execution of the judgment,
unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the
appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect that, if the
judgment appealed from, or any part thereof, be affirmed, or
the appeal be dissmissed, the appellant will pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment, or the part of such

amount as to which the judgment shall be affirmed, if it be
affirmed only in part, and all damages which shall be
awarded against. the appellant upon the appeal. Whenever
it shall be made satisfactorily to appear to the court'that since
the execution of the undertaking the sureties have become
insolvent, the court may, by rule or order, require the appellant to execute, file and serve a new undertaking as above;
and in case of neglect to execute such undertaking within
twenty days after the service of a copy of the rule or order
requiring such new undertaking, the appeal may, on motion
to the court, be dismissed with costs. Whenever it shall be
necessary for a party to any action or proceeding to give a
bond or an undertaking, with surety or sureties, he may, in
lieu thereof, deposit with the officer or into court, as the
case may require, money to the amount for which such bond.
or undertaking is to be given. The court in which such
action or proceeding is pending may direct What disposition
shall be made'of such money, pending the action or proceeding. In any case where, by this section, the money is
to be deposited with an officer, a judge of the court, at
special term, or at chambers, upon the application of either
party, may. before such deposit is made, order it to be
deposited in court instead of with such officer; and a deposit
made, pursuant to such order, shall be of the same eifect as
if made with such oHicer.

I
