V.

PROVISIONAL annulus.

I ‘

«Silk—Powers of Court as to receivers; deposit of money, &e., in Court, and
other provisional remedies. Judgment for sum admitted due.

A receiver may; be appointed,— .

1. Before judgment, on the application of either party,
when he establishes an apparent right to property which
is the subject of the action, and which is in the possession
’ of an adverse party, and the property, or its rents and proiits, are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or
impaired; except in cases where judgment’upon failure to
answer may be had on application to the Court; a

2. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect;

3. _A_fter judgment, to dispose of the property according
to the judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of
an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment-debtor refuses to apply his property
in satisfaction of the judgment;

4. In the cases provided in this Code and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights; and in like cases, of the property
within this State of foreign corporations. Receivers of the
property within this State of foreign or other corporations
shall be allowed such commissions as may be fixed by the
Judge appointing them, not exceeding five per cent. on the
amount received and disbursed by them. ,

5. -In such other cases as are now provided by law, or may
be in accordance with the existing practice, except as otherwise provided in this act.

When it is admitted, by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession,or under his control, any
money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another
party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the

Judge may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or Without security, subject to
the further direction of the Judge. ’
Whenever, in the exercise“ of his authority a Judge shall ‘ have ordered the deposit, delivery or conveyance of money
or other property, and the order is disobeyed, the 'Judge,
besides punishing the disobedience as for contempt, may
make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or
property, and deposit, deliver, or convey it, in conformity
with the directionof the Judge.
. ’ When the answer of the defendant expressly, or by not
denying, admits part of the. plaintifff’s claim to be just, the
Judge, on motion, may order such defendant to satisfy that
part of the claim, and may enforce the order as it enforces a

judgment or prgvisional remedy.
