-—Wlien taken—execution not suspended, when.

The appeal must be taken from a judgment rendered out
of term, within ten days after notice thereof, and from a
judgment rendered in term, within ten days after its rendition, but execution shall not be suspended until the giving
by the appellant of the undertakings hereinafter required by
sections ‘three hundred and three, to three hundred and
twelve, both inclusive of this Code.

VOL—Appeal to be entered byrelerk on Judgment docket.‘ (fuse how stated and
settled;

Within the time prescribed in the preceding section, the
appellant shall cause his appeal to be entered by the clerk on
the judgment docket, and notice thereof to be given to the
adverse party. He shall cause to be prepared a concise
statement of the case, embodying the instructions of the
Judge as signed by him, if there be any exception thereto,
and the requests of the counsel of the parties for instructions
if there be any exception on account of the granting or withholding thereof, and stating separately in articles numbered,
the errors alleged. A copy of this statement shall be
served on the respondent as provided in section eighty,
within five days from the entry of the appeal taken; within
three days after such service, the respondent shall return
the copy with his approval or specific amendments endorsed.
or attached; if the case be approved by the respondent, it
shall be filed with the clerk as a part of the record; if not
returned with objections within the time prescribed, it shall
be deemed approved; if returned with objections as prescribed, the appellant shall immediately request the Judge
to iix a time and plaCe for settling the case before him; and
the Judge shall forthwith notify the attorneys of the parties
to appear before him for that purpose at a certain time and
place, within the. judicial district, which time shall not be
more than twenty days from the receipt of such request;
and at the time and place stated, the Judge shall settle and
sign the case, and deliver a copy to the attorney of each
party, or if they be not present, file a copy in the oiiice of

the‘clerk of the court. In settling the case, the written
instructions signed by the Judge, and the written requests
. for instructions signed by the counsel, and filed as prescribed
in sections two hundred and thirty-eight and two hundred
and thirty-nine, shall be taken as conclusive as to what
such instructions and requests were. If a copy of the case
settled, was delivered to the appellant, he shall within live
days thereafter, file the same with the clerk, and in case he
fail to do so, the respondent may file his copy.

Mom—Clerk to make copy of judgment roll and send to Elerk of Supreme

‘Court.

The clerk on receiving a copy of the case settled, as
required in the preceding section, shall make a copy of the
judgment roll and of the case, and within twenty days,
tranSmit the same, duly certified, to the clerk of the Supreme
Court.
