,—Exlsting suits. Judge may appoint receiver and prohibit transfer,
8w, of property. Order, «he.

' The Judge may also, by order, appoint a receiver of the
property of the judgment debtor, in the same manner, and
with the like authority, as if the appointment was made by
the court, according to section two hundred and fifteen. But
before the appointment of such receiver, the Judge shall
ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the party or otherwise, whether any other supplementary proceedings are
pending against the judgment debtor, and if such proceedings are so pending, the plaintifff therein shall have notice
to appear before him, and shall likewise have notice of all
subsequent proceedings in relation to said receivership. No
more than one receiver of the property of a judgement
debtor shall be appointed. The Judge may also, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property of the
judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any inter»
ference therewith.

Q

Whenever the Judge shall grant an order for the appointment 'of a receiver of the property of the judgment debter,
the same shall be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Superior Court of the county where the judgment-roll in the
action or transcript from justice’s judgment, upon which the
proceedings are taken, is filed; and the clerk shall record
the order in a book to be kept for that purpose in his oiiice,
to be called “ Book of orders appointing receivers ,ot judgment debtors, ” and shall note the time of the filing of said
order therein. A certified copy of said order shall be delivered to the receiver named therein, and he shall be vested
with the property and effects of the judgment debtor from
the time of the tiling and recording of the order as aforesaid.
The receiver of the judgment debtor shall be subject to the
direction and control of the court in which the judgment
was obtained upon which the preceedings are founded.

But before he shall be vested with any real property of
such judgment debtor, a certified copy of said order shall
also be filed and recorded on the execution docket, in the
office of the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in
which any real estate of such judgment debtor sought to be
effected by such order is situated, and also in the ofEce of
the clerk of the Superior Court of the county in which such
judgment debtor resides.

-. (ink—Existing suits—Proceedings upon claim of another party to 1&1‘01‘02t3’, or
on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.

If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have
property of the judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims
an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the
debt, such interest or debt shall be recoverable only in an
action against such person or corporation by the receiver;
but the Judge may, by order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or interest, till a sufficient opportunity be given to the receiver to commence the action, and
prosecute the same to judgment and execution; but such
order may be modified or dissolved by the Judge granting
the same, at any time, on‘ such security as he shall direct.
