—Walver of disquallncatlon.

The parties may waive the disqualification specified in
subdivisions 1, 2 and 5 of the preceeding section, and upon
filing in the office'such waiver in writing, the Judge of _
Probate shall act as in other cases.

(MEL—Removal ot Proteedings.

When any of the disqualifications specified in section
three exists, and there is no waiver thereof, or cannot be
such waiver, any party in interest may apply to the Judge
of the district for an order to remove the proceedings to

.the Probate Judge of an adjoining county in the same
district. '

-§422.—Enumeratlon of powers.

Every Judge of Probate has power:

1. To issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of any
witness residing, or being in the State, or the production of
any paper, material to any inquiry pending in his court; ‘

2. To administer oaths and take acknowledgements, when. ever necessary, in the exercise of the powers and duties of
his office; ‘

3. To issue commissions to take the testimony of any witness without this State;

4. To issue citations and orders to show cause to. parties
in all matters cognizable in his court, and to compel the
appearance of such parties;

5. To enforce all lawful orders and decrees by execution
or otherwise, against those who fail to comply therewith or
to execute lawful process. Process may be issued by the
Probate Judge, to be executed in any county of the State,
and to be returned before him;

6. To exemplify, under the seal of his court, all transcripts
of deeds, papers or proceedings therein, which shall be
received in evidence in all the courts of the State;

7. To preserve order in his court and to punish contempts;

8. To adjourn any proceeding pending before him from
_ time to time; . ' i

9. To open, vacate, modify, set aside, or enter as of a
former time, decrees or orders of his court, in the same manner as courts of general jurisdiction;

10. To award costs and disbursements as prescribed by law,

to be paid personally, or out of the estate or fund, in any
proceeding before him.
