—Allowanee, how computed—Billed“ and extraordinary! cases.

These rates shall be estimated upon the value of the
property claimed or attached, or affected by the adjudica
tion upon the will or other instrument, or sought to be
partitioned, or the amount found due or unpaid upon the
mortgage in an action for foreclosure. And whenever it
shall be necessary to apply to the court for an order enforcing the payment of an installment falling due, after judgment, in an action for foreclosure, the plaintifff shall be
entitled to the rate ofallowance in the last section prescribed

but to no more in the aggregate than if the whole amount
of the mortgage had been due when judgment was entered.
Such amount of value must be determined by the court or
by the commissioners, in case of actual partitions. LIn
difficult and extraordinary cases, where a defense has been
interposed, or in such cases Where a trial has been had, and ,
in actions or proceedings for the partition of real estate, the
court may also, in its discretion, make a further allowance
to any party, not exceeding five per cent. upon the amount
of the recovery or claim, or subject—matter involved.

awn-Report, when allowed.

When .the judgment is for the recovery of money, interest,
from the time of the verdict or report until judgment be

finally entered, shall be computed by the clerk, and added
to the costs of the party entitled thereto.

«Raw-Costs. how to be inserted .in judgment. Adjustment of lnterlocntory
costs. '

The Clerk shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the

application of the prevailing party, upon five days notice to
be other, the sum of the allowances for costs, as provided

by this Code, the necessary disbursements, including the
fees of officers allowed’ by law, the fees of witnesses, the reasonable compensation of commissioners in taking depositions,
the fees of referees, and the expense of printing the papers
for any hearing when required by a rule of the court. The
disbursements shall be stated in detail and verified by affidavit. A copy of the items of the costs-and disbursements
shall be served, with a notice of adjustment.

Whenever it shall be necessary to' adjust costs in any
interlocutory proceeding in an action, or in any special proceedings, the same shall be adjusted by the Judge before
.whom the same may be heard, or the court before which the
same may be decided or pending, or in such other manner
as the Judge or court may direct.
