-Poriods of Limitation prescribed.

'The periods prescribed for the commencement of actions,

pther than for the recovery of real property, shall be as folows:

ssh—Ton years.

Within ten years.

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court of the
United States, or of any State or territory thereof;

2. An action upon a sealed instrument not negotiable, '
against the principals thereto;

3. An action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or deed in
trust for creditors with a power of sale, of real property, where
the mortgagoror grantor has been in possession of the prOperty, within ten years after the forfeiture of the mortgage, or
after the power of sale became absolute, or within ten years
after the last payment on the same;

4. An action for the redemption Of a mortgage, where the
mortgagee has been in possession, or for a residuary interest
under a deed in trust for creditors, where the trustee or those

holding under him, shall have been in possession; within ten
years after the right of action accrued.

i32.—Seven years.

Within seven years. '

1. On a judgment rendered by a Justice of the Peace.

2. By any creditor of a deceased person against his personal
or real representative; within seven years next after the quali‘zlication of the executor or administrator and his making the
advertisement required by law, for creditors of the deceased to
present their claims, where no personal service of such notice
in writing is made upon the creditor; and a creditor thus barred of a recovery against the representative of any principal
debtor, shall also be barred of a recovery against any surety
to such debt.

33.—Six years.

'Within six years.

1. An action upon the ofiicial bond of any public officer.

2. An action. against any executor, administrator, or guardian on his official bond, within six years after the auditing of
his Iinal accounts by the preper officer, and the filing of such
audited account as required by law.

3. An action for injury to any incorporeal hereditament.

‘ gab—Three years.

Within three years.

1. An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability arising ‘
out of a contract, express or implied, except those mentioned
in the preceding sections;

2. An action upon a liability created by Statute, other than
a penalty or forfeiture, unless some other time be mentioned in
‘ the statute, creating it;

3. An action for trespass .upon real property;

4. An action for taking, detaining, converting, or injuring
any goods or chattels, including actions for theirspecificre—
covery; ' ' ‘

5. An action for criminal conversation, or for any other injury to the'person or rights of another, not arising on contract
and net hereinafter enunciated;

6. An action against the sureties of any executor, adminis' trator or guardian, on the official bond of their principal;
within three years after the breach thereof complained of;

7. An action against bail; within three years after judgment
against their principal, but bail may discharge themselves by a
surrender of their principal, at any time before final judgment
against them; ‘

8. Fees due to any clerk, sheriff or other officer, by the
' judgment of a Court; within three years from the time of the

judgment rendered, or of the issuing of the last execution
therefore; '

9. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, in cases
which heretofore were solely cognizable by Courts of Equity,
the cause. of action in such case not to .be deemed to have
accrued: until the discovery by the aggrieved party, of the facts
constituting fraud.

{us—Mam.

1. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable, or other
public officer for a trespass under color of his office;

2. An action upon a statute, for a penalty or forfeiture,
where the action is given to the State alone, or in whole or

in part, to the party grieved, or to a common informer, ex—
cept where the statute imposing it prescribes a different

limitation;

3. An action for libel, assault, battery, or false imprisonment;

4. An' action against a sheriff or. other oliicer, for the
escape of a prisoner arrested or imprisoned on civil process;5. An action by a creditor of any deceased person, on
whom personal notice in writing to present his claim to the
personal representative of the deceased has been served, and
who has failed so to do, within one year after the service of
such notice, and any such creditor, barred of a recovery
against the personal representative of- a principal debtor,
by reason of such default, shall also be barred of a recovery
against the sureties for such debt: . '
