—Appolntneat of Guardian in Partlcalar action.

A guardian to prosecute or defend a particular action in
behalf of an infant shall be appointed as follows:

'1. When the infant is plaintifff, upon the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or if- under
that age, upon the application of his general or testamentary guardian, if he has any, or of a relative or friend of the
infant: if made by a relative or friend of an infant, notice
thereof must be first given to such guardian, if he has one;
if he has none, then to the person with whom such infant
resides. ‘ An infant plaintifff, or his guardian, must give
security for the costs of the defendant, as is required of
plaintifffs. ‘ ' ‘ i

2. When the infantis defendant, upon the application of.
the'infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply
within tWenty days after service of the summons. If he be
under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to applygthen upon .
the application of any other party to the action, or ,of a ,
relative, or friend of the infant, after notice of such application being first given to the general or testamentary
guardian of such infant, it he has one within this State: if
he has none, then to the infant himself, if over fourteen

years of age, and within the State; or if under that age and
' within the State, to the person with whom such infant
resides. ' x ‘ 3. And in actions for the partition ofreal property, or for *
the foreclosure of a mortgage or other instrument, when an
infant defendant resides out of the State, or is tempOrarily
absent therefrom, the plaintifff may apply ' to the court in
which the action is pending, and .will be entitled to an order ,
designating some suitable person to be the guardian forthe ‘
"infant-defendant for . the purpose of the action, unless the
infant-defen dant or some one in his behalf, within a number
of days after the service of a copy of the order, which number of days shall be in the said order specified, shall procure to be appointed a guardian for the said infant, and the
court shall give special direction in the order for the manner of the service thereof, which may be upon the infant.

4. And in case an infant-defendant havingan interest in the
event of the action, shall reside in any State, with which
there shall not be a regular communication by mail, on such
facts satisfactorily appearing to the Court, the Court may.
appoint a guardian ad litem for such absent infant party, for
the purpose of protecting the right of such infant in said;
action, and on such guardian ad litem, process, pleadings
and notices may be served in the like manner as. upon a
party residing in this State. '

 to be no  v w ,
--All persons having an interest in the subject of the action,

and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be joined as

plaintifffs, except as otherwise provided in this title. A

gels—no tobadetcndut, . ,

. Any person may be made a defendant who has, or. claim,
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintifff, or
who is a necessary. party to a complete determination or. set~
' tlement of the questions involved therein; and in an action
to recover the possession of real estate, the landlord and.
tenant thereon may be joined as defendants; and any person
claiming title or right of possession to real estate, may be
made parties plaintifff or defendant, as the case may require,
to any such action.
