—To what counties execution niay be issued. Execution against 8 married woman.

‘ When the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the sheriff of any county
where the judgment is docketed. When it requires the
delivery of real or personal property, it must be issued to
the sheriff of the county where the property, or some part
thereof, is situated. Executions may be issued at the same
time to different counties. ‘ I

Real property adjudged to be sold must be sold in the
county where it lies, by the sheriff oi the county, or by a
referee appointed by the court for that purpose; and thereupon the sheriff or referee must execute a conveyance to
the purchaser, which conveyance shall be effectual to pass
the rights and interests of the parties adjudged to be sold.

An execution may issue against a married woman, and it
shall direct the levy and collection of the amount of the
judgment against her from her separate property, and not
otherwise.

tum—Execution against the person, In what eases.

If the action be one in which the defendant might have
been arrested, as provided in section one hundred and fortynine and section one hundred and forty-one, an execution
against the person of the judgment debtor may be issued to
any county within the State, after the return of an execution
against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part. But no
execution shall issue against the person of a judgm ent debtor,
unless an order of arrest has been served, as in this act provided, or unless the complaint contains a statement of facts
showing one or more of the causes of arrest required by sec.tion one hundred and forty-nine.

With—Form of the execution.

The excution must be directed to the sheriff; or coroner
when the sheriff is a party or interested, subscribed by the
clerk of the court, and must intelligibly refer to the judgment, stating the county where the judgment-roll or transcript is filed, the names of the parties, the amount of the
judgment, if it be for money, and the amount actually due
thereon, and the time of docketing in the county to which
the execution is issued, and shall require the officer substantially as follows:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the ofi‘icer to satisfy the judgment out of the
personal property of such debtor; and if suHicient personal
property cannot be found, out of the real property belonging
to him on the day when the judgment was docketed in the
county, or at any time thereafter.

2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands
of personal representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants
of real property or trustees, it shall require the officer to
satisfy the judgment out of such property.

3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and commit
him to the jail of the county until he shall pay the judgment or be discharged according to law.

4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or
personal property, it shall require the oiiicer to deliver the
possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the
party entitled thereto, and may at the same time require the
oilicer to satisfy any costs, damages, or rents or profits
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it was rendered, and the
value of the property for which the judgment was recovered,
to be specified therein; if a delivery thereof cannot be had,
and if sufficient personal property cannot be found, then out
of the real property belonging to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or at any time thereafter,
and shall in that respect be deemed an execution against

property.
