—Existing suits—fndertakings may be in one instrument or severalThe undertakings prescribed by sections three hundred
and four. three hundred and five, three hundred and six, and
three hundred and seven, may be in one instrument or several,
at the option of the appellant; and a copy, including, the
names and residence of the sureties, must be served on the
adverse party, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is .
made as provided in section three hundred and four, and
notice thereof given.

(3310.—Existing suits—Security to be approved and to justify.

An'undertaking Upon an appeal shall be of ' no eii'ect,
unless it be accompanied by the affidavit of the sureties
that they are each worth double the amount speciiied
therein. The respondent may, hmvever, except to the sutiiciency of the sureties, within ten days after the notice of .
the appeal; and unless they or other sureties justify before .
the Judge or court below, or as prescribed by sections one
hundred and sixty-five and one hundred and sixty-six, within
ten days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded as if no
undertaking had been given. The justification shall be upon
a notice of not less than five days.

()3 ll.—Existing suits—Perishable property maybe sold notwithstanding appealIn the cases not provided for in sections three hundred, and
five, three hundred and six, three hundred and seven, and .
three hundred and eight, the perfecting of an appeal, by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section three hundred
and four, shall stay proceedings in the court below upon
the judgment appealed from, except that whereit directs ‘

‘the sale ot perishable property, the court below may order
the ' prOperty to be sold, and the proceeds thereof, to be
deposited or invested, to abide the judgment of the, appellate
'court. . "

~§3l2.—Existjng salts—Undertaking must be filed.

The undertaking must be filed with the clerk with whom
the judgment or order appealed from was entered. The
provisions of this chapter as to the security to be given
upon appeals, and as to the stay of proceedings, shall apply
to all appeals taken to the Supreme Court.

“(3313.—Existlng salts—Intermediate orders meeting the Judgment may be
reviewed on the appeal.

Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court may review
any intermediate order. involving the merits and necessarily
affecting the judgment.

{yam—Existing suits—Judgment on appeal—Restitution.

Upon an appeal, from a judgment or order, the appellate
court may reverse, afiirm or modify the judgment or order
appealed from, in ‘the respect mentioned in the notice of
appeal, and. as to any or all of the parties, and may, if
necesssary or proper, order a new trial. When the judgment
is reversed or modified, the appellate court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroxneous judgment. . ' ,

The foregoing sections, from section three hundred and
four, to section three hundred and fourten, both inclusive
:shall apply to existing suits.
