—No person to be arrested except as prescribed.

N 0 person shall be arrested in a civil action, except as
prescribed by this act; but this provision shall not apply to .
proceedings for contempt.

§l49.—In what cases.

The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter prescribed,
in the following cases:

’1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause of
action not arising out of contract, Where the defendant is
not a resident of the State, or is about to remove therefrom,
or where the action is for an injury to person or character, or
for injuring, or for wrongfully taking, detaining or converting property.

2. In an action for a line on penalty, or on a promise to
marry, or for money received, or for property embezzled or
fraudulently misapplied, by a public oilicer, or by an attorney, solicitor or counsellor, or by an officer or agent of a
corporation or banking association, in the course of his
employment as such, or by any factor, agent, broker or other
person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or
neglect in oilice, or in a professional employment.

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly detained, where the prOperty, or any. part
thereof, has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that
it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff, and with the
intent thatit should not be so found or taken, or with the
intent to deprive the plaintifff of the benelit thereof.

4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the
action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention or conversion of which, the
action is brought, or when the action is brought to recover
damages for fraud or deceit. . i

5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
property, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
creditors.

But no female shall be arrested in any action, except for a
willful injury to person, character or property.

\

§l50.—0rder for arrest, by whom made.

An order for the arrest of the defendant must be obtained
from the Court in which the action is brought, or from a
Judge thereof.
