—Exlstlng suits—Order for discovery of property, examination of Judgment debtor, to. ‘

(1.) When an execution against property of the judgment
debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same judgment
issued to the sheriff of the. county where he resides or has
a place of business, or if he do not reside in the State, to
the sheriff of the county where a judgment-roll or a transcript ' of a Justice’s ‘judgment for twenty-five dollars, or
upwards, exclusive of costs, is filed, is returned unsatisfied,
in Whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time after
such return made, is entitled to an order from the court to
which the execution is returned, or from the Judge thereof,
requiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his
property, before such court or Judge, at a time and place
specified in the order, within the county to\ which the
execution was issued. (2.) After the issuing of an execution against pr0perty, and upon proof by affidavit, of a
party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a
Judge thereof, that any judgment debtor, residing in the
judicial district where such Judge or oiiicer resides, has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the
satisfaction of the judgment, such court or Judge may, by
an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time and place, to answer concerning the same; and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application
of the property of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are provided upon the return of
an execution. ( 3.) On an examination under this section,

either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the
judgment debtor may be examined in the same manner as
a witness. (4.) Instead of the. order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon proof” by aiiidavit or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is
danger of the debtor’s leaving the State, or concealing him-self, and that there is reason to believe he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue
.a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where such
debtor may be, to arrest him' and bring him before such
Judge. Upon being brought before the Judge, he may be
examined on oath, and, if it then appears that there is
danger of the debtor leaving the State, and that he has
property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such
judgment, ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one
or more sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend
before the Judge as he shall direct, and that he will not,
during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any
i , property not exempt from execution. In default of enter» ing into such undertaking, he may be committed to prison
i i by warrant of the J udgehas for a contempt.  No person
, , shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, be excused
, , from answering any question on the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a
1 fraud; but his answer shall not be used asevidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution. Nor shall
he be excused from answering any question, on the ground
that he has, before the examination, executed any conveyance, assignment or transfer of his property for any purpose, but his answer shall not be used as evidence against
him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.

‘5

()265.——Existing suits—Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor.

After the issuing of execution against property, any
person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall
be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the sheriff’s
receipt, shall be a sufficient discharge, for the amount so
paid.
