-—Trlal may be postponed by clerk, when.

Any party to any action may apply to the court in which
it is pending, or to the Judge thereof, after three days
notice in writing to the adverse party, to have the trial
deferred to a term subsequent to that in which it is regularly
triable; 'such‘ application must be made thirty days before:
the trial term, and must be on affidavit. The court or
Judge may defer the trial as asked for, on such terms as
shall be just, if satisfied:

1. That the applicant has used due diligence to have his
case ready for trial; and,

2. That by reason of circumstances beyond his control,
which he shall set forth, he cannot have a fair trial at the
regular trial term; if the application is made by reason of

the expected absence of a witness, it shall state the name
and residence of the witness, the facts expected to be proved
by him, and the grounds for the expectation of his nonattendance, and that the applicant expects to procure his
evidence at or before some namedsubsequent term.

The applicant shall in all cases pay the costs of the applis
cation. ()228.—Trial postponed by Judge in term, when.

The Judge at any time during the term at which an
action is triable, may postpone the trial on the application
of either party and on such terms as shall be just, if satisfied: ' 1. That the applicant has used due diligence to be ready
for trial. '

2. That he cannot have a fair trial at that term, by reason
of circumstances stated, and if the ground of application
be, the non-attendance of a witness, the affidavit shall
contain the particulars required by subdivision two of
section two hundred and twenty-seven. Unless the applicant
shall also set forth in his affidavit, that the facts upon which
his application is grounded occurred, or came to his knowledge
too late to allow him to apply as prescribed in the last
section, and that his application is made as soon as it
reasonably could be after the knowledge of such facts, the
postponement shall not be granted, except on the terms of
the payment of the costs in the action for the term.
