V I ._
OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTiONS.

§“.—Actlons to be tried whore sunset-latter situated.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the
county in which the subject of the action, or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to

change the place of trial, in the cases provided in this Code.
‘ 1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of
such right or interest, and for injuries to real property;

’2. For the partition of real property;

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property;

4. For the recovery cf personal property distrained ‘ for
any cause.

§.7o—-‘C“0l to be tried when also 0! action arose.

Actions for the following causes must be tried in the,
county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose, subject
to the like power-of the Court to change the place of trial,
in the cases. provided in this Code; a

1_. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture, imposed by ‘
statute; except that, when it is imposed for an offense committed on a sound, bay, river or other body of water situated '
in two or more counties, the action may be brought in any.
county bordering on such sound, bay, river or other body of i

water, and opposite to the place where the offense was committed;

2. Against a public emcer or person especially appointed .
to. execute. his duties, for an act done by him by virtue of his ‘oilice; or against a person who by his command or in
his aid, shall do anything touching the duties ofcuch—officer.

«ta—Action, to be tried where Defendant resides.

In all other cases the action shall be tried in the County
in which the defendants, or any of them shall reside at the
commencement of the action; or if none of the defendants
ashall reside in the State, then in the County in which the
plaintifffs or any of them shall reside; and if none of the parties shall reside within the State, then the same may be tried
in any county which the plaintifff shall designate in his summons and complaint, subject however, to the power of the

Court to change the place of trial. in the cases provided by
statute.

«ISL—Change of place of trial.

If the County designated for that purpose in the summons
and complaint be not the proper County, the action, may,
notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant,
before the time of answering expires, demand in writing that
the trial be hadin the. proper County, and the place of trial
be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or by order of
the Court, as is provided in this section.

The Court may change the place of trial in the following
cases: . . . a

1. When the County designated for that purpose is not
the proper County. ‘

2. When the convenience of witnesses and‘the ends of
‘ justice would be promoted by the change.

When the place of trial is changed, all other proceedings
shall be, had in the County to which the place of trial is
changed, unless otherwise provided by the consent of the
parties in Writing duly filed, or order of Court; and the
papers shall be filed or transferred accordingly. TITLE VII.

0]? THE MANNB OF COMMENCING‘CIV 1L ACTIONS, AND THE SERVICE OF
i
THE SUMMONS.
