—Sceurity upon injunction. Damages.

Upon granting an order for an injunction, the Judge shall
require as a. condition precedent to the issuing thereof, that
the clerk shall take from the plaintifff a written undertaking,
with sufficient sureties to be justified before, and approved
by the said clerk or by the Judge, in an amount f0 be fixed
by the Judge, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay to the
party enjoined, such damages, not exceeding an amount to
be lspecihed, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction,
if the Court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was not
entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by a
reference, or'otherwise, as the Judge shall direct.

alga—cram to show cause. Restraint in meantime.

If the Judge deem it proper that the defendant, or any'of
several defendants, should be heard before granting the
injunction, an order may be made requiring cause to be
shown, at a specified time and place, why the injunction
should not be granted; and the defendant may, in the

meantime, be restrained.

§l94-—Security upon injunction to'suspeud business of corporation.

, An injunction to suspend the general and ordinary busi- ‘
ness of a corporation shall not be granted without due notice
of the application therefore, to the proper officers of the corporation, except where the State is a party to the proceeding, unless the plaintifff shall give a written undertaking
executed by two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
Judge, to the effect that the plaintifff will pay all damages,
not exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, _
which such corporation may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court shall finally decide that the plaintifff was
not entitled thereto. The damages may be ascertained by
"a reference, or otherwise, ‘as the Court shall direct.

(3195.——Motion to vacate or modify injunction.

If the injunction be granted by a Judge of . the Court,
without notice, the defendant, at any time before the trial,

may apply, upon notice, to a Judge of the Court in which
the action is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may. be made upon the complaint and the attidavits on which the injunction was granted, or upon the
ai‘ndavits on the part of the defendant, with or without the
answer.

(3196—Amdavits on motion.

If the application be made upon affidavits On the part 'of
the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintifff may oppose
the same by affidavits or other proofs, in addition to those
on which the injunction was granted.
