—How wills admitted to probate.

Wills and‘testaments must be admitted to probate only in
the following manner:

1. In case a of written will, with witnesses, on the oath of, ‘
at least,'two of the subscribing witnesses, if living; but when
any one or more of the subscribing witnesses to such will,
are dead, or reside out of the State, or are insane or otherwise incompetent to testify, then such proof may be taken
of the handwriting, both of the testator and of' the witness
or witnesses so dead, absent, insane or incompetent, andlalso
of such other circumstances, as will satisfy the Judge of
Probate. of the genuineness and the due execution of such
will.

2. In case of a holograph will, on the oath of, at least,
three credible witnesses, who state, that they verily believe
such will and. every part thereof, is in the handwriting of
the person whose will it purports to be, and whose name
must be subscribed thereto, or inserted in some part thereof.
It must- further appear on the oath of some one of said wit' nesses, or of some other credible person, that such- will was
found among the valuable papers and effects of the decedent,
or was lodged in the hands of some person for safe keeping.

3. In case of a nuncupative will, where the estate exceeds
two hundred dollars; on the oath of, at least two credible
witnesses present at the making thereof, who state that they
were specially required to bear witness thereto by the testator himself. ' ,

It must also be proved that such nuncupative will was
made in the testator’s last sickness, in his own habitation,
or where he had been previously resident, for, at least, ten
days, unless he died on a journey or from home.

No nuncupative will shall be proved by the witnesses
after six months from the making thereof, unless it was put
in writing within ten days from such making; nor shall it
be proved till a citation has been first issued or publication
been made for six weeke in some newspaper printed in the
State, to call in the widow and next of kin to conteSt such
will if they think proper.

Mam—Executor not incompetent as a witness;

N 0 person, on account of being an executor of a will, is
incompetent as a witness to prove the execution thereof.
