r—Warrant, by whom granted.

If the action be not founded on a contract, or if the sum
demanded exceeds two hundred dollars, a warrant of attachment must be obtained from the Judge of the judicial district, within some county of' which, the cause of action
arose; or, in case the defendant is a foreign corporation,
within some county of' which, it usually did business, or
within some county of which, the defendant'resided or did
business within six months next precedingthe issuing of
the summons; or from the Clerk of the Superior Court of
any county within said district. It shall be made returnable to the: Superior Court of a county, in which the} cause

of action arose, or in which the defendant resided or did

business, within six months next preceding' the issuing of.
the summons, _or in which the property of the defendant
sought to be attached, or some part of it, is at the issuing
of the summons, or in case the defendant is a foreign corporation, in which it usually did business.

(With—When warrant granted by Justice of the Peace.

If the action be founded on contract, and the sum
demanded does not exceed two hundred dollars, the warrant
of attachment must be obtained from, and made returnable
before some Justice cf the Peace of a county, to the Superior
Court of which it might have been returnable under the
preceeding section, had the sum demanded, exceeded two
hundred dollars, or had the action not have been founded

on contract.
\ J

(pot—1n what use: Warrants may be Issued—Amish“ toje med.

The warrant may be issued whenever it shall appear by
affidavit, that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the amount of the claim and the grounds
thereof, and that the defendant is either a foreign corporation, or not a resident of this State, or has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps‘himself concealed therein with
like intent, or that such corporation or person has removed,
or is about to remove, any of his or its property from this
State, with intent to defraud his or its creditors, or has
assigned, disposed of, or secreted, or is about to assign, dispose of, or secrete, any of his or its preperty with the like
intent, whether such defendant be a resident of this State
or not It shall be the duty of the plaintifff procuring such
warrant, within ten days from the issuing thereof, to file the
affidavits on which the same'was granted in the office of the
Clerk of the Superior Court to which, or With the Justice of
the Peace, before whom, the process is made returnable.

\3202.—Secnrlty on obtaining warrant.

Before issuing the warrant, the officer issuing the same
shall require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifff, with sufiicient surety, to the effect, that if the defendant“
recover judgment, or the attachment be set aside’by the
order of the court, the plaintifff will pay all costs that may
be awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he
may. sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least
two hundred and fifty dollars. ‘ '

Vim—Warrant, to whom directed, and what to require.

The warrant shall be directed to the sheriff of any county
in which the property of such defendant may be, or in case
it be issued by a Justice of the Peace to such sheriff, or to
any constable of such county, provided, such county be that
of the Justice issuing the warrant, and shall require such
sheriff or constable to attach and safely keep, all the property
of such defendant within his county, or so much thereof as
may be suiiicient to satisfy the plaintifff’s demand, the amount
of which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,
' together with costs and expenses; it must also state when
and where it shall be returned. Several Warrants maybe
' issued .at. the same time to the 'sheriffs of different counties.

tam—Mode of proceeding ln-exeentlng warrant.

The officer to whom such warrant of attachment is directed
and delivered, shall seize and take into his possession the
' tangible personal property of the defendant, Or so much
thereof, as may be necessary, and he shall be liable for the
care and custody 'of such pr0perty, as if the same had been
seized under execution: he shall levy on the real estate of
the defendant as prescribed for executions, he shall make
and return with the warrant, an inventory of the property
seized or levied on: subject to the direction of the court, he
shall collect and receive into his possession all debts owing
to the defendant, and take such legal proceedings, either in
his own name, or in that of the defendant as may be neces
asary for that purpose.
