—Bond how approved, 8%.

The approval of said bond, .by the Commissioners or a
majority of them, shall be recorded by their clerk. Any
Commissioner approving a bond which he knows or believes
to be insufficient, shall be personally liable as if he were a
surety thereto. The said bond shall be acknowledged by
the paities thereto, or proved by a subscribing witness,
before theClerk of said Commissioners, or their presiding
officer, registered in the Register’s ofIice in a separate book
to be kept by him for the registration of ofiicial bonds; and
the original, with the approval thereof endorsed, deposited
with the Register for safe keeping. The like remedies‘ shall
be had upon said bond, as are, or' may be given by law on
official bonds.

gum—Qualification of Clerks.

The clerks of the Superior Court before entering on the
duties of their oHice, shall take and subscribe before some
officer authorized by law to administer an oath, the oaths
prescribed by law, and file such oath with the Register of
Deeds for the county.

<3140.—Failure to as bond, etc.
In case any clerk shall fail' to give bond and qualify as

above directed, the presiding officer of the County Commis' :sioners of his county, shall immediately inform the Judge of

the Judicial District thereof, who shall thereupon declare the
oche vacant and iill the same, and the appointee shall give
bond and qualify as above directed.

§l4l.——0mee, where to be kept—When to be open.

He shall have an office, in the Court house or other place
provided by the County Commissioners, in the county town
of his county. . He shall give due attendance, in person or
by deputy at his office daily (Sundays and holidays,
excepted) from nine o’clock A. M., to three o’clock P. M,
and longer when necessary for the dispatch of business.

(ma—To receive omelal papers, 8;.

Immediately after he shall have given bond and qualified
as aforesaid, he shall receive from the late Clerks of the
’County and Superior Courts and Clerk and Master of the
Court of Equity, all the records, books, papers, monies and
property of their respective offices, and give receipts for the
same, and if any clerk, or clerk and master, shall refuse, or
fail within a reasonable time after demand to deliver such
records, books, papers and property, they shall be respectively liable on their ochial bonds for the value thereof, and
be held guilty of a misdemeanor. ‘
