—uow made.

All deeds conveying lands in this State, or letters of
attorney, or other instruments concerning the same, except
leases not having more than three years to run, must be

offered tor probate, or a certified probate thereof must be
exhibited before the Judge of Probate of the county, in
which the real estate is situated, in the manner following;

1. Where the grantor or maker, or the subscribing witness,. reside in the State, the deed or other instrument must
_ be acknowledged by such grantor or maker, or proved on

the oath of such subscribing Witness;
2. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing wit- ‘

ness are dead, satisfactory proof of the handwriting, both of
the grantor or maker and of the subscribing witness, must
be made; unless it appear by affidavit or otherwise that,
after due diligence, such proof is impossible; when proof of '
the handwriting of the grantor or maker, or of the subscribing witness shall be sufficient.

3. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing witness, reside beyond the limits of the State, but within the
United States, the Probate Judge, having jurisdiction, shall
issue under the seal of his court, a commission to a commissioner at the place of residence of such grantor, maker or
witness, authorizing the commissioner to take the acknowledgment of the parties to the deed, or the examination on
oath of the witness thereto, touching the execution thereof.
The proceedings of the Commissioner, so authorized, being
returned to the Probate Judge who issued the same, he may
proceed to adjudge, that such deed or other instrument is
duly acknowled or proved. ,

4. \Vhere the acknowledgment or proof of any deed or
other instrument is taken or made, in the manner directed
by the laws of this ~State,‘before any commissioner of alfrdavits for the State of North Carolina, appointed by the
Governor thereof, in any of the States or territories of the
United States or in the District of Columbia; and where such
acknowledgment or proof is certified by such commissioner,
the Judge of Probate, having jurisdiction, upon the same
being exhibited to him, shall adjudge such deed or other
instrument to be duly acknowledged or proved in the same
manner as if made or taken before him.

5. Where the grantor or maker and the subscribing witness, reside beyond the limits of the United States, the deed
or other instrument may be personally acknowledged by
such grantor 0r maker, or proved on the oath of such. sub- scribing witness, before the chief magistrate of any city in the
country where the grantor or Witness is resident; or before
any ambassador, minister, con’sul er commercial agent of
the United States; and where such proof or acknowledgment
is certified under the corporate seal of such chief magistrate,
or under the official seal of such ambassador, minister, consul or commercial agent; and where such certificate is affixed
to the deed or other instrument, and the same is exhibited
before the Probate Judge, having jurisdiction, he shall
adjudge that such deed, or other instrument, is duly proved,
or acknowledged. V

6. Every conveyance, power of attorney or other instru. ment _affecting the estate, right or title of any married
woman in‘ lands, tenements or hereditaments, must be jointly
executed,by, such married woman with her husband; and
due proof or acknowledgment thereof must be made as to
the husband, before the Judge of Probate having jurisdictlon, who shall take the acknowledgment of the wife, and A
privily examine her, apart from her husband, touching her
voluntary assent thereto. He shall also endorse thereon a
certificate of such assent.

When such proof or acknowledgment is made as to the
husband, and it appears, that the wife is a resident of some
other State, or being a resident of this State, is so aged or
infirm, that ‘she cannot travel to the Judge of Probate to
make such acknowledgment in person: in that case, the
Judge of Probate shall issue a commission to a commissioner, for receiving such acknowledgment and for taking
the private examination of the wife, apart from her husband, touching her assent; which commission, with a certificate of the acknowledgment and private examination,
being returned to the Probate Judge, he shall adjudge that
such conveyance, power of attorney or other instrument is

duly acknowledged, and that such examination is in due
form.

When the preof or acknowledgment of a conveyance,
power of attorney or other instrument concerning the
interest of a married woman in lands, is taken beforea commissioner of aiiidavits, as directed in sub-division four, or in
foreign parts, as directed in sub-division five, of this Article;
no Judge of Probate shall adjudge such conveyance or other

instrument to be duly proved or acknowledged, unless the
private examination of such married woman is taken according to the laws of this State, anda certificate thereof is
attached to the deed or other instrument.

(yum—When land lies in two or more counties.

Where real estate is situated in two or more counties, probate of the deed or other instrument, conveying or concerning the same, made in the probate court of any of said counties, is sufficient.

gust—0mm Bonds.

The oiiicial bonds of all county oHicers including constables, must be acknowledged by the obligors, or proven on
the. oath of the subscribing witness, thereto, before the
Judges of Probate of the resptmtive counties: Provided, that
the oHicial bonds of the Clerk of the Superior Court may be
present or acknowledged as herein directed before the Register of Deeds of the proper county.
