BS.—Bond, a.

Every executor from whom a bond is now required by law,
and every administrator and collector, before letters are

issued, must give a bond payable to the State, with two or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Probate J udge,
and to be jointly.and severally bound. The penalty in such
‘ bond must be double, at least, the, value of all property, real
and personal, of the decedent; which value is to be ascertained, by the Probate Judge, by the examination on oath
‘of the applicant and of any other person. The bond must be
‘conditioned, that such executor, administrator or collector
shall faithfully execute the trust reposed in him as such, and
obey all lawful orders of the probate or other court, touching
the administration of the estate committed to him.

, Mom-Revocation of letters on proof of will, ac.

If letters of administration are issued, a will is subse. 'quently proved and letters testamentary are issued thereon ;
or, if atter letters testamentary are issued, a revocation of
the will, or a subsequent testamentary paper revoking the
appointment of executors, is proved and letters are issued
thereon, the Judge of Probate must thereupon revoke the
letters first issued, by an order in writing to be served on
the person to whom such first letters were issued; and, until

service thereof, the acts of such person, done in good faith
are valid. V

tum—Revocation on ground of disqualldeatlon or default.

If, after any letters have been issued, it appears to the Probate Judge, or if complaintis made to him on affidavit, that
any person to whom they were issued, is legally incompetent
to have such letters, or that such person has been guilty of
default or misconduct inpthe due execution of his office, or
that the issue of such letters was obtained by false representations made by such person, the Judge of Probate shall
issue an order requiring such person to show cause why the
letters should not be revoked. On the return of such order,
duly executed, if the objections are found valid, the letters

issued to such person must be revoked and superseded, and.
his authority shall thereupon cease.

tub—Letters, how issued and tested.

- All letters must be issued in the name of the State, and

tested in the name of the Judge of Probate, signed by him,
and sealed with his seal of oilice.
