The courts of sessions embraced in this article have jurisdiction, 1. To inquire, by the intervention of a grand jury, of all public offenses committed or triable in the county: 2. To try and determine indictments found therein, or sent thereto by the court of oyer and terminer of the county, for public offenses not punishable with death: 3. To remove justices of the peace, police justices, and justices of justices’ courts of cities in their respective counties, and their clerks, after due notice and an opportunity of being heard in their defense, for causes to be stated in the order of removal. 4. To hear and determine appeals from orders of justices of the peace, under the provisions of the code of criminal procedure respecting the support of bastards: 5. To examine into the circumstances of persons committed to prison as parents of bastards, and to discharge them in the cases provided by the code of criminal procedure: 6. To hear and determine complaints under the provisions of the code of criminal procedure, respecting masters, apprentices and servants: 7. To review the convictions of disorderly persons actually imprisoned, and to execute the powers conferred and duties imposed by the code of criminal procedure in relation to those persons: 8. To continue or discharge the recognizances, undertakings and bonds of persons bound to keep the peace, or to be of good behavior, or both; and to inquire into or determine the complaints on which they were founded, as provided in the code of criminal procedure: 9. To compel relatives of poor persons and committees of the estates of lunatics, to support such persons and lunatics, in the cases and in the manner prescribed by the code of criminal procedure: 10. To exercise the powers conferred by the code of criminal procedure, in relation to the estates of persons absconding and leaving their families chargeable to the public: 11. To exercise the powers conferred upon them by other provisions of this code, or of the code of criminal procedure.
