The attorney general has power and it is his duty, 1. To prosecute and defend all civil actions or special proceedings of a civil nature, to which the people of this state are a party, or in which they are interested: 2. To collect, if possible, costs adjudged to the people of this state, in an action prosecuted by him, to which they are a party or in which they are interested, and when collected, to pay them into the state treasury, deducting his legal disbursements in the prosecution or defense of the action: 3. Upon the requisition of the comptroller, or the state engineer and surveyor, to prepare the draft of a contract, obligation or other instrument required for the use of the state: 4. Upon the requisition of the governor, to attend a court of oyer and terminer or sessions, for the purpose of conducting a criminal action prosecuted by the people of this state : 5. Upon the requisition of the governor, the secretary of state, the comptroller, the treasurer, or the state engineer and surveyor, to prosecute a person charged with the commission of a public offense, in violation of statutes which either of those officers is specially required to execute, or in relation to matters connected with the department of either of them: 6. To cause a person indicted for corrupting, or attempting to corrupt a member, or a member elect of the legislature, or a commissioner of the land office, or for an offense against the statutes for the prevention of duelling, to be brought to trial without delay; and to attend in person to the discharge of this duty: 7. When he ascertains that real property, mortgaged to the people of this state is encumbered by prior mortgages or judgments, to discharge those liens and take an assignment thereof to the people, with the consent of the comptroller; and to receive the necessary monies for this purpose, out of the state treasury: 8. With the consent of the comptroller, to redeem, in the manner provided in this code, real property mortgaged to the people of this state, or purchased for them on the foreclosure of a mortgage, when sold upon a prior judgment: 9. To acknowledge satisfaction of a judgment in favor of the people of this state, when it is satisfied by payment, or when he is directed by the legislature: 10. To attend the legislature during its session, and to report on all matters referred to him by the legislature, or by the senate or assembly: 11. To administer oaths, in all matters relating to his office, in respect to which he may legally require proof: 12. To exercise any other power conferred upon him by the constitution, or by this code or by special statutes.
