In conformity with the preceding provisions, evidence may be given, upon a trial, of the following facts : 1. The precise fact in dispute; 2. The act, declaration or omission of a party as evidence against such party; 3. An act or declaration of another, in the presence and within the observation of a party, and his conduct in relation thereto; 4. The act or declaration, verbal or written, of a deceased person, in respect to the relationship, birth, marriage or death of any person related by blood or marriage to such deceased person; the act or declaration of a deceased person, done or made against his interest in respect to his real property; and also in criminal actions, the act or declaration of a dying person, made under a sense of impending death, respecting the cause of his death; 5. After. proof of a partnership or agency, the act or declaration of a partner or agent of the party, within the scope of the partnership or agency, and its existence; the same rule applies to the act or declaration of a joint owner, joint debtor or other person jointly interested with the party; 6. After proof of a conspiracy, the act or declaration of a conspirator against his co-conspirator, and relating to the conspiracy; 7. The act, declaration or omission; forming part of a transaction, as explained in section 1683; 8. The testimony of a witness deceased, or out of the jurisdiction, or unable to testify, given in a former action between the same parties, relating to the same matter; 9. The opinion of a witness respecting the identity or handwriting of a person, when he has knowledge of the person or handwriting; his opinion on a question of science, art or trade, when he is skilled therein; 10. The opinion of a subscribing witness to a writing, the validity of which is in dispute, respecting the mental sanity of the signer, and the opinion of an intimate acquaintance, respecting the mental sanity of a person, the reason for the opinion being given; 11. Common reputation, existing previous to the controversy, respecting facts of a public or general interest, more than thirty years old, and in cases of pedigree and boundary; 12. Usage, to explain the true character of an act, contract or instrument, where such true character is not otherwise plain; but usage is never admissible except as an instrument of interpretation; 13. Monuments and inscriptions in public places, as evidence of common reputation, and entries in family bibles or other family books or charts, engravings on rings, family portraits, and the like, as evidence of pedigree; 14. The contents of a writing, when oral evidence thereof is admissible; 15. Any other facts from which the facts in issue are presumed, or are logically inferable: 16. Such facts as serve to show the credibility of a witness as explained in section 1680.
