All other presumptions are satisfactory, if uncontradicted; They are denominated disputable presumptions, and may be controverted by other evidence. The following are of that kind: 1. That a person is innocent of crime or wrong: 2. That an unlawful act was done with an unlawful intent: 3. That a person intends the ordinary consequence of his voluntary act: 4. That a person takes ordinary care of his own concerns: 5. That evidence willfully suppressed would be adverse, if produced: 6. That higher evidence would be adverse, from inferior being produced: 7. That money paid by one to another, was due to The latter: 8. That a thing delivered by one to another, belonged to the latter: 9. That an obligation, delivered up to the debtor has been paid: 10. That former rent, or instalments have been paid when a receipt for later is produced: 11. That things which a person possesses are owned by him: 12. That a person is the owner of property, from exercising acts of ownership over it, or from common reputation of his ownership: 13. That a person in possession of an order on himself for the payment of money, or the delivery of a thing, has paid the money, or delivered the thing accordingly: 14. That a person acting in a public office, was regularly appointed to it: 15. That official duty has been regularly performed: 16. That a court or judge acting as such, whether in this state, or any other state or country, was acting in the lawful exercise of his jurisdiction: 17. That a judicial record, when not conclusive, does still correctly determine, or set forth the rights of the parties: 18. That all matters, within an issue, were laid before the jury, and passed upon by them, and in like manner, that all matters, within a submission to arbitration, were laid before the arbitrators, and passed upon by them: 19. That private transactions have been fair and regular: 20. That the ordinary course of business has been followed: 21. That a promissory note or bill of exchange, was given or endorsed for a sufficient consideration: 22. That an endorsement of a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, was made at the time and place of making the note or bill: 23. That a writing is truly dated: 24. That a letter duly directed and mailed, was received in the regular course of the mail: 25. Identity of person, from identity of name: 26. That a person not heard from in seven years is dead: 27. That an obligation under seal, to pay money more than twenty years past, has been extinguished: 28. That acquiescence followed from a belief, that the thing acquiesced in was conformable to the right or fact. 29. That things have happened, according to the ordinary course of nature, and the ordinary habits of life: 30. That persons acting as copartners, have entered into a contract of copartnership: 31. That a man and woman, deporting themselves as husband and wife, have entered into a lawful contract of marriage: 32. That a wife, acting with her husband, in the commission of a felony other than murder, acted by coercion and without guilty intent: 33. That a child born in lawful wedlock, there being no divorce, from bed and board, is legitimate: 34. That a thing once proved to exist, continues as long as is usual with things of that nature: 35. That the law has been obeyed: 36. That a document or writing, more than thirty years old, is genuine, when the same has been since generally acted upon as genuine, by persons having an interest in the question, and its custody has been satisfactorily explained: 37. That a printed and published book, purporting to be printed or published by public authority, was so printed or published: 38. That a printed and published book, purporting to contain reports of cases adjudged in the tribunals of the state, or country, where the book is published, contains correct reports of such cases: 39. That an uninterrupted, adverse possession of real property for twenty years, or more, has been held pursuant to a written conveyance: 40. That a trustee or other person, whose duty it was to convey real property to a particular person, has actually conveyed to him, when such presumption is necessary to perfect the title of such person, or of his successor in interest: 41. The uninterrupted use by the public of land, for a burial ground, for ten years, with the consent of the owner, and without a reservation of his rights, is presumptive evidence of his intention to dedicate it to the public, for that purpose. 42. Every sale of personal property, capable of immediate delivery to the purchaser, and every assignment of such property, by way of mortgage or security or upon any condition whatever, unless the same be accompanied by an immediate delivery, and be followed by an actual and continued change of possession, creates a presumption of fraud, as against the creditor of the seller or assignor, during his possession, or as against subsequent purchasers in good faith, disputable only by making it to appear on the part of the person claiming under such sale or assignment, that the same was made in good faith, and without intent to defraud such creditors or purchasers: 43. When two persons perish in the same calamity, such as a wreck, a battle, or a conflagration, and it is not shown who died first, and there are no particular circumstances from which it can be inferred, survivorship is presumed, from the probabilities resulting from the strength, age and sex, according to the following rules: First. If both those who have perished were under the age of fifteen years, the older is presumed to have survived: Second. If both were above the age of sixty years, the younger is presumed to have survived: Third. If one be under fifteen and the other above sixty, the former is presumed to have survived: Fourth. If both be over fifteen and under sixty, and the sexes be different, the male is presumed to have survived; if the sexes be the same, then the older: Fifth. If one be under fifteen or over sixty, and the other between those ages, the latter is presumed to have survived.
