Justices of the peace within and co—extensive with .

their respective counties, shall have jurisdiction and authority:

1. To administer any oath or affirmation authorized or
required by law to be administered:

2. To take the acknowledgement of deeds, mortgages,
and other instruments of writing:

3. To solemnize marriages : ’

4. To issue subpoena for witnesses and coerce their attendance in causes or matters pending before them, or other
cause or matter wherein they may be required to take depositions :

5. To try the action for the forcible entry and detention,
or the detention only, of real property:

6. To proceed against security for costs and bail for the
for the stay of execution on their dockets :

7. To issue attachment and proceed against the goods
and effects of debtors in certain cases:

8. To issue executions on judgments rendered by them:

9. To proceed against constables failing to make return,
making false return, or failing to pay over money collected
on execution issued by such justice:

10. To try the right of the claimant to property taken in
execution or on attachment:

11. To act in the absence of the probate judge in the
trial of contested elections of justices of - the peace :

- § 3. N o householder or freeholder resident of the county,
shall be held to answer any summons issued againsthim by
a justice, in a civil matter, in any township of such county
other than the one where he shall reside, except in the cases
following:

-A-A~M J‘k‘

1. Where there shall be no justice of the peace for the
township in which the defendant may reside ; or

2. Where the only justice residing therein is interested in
the controversy; or

3. Where he shall be related, as father, father-in-law,
son, son-in-law, brother, brother—in-law, guardian, ward,
uncle, nephew, or cousin, to either of the parties, and there
is no justice in the township competent to try the cause.
In the foregoing excepted cases, the action may be brought
before any justice of an adjoining township of the same
county, and the justice shall state on his docket the reason of
his taking jurisdiction :

4. Where the summons is accompanied with an order to
attach property, the jurisdiction shall be co-extensive with
the county:

5. When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly
and severally bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different town—
ships of the same county, the plaintifff may commence his
action before a justice of the township in which any of the
persons liable reside, except that in joint actions against the
makers and endorsers of notes, due-bills, or bills of exchange, the action shall be commenced in the township
where one of the original makers, drawers, or endorsers reside, and if it. be claimed by the plaintifff that an endorser
endorsed the note or bill at the time it was made, and the jurisdiction depend thereon, before the justice shall take jurisdiction, the plaintifff, or some person for him, shall file an affidavit setting forth that. fact:

6. In cases of trespass, to real or personal property, it
shall be lawful to bring the action in the township where the
trespass was committed, or in the township where the trespasser, or any one of several trespassers reside.
