The plaintifff shall have an order of attachment
against the property of the defendant in a civil action before
a justice of the peace for the recovery of money, before or

after the commencement thereof, when there is filed in his
office an affidavit of the plaintifff, his agent or attorney,
showing the nature of the plaintifff ’3 claim; that it is just ;
the amount which the aiiiant believes the plaintifff ought to
recover; and the existence of some one or more of the following particulars:

1. That the defendant or one of the several defendants, is a
foreign corporation, or is a non-resident of the county ; or,

2. Has absconded with intent to defraud his creditors; or

3. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a summons; or,

4. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served
upon him; or,

5. Is about to remove his property or a part thereof out
of the county, with the intent to defraud his creditors; or,

6. Is about to convert his property or a part thereof, into
money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his
creditors; or,

7. Has property or rights in action which he conceals ; or,

8. Has assigned, removed or diposed of, or is about to
dispose of his property or a part thereof, with intent to defraud his creditors ; or,

9. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be, or has been brought.
When the defendant is a foreign co oration or a non-resident of the county, the attachment 8 all not be granted unless the claim is for a debt or demand arising upon contract,
judgment or decree.

, § 29. When the ground of attachment is, that the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the
county, the order of attachment may be issued without
an undertaking, but in all other cases, the order of attachment shall not be issued by the justice until there has been
executed in his office by one or more sufficient sureties of
the plaintifff to be approved by the justice, an undertaking
not exceeding double the amount of the plaintifff ’s claim, to
the effect that the plaintifff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if
. the order be wrongfully obtained.
