SEC. 1. The distinction between actions at law and suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits, are abolished, and there shall be but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of private wrongs, which is denominated a civil action.

SEC. 2. In such actions the party complaining shall be known as the plaintiff and the adverse party as the defendant.

CHAPTER Two.

\

OF THE TIME OF COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec.

. Time of commencing actions in gen- 17. Provisions when person entitled dies
eral‘. before time expires.

. Within ten years. , 18. In actions by aliens time of war to be
. Within ten years. deducted.

. Within six years. 19. Time of stay by injunction or statu. Within three years. I tory prohibition to be deducted.

. Within two years. 20. Disability must exist when right of
. Within one year. action accrued.

. Actions for penalty. 21. When several disabilities limitation
. Actions not before provided for. does not attach until all removed.
. When cause of action accrues upon 22. Acknowledgment or new promise

current account. must be in writing.
. Limitations in actions by public cor- 23. Limitation to commence from time
orations. of last payment.
. W en action deemed commenced. 24. No action barred b statute when

. Exceptions when defendant out of cause accrued can e maintained.
the district.

. Exceptions in favor of persons under
legal disability.

SEC. 3. Civil actions shall only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this title after the cause of action shall have accrued,
except when, in special cases, a different limitation is prescribed by
statute. But the objection that the action was not commenced within
the time limited shall only be taken by answer, except as otherwise
provided in section fifty-eight.

SEC. 4. The periods prescribed in section three of this Act for the
commencement of actions shall be as follows:

Within ten years actions for the recovery of real property, or for
the recovery of the possession thereof; and no action shall be maintained for such recovery unless it shall ap ear that the plaintiff, his
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor was seize or possessed of the premises in uestion within ten years before the commencement of the
action: omlded, In all cases where a cause of action has already
accrued, and the period prescribed in this section within which an
action may be brought has expired or will expire within one year from
the approval of this Act, an action may be brought on such cause of
action within one year from the date of the approval of the Act.

SEC. 5. Within ten yearsFirst. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the
United States, or of any State or Territory within the United States;

Second. An action upon a sealed instrument.

SEC. 6. Within six yearsFirst. An action upon a contract or liability, express or implied,
exceptincr those mentioned in section live;

Secon . An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a
penalty or forfeiture;

Third. An action for waste or trespass upon real property;

Fourth. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring personal propert , includin an action for the specific recovery thereof.

SEC. 7. Witghin three yearsFirst. An action against a marshal, coroner, or constable, upon a

liability incurred by the doing of an act in his official capacity or in
virtue of his ofiice; or by the omission of an ofiicial dut , including
the non ayment of money collected upon an execution. gut this section shall not apply to an action for an escape;

Second. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture, where
the action is given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the
United States, except where the statute imposing it prescribes a
different limitation.

SEC. 8. Within two years— First. An action for libel, slander, assault, batter , seduction, false
imprisonment, or for any injury to the person or rig ts of another not

' arlsing on contract and not herein especially enumerated;

Second. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the
United States.

SEC. 9. Within one earAn action a ainst t e marshal or other officer for the escape of a
person arreste or imprisoned on civil process.

SEC. 10. An action upon the statute for the penalty given in whole
or in part to the person who will prosecute for the same shall be commenced within one year after the commission of the offense; and if the
action be not commenced within one year by a private party, it may
be commenced within two years thereafter, in behalf of the United
States, by the district attorney.

SEC. 11. An action for any cause not hereinbefore provided for shall
be commenced within ten years after the cause of action shall have
accrued. 
SEC. 12. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a
mutual, open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal
demands between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to
have accrued from the date of the last item roved in the account on
either side; but whenever a period of more t an one year shall elapse
between any of a series of items or demands, they are not to be deemed
such an account.

SEC. 13. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to
actions brought in the name of any public corporation in the district,
or for its benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties.

SEC. 14. An action shall be deemed commenced when the complaint
is filed and the summons issued.

SEC. 15. If, when the cause of action shall accrue against any person who shall be out of the district or concealed therein, such action
may be commenced within the terms herein res ectively limited, after
the return of such person into the district or the time of his concealment; and if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of this district, or conceal himself,

the time of his absence or concealment shall not be deemed or taken °

as any part of the time limit-ed for the commencement of such action.
SEC. 16. If any person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this chapter, or to recover real property, or for a penalty or forfeiture,
or against a marshal or other officer for an escape, be at the time the
cause of action accrued, eitherFirst. Within the age of twenty-one years; or
Second. Insane; or

Third. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution under sentence of a court for a term less than his natural life.
The time of such disability shall not be a part of the time limited

_ for the commencement of the action, but the period within which the

action shall be brought shall not be extended 1n any_case longer than
two years after such disability ceases.

SEC. 17. If a person entitled to bring an action die before the ex iration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and t e
cause of action survive, an action may be commenced by his personal
representatives, after the expiration of the time and within one year
from his death. If a person against whom an action may be brought
die before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement
thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be commenced

against his personal representatives after the expiration of that time, ‘

and within six months after the issuing of letters testamentary or of
administration.

SEC. 18. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a
country at war with the United States the time of the continuance of
the war shall not be a part of the period limited for the commencement
of the action.

SEC. 19. When the commencement of an action is stayed by injunction or a" statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
injunction or prohibition shall not be a part of the time limited for
the commencement of the action.

SEC. 20. No person shall avail himself of a disability unless it existed
when his ri ht of action accrued.

SEC. 21. hen two or more disabilities shall coexist at the time the
right of action accrues the limitation shall not attach until all such disabilities are removed. _

SEC. 22. No acknowledgment or romise shall be suflicient evidence
of a new or continuing contract, w ereby to take the case out of the
operation of this chapter, unless the same is contained in some writing,
signed by the party to be charged thereby; but this section shall not
alter the effect of any payment of principal or interest.

SEC. 23. Whenever any payment of principal or interest has been
or shall be made upon an existing contract, whether it be a bill of
exchange, promissory note, bond, or other evidence of indebtedness,
if such payment be made after the same shall have become due, the
limitation shall commence from the time the last payment was made.

SEC. 24. When the cause of action has arisen in any State, Territory, or country between nonresidents of this district, and by the laws
of the State, Territory, or country where the cause of action arose an
action can not be maintained thereon by reason of the lapse of time,
no action shall be maintained thereon in this district.

CHAPTER THREE.

OF THE PARTIES TO ACTIONS.


25. Action to_be prosecuted in the name 33. When unmarried female may sue for
of the real part in interest. her own seduction.

26. Assignment of a t ing in action not to 34. Parties several] liable on same instruprejudice defense. ment may sued together or

27. Executor or trustee may sue without . separately.
the person beneficially interested. 35. When action not to abate.

28. Married women may prosecute and 36. When action for wrong not to abate.

defend as if unmarried. 37. When third rsons may be substi29. Infant to a pear by guardian. tuted as de endants.
30. Guardian, ow appointed. 38. Who may be made parties to action.
31. Who may prosecute for injury or 39. Who must be made arties to action.
death of a child.- 40. When court to deci e controversy or
32. Who ma prosecute for seduction of order other parties brought in.
a daughter or ward. 41. Who may intervene.

SEC. 25. Every action’ shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section twenty-seven;
but this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a
thing in action not arising out of contract.

SEC. 26. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action

_by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other

defense existin at the time of or before. notice of the assignment; but
this section sha 1 not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of
exchange transferred in good faith and upon valuable consideration
before due.

SEC. 27. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an express trust,
or a erson expressly authorized by statute, may sue without joining
with im the person for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A
person with whom, or in whose name a contract is made for the benefit
of another, is a trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this section.

SEC. 28. A wife may receive the wages of her personal labor, and
maintain an action therefor in her own name and holdthe same in her
own right, and she may prosecute and defend all actions for the preservation and protection of her rights and pro erty as if unmarried.

SEC. 29. Actions may be commenced an prosecuted‘ by infants,
either by guardian or next friend, and by conservators on behalf of
the persons they represent. .

SEC. 30. In any action it shall be lawful for the court in which the
action is pending to appoint a guardian ad litem to any infant or insane
defendant in such action, and to compel the person so ap ointed to act.
By such appointment such erson shall not be renderedp liable to pay
costs of action; and he sha , moreover, be allowed a reasonable sum
for his charges as such guardian, to be fixed by the court, and taxed
in the bill of costs.

SEC. 31. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action as plaintiff for the injury or death
of a child, and a guardian for the injury or death of his ward.

SEC. 32. A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may maintain an action as plaintiff for the seduction of a

» daughter, and the guardian for the seduction of a ward, though the

daughter or ward be not living with or in the service of the plaintiff

at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and-there be no loss of
service.

SEC. 33. An unmarried female over twenty-one years of age may
maintain an action as plaintiff for her own seduction, and recover
therein such damages as may be assessed in her favor; but the prosecution of an action to judgment by the father, mother, or guardian,
as prescribed in the section last preceding, shall be a bar to an action
by such unmarried female. .

SEC. 34. Persons severally liable u on the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of) exchange and promissory notes,
may all or any of them be included in the same action, at the option
of the plaintiff. ‘

SEC. 35. No action shall abate by the death or disability of a party,
or by the transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case of the death or disability of a party, the
court may at any time within two years thereafter, on motion, allow
the action to be continued by or against his personal representatives
or successor in interest.

SEC. 36. An action for a wrong shall not abate b the death of any
party after the verdict has been given therein, but t e action shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where the cause of action
survives. ‘

SEC. 37. In any action for the recovery of specific personal property,
if a third person demand of the defendant the same property, the court,
in its discretion, on motion of the defendant, and notice to such person
and the adverse part , may, before answer, make an order discharging
the defendant from iability to either party, and substitute such person in his place as defendant. Such order shall not be made but on
the condition that the defendant deliver the property or its value to
such person as the court may direct, nor unless it ap ears from the
afiidavit of the defendant, filed with the clerk by the ay he is otherwise required to answer, that such person makes such demand without
collusion with the defendant. The afiidavit of such third person as to
whether he makes such demand of the defendant may be read on the
hearing of the motion. .

SEC. 38. All persons havin an interest in the subject of the action,
and in obtaining the relief iglemanded, ma be joined as plaintiffs,
except as in this chapter otherwise provi ed. Any person may be
made a defendant who has or claims an interest in the controversy,
adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a -necessary arty to the complete
determination or settlement of the question invo ved therein.

SEC. 39. Of the parties to’ the action, those who are united in interest must be joined as laintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of any
one who should have een joined can not be obtained he may be made
a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and
when the uestion is one of a common or joint interest of many persons, or W en the parties are numerous, and it may be impracticable
to bring them all into court, one or more may sue or defend for the
beneht of the whole.

SEC. 40. The court ma determine any controversy between parties
before it when it can be one without prejudice to the rights of others,
or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the
controversy can not be had without the presence of other parties, the
court shall cause them to be brought in.

SEC. 41. Any person may, before the trial, intervene in an action or
proceeding, who has an interest in the matter of litigation, in the _success of either of the parties, or an interest against both. An intervention takes place w en a third person is permitted to become a party
to an action or proceeding, either by joining the plaintiff in claiming
what is sought by the complaint, or by uniting with the defendant in
resisting the claims of the plaintiff, or by demanding an thing adversely to both the laintiif and the defendant, and is ma e by comlaint setting forth t e ground upon which the intervention rests, filed

y leave of the court and served upon the parties to the action or
proceeding who have not appeared, and upon the attorneys of the
parties who have appeared, who may answer or demur to it as if it were
an original complaint.

CHAPTER FoUR.

OF THE MANNER OF THEIR OOMMENCEMENT.

Sec.

. How actions commenced. 49. When defendant may be allowed to
. Requisites of summons. defend after judgment.
. Summons to contain notice of what 50. When the summons is returned not
plaintiff demands. found, how plaintiff may proceed.
. By whom served and when and where 51. When the summons not served on all
returned. the defendants.
. How served and upon whom. 52. Proof of service of summons.

. Wheand order for publication may be 53. When court acquires jurisdiction.
m e.

. Publication, how made; personal
service out of the district.

SEC. 42. Civil actions shall be commenced by filing a complaint with
the clerk of the court, and the provisions of section fourteen shall only
apply to this subject for the purpose of determining whether an action
has been commenced within the time limited by this title. At any
time after the action is commenced the plaintiff may cause a summons
to be served on the defendant.

SEC. 43. The summons shall contain the name of the court in which
the complaint is filed, the names of the parties to the action, and the title thereof. It shall be issued by the court or the clerk thereof and
directed to the defendant, and shall require him to appear and answer
the complaint as in this section provided, or 'udgment for want thereof
will be taken against him. The defendant s all appear and answer the
complaint within thirty days from the date of the service.

SEC. 44. There shall also be inserted inthe summons a notice in substance as follows:

First. In any action for the recovery of money or damages only
that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum specified therein if the
defendant fail to answer the complaint;

Second. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the
clclimplaint the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
t erein.

SEC. 45. The summons shall be served by the marshal or any deputy,
or by a person specially a pointed by him or by the court or judge
thereof. The summons s all be returned to the court or clerk thereof
with whom the complaint is filed within forty days after its delivery
to the officer or other person for service,with proof of such service or

that the defendant can not be found. The marshal or other person to
Whom the summons is delivered shall indorse thereon the date of such
delivery.

SEC. 46. The summons shall be served by delivering a co y thereof,
together with a copy of the complaint re ared and certi ed by the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, or by t e c erk of the court as follows:

First. If the action be against a private corporation, to the president
or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent,
or, in case none of the officers of the corporation above named shall
reside or have an office in the district, then to any clerk or agent of such
corporation who may reside or be found in the district, or if no such
ofiicer be found, then by leaving a copy thereof at the residence or
usual place of abode of such clerk or agent;

Second. If against angr incorporated town, school district, or other
public corporation in t e district, to the clerk of such incorporated
town, school district, or other public corporation;

Third. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such
minor personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian, or if
there be none Within the district, then to any erson having the care
or control of such minor, or with whom he resi es, or in whose service
he is em 10 ed;

Fourt . against a person judicially declared to be of unsound
mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and if a guardian has
been a pointed, to such guardian and to the defendant personally;

Fift . In all cases, to the defendant personally, or_ if he be not
found, to some erson of the family above the a e of fourteen years
at the dwellin ouse or usual place of abode of t e defendant.

SEC. 47. W en service of the summons can not be made as prescribed
in the last preceding section, and the defendant after due diligence can
not be found Within the district, and when that fact appears by aflidavit to the satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, or justice of the
peace in an action in a justice’s court, and it also appears that a cause
of action exists against the defendant, or that he is a proper arty to
an action relating to real or personal property in the district, t e court
or judge thereof, or a justice of the peace in an action in a justice’s
court, shall grant an order that the service be made by publication of
the summons in either of the following cases:

First. When the defendant is a foreign corporation, and has property
Within the district, or the cause of action arose thereinSecond. When the defendant, being a resident of the district has
departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or to avoid the
service of the summons, or with like intent keeps himself concealed
therein, or has departed from the district and remained absent therefrom six consecutive Weeks;

Third. When the defendant is not a resident of the district, but has
property therein, and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the
action;

Fourth. When an action is to have a marriage declared void, or for
a divorce in the cases prescribed by law;

Fifth. When the subject of the action is personal property in the

‘ district, and the defendant has a claim or lien, of interest, actual or

contin ent, therein, or the relief demanded consists Wholly or partly
In exc udin the defendant from any interest or lien therein;Sixth. hen the action is to foreclose, satisfy, or redeem from a

mortgage, or to enforce a lien of any kind on real estate in said district, or satisf or redeem from the same. The summons published
shall contain t e name of the court and the title of the cause, a succinct
statement of the relief demanded, the date of the order for service by
publication, and the time within which the defendant is required to
answer the complaint.

SEC. 48. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a newspaper to be_ designated by the court or judge or clerk as the most likely
to give notice to the personlto be slervedl, and for such kleingth of tilipse
as may be deemed reasonab e not ess t an once a wee or six wee .
In case of publication, the. coiirt or judge shall also _direct a copy of
the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the postoflice, directed to the efendant at his place of residence, unless it
shall ap ear that such residence is neither known to the party making
the ap ication nor can with reasonable diligence be ascertained by
him. pWhen publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the
summons and complaint out of the district shall‘ be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post-oflice. In either case, the defendant
shall appear and answer within thirty days after the completion of
such period of publication. In case of personal service out of the
district, the summons shall specify the time prescribed in the order
for publication.

SEC. 49. The defendant’ against whom publication is ordered, or his
personal representatives, on application and suflicient cause shown, a;
any time before judgment sha be allowed to defend the action° an
the defendant against whom publication is ordered, or his representatives, may in like manner, upon good cause shown, and upon such
terms as may be proper, be allowed to defend after judgment and
within one year after the entry of such °udgment on such terms as
may be just; and if the defense be success 111, and the judgment or any
part thereof have been collec(tled or kclitherwiselenlfociiced, sucllig restkiltutioln
may thereupon be compelle as t e court s a irect. ut t e tit e
to property gold upon execiiltion issugd on dsuch judgment to a purchaser
in ood fait shal not be t ereby' a ecte .

SEC. 50. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the marshal, his
deputy, or the person appointed to serve a summons that the defendant is not found, the plaintiff may deliver another summons to be
served, and so on, until service be had; or the plaintiff may proceed
by publication, as in this chapter provided, at his election.

SEC. 51. When the action is against two or more defendants and
the summons is seryed on one or more but not all of them, the plaintiff
may proceed as fol ows: v

First. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon a
contract, he may proceed against the defendants served, unless the
court otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered
against all the defendants téllilus jointly indebted so far only as that it
may be enforced a ainst e joint pro erty of all and the separate
propertyhof the de epdiilntdsefrveld, and Eff tihey are subject to arrest,
against t e ersons o t e e en ants serve ° or,

Second. Ilf the action be a ainst the defendants severally liable, he

may proceed against the de endants served in the same manner as if‘

thely were the only defendants; or,
hird. If all the defendants have been served, judgment may be

taken against any or either of them severally, when the plaintiff would

be entitled to judgment against such defendant or defendants, if the
action had been against them, or any of them alone.

SEC. 52. Proof of the service of the summons, or of the deposit
thereof in the post-ofiice, shall be as follows:

First. If the service or deposit in the post-office be by the marshal
or his deputy, the certificate of such officer; or,

Second. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof; or,

Third. In case of publication, the aflidavit of the printer or his
foreman, or his principal clerk, showing the same; or,

Fourth. The written admission of the defendant in case of service
otnerwise than by publication; the certificate, affidavit, or admission
must state the time and place of service; and in case of deposit in the
post-office, the time and place thereof.

SEC. 53. From the time of the service of the summons or the allowance of a provisional remedy the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A
voluntary a pearance of the defendant shall be equivalent to personal
service of e summons upon him.

CHAPTER FIVE.

OF THE PLEADINGS.



54. Forms of pleadings, how determined. 55. Pleadings on the part of plaintiff and
defendant.

SEC. 54. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing in actions at
law and suits in equity and in admiralty are abolished, and hereafter
the forms of pleading in courts of record and the rules by which the
sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined shall be those prescribed by this code. 
SEC. 55. The only pleadings on the part of the plaintiff shall beFirst. The complaint;
Second. The demurrer; or,

- Third. The reply.

And on the part of the defendant—First. The demurrer; or,
Second. The answer.

CHAPTER SIX.

OF THE COMPLAINT.

56. First pleading to be complaint.

SEC. 56. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff shall be the
complaint.

SEC. 57. The com laint shall containFirst. The title 0 the cause, specifying the name of the court and
the names of the parties to the action, plamtiff and defendant. _

Second. A plain and concise statement of _the facts constituting the
cause of action, without unnecessary repetrtlon.

Third. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims. If the
recovery of money or damages be demanded t e amount thereof shall

be stated.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

or THE DEMURBER.

58. When the defendant may demur, and 60. How to (proceed if complaint be
for what. amende .

59. Demurrer must specify ground of ob- 61. Objection when taken by answer.
jection. 62. Objection when deemed waived.

SEC. 58. The defendant may demur to the complaint within the time
required by law to appear and answer, when it appears upon the face
thereof, eitherFirst. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or the subject of the action; or,

Second. That the plaintiff has no legal capacity to sue; or,

Third. That there is another action pending between the same parties
for the same cause; or,

Fourth. That there is a defect of parties plaintiff or defendant; or,

Fifth. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or,

Sixth. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action; or,

Seventh. That the action has not been commenced within the time
limited by this code. .

SEC. 59. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objection to the complaint; unless it does so it may be disre arded. It may
be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the a leged causes of
action stated therein.

SEC. 60. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof shall be served
on the defendant or 1118 attorney, and the defendant -shall answer the
same within such time as may be prescribed by the court, and if he
omit to do so the plaintiff may proceed to obtain judgment as in other
cases of failure to answer.

SEC. 61. When any of the matters enumerated in section fifty-eight
do not appear upon the face of the complaint the objection may be
taken by answer. 6

SEC. 62. If no objection be taken, either bv demurrer or answer,
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only
the objection to the jurisdiction of the court and the objection that the
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

OF THE ANSWER.

63. What the answer shall contain. 66. Sham and irrelevant answers stricken
64. Nature of counterclaim, and how out on motion.
stated.
65. Defendant may demur to one or more
of several causes of action and answer the rest.

SEC. 63. The answer of the defendant shall contain—

First. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the
complaint controverted y the defendant, or of any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief.

Second. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or
counterclaim in ordinary and concise language without repetition.

SEC. 64. The counterclaim mentioned in the last preceding section
must be one existing in favor of the defendant and against a plaintiff,
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of the following causes of action:

First. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiffs claim.

Second. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action
arising also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the
action.

The defendant may set forth b answer as many defenses and counterclaims as he may have. They s all each be se arately stated and refer
to the causes of action which they are intende to answer in such manner that they ma be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 65. The efendant may demur to one or more of several causes
of action stated in the complaint and answer the residue.

SEC. 66. Sham, frivolous, and irrelevant answers and defenses may
be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the court may in its
discretion impose.

CHAPTER NINE.



67. Reply, when made, and what to con- 69. When defendant may move for judgtain. ment on answer.

68. When plaintiff may demur to new 70. When defendant may demur to reply.
matter in answer.

Sec. 67 . When the answer contains new matter, constituting a defense or counterclaim, the plaintiff may reply to such new matter,

denying generally or specifically each al egation controverted by him
or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief;
and he may allege in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting
a defense to such new matter in the answer.

SEC. 68. The plaintiff may demur to an answer containing new matter when it appears upon the face thereof that such new matter does
not constitute a defense or counterclaim; or he may, for like cause,
demur to one or more of such defenses or counterclaims and reply to
the residue.

SEC. 69. If the answer contain a statement of new matter, constituting a defense or counterclaim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur
thereto within the time prescribed by law or rule of the court, the
defendant may move the court for such judgment as he is entitled to
on the pleadings, and if the case require it he may have a jury called
to assess the damages.

SEC. 70. The defendant may demur to an new matter contained in
the reply when it appears u on the face t ereof that such matter is
not a sufficient reply to the acts stated in the answer. Sham, frivolous, and irrelevant replies may be stricken out in like manner and on

the same terms as like answers and defenses.

CHAPTER TEN.

OF THE GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING.


71. Verification of pleadings. 80. City ordinance, how pleaded.
72. When verification may be omitted. 81. Libel or slander, how leaded.
73. When p1eadingsliled,motion tostrike 82. What may be plead in answer in
out. such cases.
74. Manner of pleading an account. 83. Answer in action to recover the pos75. How pleadin construed. session of property distrained.
76. Irrelevant andg redundant matter may 84. What causes of action may be united
be stricken out. in same complaint.
77. Judgments, how leaded. 85. Material allegation not denied to be
78. Conditions prece ent, how pleaded. deemed true.
79. Private statute, how pleaded. 86. What is material allegation.

SEC. 71. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or hisattorney, and, except a demurrer, shall also be verified by the party,
his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to be true. The
verification must be made by the aflidavit of the party, or, if there be
several parties united in interest and pleadin together, by one, at
least, of such parties, if such parties -be Within t e district and capable
of making the atlidavit; otherwise the affidavit may be made b the
agent or attorney of the party. The affidavit may also be ma e by
the agent or attorney if the action or defense be founded on a written
instrument for the payment of money only, and such instrument be in
the possession of the agent. or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of the agent '

or attorney. When the aflidavit is made by the agent or attorney, it
must set forth the reason of his making it. When a cor ration is a
party, the verification may be made by any officer thereo upon whom
service of a summons might be made, and when the United States, or

‘ any oflicer thereof‘in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be

made by any person to whom all the material allegations of the pleading are known.

SEC. 72. When, in the judgment of the court, an answer to an allegation in any pleading might subject the party answering to a prosecution for felony, the verification of the answer to such allegation may
be omitted.

SEC. 73. The answer or demurrer to the complaint shall be tiled with
the clerk by the time required to answer, and the demurrer, or reply
thereto, as the case may be, must in like manner be filed by the first
day of the next term of the court, or within such time as the court may
allow after the filing of the answer to the complaint, if the same be
filed in term time. A demurrer to a reply must be filed in the manner
and within the time required to file a demurrer to an answer. A motion
to strike out a pleading for want of verification or subscription, or
because several causes of action or defense therein are not pleaded
separately, or for other cause, or a sham, frivolous, or irrelevant
pleading or redundant matter therein, shall be made Within the time
for answering such pleading. 

SEC. 74. A party may set forth in a pleadin the items of an account
therein alle ed, or tile a copy thereof, with t e pleading verified by
his own oat , or that of his agent or attorney, if within the personal
knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it
to be true. If he do neither, he shall deliver to the adverse party,

within five days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the
account, verified as in this section provided, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court or judge thereof may order a further
account when the one filed or delivered is defective.

SEC. 75. In the construction of a pleading for the pur ose of determining its effect, its allegation shall be liberally construe , with a view
of substantial justice between the arties. '

SEC. 76. If irrelevant or redun ant matter be inserted in the pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of the adverse party; and when
the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may
re uire the leadin to be made definite and certain by amendment.

SEC. 77. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court
or oflicer of special jurisdiction it shall not be necessary to state the
facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment or determination may
be stated to have been duly given or made. If such alle ation be
controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establis on the
trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

SEC. 78. In leading the performance of a condition precedent in a
contract it sha 1 not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it may be stated generally that the party duly performed
all the conditions on his part; and if such alle ation be controverted
the party pleading shall be bound to establis on the trial the facts
showin such performance.

SEC. 79. In pleading a rivate statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to re er to such statute by its title and the day of
its assage, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

SEC. 80. In pleading an ordinance or enactment of any incorporated
city, town, or village, or a right derived therefrom, in any action, or
proceeding, it shall be suiiicient to refer to such ordinance or enactment by its title and the day of its approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof. '

SEC. 81. In an action for libel or slander it shall not, be necessary to
state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of showin
the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of Whic
the cause of action arose, but it shall be sufiiclent to state generally
that the same was published or spoken concernin the plaintiff, and
if such allegation be controverted the plaintiff s all be bound to
establish on trial that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 82. In the actions mentioned in the last section the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory and any mitigating circumstances to reduce the amount of
damages; and whether he prove the j ustiiication or not he may give in
evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 83. In an action to recover the possession of property dis- ‘

trained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or lperson by whose
command he acted was lawfully ssessed of the rea property upon
which the distress was made, ancixthat the pro erty distrained was at
the time doin damage thereon, shall be goo without setting forth
the title to sue real property.

SEC. 84. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action in the same
complaint when they all arise out of-—

First. Contract, express or implied; or

Second. Injuries, with or without force, to the person; or

Third. lnjuries, with or without force, to property; or

Fourth. Injuries to character; or

Fifth. Claims to recover real property, with or without ‘damages
for the withholding thereof; or

Sixth. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for the withholding thereof; or

Seventh. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law. ’

But the causes of action so united must all belong to one only of
these classes, and must affect all the parties to the action and not
re uire different places of trial, and must be separately stated.

SEC. 85. Every material allegation of the complaint not controverted
by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purpose of the
action, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter in a reply
is to be deemed controverted by the adverse party as upon a direct
denial or the avoidance, as the case may require.

SEC. 86. A material alle ation in a pleadlng is one essential to the
claim or defense, and whicg could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insuflicient as to such claim or defense.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

OF MISTAKES IN PLEADINGS AND AMENDMENTS.



. When variance deemed material.. 94. When defendant may be sued by
.' When variance not material. fictitious name.
. What deemed a failure of proof. 95. Amended pleadings before trial to be
. What pleading may be amended of new pleadings.

course. 96. Pleading not verified, or containing
. Amendments and pleading over after several causes of action or defense

demurrer. not separately stated, ma y b e
. Amendments allowed by court before stricken out.

trial or submission. - 97. No error to be regarded unless it
. Court may enlarge time to plead, or affect substantial rights.

relieve party from judgment. 98. Supplemental pleadings.

SEC. 87. No variance between the alle ation in a pleading and the
proof shall be deemed material, unless it s all have actually misled the
adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense
upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been
so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and
in what respect he has been misled; and thereupon the court may order
the pleadingxto be amended upon such terms as shall be just.

SEC. 88. hen the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or ma order an immediate amendment, without costs.

SEC. 89. hen, however, the allegation of the cause of action or

defense to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some ar-A

ticular or particulars only, but in its entire sco e and meaning, it s all
not be deemed a case of variance within the ast two sections, but a
failure of proof.

SEC. 90. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course,
without costs and without rejudice to the proceedings already had, at
any time before the perio for answering it shall expire; in such case

a copy of the amended pleading shall be served on the adverse party
before the expiration of said period.

SEC. 91. A ter the decision upon a demurrer, if it be overruled, and
it appears that such demurrer was interposed in good faith, the court
may, in its discretion, allow the party to plead over, upon such terms
as may be proper. If the demurrer be. sustained the court may, in its
discretion, allow the party to amend the pleading demurred to, upon
such terms as may be proper. ‘

SEC. 92. The court may, at any time before trial, in furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be roper, allow any pleading or
proceeding to be amended by adding t e name of a party, or other
allegation material to the cause, and in like manner and for like reasons it may, at an time before the cause is submitted, allow such
pleading or procee ing to be amended, by striking out the name of
any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or when the amendment does not substantially change the cause of action or defense, by conforming the pleading
or roceed11:1[glto the facts proved.

SEC. 93. e court may likewise, in its discretion and upon such
terms as may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made or other
act to be done after the time limited by this code, or by an order
enlarge such time; and may also, in its discretion, and u on such terms
as may be just, at any time within one year after notice t ereof, relieve
a party from a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken against
him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.

SEC. 94. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of adefendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding
by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading
or roceedin may be amended accordingly.

SEC. 95. en any pleading or proceeding is amended before trial,
mere clerical errors excepted, it shall be done by filing a new pleading,
to be called the amended complaint, or otherwise, as the case may be.
Such amended pleading shall be complete in itself without reference to
the original or any preceding amended one.

SEC. 96. Any pleading not duly verified and subscribed may, on
motion of the adverse party, be stricken out of the case. \ When any

leadin contains more than one cause of action or defense, if the same
not eaded separately, such pleadin may, on motion of the adverse
party, e stricken out of the case. hen a motion to strike out is
allowed, the court may, u on such terms as may be proper, allow the
party to file an amended p eading, or if the motion be dlsallowed, and
1t appear to have been made in good faith, the court may, upon like
terms, allow the party to lead over.

SEC. 97. The court shal in every stage of an action, disregard any
error or defect in the pleadin s or proceedings which shall not affect
the substantial ri hts of the a verse party.

SEC. 98. The intiif and defendant, respectively, may be allowed
on motion to ma e a supplemental complaint, answer, or reply, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint,
answer, or reply. Co ies of all pleadings subsequent to the complaint
must be served upon t e adverse party or his attorney.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

OF ARREST AND BAIL.


. When defendant may bearrested. 114. Bail ma be given and deposit re. Proceeding to obtain an arrest. fundei
101. Defendant may be discharged on 115. Detposit, how a plied or dis sed of.
bail or deposit. 116. W en marsha liable as - '1 and
102. Bail, how given. ‘ howdischarged from such liability.
103. Surrender of defendant. 117. Judgment against marshal as bail.
104. Same subject. 118. When bail liable to marshal.
105. Bail, how proceeded against. 119. Plaintiff liable in the first instance
106. How exonerated. for the maintenance of defendant.
107. Delivery of copy of undertaking. 120. When marshal may discharge de108. Notice of justification of bail. fendant for nonpayment of main109. Qualification of bail. tenance.
110. Justification of bail. 121. Motion to vacate writ of arrest.
111. Allowance of bail. 122. Proceedings thereon.
112. Deposit of money in lieu of bail.
113. Payimint by marshal of deposit to
c er .

SEC. 99. No person shall be arrested in any civil action at law exce t
as provided in this section. The defendant may be arrested in t e
following cases:

First. In an action for the recove of money or damages, when the
defendant is about to remove from t e district with intent to defraud
his creditors, or when the action is for an injury to person, or for
wilfully injuring or wrongfully taking, detaining, or converting

property.

Second. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for money, or property
embezzled or fraudulently misapplied or convertedto his own use by a
public officer, or by an attorney, or by an officer or agent of a corporation in the course of his employment as such, or by any factor,
agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity, or for any misconduct or neglect in office or in a rofessional employment.

Third. In an action to recover tge possession of personal roperty
unjustly detained, when the property or any part thereof as been
concealed, removed, or disposed of, so that it can not be found or
taken by the marshal, and With intent that it should not be so found
oil; takffan, or with the intent to deprive the plaintiff of the benefit
t ereo .

Fourth. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting a debt, or incurring the obli tion for Which the action is brought,
or in concealing or dis osing of t e property for the taking, detention,
or conversion ofwhic the action is brou ht.

Fifth. When the defendant has remove or disposed of his property,
or is about to do so, With intent to defraud his creditors.

But no female shall be arrested in any action except for injury to
person, character, or property. a

SEC. 100. The mode of proceeding to obtain the arrest of the defendant for any of the causes specified in the section last preceding
shall be as provided in this section:

First. At any time after the commencement of an action at law, and
before judgment, the plaintiff in such action shall, in the discretion of

the court, or the jud e thereof be entitled to a writ of arrest for such
defendant whenever e shall make and file with the clerk of the court
in which such action is commenced, or is at the time ending, an afEdavit that the plaintiff has a sufficient cause of action t erein and that
the case is one of those mentioned in the section last precedin ; and
shall also make and file with such clerk an undertaking, with su cient
sureties, in a sum not less than three hundred dollars, and equal to the
amount for which the plaintiff prays jud ent. Such undertaking
shall be conditioned that the laintiff willnpay all costs that may be
adjudged to the defendant aml) all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest if the same be Wron ful or without sufficient cause,
not exceedin the amount specified in t e undertaking. '

Second. T e afhdavit may be either positive or upon information
and belief; but if the latter, it shall state the facts upon which the
belief is founded. The plalntiff shall also file with l11S undertaking
the aflidavits of the sureties therein, from which it must appear that
such sureties are- residents of the district, and that they are, taken
together, worth double the amount of the sum specified in the undertaking over all debts and liabilities and property exempt from execution. No person not qualified to become bail upon arrest is qualified
to become surety in an undertakin for an arrest.

Third. The writ of arrest shal be issued by the court, judge, or
commissioner in his or its discretion, and shall require the marshal
forthwith to arrest the defendant and hold him to bail in the amount
specified in the undertaking, and that in default thereof he keep him
in custody until discharged by law, and to return the writ to the court
from which it issued, with his doings indorsed thereon, when required
by the plaintiff at any time before the defendant may be arrested, or
afterwards whenever the defendant shall have been discharged from
the arrest on bail or otherwise.

Fourth. The plaintiff shall deliver or cause to be delivered to the
marshal with the writ a copy of the aflidavit upon which the warrant
was issued subscribed by himself or attorne . The marshal, upon the
delivery of the writ, shall indorse thereon t e date of the recei t, and
upon the arrest of the defendant shall deliver to him a copy of t e writ
and such copy of the affidavit. The marshal shall execute the Writ by
arrqsting the defendant and keeping him in custody until discharged
b aw.

SEc. 101. The defendant, at any time before execution, shall be discharged from the arrest, either u on giving bail or upon depositing the
amount mentioned in the writ o arrest, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 102. The defendant may give bail by causing a written undertaking to be executed in favor of the plaintiff by sufficient sureties,
stating their places of residence, to the effect that the defendant shall
at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court during
the pendency of the action, and to such as may be issued to enforce
the judgment therein, or if he be arrested for the cause mentioned in
the third subdivision of section ninety-nine, an undertaking to the
same effect as that provided by section one hundred and twenty-seven.

SEC. 103. At any time before failure to comply with the undertaking the bail may surrender the defendant in t eir exoneration, or
he may surrender himself to the marshal in the following manner:

First. A certified copy of the undertaking of the bail shall be

delivered to the marshal, who shall detain the defendant in his custody
thereon as upon a writ of arrest, and shall, by a certificate in writing,
acknowledge the surrender. Second. Upon a production of a copy of the undertaking and
marshal’s certificate, the court may, upon a notice to the plaintiff of
eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exonerated and on filin the order and the papers used on the application
with the clerk of t e court where the action is pending they shall be
exonerated accordingly. But this section shall not apply to an arrest
for cause mentioned in the third subdivision of section ninety-nine so
far as to discharge the bail from an undertaking given to the effect
provided by section one hundred and twenty-ei ht.

SEC. 104. For the purpose of surrendering t e defendant, the bail
at any time and place, before they are finally charged, may themselves
arrest him, or by a written authority, indorsed on a certified copy of
the undertakin , may empower the marshal or any other person of
suitable age an discretion to do so. 

SEC. 105. In case of the failure to comply with the undertaking, the
bail may be roceeded against by action only.

SEC. 106. he bail may be exonerated, elther by the death of the
defendant or his im risonment in the penitentiary, or by his legal discharge from the ob gation to render himself amenable to the process,
or by his surrender to the marshal or any deputy in execution thereof,
within twenty days after the commencement of the action against the
bail or within such further time as may be granted by the court.

SEC. 107. Within five days after the execution of the undertaking
of the bail the marshal or de uty having the defendant in custody
shall deliver to the plaintiff or is attorney, or such other person as
the plaintiff may direct, a certified copy of the undertakin , with the
data of the arrest indorsed thereon. In any other case t e marshal
may mail such co(py within the same time to the plaintiff or his attorney, within the istrict, or to either of them, as the plaintiff may
direct. The plaintiff within ten da s from the delivery of such copy,
or fifteen days from the mailing of t e same, if sent by mail, may serve
upon the marshal or deputy for the defendant in custody a notice that
he does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted it,

and the marshal shall be exonerated from liability. If no notice be

served within ten days, the original undertaking shall be filed with
the court where the action is ending. .
SEC. 108. On the receipt oi) such notice the marshal or defendant
may, within ten days thereafter, give to the laintiff or his attorney
notice of the justification of the same or ot er bail, specifying the
glace of residence and occupation of the latter, before a judge of the
istrict court or clerk of the court where the action.is pending, or a
commissioner, at a specified time and place, the time to be not less
than five nor‘ more than ten days thereafter. In case neither the
plaintiff nor his attorney reside Within one hundred miles from where

the arrest is made, the notice may be served upon the person, and in_

the manner provided for serving the copy of the undertaking in the section last receding. In case other bail be given there shall be a
new underta in , in the form and to the effect prescribed in section
one hundred an two. ‘

SEC. 109. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:

First. Each of them shall be a resident within the district; but no
counselor or attorney at law, marshal, deputy marshal, commissioner,
clerk of any court, or other officer of any court shall be permitted to
become bail in any action. ‘

Second. Each of them shall be worth the amount specified in the writ
of arrest, or the amount to which the same may be reduced as rovided
in this chapter, over and above all debts and liabilities, and exc usive of
property exempt from execution; but the judge, clerk, or commissioner
on justification may allow more than two sureties to justify severally in
amounts less than that expressed in the writ, if the whole justification
shall be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail.

SEC. 110. For the purpose of justification each of the bail shall attend
before the judge, commissioner, or clerk at the time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath, on the part of the
plaintiff, touchin his sufliciency, in such manner as the 'udge, commissioner, or cler in his discretion may think proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by the bail, if required
by the plaintiff. .

SEC. 111. If the judge, commissioner, or clerk shall find the bail
sufficient, he shall annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse

his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed with the clerk of the

court in which the action is pending; and the marshal shall thereupon

be exonerated from liability.

SEC. 112. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of
giving‘ bail, deposit with the marshal the amount mentioned in the
writ. Thereupon the marshal shall ive the defendant a certificate of
the deposit made and the defendant s all be discharged out of custody.

SEC. 113. The marshal shall, within ten days after the de osit, pay the
same into the court, and take from the clerk receivin t e same two
certificates of such payment, the one of which he sha 1 deliver to the
plaintiff or his attorney and the other to the defendant. For any

efault in making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on
the official bond of the marshal to collect the sum deposited as in other
cases of delinquency.

SEC. 114. If money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections,
bail may be given and justified upon notice, as prescribed in section
one hundred and two, at any time before judgment, and on the filin
of the undertakin and justification with the clerk the money deposite
shall be refunded%)y such clerk to the defendant.

SEC. 115. When money shall have been so deposited, if it remain
on deposit at the time of an order or 'udgment for the payment of
money to the plaintiff, the clerk sha 1, under the direction of the
court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and, after satisfyirig the
judgment, shall refund the su lus, if any, to the defendant. the
judgment be in favor of the de endant, the clerk shall refund to him
the whole sum de osited and remainin unapplied.

SEC. 116. If, a ter being arrested, t e defendant escape or be rescued, or bail be not given or justified, or a deposit be not made instead
thereof the marshal himself shall be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such liability b the givin and justification of
bail, as provided in sections one hun red and eig t, one hundred and

nine, one hundred and ten, and one hundred and eleven, at any time
before process inst the person of the defendant to enforce an order
or 'udgment in e action.

SEC. 117. If a judgment be recovered against the marshal upon his
liability as bail, and an execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, the same [proceedings ma be had on his official bond
for the recovery of the W ole or any de ciency as in other cases of
delinquency.

SEC. 118. The bail taken érpon arrest shall, unless they justify, or
other bail be given or justili , be liable to the marshal by action for
an damages which he may sustain by reason of such omission.

SEC. 119. The fees which shall be allowed to the marshal for the
food and maintenance of any defendant arrested under the ovisions
of this chapter shall be as provided by law, and the lainti shall be
liable in the first instance for such fees, and if require by the marshal,

' shall pay the same weekly in advance; and such fees so paid shall be

added to the disbursements taxed or accruing in the case, and be collected as other disbursements.

SEC. 120. If the plaintiff shall neglect to pay such fees for three days
after a demand of payment the marshal may discharge the defendant
out of custody.

SEC. 121. A defendant arrested may, at any time before judgment,
appl on motion to the court or judge thereof in which the action is
pen ing, upon notice to the plaintiff, to vacate the writ of arrest.

SEC. 122. If a motion be made upon affidavits or other proofs on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may op se the
same by aflidavits or other roofs in addition to those upon W ich the
Writ was issued. If upon t e hearin of such motion it shall satisfactorily appear that there was not s cient cause to allow the writ, or
that there is other good cause which would entitle him to be discharged
on habeas corpus t e same shall be vacated, or in case he has iven bail

the court may discharge the same or reduce the amount thereo on good
cause shown. ~

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

OF THE RECOVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.



. When delivery may be claimed in 129. J ustincation of sureties on defendan action forthe possession of per- ant’s undertaking.
sonal property. . 130. Qualilication and justification of

. Affidavittherefor, whatitmust show. sureties.

. Indorsement thereon, requiring the 131. Power of marshal when property
marshal to take property. concealed in building or inclosure.

. Und  to marshal on the part 132. Property, how kept and when deof plain ' livered to plaintiff.

. Exception to  by defendr 133.  when property claimed
ant, proceedings thereon. _ by third person. _

128. How and when defendant entitled 134. Return of affidavit by marshal.

to redelivery.

SEC. 123. In an action to recover possession of personal property the
plaintiff, at any time after the action is commenced, and before judgment, may claim the immediate delivery of such property, as provided
in this chapter.

SEC. 124. When a delivery is claimed an aflidavit shall be made by
the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing—

Flrst. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof
by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which
shall be set fort ;

Second. That the groperty is wrongfully detained by the defendant;

Third. The allege cause of the detention thereof, according to his
best knowledge, information, and belief; “ '

Fourth. That the same has not been taken for a tax * assessment or
line, pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment
agamst the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by
statute exempt from such seizure; and

Fifth. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 125. The plaintiff may thereupon, by an indorsement in writing

upon the aflidavit, require the marshal to take the property from the '

defendant and deliver it to the plaintiff.

SEC. 126. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and ‘indorsement thereon,‘
with a written undertaking executed by two or more suflicient sureties
approved by the marshal, to the effect that they are bound in double
t e value of the property as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution
of the action for the return of the property to the defendant, if return
thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may
for any cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the marshal shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the possession of the defen ant or his agent, and retain it in his custod . He

shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the a davit,

indorsement thereon, and undertakin , by delivering the same to him
personally, if he can be found, or to is agent from whose possession
the property is taken; or, if neither can be found, by leaving them at
the usual place of abode of either with some person of suitable age and
discretion; or, if neither have an known p ace of abode, by putting
thekrln in the post- oflice directed to t e defendant at the post-oflice nearest
to im.

SEC. 127. The defendant may, within three days after the service of
a copy of the affidavit and undertaking, give notlce to the marshal that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do so, he
shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them. When the
defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner
as upon bail on arrest. And the marshal shall be responsible for the
sufliciency of the sureties until the objection to them 1s either waived,
as above provided, or until the shall justify or new sureties shall be
substituted and justified. If e defendant except to the sureties, he
can not reclaim the property, as provided in the next section.

SEC. 128. At an time before the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff the defen nt may, if he do not except to the sureties of the
plaintiff, require the return thereof upon 'ving to the marshal a written
undertaking, executed by two or more su cient sureties, to be approved
by the marshal, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of
the property as stated in the aflidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery
thereof to the laintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him 0 such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against

the defendant. If a return of the property be not so required within
three days after the taking and service of a copy of the affidavit and
undertakin of a defendant, it shall be delivered to the plaintiff, except
as rovide in section one hundred and thirty-two.

SEC. 129. The defendant’s sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff or
his attorney of not less than two nor more than six days, shall justify
before a judge of the district court or commissioner, or the c erk of
the court in which the action is pending, in the same manner as upon
bail on arrest. U on such justification the marshal shall deliver the

roperty to the de endant. The marshal shall be responsible for the
gefendant’s sureties until they justify, or until justification is completed or expressly waived, and may retain the property until that
time; but if they or others in their place fail to justify at the time
and place appointed, he shall deliver t e property to the plaintiff.

SEC. 130. Qualification of sureties and their justification shall be as
prescribed by sections one hundred and nine and one hundred and ten
1n respect to bail upon an order of arrest.

SEC. 131. If the property or an art thereof be concealed in a
building or inclosure the marshal s al publicly demand its delivery.
If it be not delivered he shall cause the building or inclosure to be
broken open and take the property into his possession, and if necessar he may call to his aid the power of the district.

SEC. 132. When the marshal shall have taken the property as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a secure place and deliver it to
the party entitled thereto u on receiving his lawful fees for taking and
his necessary expenses for eeping the same.

SEC. 133. If t e property taken be claimed by any other person than
the defendant or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title
thereto or his right to the possession thereof, stating the grounds of
such title or right, and serve the same upon the marshal before the
delivery of the property to the plaintiff, the marshal shall not be bound
to keep the property or deliver it to the laintiff unless the laintitf,
on demand of him or his agent, shall in emnify the marsha against
such claim by an undertaking, executed by two sutlicient sureties,
accompanied by their affidavits that they are each worth double the
value of the pro erty as specified in the affidavit of the plaintiff, over
and above their ebts and llabilities, exclusive of property exempt from
execution. And no claim to such property by any other person than
the defendant or his a ent shall be valid against the marshal unless
made as aforesaid; an notwithstanding such claim when so made he
may retain the property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

SEC. 134. The marshal shall file the aiiidavit, with his proceedings
thereon, includin an inventory of the property taken, with the. clerk
of the court in w ich the action is pending within twenty days after
taking the property mentioned therein, or he may mail or forward the
same to the clerk within that time.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.
or ATTACHMENT.

. When laintiff may have property
of de endant attached.

. Writ of attachment, by whom issued, and for what causes.

. Undertaking of plaintiff to be filed
before writ issues.

. How defendant may have an order
for the return of the ro erty.

. Undertaking of the deflendgnt upon
such order.

. When the defendant may move to
discharge the attachment.

. Writ, to whom directed, and what . When writ to be returned.
it shall require. . What order upon garnishee shall re. What property may be attached. quire.

. Writ, ow executed. . When plaintiff may serve interroga. Effect of attachment as to third per- tories on mishee.
sons. . Answer of t e

. When real propert attached, certificate of marsha .

. When third persons must furnish
certificate to marshal.

. Perishable roperty may be sold.

. When mars al may deliver property
to defendant. 1

garnishee.

. Plaintiff may have judgment for
want of answer, or garmshee may

pelled to answer.

. Exceptions to answer. '

. Re ly to answer, and trial of issue.

be com

t ereon. .
. Judgment against the garnishee

148.

. Defense to action upon such undertaking.

. If judgment recovered by plaintiff,

marshal to apply roperty u on
execution, remain er to be de ivered to defendant.
If judgment not recovered by plainupon answer or trial.

. Execution against garnishee, witnesses on trial.

. When restraining order may be allowed against garnishee.

. What proceedings known as provisional remedies.

tiff, property to be returned to
defendant.

SEC. 135. The plaintiff, at the time of issuin the summpns, or at
any time afterwards, may have the property of t e defendant attached
as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered,
unless the defendant give security to pay such judgment, as in this
cha ter provided, in t e following cases:

irst. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, for the direct
payment of money, and which is not secured by mort age, lien, or
pledge u 11 real or personal property, or, if so secure , when such
security as been rendered nugatory by the act of the defendant.

Second-. In an action upon a contract, express or implied, against a
defendant not residin in the district. ’ ,

SEC. 136. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the
court in which the action is pending, whenever the plaintiff or anyone
in his behalf shall make and file an affidavit showingFirst. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff (specifying the
amount of such indebtedness over and above all egal set-o s or counterclaims) upon a contract, expressed or implied, for the direct payment
of money, and that the payment of the same has not been secured by
an mortga e, lien, or pledge upon real or personal property; and

cond. Cghat the sum for which the attachment is asked is an actual,
bona fide, existin debt, due and owing from the defendant to the
plaintiff, and that t e attachment is not sought nor the action prosecuted
to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the defendant.

SEC. 137. Upon filing the affidavit with the clerk, the plaintiff shall
be entitled to ave the writ issued as soon thereafter as he shall file
with the clerk his undertaking, with one or more sureties, in a sum not
less than one hundred dollars, and equal to the amount for which the
plaintiff demands judgment, and to the effect that the plaintiff will pay

all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages that
he may'sustain by reason 0 the attachment if the same be Wrongful or
without suiiicient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. With the undertakin the plaintiff shall also file the affidavits
of the sureties, from which a davits it must appear that such sureties
are qualified, and that, taken to ether, the are worth double the
amount of the sum specified in t e underta 'ng, over all debts and
liabilities and pro erty exempt from execution. No person not qualified to become bai upon an arrest is qualified to become surety in an
undertaking for an attachment.

SEC. 138. The writ shall be directed to the marshal, and shall require
him to attach and safely keep all the property of such defendant not
exempt from execution, or so much thereof as ma be suflicient to
satisfy the plaintiii"s demand, the amount of which s all be stated in
conformity with the complaint, together with costs and expenses.
Several writs may be issued at the same time for delivery to different
de uty marshals.

SEC. 139. The rights or shares which such defendant may have in
the stock of any association or corporation, together with the interest
and profits thereon, and all other pro erty in the district of such
defendant not exempt from execution, s all be liable to be attached.
The marshal shall note upon the Writ the date of its delivery to him,
and shall make a full inventory of the property attached, and return

A the same with the writ.

SEC. 140. The marshal or de uty marshal to Whom the Writ is delivered shall execute the same Wit out delay, as follows:

First. Real roperty shall be attached by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or if t ere be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a
co y of the writ certified by the marshal.

cond. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the marshal, and not in the possession of a third person, shall be attached by
taking it into his custody. .

Third. Other personal property shall be attached by leaving a certified copy of the Writ, and a notice specifying the ro erty attached,
with the rson having possession of the same, or if) it e a debt, then
with the ebtor, or if it be rights or shares in the stock of an association or corporation, or interest or profits thereof, then with such person or officer of such association or corporation as this code authorizes
a summons to be served upon.

SEC. 141. From the date of the attachment until it be discharged or
the Writ executed, the plaintiff as against third persons shall be deemed
a purchaser in good faith and for a valuable consideration of the property, real or personal, attached, subject to the conditions prescribed in
the next section as to real roperty. Any person, association, or corporation mentioned in su ivision three of the section last preceding,

rom the service of a copy of the Writ and notice as therein provide ,

shall, unless such property, stock, or debts be delivered, transferred,

or paid to the marshal, be liable to the plaintiff for the amount thereof

until the attachment be discharged or any judgment recovered by him
be satisfied. >

SEC. 142. If real property be attached, the marshal shall make a
certificate containing the title of the cause, the names of the parties, a
description of such real property, and a statement that the same has
been attached at the action of the plaintiff, and the date thereof.
Within ten days from the date of the attachment, the marshal shall

deliver such certificate to the commissioner as ex oflicio recorder of
the recording district in which such real pro erty is situated, who shall
file the same in his oiiice and record it in a ok to be kept for that
pu se. When such certificate is so filed for record the l1en in favor
of e laintiff shall attach to the real ropert described in the certiticate rom the date of the attachment, ut if ed afterwards it shall
only attach, as against third persons, from the date of such subsequent
filing. Whenever such lien shall be discharged it shall be the duty of
the commissioner as ex oflicio recorder, when re uested, to record the
transcript of any order, entry of satisfaction of ju ent, or other proceeding of record whereby it appears that such lien as been discharged
in the book mentioned in this section. The commissioner shall also
enter on the margin of the pa e on which the certificate is recorded a
minute of the discharge, and t e page and book where recorded.

SEC. 143. Whenever the marshal, with a writ of attachment against
the defendant, shall apply to any eperson or officer mentioned in subdivision three of section one hundr and forty for the purpose of attaching any property mentioned therein, such person or officer shall furnish
him wit a certificate designating the amount and description of any

property in his ssession belonging to the defendant, or any debt
owing to the de endant, or the number of rights or shares of the
defendant in the stock of the association or corporation, with any interest or profits or encumbrance thereon. If such person or officer refuse
to do so, or if the certificate when given be unsatisfactor to the plaintiff, he may be required by the court, or judge thereof, w ere the action a
is pending to appear before him and be examined on oath concerning

the same, and sobedience to such order may be punished as contem t.

SEC. 144. If any of the property attached be perishable, the mars al
shall sell the same in the manner in which property is sold on execution. The roceeds thereof and other property attached shall be
retained by im to answer any judgment t at may be recovered in the
action, un ess sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment.
Personal property mentioned in subdivision three of section one hundred and forty may be delivered, transferred or paid to the marshal
without an action, and his receipt therefor shall be a sufficient discharge
accordingly.

SEC. 145. The marshal may deliver an of the property attached to
the defendant, or to any other person c aiming it,'upon his giving a
written undertaking therefor, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, engaging to redeliver it or pay the value thereof to the marshal,
to whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintiff in that
action may be issued. ,

SEC. 146. If an action be brought upon such undertaking against
the principal or his sureties, it sha 1 be a defense that the property for
which the undertaking was given did not, at the execution of the writ
of attachment, belong to the defendant against whom it was issued.

SEC. 147. If judgment be recovered by the laintiif, and it shall
appear that the pro erty has been attached in t e action and has not
been sold as risha le propert or discharged from the attachment as
provided by YEW, the court shal order and adjudge the property to be
sold to satisfy the plainti1l"s demands, and if execution issue thereon,
the marshal shall apply the pro rty attached by him, or the proceeds
thereof, upon the execution,'an if there be any such property or proceeds remaining after satisfying such execution, he sha 1, upon demand,
deliver the same to the defendant.

SEC. 148. If judgment be not recovered by the plaintiff, all the
ropert attached, or the proceeds thereof, or the undertakin thereor sha 1 be returned to the defendant upon his serving upon e mar‘ sha a certified copy of the order dischar ing the attachment.

SEC. 149. Whenever the defendant sha have appeared in the action
he may apply upon notice to the plaintiff to the court or judge where
the action 1s pending, or to the clerk of such court, for an order to
discharge the attachment upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the. next section; and if the application be allowed, all the

roceeds of sales of pro ert remaining 1n his hands shall be released
from the attachment an de ivered to the defendant upon his serving
a certified cc of the order on the marshal.

SEC. 150. pon such application the defendant shall deliver to the

court or judge to whom the application is made an undertaking executed

one or more sureties, to the effect that the sureties will pa * to the
p aintiff the amount of the jud ment that may be recovere against
the defendant in the action. 1% the plaintiff demand it, the sureties
shall be required to justify in the same manner as bail upon an arrest.

SEC. 151. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, except
where the cause of attachment and the cause of action are the same,
apply to the court or judge thereof where the action is pending, to
discharge the attachment, 1n the manner and with the effect as rovided
in sections one hundred and twenty-one and one hundred an twentytwo for the discharge of a defendant from arrest.

SEC. 152. When the writ of. attachment shall be fully executed or

‘dischar ed, the marshal shall return the same, with his proceedings

indorse thereon, to the clerk of- the court where the action was
commenced.

SEC. 153. The order provided for in section one hundred and fortytwo shall require such person or oflicer to ap car before such court or
judge at a time and place therein stated. E1 the proceedings thereafter upon such order such person or association or corporation shall
be known as the garnishee.

SEC. 154. After the allowance of the order and before such garnishee
or officer thereof shall be thereb required to appear, or within a time
to be specified in the order, the p aintiff may serve upon such rnishee
or oiiicer thereof written alle tions and interrogatories touc ing any
of the property liable to attac ment as the pro erty of the defendant
as provided in subdivision three of section one undred and forty, and
to which such garnishee or oflicer thereof is required to give a certificate as provided in section one hundred and forty-three.

SEC. 155. On the day when the garnishee or officer thereof shall be

required to appear before the court or judge thereof, he shall return the allegations and interrogatories of the plaintiff to the court or
jud e, with his written answer thereto, unless for good cause shown a
furt er time be allowed. Such answer shall be on oath, and shall contain a full and direct response to all the allegations and interrogatories.

SEC. 156. If the garnishee or oflicer thereof fail to answer, the
court or judge thereof, on motion of the plaintiff, may compel him to
do so, or the plaintiff may, at any time after the entry of judgment
against the defendant in the action, have jud ment against the garnishee for want of such answer. In no case s all judgment be given

against the garnishee for a greater amount than the judgment against
t e defendant in the action.

SEC. 157. The plaintiff may except to the answer of the garnishee or

officer thereof for insufficiency, within such time as may be prescribed
or allowed, and if the same be adjudged insuflicient, such garnishee or

oflicer may be allowed to amend his answer on such terms as may be

proper, or judgment may be given for the plaintiff as for want of
answer, or such garnishee or officer may be compelled to give a suffi-cient answer.

SEC. 158. The plaintiff may reply to the whole or part of the answer
within such time as may be prescribed or allowed, and the issues arising
thereon shall be tried as ordinary issues of fact between plaintiff and
defendant. If the answer be not excepted or replied to within the
time prescribed or allowed, it shall be taken to be true and sufficient.
SEC. 159. If by the answer it shall appear, or if upon trial it shall be found, that the garnishee, at the time of the service upon him or the officer thereof of the copy of the writ of attachment and notice, had any property of the defendant's liable to attachment as provided
in subdivision three of section one hundred and forty and as to which
such rnishee or oflicer thereof is required to give a certificate as
provi ed in section one hundred and forty-three beyond the amount
admitted_in the certificate, or in any amount if the certificate was
refused, judgment ma be given against such garnishee for the value
thereof in money. he garnishee may at any time before judgment
discklliarge hilmlself by delivering, paying, or transferring the property
to t e mars a .

SEC. 160. Executions may issue upon judgments a inst a garnishee
as upon ordinary j ud ments between plaintiff and de endant, and costs
and disbursements s all be allowed and recovered in like manner.
Witnesses, inclgding the defeandantfgirnd garnisltiee or ogcer thereof,
may be require to appear an test’ upon suc procee 'ng against a
garnishee, as upon the trial of an issue of fact.

SEC. 161. The court or judge thereof in its discretion may, at the
time of the application of the plaintiff for the order provided for in section one hundred and forty-t ree and at any time thereafter before
judgment against the garnishee, by order restrain the garnishee from
paying, transferring, or in any manner disposing of or injuring any of the property of the defendant, alleged by the plaintiff to be in the garnishee's possession, control, or owing by him to the defendant, and disobedience to such order may be punished as a contempt.

SEC. 162. The pr_oce_edin s rovi ed for in chapters twelve, thirteen,
and fourteen of this title shall be known as provisional remedies.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

OF ISSUES AND THE MODE OF TRIAL.


163. The different kinds of issues. 167. Trial defined.
164. Issue of law. 168. Issues, how tried.
165. Issue of fact. 169. Motion to postpone trial on account
166. When both issue of law and fact of absent evidence.
arise, issue of law to be first tried.

S130. 163. Issues arise upon the pleadin s when a fact or conclusion
of law is maintained by the one party an controverted by the other.

They are of two kinds-—
First. Of law; and,
Second. Of fact.

SEC. 164. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer, or re 1y, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 165. An issue of fact arises-—

First. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by
the answer or, '

Second. llpon new matter in the answer controverted by the reply;

or
Third. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of law is
joined thereon.
SEC. 166. Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different parts
of the pleadings in the same action. In such cases the issues of law
shall be first tried, unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. 167. A trial is the judicial examination of the issues between
the’ parties, whether they be issues of law or of fact.

SEC. 168. An issue of law shall be tried b the court unless referred
as provided in cha ter twenty. An issue 0 fact shall be tried by a
jury, unlessdtried %y the court or referred as provided in chapters
nineteen an twen .

SEC. 169. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence
of evidence shall only be made upon aflidavit showing the materiality
of the evidence ex ted to be obtained, and a statement of facts
showing that due ‘d’ i ence has been used to procure it, and also the
name and residence o the witness or witnesses. The court may also
require the moving part to state upon aiiidaviith the eviderilce whlilch
he expects to obtain an if t e adverse party ereupon a mit t at
such evidence would, be given, and that it be considered as actual]
given on the trial, 01‘1?&eI‘ed andhoverrullfd as improper, the trial sha 1
not be post ned. T e court w en it a ows the motion, may impose
such conditfgns or terms upon, the moving party as may be just.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

OF THE FORMATION OF THE JURY.


170. Trial jurors, how selected. 180. Number of challenges.

171. Formation of jury. 181. First challenge taken by defendant;
172. No challenge to anel. when taken. '

173. Peremptory ch enge defined. 182. Order of taking challenges.
174. Challenge for cause defined. 183. Trial of challenge.

175. General causes of challenge. 184. Proceedings in evidence on trial of
176. Particular causes of challenge. challenge.

177. Challenge for implied bias. 185. Challenge may be oral.

178. Challenge for actual bias. 186. Oath of jury.

179. Exemption from service on jury.

SEC. 170. Jurors for the trial of issues of fact in the district of
Alaska shall be selected and summoned in the manner prescribed by
the laws of the United States with res ct to jurors of the United
States district and circuit courts, and sha have the same qualifications
and be entitled to the same exem tions as are provided by law in the
case of grand juries to serve in tlhe district, it being the true intent
and meaning of this section that but one jury shall be summoned for the
trial of all actions, civil and criminal, triable by the district court of
the district. '

SEC. 171. Trial juries in civil actions shall be formed as follows:
When the action is called for trial, the clerk shall draw from the trial

jury box of the court, one by one, the ballots containing the names of
the jurors until the jury is completed or the ballots are exhausted. If
the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, the marshal,

under the direction of the court, shall summon from the bystanders .

or the body of the district, as the court may direct, so many qualiiie
persons as may be necessary to complete the jury. Whenever, as in
this section provided, the marshal shall summon more than one person
at a time from the bystanders or the body of the district, he shall
return a list of the persons so summoned to the clerk. The clerk shall
write the. names of such ersons upon separate ballots, and deposit
the same in the trial jury ox, and then draw such ballots therefrom,
as in the case of the panel of trial jurors for the term. The jury
shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to a less
number. Such ‘consent shall be entered in the journal: Provided,
That hereafter in trials for misdemeanors six persons shall constitute
a legal jury.

SEC. 172. No challenge shall be made or allowed to the panel. A
challenge is an objection to a particular juror, and may be e1ther—

First. Peremptory; or,

Second. For cause.

SEC. 173. A perem tory challenge is an objection to a juror for

which no reason need glven, but upon which the court shall exclude

him.

SEC. 174. A challenge for cause is an objection to a juror, and may
be eitherFirst. General—that the juror is disqualified from serving in any
action; or,

Second. Particular—that he is - disqualified from serving in the
action on trial. 1

SEC. 175. General causes of challenge areFirst. A conviction for felony; :
. Second. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by law for a
]l1l‘O1‘;

Third. Unsoundness of mind, or such defect in the faculties of the
mind or organs of the body as renders him incapable of performing
the duties of a juror. _

SEC. 176. Particular causes of challenge are of two kinds:

First. For such bias as, when the existence of the facts is ascertained, in judgment of law disqualihes the juror, and which is known
in this title as implied bias;

Second. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of a juror

in reference to the action, or to either party, which satisfies the trier,
in the exercise of a sound discretion, that he can not try the issue
impartially and without prejudice to the substantial ri hts of the party
challenging, and which 1s known in this title as actua bias.

SEC. 177. A challenge for implied bias may be taken for any or all
of the following causes, and no other: .

First. Consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree to either
party; —

Second. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, attorney and
client, master and servant, or landlord and tenant to the adverse party;
or being a member of the family of, or a partner in business with, or
in the employment for wages of the adverse party; or being surety or
bail in the action called for trial, or otherwise, for the adverse party;

Third. Having served as a juror on a previous trial in the same

action, or in another action between the same parties for the same
cause of action, or in a criminal action against either party upon substantiall the same facts or transaction; .

Fourt . Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action
on the princi 1 question involved therein.

SEC. 178. challen e for actual bias may be taken for the cause
mentionedin the secon subdivision of section one hundred and seventysix. But on the trial of such challenge, althoggh it should appear that
the juror challenged has formed or express an opinion upon the
merits of the cause from what he may have heard or read, such opinion
shall not of itself be sufficient to sustain the challenge, but the court
must be satisfied from all the circumstances that the juror can not disre rd such opinion and try the issue impartially.

SEC. 179. An exemption from service on a jury shall not be cause
of challenge, but the privile e of the person exempted.

SEC. 180. A perempto c allenge or a challenge for cause may be
taken by either arty. When there are two or more parties, plaintiffs
or defendants, they must join in the challenge or it can not be taken.
Either party shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges and no
more.

SEC. 181. The defendant first and afterwards the plaintiff shall
challenge for cause, and when a challenge has been sustained the
vacancy shall be filled before further challenge is made, and any new
juror may at any time be challenged for cause by either party to the
action. Vhen the panel is full, tlme defendant shall have one peremp.V

tory challenge, followed by one by the plaintiff and so on alternate
until each side has exhausted its right to such challenge.

SEC. 182. The challenges of either party shall be taken separately,
in the following order, including in each challenge all the causes of
challenge belonging to the same class:

First. For general disqualification;

Second. For implied bias;

Third. For actual bias; .

Fourth. Peremptory; but either party may take peremptory challenge at any time before his right of challenge ceases.

SEC. 183. The challenge may be excepted to by the adverse party
for insufliciency; and if so, the court shall determine the sufliclency
thereof, assuming the facts alleged therein to be true. The challen e

may be denied by the adverse party; and if so, the court shall try t e
issue and determine the law and the fact. '

SEC. 184. Upon the trial of a challen e the rules of evidence ap licable to testimony offered u on the tria of an ordinary issue of fact
shall govern. The juror c allenged, or any other person otherwise
competent, may be examined as a witness by either party. If a challenge be determined to be suflicient, or found to be true, as the case
may be, it shall be allowed, and the juror to whom it was taken
excluded; but if determined or found otherwise it shall be disallowed.

SEC. 185. The challenge, the exce tion, and the denial may be made
orally. The judge of the court sha note the same upon his minutes,
and the substance of the testimony on either side.

SEC. 186. As soon as the number of the jury has been completed an
oath or affirmation shall be administered to the jurors in substance
that they and each of them will well and truly try the matter in issue
between the plaintiff and the defendant, and a true verdict give according to the law and evidence as given them on the trial.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

CONDUCT OF THE TRIAL BY JURY.



. Order of proceedin on the trial. 197. When new trial may be had if jury
. When a view may ordered. discharged.
. Manner of kee ing jury. 198. Court deemed o 11 until jury gives
. When juror en sick, how to pro- verdict or is dlifcharged.
ceed. 199. If juror absent when jury return,
. The charge to the Eilry. jury to be discharged.
. How jury kept w 'le deliberating; 200. Manner of giving verdict.
omcer to be sworn. 201. Jury may be polled, or insufficient
. Food and lodging of jurors. verdict corrected.
194. What papers jury may take. 202. When verdict complete and jury dis. When jury may return for informa- charged, verdict to be in writing

tion. and entered on the journal.
196. When jury may be discharged without giving verdict.

SEC. 187. When the jury has been completed and sworn, the trial
shall proceed in the order prescribed in this section, unless the court
for special reasons otherwise direct.

First. The plaintiff shall state briefly his cause of action and the issue
to be tried; the defendant shall then in like manner state his defense or
counterclaim.

Second. The plaintiff shall then introduce the evidence on his part,
and when he has concluded the defendant shall do the same.

Third. The rties may then respectively introduce rebutting evidence only, un ess the court, for good reason, and in furtherance of
justice, ermit them to introduce evidence upon the original cause of
action, efense, or counterclaim. Fourth. Not more than two counsel shall be allowed to address the
'ury on behalf of the plaintiff or defendant unless otherwise allowed

y the court; and the court may limit the time to be consumed by
counsel in arguing the cause to the ju . 8

Fifth. When the evidence is conclu ed, unless the case is submitted
to the ju on both sides without argument, the plaintiff shall commence an conclude the ar ment to the jur . If the plaintiff waive
the opening argument, an the defendant t en argue the case to the
jury, the aintiff shall not be permitted to reply to the argument of
the defen ant.

Sixth. The court shall then charge the jury, and if either party
require it, and shall at the commencement of the trial give notice of
his intention so to do, the charge of the court, so far as it relates to
the law and the facts of the case, shall be reduced to writing and given
to the jury by the court as written, Without any oral explanation.
The charge, W en reduced to Writing, must be hled with the clerk.

SEC. 188. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is roper that
the jury should have a View of real property which is the su ject of the
liti tion, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may
ord%!j' the jury to be conducted in a body, in the custody of a proper

oilicer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by the judge, or by
a person appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury
are thus absent no person shall speak to them on any subject connected
With the trial.

SEC. 189. The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper

officer, or may, in the discretion of the court, at any time before the
submission of the cause to them, be permitted to se rate; in either
case they may be admonished by the court that it is t eir duty not to
converse with an other person, or among themselves, on any subject
connected with the trial, or to express any opinion thereon, until the
case is finally submitted to them.

SEC. 190. If, after the formation of the jury, and before verdict, a
juror becomes sick, so as to be unable to perform his duty, the court
may order him to be discharged. In that case, unless the parties agree
to proceed with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn. and the
trial may begin anew; or the jury may be discharged, as the court
shall direct, and a new jur then or afterwards formed.

SEC. 191. In charging the jury the court shall state to them all matters of law which it thinks necessary for their information in giving
their verdict, but it shall not resent the facts of the case, but sha
ifnform the jury that they are t e exclusive judges of all questions of

act.

SEC. 192. After hearing the charge the I£'ury may either decide in
the jury box or retire for deliberation. they retire they must be
kept together in a room provided for them, or some other convenient
place, under the charge of one or more oiiicers, until they agree upon

their verdict or are discharged by the court. The oflicer shall, to the utmost of his ability, keep the jury thus together separate from other
persons, without drink, except water, and without food, except ordered

y the court. He must not suffer any communication to be made to
them, nor make any himself unless by the order of the court, exceptto
ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, and he shall not,
before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of
their deliberation or the verdict a reed on. Before any ofiicer takes
charge of a jury this section shall e read to him, and he shall be then
sworn to conduct himself according to its provisions, to the utmost of

- his ability.

SEC. 193. If while the jury are kept together, either during the
progress of the trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the
court order them to be provided with suitable and sufficient food and
lodging, the shall be so provided by the marshal, at the expense of
the United tates.

SEC. 194. Upon retiring for deliberation the Lury may take with
them the pleadings in the cause, and all papers whic have been received
as evidence on the trial (except depositions, or copies of such parts of
public records or private documents given in evidence as ought not, in
the opinion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in
possession). They ma also take with them notes of the testimony or
other proceedings on e trial taken by themselves, or any of them,
but none taken y any.other person.

SEC. 195. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if they desire
to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, they may
require the oiiicer having them in charge to conduct them into court.

t

Upon their being brou into court the instruction required shall be

given by the court in t e presence of or after notice to the parties or

their attorne s.

SEC. 196. xcept as provided in sections one hundred and ninety and
one hundred and ninet -nine of this title, or in case of some accident
or calamity requiring their discharge, the jury shall not be discharged

after the cause is submitted to them until they have a reed upon a
verdict and given it in open court, unless by the consent o% both parties
entered in the journal, or unless at the expiration of such period as the
court deem proper it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability
of an agreement.

SEC. 197. In all cases where a jury are discharged or prevented from
giving a verdict by reason of accident or other cause during the progress of the trial. or after the cause is submitted to them, the action
may be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the court

directs. .

SEC. 198. While the jury are absent the court may adjourn from
time to time, in respect to other business, but it is nevertheless to be
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause submitted to
the jury until a verdict is rendered or the jury discharged. A final
adjournment of the court discharges the jury.

SEC. 199. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict they shall
be conducted into court by the ofiicer having them in charge. Their
names shall then be called, and if all do not appear the rest shall be
discharged Without giving a verdict.

SEC. 200. If the jury appear, they shall be asked by the court or
the clerk whether they have agreed ‘upon their verdict; and if the
foreman answer in the affirmative, he shall, on being required, declare
the same.

SEC. 201. When a verdict is iven and before it is filed, the jur
ma be polled on the request 0 either party, for which purpose eac
sh be asked Whether it be his verdict; if any (juror answer in the
negative, the jury shall be sent out for further eliberation. If the
verdict be informal or insufficient, it may be corrected by the jury
under the advice of the court, or the jury may again be sent out.

SEC. 202. When the verdict is given, and is such as the court may
receive, and if no juror disagree or the jury be not again sent out, the
clerk shall hle the verdict. The verdict is then comp ete, and the jury
shall be dischar ed from the case. The verdict shall be in Writing,
and under the irection of the court shall be substantially entered in
the journal as of the day’s proceedings on which it was given.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

OF THE VERDICT.



203. Dehnition of verdict general or spe- 206. S ial verdict to control genera].
cial. 207. hen counterclaim pleaded in the

204. In actions for the recovery of specific answer. ‘

rsonal property.

205. en jury may give general or

special verdict.

SEC. 203. The verdict of a jury is either general or special. A eneral verdict is that by which the jury pronounce generally upon a or
any of the issues, either in favor of the lplllaintiif or defendant. A
s ial verdict is that by which the jury d the facts only, leaving
t e judgment to the court.

SEC. 204. In an action for the recovery of specific rsonal roperty,
if the property have not been delivered to the plainti , or the efendant

by his answer claim a. return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of
the property, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or if they
find 1n favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return thereof,
and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the
complaint or answer, which the prevailin party has sustained by reason of the detention or takin and Withho dlng such property.

SEC. 205. In every action or the recovery of money only or specific
real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or
special verdict. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to find
a special verdict u on all or any of the issues; and in all cases may
instruct them, if t ey render a. general verdict, to find upon particular
questions of fact, to be stated in writing. The special verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk and entered in the journal, as provided
in chapter seventeen.

SEC. 206. When a special finding of facts shall be inconsistent with
the eneral verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court
shal give jud ment accordingly.

SEC. 207. Vghen a verdict 1s found for the plaintiff in an action for
the recovery of money, or for the defendant when a. counterclaim for
the recovery of money is established beyond the amount of the plaintiff’s claim as established, the jury shall also assess the amount of recovery; they may also, under the direction of the court, assess the amount
of the recovery when the court gives judgment for the plaintiff on the
answer.

CHAPTER N INETEEN.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.



208. Trial by ju , how waived. 210. Order of proceedings, and effect of
209. Decisions 0 the court, how made nnding. .
and when filed.

SEC. 208. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an
issue of fact, in actions on contract, and with the assent of the court
in other actions, in the manner followin :

First. By failing to appear at the trial,

lS<1a{cond. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the
c er ;

Third. By oral consent in open court, entered in the minutes.

SEC. 209. Upon the trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decision
shall be given 1n writing and filed with the clerk during the term or
within twenty days thereafter. The decision shall state the facts found
and the conclusion of law separately, without argument or reason
therefor. Such decision shall be entered in the °ournal and judgment
entered thereon accordingly. The court may eliver any ‘argument
or reason in support of such decision, either orally or in writing,
se arate frorgqthe dgcisicén, and file the same with the clerk.

SEC. 210. e or er 0 roceedin s on a trial b the court shall be
the same as ]provided in trials by jug. The finding‘ of the court upon
the fact sha be deemed a verdict, and may be set aside in the same

manneg and for the same reasons, as far as applicable, and a new trial
grante .

CHAPTER TWENTY.

TRlAL BY REFEREES.


211. The trial of any issue may be re- 216. Proceedings sameasintrialbycourt.
ferred by consent. 217. What report to contain; evidence
212. When reference may be ordered by to accompany it.
the court. 218. Motion to set aside report or for
213. Number of referees, and how chosen. judgment thereon.
214. Whetn chosen by the court, qua1if1- 219. Proceedings thereon.
ca 10118 0 . - 1

215. Right and mode of challenge to
referees when chosen by the court.

SEC. 211. All or any of the issuesoin the action, whether of fact or
law, or both, may be referred to a referee or referees'upon the Written
consent of the arties.

SEC. 212. When the parties do not consent in an action at issue and
to be tried by the court without a jury, the court may, upon the
ap lication of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in the
fo owin cases: '

First. hen the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of a long account on either side, in which case the referees may
be directed to hear and decide the Whole issue or to report upon any
specific uestion of fact involved therein; or

Secon . When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the
information of the court, before judgment upon an issue of law, or for
carryin a °udgment or order into effect; or, _

Thir . V hen a question of fact other than upon the pleadings shall

‘ arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any sta e of the action; or,

' Fourth. When it is necessary for the in ormation of the court in a

special proceeding.
SEC. 213. A re erence may be ordered to any erson or persons, not
exceeding three, agreed upon by the parties. the parties do not

agree, the court or judge may appoint one or more, not exceeding
t ree.

SEC. 214. When the appointment of referees is made by the court or
judge, each referee shall be-
First. Qualified as a juror as provided by statute.

Second. Competent as a juror between t e_ parties: Provided, That
in a reference to take and report testimony only, the same may be
made to] ziiny competent disinterested person, regardless of the foregoin quai cations.

SEC. 215. When the referees are chosen by the court each party shall

have the same right of challenge as to such referees, to be made and '

determined in the same manner and with like effect as in the formation
of juries, except that neither party shall be entitled to a peremptory
challenge.

SEC. 216. Subject to the limitations and directions prescribed ‘in the
order of reference, the trial by referee shall be conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same ower to
grant adjournments, administer oaths, to preserve order, an e to pun1sh all violations thereof upon such trial, and to compel the attendance
of Witnesses and to punish them for nonattendance or refusal to be
sworn or testify, as 1s possessed by the court.


SEC. 217. The report of the referee shall state the facts found, and
when the order of reference includes an issue of law it shall state the
conclusions of law separately from the facts. The referees shall file
with their report the evidence received upon the trial. If evidence
offered by either party shall not be admitted on the trial, and the party
oiferin the same except to the decision rejecting such evidence at the

%e exception shall be noted by the referees, and they shall take
and receive such testimony and die it with the re ort. Whatever
judgment the court may give upon the report, it sha , when it appears
that such evidence was fI'1V0lO11S or inadmissible, require the arty at
Whose instance it was taken and reported to pay all costs and ' bursements therebv incurred.

SEC. 218. The report shall be filed with the clerk. If it be nled in
term time, either party may, within such time as may be prescribed
by the rules of the court, or by special order, move to set the same
aside or for judgment thereon, or such order or proceedings as the
nature of the case may require. If the report be filed in vacation, the
like proceedin s may be had at the next term following.

SEC. 219. Tge court may aflirm or set aside the report either in
whole or in part. If it aflirm the report, it shall give judgment
accordingly. If the report be set aside either in whole or in part, the
court may make another order of reference as to all or so much of the
report as is set aside to the original referees or others, or it may find
the facts and determine the law itself and give judgment accordin ly.
Upon a motion to set aside a report, the conclusions thereof shal be
deemed and considered as the verdict of a jury.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE.

OF EXCEPTIONS.



220. Dednition of exception; must be 223. To be signed by the judge and nled.

material. When exceptions need notbetaken
221. Exceptions, how stated and settled. or allowed.

222. No particular form required. 224. What deemed excepted to.

SEC. 220. An exception is an objection taken at the trial to a decision u on a matter of law, Whether such trial be by jury or court,
and W ether the decision. be made durin the formation of a jury, or
in the admission of evidence, or in the c arge to the jury, or at any
other time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of
the verdict or decision. But no exception shall be regarded on a
motion for a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception be
material and affect the substantial rights of the parties.

SEC. 221. The point of the exce tion shall be particularly stated, and
may be delivered, in writing, to t e judge or entered in his minutes,
and at the time or afterwards be corrected until made conformable to
the truth.

SEC. 222. No particular form of exception shall be required. The
objection shall be stated with so much of the evidence or other matter
as is necessary to explain it, but no more.

SEC. 223. The statement of the exception, when settled and allowed,
shall be signed by the judge and nled with the clerk, and thereafter it
shall be deemed and taken to be a"part of the record of the cause. N o

exception need be taken or allowed to any decision u n a matter of
law when the same is entered in the journal or ma e wholly upon
matters in writing and on nle in the court.

SEC. 224. The verdict of the jury, any order or decision, partially
or finally determining the rights of the parties, or any of them, or
affecting the pleadings, or rantin or refusing a continuance, or ranting or refusing a new tria , or a itting or rejecting the evi ence,
provided objection be made to its admission or rejection at the time of
1ts offer, or made upon ex parte application or in the absence of a
party, are deemed excepted to without the exception being taken or
stated, or entered in the journal.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO.

OF NEW TRIAL.



225. Definition of new trial. 229. Motion must state grounds thereof;

226. New trial, for what causes anted. when supported by affidavit.

227. Motioiéd for, when filed an deter- 230. When counter affidavits allowed.
mm . v

228. Upon trial by the court and decision
in vacation.

SEC. 225. A new trial is a reexamination of an issue of fact in the
same court after a trial and decision or verdict by a court or jury.

SEC. 226. The former verdict or other decision may be set aside and
a new trial granted, on the motion of the party aggrieved, for any of
the following causes materially affecting the substantial rights of such

rty:
paFirst. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse
party, or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion by which such
party was revented from having a fair trial;

Second. isconduct of the jury or prevailing party;

Third. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against;

Fourth. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making
the application, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced at the trial;

Fifth. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or pre°udice;

Sixth. Insufhciency of-.t e evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, or that it is against law;

Seventh. Error in law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the
party making the application.

SEC. 227 . A motion for a new trial, with the afhdavits, if any, in
support thereof, shall, except as hereinafter rovided, be filed within
three days after giving the verdict or other ecision sought to be set
aside; but the court may, u on satisfactory showing, extend the time
for filing such affidavits. hen the adverse art is entitled to op ose
the motion by counter aflidavits, he shall le t e same within t ree
days after the filing of the motion. A motion shall be heard and
determined during the term unless the court continue the same for
a’dvisement or want of time to hear it.

SEC. 228. Upon a trial by the court, when the decision is given in
vacation, a motion for a new trial shall be filed within twenty days

from the time of filing such decision, except as hereinbefore rovided.

SEC. 229. In all cases of motion for a new trial the groun thereof
shall be lainly speciiied, and no cause of new trial not so stated shall
be consi ered or regarded by the court. VVhen the motion is made for
a cause mentioned in subdivisions one, two, three, or four of section
two hundred and twenty-six, it shall be upon aflidavits setting forth the
facts upon which such motion is based, unless they appear of record
in the cause.

SEC. 230. If the motion be supported by affidavits, counter aiiidavits
may be offered by the adverse rty; and if the cause be newly discovered evidence, the affidavits 0 any witness or witnesses showing what
their testimony will be shall be produced or good reason shown for
their nonproduction; and in the consideration of any motion for a new
trial reference may be had to any proceedings in the case prior to the
verdict or other decision sought to be set aside.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE.

OF GENERAL PROVISIONS.

Soc. Sec

231. Questions of law and fact, how sub- 23. Questions of law and what of fact to
‘ mitted and when. be decided by the court.
232. Questions of fact to be decided by

the jury.

SEC. 231. Any party may, when the evidence is closed, submit in
distinct and CODCISB propositions the conclusions of fact which he
claims to beestablished or the conclusions of law which he desires to
be adjudged, or both. They may be written and handed to the court,
or, at the option of the court, oral, and entered in the judge’s minutes.

SEC. 232. All ‘uestions of fact other than those mentioned in section two hundre and thirty-three shall be decided by the jury, and all
evidence thereon addressed to them. '

SEC. 233. All questions of law, including the admissibility of testimony, the facts preliminary to such admission, and the construction
of statutes and other writin s and other rules of evidence, are to be
decided by the court, and al discussions of law addressed to it; and
whenever the knowledge of the court is by this code made evidence of
a fact, the court is to declare such knowledge to the jury, who are
bound to accept it as conclusive.

CHAPTER TWENTY-‘FOUR.

OF JUDGMENT IN GENERAL."

Sec. Sec.

234. Definition of judgment. .. 236. When judgment may be given

235. Judgment may be given for or against one or more defendants

against any of the parties. and action remain pending as to
others.

SEC. 234. A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the
parties in the action. ‘
SEC. 235. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants;

and it may, when the justice of the case requires it, determine the
ultimate rights of the parties on each side as between themselves.
SEC. 236. In an action against several defendants, the court may, in

. its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, whenever

a several judgment is proper, leaving the action to proceed against the
others.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE.

OF JUDGMENT OF NONSUIT.



237. When judgment of nonsuit’ may be 239. Effect of judgment of nonsuit.
ven.

238. W at is a cause not sufficient to be
submitted to the jury.

SEC. 237 . A judgment of nonsuit may be given against the plaintiE
as rovided in this chapter— ‘
'rst. On motion of the laintiif, at any time before trial, unless a
counterclaim has been plea ed as a defense; ”
Second. On motion of either party, upon the written consent of the

. other filed with the clerkThird. On motion of the defendant, when the action is called for
trial and the plaintiff fails to appear or when, after the trial has begun
and before the final submission of the cause, the plaintiff abandons it,
or when, upon the trial, the plaintiff fails to prove a cause suflicient to
be submitted to the jury. .

SEC. 238. A cause not sufhcient to be submitted to the 'ury is one

where it appears that if the jury were to find a verdict for t e plaintiff
upon any or all of the issues to be tried the court ought, if required,
to set it aside for want of evidence to support it. »

SEC. 239. When a judgment of nonsuit is given, the action is dismissed; but such judgment shall not have the effect to bar another
action for the same cause.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX.

OF JUDGMENT ON FAILURE TO ANSWER.

240. When judgment may be given for want of answer.

SEC. 240. Judgment may be had upon failure to answer, as follows:

When the time for answering the complaint has expired and it
a pears that the defendant, or one or more of several defendants, in
tge cases mentioned in section fifty-one, has been duly served with the
summons and has failed to answer the complaint, the laintiff shall be
entitled to have judgment against such defendant or efendants—

First. In an action arising u on contract for the recovery of money
or dama es only; if no answer as been filed with the clerk of the court
within t e time s eciiied in the summons, or such further time as may
have been grante b the court or judge thereof, the clerk, upon the
a plication of the lyaintiif made in writing and nled with the clerk,
sgall enter the 'de ault of the defendant, and immediately thereafter
enter judgment for the amount specified in the summons, including

the costs of the defendant, or against one or more of several defendants, in cases provided for in section fifty-one;

Second. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with the clerk
of the court within the time specified in the summons or such further
time as may have been granted by the court or judge thereof, the
clerk shall, u n the written motion of the plaintiff bein filed, enter
the default o the defendant, and thereafter the plainti may ap(ply
at the hrst or any subsequent term of the court for the relief deman ed
in the com laint; and the court shall, upon such demand, give judgment for t e amount claimed in the summons, or the relief demanded
in the complaint, unless it be necessary, to enable the court to give
judgment or carry the same into effect, to take proof of any matter of
fact, in which case the court may order the entry of °udgment to be
delayed until such proof be taken. The court may ear the proof
itself, or make an order of reference, or order that a jury be called to
inquire thereof. The defendant shall not be precluded, by reason of
his default, from offering roof in mitigation of damages;

Third. When the defen ant has answered, and admits the plaintiif’s
claim, but sets up a counterclaim amounting to less than the plaintiff’s
claim, the plaintiff, on motion, shall have judgment for the excess of
his claim over such counterclaim, as for want of answer thereto;

Fourth. When in any action the service of the summons appears to
have been made by publication, the court may, in its discretion, order
the entry of judgment to be delayed until the plaintiE file with the
clerk an undertaking, with one or more sureties, to be approved by
the clerk, in an amount equal to the sum for which judgment may be
given, upon the condition that the plaintiff will abide by and perform

' any order of the court requiring restitution to be made to the defendant or his re resentative in case either of them shall afterwards be
admitted to efend the action. The sureties in the undertaking shall
have the qualifications of bail, and justify before the clerk as provided
in section one hundred and nine.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN.

OF JUDGMENT BY CONFESSION.

‘

241. J udgmentbyconfession where action 244. Confession to be in writing; how
ending. ‘ . judgment given.
242. W o to make confession. 245. Judgment by confession without
243. When judgment may be given action.
against several defendants on the 246. How confession made in such cases.
confession of one. . ‘ 247. Same subject. Execution when
judgment for installments.

SEC. 241. On the confession of the defendant, with the assent of the
plaintiff or his attorney, judgment may be given against the defendant
in any action, before or after answer, for an amount or relief not
exceeding or different from that demanded in the complaint.

SEC. 242. “Then the action is a ainst a public cor oration or a private corporation, the confession s all be made by t e person who at
the time sustains the relation to such cor oration as would authorize
the service of a summons u on him. In a 1 other case's the confession
shall be made by the defen ant in person.

SEC. 243. When the action is upon a contract, and against one or
more defendants jointl liable, judgment may be given on the confession of one or more de endants against all the defendants thus jointly
liable, whether such defendants have been served with the summons or
not, to be enforced only against their joint property and against the
joint and separate property of the defendant making the confession.

SEC. 244. The confession and assent thereto shall be in writing, and
subscribed by the parties or their attorneys making the same, and
acknowledged by each before some oflicer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds, but such acknowledgment is not required when
the parties or their attorneys shall appear in court when the judgment is given, or before the clerk in vacation by whom the judgment
is entered. In all cases the confession and assent thereto and the
acknowledgment, if any, shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 245. On the confession of any person capable by this code of
being made a party defendant to an action, judgment may be- iven
a inst such person without action, in term time or vacation, in avor
o anyone, either for mone due or to become due, or to secure an
person against contingent iability on behalf of the defendant in such
judgment, or both, if it be in favor of the same person.

SEC. 246. The confession shall be made, assented to, and acknowledged, and judgment given in the same manner as a confession in, an
action pending; besides which, the confession shall be verified by the
oath of the party making it, and shall authorize a judgment to be given
for a particular sum. If it be for money due or to become due it shall
state plainly and concisely the facts out of which such indebtedness
arose, and shall show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due or
to become due.

SEC. 247. If it be for the purpose of securing the laintiff in the
judgmentagainstacontin entlia ility,itshall state plain yand concisely
the facts constituting suc liability and shall show that the sum con' fessed therefor does not exceed the same. VVhen judgment is given

so as to be ‘payable in installments, executions may issue to enforce the
payment o such installments as they become due.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT.

OF SUBMITTING CONTROVERSY WITHOUT ACTION.

248. Controversy may besubmitted with- 250. Statement to be filed with the clerk.
out action. -Jurisdiction of court.

249. Statement of the case and verification thereof.

SEC. 248. Parties to a question in controversy which might be the
subject of an action in a court of record, with such parties plaintiffs
or defendants, may submit the same to the determination of such
court without action, as in this chapter provided.

SEC. 249. The parties as plaintiff and defendant shall state, in writing, a case containing the facts upon which the controversg depends,

and subscribe the same in person or by their attorneys. uch statement shall be verified by t e oaths of the parties, or, where there is
more than one plaintiff or defendant, by at least one of each, to the
effect that the controversy is real, and t e proceeding is taken in good

faith to determine the rights of the parties. \Vhere either arty to
the controvers is a pubhc corporation, or a (private corpora ion, the
statement of t e case may be subscribed an verified by any person
who at the time sustains the relation to such corporation as would
authorize the service of a summons u on him.

SEC. 250. The statement shall be fi ed with the clerk, and from the
date of such filing the court shall have jurisdiction of the controvers
as if the same were an action nding after a special verdict foun ,
and shall proceed to hear and etermine the same accordingly.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE.

OF THE MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.
251. Judgment to be entered in journal; 256. When entry of judgment made.
manner of entry. 257. Judgment notwithstanding the ver252. If counterclaim exceeds plaintiffs dict.
demand, judgment for defendant. 258. When en of judgment made after
253. Judgment in actions for the recov- 'motion or new trial decided in
ery of personal property. vacation.
254. What entry to state in judgment for 259. Entry of judgment after the time

want of answer. prescribed.
255. Judgment on demurrer.

SEC. 251. All judgments shall be entered by the clerk in the journal,
and shall s ecify clearly the amount to be recovered, the relief granted,
or other etermination of the action. If entered in vacation, the
entry shall be entitled and dated substantially as follows:

UNITED STATES or AMERICA,
District of Alaska.

Precinct

District court for the district of Alaska. In vacation, after the
term, A. D. 19——. 2
the , A. D. 19 , r
as the fact may be, and such entry shall have the same effect as if
entered in term time. In the entry of all judgments, except judgments by default for want of an answer, the clerk shall be subject to
the direction of the court.

SEC. 252. If a counterclaim established at the trial exceed the plaintiff’s demand so established judgment for the defendant shall be given
for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled to any
other aflirmative relief judgment shall be given accordingly.

SEC. 253. In an action to recover the possession of personal roperty
judgment for the plaintiff may be for the ossession, or t e value
thereof in case a delivery can not be had, an damages for the detention thereof. If the property have been delivered to the plaintiff and
the defendant claim a return thereof, judgment for the defendant
may be for a return of the roperty, or the value thereof in case a
return can not be had, and amages for taking and Withholding the
same. »

SEC. 254. When judgment is iven for want of answer, the entr
shall state substantially that the efendant has been dul served wit
the summons and has failed to answer the complaint. VV en judgment

is given on confession, with or without action, on the report of referees
or on a controversy submitted without action, the entry shall state
in like manner the confession and assent thereto, the report of the

° referees, or a reed case, as the case may be. .

. jud ment notwit

SEC. 255. hen a decision has been made sustaining or overruling
a demurrer, unless the party against whom the decision is made be

allowed to amend or lead over, judgment shall be given for the plain!

tiff or defendant, as t e case may be, for such amount or relief, or to
such effect, as it appears from the pleadings he is entitled to; but if
the case is otherwise at issue upon a uestion of fact, the court may
order the entry of judgment to be de ayed until such issue be tried
or otherwise disposed of. .

SEC. 256. When judgment is given in any of the cases mentioned
in the two sections last preceding, unless otherwise ordered by the
court, it shall be entered by the clerk within the day it is given.
Except as in this section hereinafter provided, when a trial b the
court has been had judgment ‘shall be entered by the clerk in con ormity with the decision within two days from the time the same is filed;
or if the trial be by jur , judgment shall be given by the court in
conformit therewith, an entered by the clerk within two da s from
the time t e verdict has been received; and in either case wit in the
term at which such judgment is given.

First. When the court is in doubt what judgmentought to be given,
it may order the question to be reserved for argument or further consideration, and thereupon the entry of judgment shall be delayed until
judgment be iven;

Second. W en, within the time allowed to file a motion for new

trial, either partjvl shall file a motion for a particular judgment, or for

standing the verdict or decision; -or,
ird. When a motion for new trial is filed within the time prescribed, the entry of judgment shall be thereby delayed until the motion
is disposed of; ' '
Fourth. When, u on a trial b the court, its decision is filed in vacation, the entry of ju gment shalfhe delayed until the expiration of the
time prescribed to file a motion for a new trial.

SEC. 257. When it appears from the pleadings that the court has not '

jurisdiction of the subject of the action or the person of the defendant, or that the facts stated in the pleadings of the plaintiff or defendant,
as the case may be, do not constitute a cause of action or defense thereto,
on motion judgment shall be given for the plaintiff or defendant, as the

case may be, notwithstanding the verdict or decision.

SEC. 258. When a motion for new trial, for a particular judgment,
or for a judgment notwithstanding the verdict, is decided in vacation,
the decision shall be in writing and filed with the clerk. Within the
dav of such filing judgment shall be entered by the clerk in conformity

with the decision.

SEC. 259. When the clerk is unable or omits to enter judgment with-‘

in the time prescribed in this chapter, if the jud ment‘ has been given
in vacation, it may be entered at any time therea ter, of the date which
it is actually entered; if it has been given in term time, it may be
entered at any time during the term, of the day’s proceedings on which
it should have been entered, or, on motion of the arty entitled, at
any subsequent term, of the day on which it is actual y entered.

CHAPTER THIRTY.

OF LIEN JUDGMENT AND FINAL RECORD.

I


260. Judgment to be lien from time of 262. Conveyance; when void as against

the docketing. lien.
261. Expiration of lien; when revived. 263. Clerk must make judgment roll.
264. Final record; in what cases required.

SEC. 260. Immediately after the entry of judgment in any action the
clerk shall docket the same in the judgment docket. At any time
thereafter, while an execution might issue upon such judgment, and
the same remains unsatisfied in whole or in part, the plaintiff, or in
case of his death his representative, may file a certified transcript of
the original docket in the oflice of the recorder of any recording district that may have been established in said district in accordance with
law. Upon the filing of such transcript the recorder shall docket the
same in the judgment docket of his office. From the date of docketing a judgment, as in this chapter provided,- or the transcript thereof,
such judgment shall be a lien upon all the real property of the defendant within the recording district or districts where the same is dock. eted, or which he may afterwards acquire therein, during the time an

execution may issue thereon.

SEC. 261. Whenever, after the entry of judgment, a period of ten
years shall elapse without an execution being issued on such judgment, the lien thereof shall expire. If afterwards leave is given to
issue execution thereon, a transcript of the docket of the order allowing the same may be docketed in any other recording district in said
district in the same manner as a judgment. From the date of the
docketin such order, or a transcript thereof, the lien of the judgment sha 1 be in anew, and continue in all respects as upon the first
docketing of t e same. A

SEC. 262. A conveyance of real property or an portion thereof or
interest therein shall be void against the lien o a judgment unless
such conveyance be recorded at the time of docketing such judgment
or the transcript thereof, as the case may be. '

SEC. 263. After docketing the 'udgment, and before the next
re ular term of court, the clerk shall] prepare and file in his office the
juhgment roll, as provided in this section.“

irst. If the complaint has not been answered by any defendant he
shall attach together in the order of their filing, issuing, and entry,
the complaint, summons, and proof of service, and a copy of the entry
of judgment. . .

Second. In all other cases he shall attach together in like manner
the summons and proof of service, the pleadings, bill of exceptions, all
orders relating to change of parties, together with a copy of the entry
of judgment, and all other journal entries or orders in any way involvin%the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.

hird. In all cases the clerk. shall attach u on the outside of the

judgment roll a blank sheet of paper upon whic he shall indorse the
name of the court, the term at which judgment was given, the names
of the parties to the action "and the title thereof, for whom judgment
was 'iven, and the amount or nature thereof, and the date of its entry
and ocketin . 

SEC. 264. nstead of the judgment roll prescribed in the section last

preceding, there shall be a iinal record made of the cause, as provided
in this section.

First. When in any action it shall appear that the title to real property, or any interest therein, or any easement, franchise, or right in or
to the same, is directly determined or affected by the judgment therein,
on motion of either party the court shall order that a final record be
made of the case and the expense‘ of such record shall be taxed as other
disbursements of the action. 2

Second. In all other actions, on motion of either party, the court
shall order that a final record be made of the case at the cost of the
paatfy moving for the same.

hen a nnal record is ordered, it shall be made by the clerk Within

the time rescribed to prepare a judgment roll, by recording the

phaperks an journal entries required in such roll in the order prescribed
ere or.

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE.

OF THE ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.


265. When judgment maybe enforced by 283. Conurmation of sale of real estate,
execution. ' piroceedings thereon.
266. Different kinds of executions. 284. W o liable for purchase money in
267. By whom issued, what to contain case" of eviction of purchaser.
and require. 285. Contribution among joint judgment
268. How endorsed by marshal and debtors.
when returnable. . Sale of real property, when abso269. When execution issued against the lute and when subject to redemp- 2

person. tion.

270. How person arrested on execution . Who may redeem.
imprisoned. . When lien creditormayredeem from

271. Execution against property may is- urchaser.
sueafterdeath of judgmentdebtor, . W en lien crcditor may redeem
except. from redemptioner.

272. Exemption of homestead from judi- . When judgment debtor may recial sale. deem.

273. What property liable to execution . Purchaser or redemptioner, when
and what exempt. entitled to conveyance.

. Execution against property, how . Mode of proceeding to redeem.
executed. . Court may restrain waste prior to

. Same subject. conveyance.

. When garnishee gives marshal cer- . Who entitled to possession from
tilicate, how marshal to proceed. time of sale to conveyance.

. When marshal may leave personal . Order to examine judgment debtor.
property in possession of judg- . Examination of judgment debtor,
ment debtor. proceedings thereon.

278. Notice of sale on execution, how . Restraining order against judgment
iven. debtor.
279. Sa es, where and how made. . When (judgment debtor may be ar280. When marshal may adjourn sale. reste .
281. Bill of sale and delivery by marshal . Order‘ to examine garnishee, proof personal property. ceedings thereon.
282. When execution not to issue except . What otlicers not liable to answer
by leave of the court and how as garnishee.
leave obtained.

SEC. 265. The person in Whose favor a judgment is given which
requires the payment of money, the delivery of real or personal property, or either of them, may at any time after the entry thereof have
a writ of execution issued for its enforcement, as provided in this chapter.


SEC. 266. There shall be three kinds of execution‘: One against the
property of the judgment debtor, another against h1s person, and the
third for the delive of the possession of real or personal property,
or such delivery wit damages for withholding the same.

SEC. 267. The writ of execution shall be Issued by the clerk and
directed to the marshal. It shall contain the name of the court, the
names of the parties. to the action, and the title thereof; it shall substantially describe the jud ent, and, if it be for money, shall state
the amount actually due t ereon, and shall require the marshal substantially as follows:

First. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor and the
judgment directs particular property to be sold, it shall require the
marshal to sell such particu ar property and apply the proceeds as
directed by the judgment° otherwise it shall require the marshal to
satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal property of
such debtor; and if suflicient personal roperty can not be found, then
out of the real property belon ing to im on the day when the judgment was docketed .1n the recor ing district, or at any time thereafterSecond. If it be issued after the death of the judgment debtor, an
be against real or personal property, it shall require the marshal to
satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of any property belonging to
the deceased debtor in the hands of the debtor s personal representatives heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, ‘or trustees
as suc ; .

Third. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall
require the marshal to arrest such debtor and commit him to jail until
he shall pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according
to law. '

Fourth. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, it shall require the marsha to deliver the ossession
of the same, articularly describing it, to the party entitle thereto,
and may at t e same time require the marshal to satisfy any costs,
charges, damages, or rents, and profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of the party against whom it was
rendered, and the value of the roperty for which the judgment was
recovered to be specified thereof: if a delivery thereof can not be had;

and if suflicient personal (property can not be found, then out of the

real property, as provide in the first subdivision of this section, and
in that respect it is to be deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 268. The marshal shall indorse upon the writ of execution the
time when he received the same, and such execution shall be returnable, within sixty days after its receipt by the marshal, to the clerk’s
ofiice from whence it issued.

SEC. 269. If the action be one in which the defendant’ might have
been arrested, as provided by section ninety-nine, an execution against
the person of the judgment debtor may be issued after the return of
Ehlel execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or in part, as

o ows: “
First. When it appears from the record that the cause of action is

‘ also a cause of arrest, as prescribed in section ninety-nine, such execution may issue of course; .
Second. When no such cause of arrest appears from the record, such

execution may issue for any of the causes prescribed in section ninetynine that may exist at the time of the application therefor, upon leave
of the court or judge thereof;

Third. When the defendant has been provisionally arrested in the
action or an order has been made allowing such arrest, and in either
case the order has not been vacated, such execution may issue of
course:

Fourth. When execution is issued against the person of the defendant by leave of the court, it shall be a plied for and allowed in the
manner rovided in section one hundred) for allowing a writ of arrest,
except t at the undertaking need not be for an amount exceedin the
judgment. A defendant arrested on execution, who has not , een
arrested provisionally, may at any time be discharged from such
arrest for the causes and in the manner rovided in sections one hundred and twenty-one and one hundred andptwenty-two for the discharge
of a defendant who has been provisionally arrested. '

SEC. 270. A person arrested on execution shall be imprisoned in.

or is lega discharge, but the plaintiff shall be liable in the first
instance or such expense, as in other cases of arrest, in the same
manner and to the same extent as prescribed in -sections one hundred
and eighteen and one hundred and nineteen.

SEC. 271. Notwithstanding the death of a party after judgment,
execution thereon against his property or for the delivery of real or
personal property may be issued and executed in the same manner and
with the same effect as if he were still living, but such execution shall
not issue within six months from the grantin of letters testamentary
or of administration upon the estate of such party without leave of

jailhand ke t at his own expense until satisfaction of the execution, the commissioner havin authority to issue letters testamentary or ‘of A

administration upon sai estate.

SEC. 272. The homestead of any family, or the proceeds thereof,
shall be exempt from judicial sale for the satisfaction of any liability
hereafter contracted or for the satisfaction of any judgment hereafter
obtained on such debt.» Such homestead must be the actual abode of
and owned b such family or some members thereof. It shall not

exceed two t ousand five hundred dollars in value, nor exceed one

hundred and sixty acres in extent if not located in a town or cit laid
off into blocks or lots, or if located in an such town or city, t en it
shall not exceed one-fourth of one acre. his Act shall not ap ly to
decrees for the foreclosure of any mortgage properly executed; gut if
the owners of such homestead be married, then it shall be executed b

husband and wife. When any officer shall levy upon such homestea ,
the owner thereof, or the wife, husband, agent, or attorney of such
owner, may notify such officer that he claims such remises as his
homestead, describing the same b metes and bounds, ot or block, or
legal subdivision of the United tates, whereupon such officer shall
notify the creditor of such claim, and if such homestead shall exceed
the maximum in this section and he deem it of greater value than
two thousand five hundred dollars, then he may direct the marshal to
select three disinterested persons, who shall examine and appraise such
homestead, under oath, commencing with the twenty acres of lot upon
which the dwelling is located, appraising each lot or twent acres separately; and if the same exceed two thousand five hundred ollars, then
the marshal shall proceed to sell all in excess of two thousand five

hundred dollars b lots or smallest legal subdivisions, offering them in
the order directe b the judgment debtor, if he chooses to direct;
otherwise he shall se 1 the same as aforesaid so as to leave the homestead as compact as possible. The homestead aforesaid shall be exempt
from sale or any le al process after the death of the person entitled
thereto for the col ection of any debts for which the same could not
have been sold during his lifetime.

SEC. 273. All other pro rty, including franchises or rights or
interests therein, of the jurlgment debtor ghall be liable to an execution, except as in this section provided. The following property shall
be exempt from execution if selected and reserved by the judgment
debtor or his agent at the time of the levy, or as soon thereafter
before sale thereof as the same shall be known to him, and not otherwise:

First. The earnings of the judgment debtor, for his personal services rendered at any time within sixty days next preceding the levy of
execution or attachment, when it appears by the debtor’s afiidavit or
otherwise that such earnings are necessary for the use of his family
su ported in whole or in part by his labor;

econd. Books, pictures, and musical instruments owned by any
person, to the value of seventy-five dollars;

Third. Necessary wearin apparel owned by any person for the use
of himself or his family: romdecl, Watches or jewelry exceeding in
value the sum of one hundred dollars shall not be exempt by virtue of
this subdivision; _

Fourth. The tools, implements, apparatus, team, vehicle, harness,
or library necessary to enable any erson to carry on the trade, occupation, or profession by which suc person habitually earns his living
to the value of five hundred dollars; also sufiicient quantity of food to
su port such team, if any, for six months; the word “team” in this
su division shall not be construed to include more than one oke of
oxen, or a span of horses or mules, or two reindeers, or six ogs, as
the case may be;

Fifth. The following property, if owned by the head of a family
and in actual use or kept for use by and for his family, or when being
removed from one habitation to another on a change of residence: Ten
sheep with one year’s fleece or the yarn or cloth manufactured therefrom; two cows and five swine; household goods, furniture, and
utensils to the value of three hundred dollars; also food sufiicient to
support such animals, if any, for six months, and provisions actually
provided for family use and necessary for the support of such person
and family for six months; .

Sixth. The seat or pew occu ied by the head of a,family or his
family in a place of public wors ip;

Seventh. All pro erty of any public or municipal corporation;

Eighth. No artic e of property, or if the same has been sold or
exchan ed, then neither the proceeds of such sale nor the articles
receive in exchange therefor, shall be exempt from execution issued
on a judgment recovered for its price.

SEC. 274. When the writ of execution is against the pro erty of the
jud ment debtor, it shall be executed by the marshal as fo lows:

Bgirst. If property has been attached, he shall indorse on the execution, and pay to the clerk forthwith, the amount, if any, of the proceeds
of sales of perishable property, or debts due the defendant received
by him, sufhcient to satisfy the judgment;

Second. If the judgment is not then satisfied and property has been
attached and remains in his custody, he shall sell the same or sufficient
thereof to satisfy the judgment;

Third. If then any portion of the judgment remains unsatisfied, or
if no roperty has been attached, or the same has been discharged. he
shall evy on the property of the judgment debtor suflicient to satisfy
the judgment; '

Fourth. Property shall be levied on in. like manner and with like
effect as similar property is attached, as provided in sections one hundred and forty, one hundred and forty-one, and one hundred and
forty-three, omitting the filing of the certificate provided for in section
one hundred and forty-two; A

Fifth. Until a levy, propertv shall not be affected by the execution.
When pro erty has been sold or debts received by the marshal on
execution, _ e shall pay the roceeds thereof, or sufficient to satisfy the
judgment, to the clerk by t e day on which the writ is returnable.

‘ Sixth. When property has been attached, and it is probable that such
property will not be sufficient to satisfy the judgment, the execution
e

may be vied on other property of the judgment debtor without delay.

If after satisfying the judgment any propert or the proceeds thereof
e marshal, he sha l deliver the same to the

remain in the custody of t
judgment debtor. ,
SEC. 275. In the case of property in the possession of or owing from
any arnishee mentioned in section one hundred and forty-three the
mars al shall proceed as follows:

First. If it appear from the certificate of the garnishee that he is
owing a debt to the judgment debtor, which is then due, if such debt
is not paid by such garnishee to the marshal on demand, he shall levy
on the property of the garnishee for the amount thereof, in all res ects
as if the execution was against the roperty of the garnishee. ut if —
such debt be not then due, the mars al shall sell the same according to
the certificate, as other property;

Second. If in like manner it a pear that the judgment debtor has
rights or shares in the stock of t e garnishee, as provided in section
one hundred and forty-three, the marshal shall sell the same according
to the certificate, as other property; '

Third. If in like manner it appear" that the garnishee has other personal property of the judgment ebtor in his possession, and the same
has not been bailed to such garnishee for a period then unex ired,
unless the same be delivered to the marshal on demand he shal levy
upon the same wherever he may find it. But if such property is in
the possession of such garnishee upon a bailment then unexpired, the
marshal shall sell the same, or the interest of the judgment debtor
therein, according to the certificate, as other property.

SEC. 276. When a marshal with an execution levies upon any of the
personal ‘property mentioned in subdivision three of section one hundred and forty, and if the same is not delivered, aid, or transferred
to him at the time, and the garnishee furnish im the certificate
required in section one hundred and forty-three, he shall proceed
thereafter in reference to such property as provided in sectlon two
hundred and seventy-four of this title. Such property may be delivered, paid, or transferred to the marshal at the time of levy, or sufficient thereof to satisfy the execution, and the marshal’s receipt to the

. person, association, or corporation, as the case may be, shall be a
sufficient discharge therefor.

SEC. 277. When the marshal shall levy upon personal property by
virtue of an execution, he may permit the judgment debtor to retain
the same, or any part thereof, in his possession until the day of sale
upon the defendant executing a written undertaking to the marsha
with sufficient surety, in double the value of such propert , to the
effect that it shall be delivered to the marshal at the time an place of
sale, and for nondelivery thereof an action- may be maintained ugon
such undertakin by the marshal or the plaintiff in the execution; ut
the marshal sha not thereby be discharged from his liability to the
plaintiff for such pro erty.

SEC. 278. Before t e sale of property on execution, notice thereof
shall be iven, as follows: ‘ .

First. n case of personal property, by postin a written or printed
notice of the time and place of sale in three pub ic places within. five
miles of the place where the sale is to take place, not less than ten
days prior to the day of sale; one of said notices shall be posted on
the door of the post-office nearest to the place where the sale is to take
place;

Second. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice particularly describing the property, for four weeks prior to the ay of
sale, in three public places as rovided in the first subdivision of this

c section and publishing a copy t ereof once a week, for the same period,

in a newspaper published nearest to the place of sale.

SEC. 279. All sales of roperty upon execution shall be made by
auction, between nine o’c ock in the morning and four o’clock in the
afternoon. After sufficient pro ert has been sold to satisf the execution, no more shall be sold. eit er the officer holding the execution nor his de uty shall become a purchaser or be interested in any

urchase at suc sale. When the sale is of personal property capale of manual delivery, and not in the possession of a third person,
association, or corporation, it shall be wit in view of those who attend
the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest

rice, and when the sale is of real property, and consists of several

nown lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately or otherwise, as is
likely to bring the highest rice, or when.a portion of such real pro erty is claimed by a third person and he requires it to be so d
se arately, such portion of it shall be sold separatel .

SEC. 280. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the marshal should
be prevented from attending at the place appointed, or, being present,
should deem it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale
for want of purchasers, or other sufficient cause, he may postpone the
sale not exceeding one week next after the day appointed, and so
from time to time for the like cause, iving notice of every adjournment by public proclamation made at t e same time. The marshal for
like causes may also adjourn the sale from time to time, not exceedin
thirty days beyond the day at which the writ is made returnable, wit
the consent of the plaintiff indorsed upon the writ.

SEC. 281. When the purchaser of any personal ro rty capable of
manual delivery, and not in the possession of a tlI1)ir person, association, or corporation, shall pay the purchase money, the marshal shall 2

deliver to him the property, and if desired shall give him a bill of sale
containing an acknowledgment of the payment. In all other sales of
personal property the marshal shall give the purchaser a bill of sale
with the ike acknowledgment. ’

SEC. 282. Whenever, after the entry of judgment, a period of five
years shall elapse without an execution being issued on such judgment,‘
thereafter an execution shall not issue exce t as in this section provided:

First. The party in whose favor a ju ent is given shall iile a
motion with the clerk of the court where t e °udgment is entered for
leave to issue an execution. The motion sha state the names of the
parties to the judgment, the date of its entry, and the amount claimed
to be due thereon, or the particular property of which the possession
was thereb adjudged to such party remaining undelivered. The
motion sha be subscribed and verified in like manner as a complaint
in an action;

Second. At any time after filing such motion the party may cause a
summons to be served on the judgment debtor in like manner and with
like effect as in an action. In case such judgment debtor be dead, the
summons may be served upon his representative b publication as in
the case of a nonresident, or by actual service of t e summons;

Third. The summons shall be substantially the same as in an action, .

but instead of a notice therein required it shall state the amount claimed
or the property sou ht to be recovered, in the manner prescribed in subdivlsion one of is section; a

Fourth. The judgment debtor, or, in case of his death, his representatives, may file an answer to such motion within the time allowed
to answer a complaint in an action, alleging any defense to such motion
which may exist. If no ‘answer be filed within the time prescribed,
the motion shall be allowed of course. The moving party may demur
or reply to the answer. The arty opposed to the motion may demur
to the same or to the reply. he p'lead1ng shall be subscribed and verilied and the proceedings conducted as in an action;

Fifth. The Word “ representatives” in this section shall be deemed
to include any or all of the persons mentioned in subdivision two of section two hundred and sixty-seven in whose possession pro rty of
the judgment debtors may be which is liable to be taken an sold or
delivered in satisfaction of the execution and not otherwise;

Sixth. The order shall specify the amount for which execution is to
issue, or the particular property apossession of which is to be delivered;
it shall be entered in the journ and docketed as a judgment, and a
roll thereafter prepared and iiled, or a final record made of the proceedings, as the case may be, in the san1e manner as a judgment.

SEC. 283. Whenever real property is sold on execution the provisions of this section shall apply to the subsequent proceedings. ‘

First. The plaintiff in the writ of execution shall be entitled, on
motion therefor, to have an order confirming the sale at the term next
following the return of the execution, or if it be returned in term time‘,
then at such term, unless the judgment debtor, or, in case of his death,
his re resentative, shall file with the clerk ten days before such term,
or if e writ be returned in term time, then five days after the return
thereof, his objections thereto;

Second. If such objections be filed, the court shall, notwithstanding,
allow the order confirming the sale unless on the hearin of the motion
it shall satisfactorily appear that there were substantia irregularities
in the proceedings concerning the sale, to the probable loss or injury
of the part objecting. In t e latter case, the court shall disallow the
motion an direct that the property be resold, in whole or in part, as
the case may be, as upon an execution received of that date;

Third. Upon the return of the execution the marshal shall pay the
proceeds of the sale to the clerk, who shall then apfptlg the same, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, in satisfaction o e °udgment. If
an order of resale be afterwards made, and the property se for a eater
amount to any person other than the former purchaser, the cler shall
first re ay to such purchaser the amount of h1s bid out of the proceeds
of the atter sale;

Fourth. Upon a resale the bid of the purchaser at the former sale
shall be deemed to be renewed and continue in force, and no bid shall
be taken exce t for a greater amount. If the motion to confirm be
not heard an decided at the term at which it is made, it may be continued and heard and determined before the judge, or at. any term
thereafter. An order confirming a sale shall be a conclusive determination of the regularity of the proceedings concerning such sale, as to
all ersons, in any other action, or proceeding whatever;

ifth. If, after the satisfaction o the judgment, there be any pro. ceeds of the sale remaining, the clerk shall pay such proceeds to the

judgment debtor, or his representative, as the case may be, at any time
before the order is made, upon the motion to confirm the sale, provided such part file with the clerk a waiver of all objections made or
to be made to t e proceedings concerning the sale; but if the sale be
confirmed, such proceeds shall be paid to such party of course, otherwise they shall remain in the custody of the clerk until the sale of the
property has been disposed of.

SEC. 284. If the purchaser of real progerty sold on execution, or
his successor in interest, be evicted there om in consequence of the
reversal of the judgment, he may recover the price pald, with leoal
interest and the costs and disbursements of the action by which e
was evicted, from the plaintiff in the writ of execution.

SEC. 285. When property liable to an execution against several
persons is sold thereon, an more than a due proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or one of them pays
without a sale more than his proiportion, he may compel contributions
from the others; and when a ju gment is against several, and is upon
an obligation or contract of one of them as security for another, and
the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either b sale of his
property or before sale, he may compel repayment from t e princi

n such cases the person so paying or contributing shall be entitl to
the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment, if
within thirty days after his payment he file with the clerk, of the court
where the judgment was rendered notice of his payment and claim to
contribution or repayment‘ upon filing such notice the clerk shall
make an entry thereof in the margin of the docket where the judgment is entered.

SEC. 286. Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less than
a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute.

_ In all other cases such property shall be subject to redemption, as

hereinafter provided in th1s chapter. At the time of sale the marshal
shall give to the purchaser a certificate of the sale containingFirst. A rticular description of the property sold;
Second. he rice bid for each distinct lot or parcel;
Third. The w ole price paid;
Fourth. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated.

The matters contained in such certificate shall be substantially stated
in the marshal’s return of his proceedings upon the writ.

SEC. 287. Property sold subject to redemption, as rovided in the
last section, or any part thereof separately sold, may e redeemed by
the following persons, ortheir successors in interest: A

First. The judgment debtor, or his a successor in interest, in the
whole or any part of the property separately sold;

Second. A creditor having a hen by judgment, or mortgage, on any

portion of the property, or any portion of any part thereo , se arately
sold, subsequent in time to that on which the roperty was so d.

The ersons mentioned in subdivision two 0 this section, after havin% re eemed the property, are to be termed redemptioners. ,

SEC. 288. A lien creditor may redeem the property within sixty
days from the date of the order confirming the sale, by aying the
amount of the purchase money, with interest at the rate 0 eight per
centum per annum thereon from the time of sale, together with the
amount of any taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon and
if the purchaser be also a creditor having a hen prior to that o the
redemptioner, the amount of such lien with interest.

SEC. 289. If the roperty be so redeemed, any other lien creditor
may, within sixty ays from the last redemption, again redeem it, on
payin the sum paid on the last redemption, with interest at the rate
of eig t per centum per annum thereon from the date of the last receding redemption in addition, together with any taxes which thellast
redem tioner may have paid thereon, and, unless his lien be prior to
that 0 such redemptioner, the amount of such lien, with mterest.
The property may be again and as often as any lien creditor or
redemptloner is disposed, redeemed from the last revious redemptioner, within sixty days from the date of the last re emption, on pa —
ing the sum paid on the last previous redemption, with mterest at t e
rate of eight per centum per annum thereon from the date of such
previous redemption, together with the amount of any taxes aid
thereon by such last redemptioner, and the amount of any liens eld
by such last redemptioner, prior to his own, with interest. A _

SEC. 290. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, may
redeem the property at any time prior to the confirmation of sale, on
payin the amount of the purchase money, with interest at the rate
of eig t per centum per annum thereon from the date of sale together
with the amount of an taxes which the purchaser may have paid
thereon after the pure ase. But if the judgment debtor do not
redeem until after the confirmation of the sale, thereafter he shall
redeem within twelve months from such order of confirmation and
not otherwise. 

SEC. 291. If redemption be not made as prescribed in this Act, or
when redemption is made and a eriod of sixty  s shall have elapsed
without any other redemption, t e purchaser or t e redemptioner, as
the case may he, shall be entitled to a conveyance from the marshal.
If the judgment debtor redeem at an time before the time for redemption expires, the effect of the sale sha terminate and he shall be restored
to his "estate.

SEC. 292. The mode of redeeming shall be as provided in this section.

The person‘ seekin to redeem may redeem b paying to the marshal the sum require . The marshal shall give t e person redeeming

a certificate, as in case of sale on execution, adding therein the sum
paid on redemption, from whom redeemed, and the date thereof and
shall at once give notice of such redemption to the party from whom
redeemed. A party seeking to redeem shall submit to the marshal
the evidence of his right thereto, as follows:

First. If he be a hen creditor, a copy of the docket of the judgl;
ment under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the cler
of the court where such judgment is docketed or if he seek to redeem
upon a mortgage, the certificate of the record thereof;

Second. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim,

verified by the afiidavit of himself or agent; an aflidavit by himself or
agent showing the amount then actually due on the judgment or
mort-ga e; . .
Third. If the redemptioner or purchaser have a lien prior to that of
the lien creditor seeking to redeem, such redemptioner or purchaser
shall submit to the marshal the like evidence thereof and of the
amount due thereon, or the same may be disregarded.

When two or more persons apply to the marshal to redeem at the
same time, he shall allow the erson having the prior lien to redeem
first, and so on. The marshafshall immediately pay the money over
to the erson from whom the property is redeemed, if he attend at
the re emption, or if not, at an time thereafter'when demanded.
Where a marshal shall wron y refuse to allow any person to
redeem, his right thereto she. not be prejudiced thereby, and upon
the ‘submission of the evidence and the tender of the money to the
marshal as herein provided, he may be required by order of the court
or 'udge thereof to allow such redemption.

SEC. 293. Until the expiration of the time allowed for redemption,
the court or judge thereof ma restrain the commission of waste on
the property by order grante with or without notice, on the a plication of the purchaser or judgment creditor; but it shall not be eemed
waste for the person in possession of the property at the time of sale
or entitled to possession afterwards during the period allowed for
redemptionto continue to use it in the same manner in which it was
previously used, or to use it in the ordinary course of husbandry, or
to make the necessary re irs to buildin s thereon, or to use wood or
‘timber on the property t erefor, or for t e repair of fences, or,for fuel

‘in his family while he occupies the

pro rty.

SEC. 294. The purchaser from t e clfy of sale until a resale or a
redemption, and a redem t-ioner from the day of his redemption until
another redemption, shal be entitled to the possession of the property
purchased or redeemed, unless the same be in the possession of a tenant holding under an unexpired lease, and in such case shall be entitled
to receive from such tenant the rents or the value of the use and occupation thereof durin the same period.

SEC. 295. After e issuin of an execution against property, and
upon proof by the affidavit 0% the plaintiff in the writ, or otherwise,
to the satisfaction. of the court or judge thereof that the judgment
debtor has property liable to execution which he refuses to apply
toward the satisfactlon of the jud ent, such court or judge may, by
an order, require the judgment ebtor to appear and answer under
oath concerning the same before such court or jud e, or before a

referee appointed by such court or judge, at a time an place specified
in the or er.

SEC. 296. On the appearance of the judgment debtor, he may be
examined on oath concerning his pro erty. His examination, if
required by the plaintiff in the writ, sh be reduced to writing and
filed with the clerk by whom the execution was issued. Either party
may examine witnesses in his behalf, and if by such examination ‘it
appear that the judgment debtor has any property liable to execution
t e court or judge before whom the proceeding takes place, or to
whom the report of the refereeis made, shall make an order requiring
the judgment debtor to apply the same in satisfaction of the judgment
or that such property be
with the effect as provided in th apter, or both, as may seem most
likely to effect the object of the proceeding. '

SEC. 297. At the time of allowing the order prescribed in section
two hundred and ninety-six, or at any time thereafter pending the

evied on‘) by execution, in the manner an .
is c

proceeding, the court or judge may make an order restraining thejudgment debtor from selling, transferring, or in any manner disposmg of any of his property liable to execution pendin the proceeding.
For disobeying any order or requirement aut orize by sections two
hundred and ninety-five, two hundred and ninety-six, and two hundred and ninety-seven the judgment debtor may be punished as for .a
contempt. - ‘

SEC. 298. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, as tprovided in the last two sections, the court or judge
may, upon proo b aflidavit of the party, or otherwise to his satisfaction that there is anger of the debtor leaving the district, or concealin himself therein, and that there is reason to believe he has property
w ich. he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue a warrant

uirin the marshal to arrest im and bring him before the court or

re
ju ge. pon being brought before the court or judge he ma be
examined on oath, and if it then aglpear that there is danger o the

debtor leaving the district, and that e has roperty which he unjustly
refused to apply to such judgment, he may e ordered to enter into an
undertaking with one or more sureties that he will from time to time
attend before the court or judge, as ma be directed, and that he will
not, during the pendency of the procee 'ngs, dispose of any portion of
his ropertynot exempt from execution. In default of entering into

.suc undertakin he may be committed to jail by warrant of the jud e.

SEC. 299. W enever the marshal, wit an execution against t e
property of the judgment debtor, shall apply to any person or officer
mentioned in subdivision three of section one hundred and forty for
the purpose of levying on any property therein mentioned, such person
or ofiicer shall forthwith give to t e marshal a certificate in the manner
prescribed in section one hundred and forty-two. If such person or
ofiicer refuse to do so, or if the certificate be unsatisfactory to the
plaintiff in the writ, he may in like manner have the order prescribed
in such section a ainst such person or officer. Thereafter the proceeding upon such or er shall be conducted in the manner prescribed from section one hundred and fifty-two to section one hundred and sixty-one,
inclusive.

SEC. 300. No public officer shall be liable as garnishee for moneys
in his ssession as such oflicer, belonging to or claimed by any judgment debtor. CHAPTER THIRTY-'.l‘WO.

’ or ACTIONS 'ro REcovER THE POSSESSION or REAL PROPERTY.

Sec.
301. Who may bring such action, and
against whom.
302. When landlord ma be made defendant in lace o tenant.
303. Whattobepeadedincom laint.
304. Defendant not to be allow to give
evidence in certain matters, unless. Judgment, when conclusive
against landlord.
305. What the jury shall find by their
verdict.
306. What damages may be recovered,
and when the value of permanent
improvements may be set off
against such damages.

307. Verdict when right of possession

Sec.

308. Order to make survey of the property.

309. Same subject.

310. Action not to be prejudiced by
alienation of person in possession.

311. Mortgagee can not maintain action
against mortgagor.

312. Action by tenant in common or for
dower, what must be shown.

313. Action against lessee on failure to

pay rent.
314. W en judgment conclusive, and
upon whom.

315. Possession not to be affected by order allowing new trial.

316. Admeasurement of dower after
judgment.

expires after commencement of
action. »

SEC. 301. Any erson who has a legal estate in real property, and a
present right to t e possession thereof, may recover such ssession,
with damages for wltholdin the same, by an action. uch action
shall be commenced against t e person in the actual ssession of the
property at the time, or, if the property be not in t e actual possession of anyone, then against the person acting as the owner thereof.
SEC. 302. A defendant who is 1n actual possession may, for answer,
plead that he is in possession only as tenant of another naming him
and his place of residence; and thereupon the landlor , if he apply
therefor, shall be made defendant in place of the tenant, and the actlon
shall proceed in all respects as if orlginally commenced against him.
If the landlord do not apply to be made defendant within the day the
tenant is allowed to answer, thereafter he shall not be allowed to, but
he shall be made defendant if the plaintiff re uire it. If the landlord
be made defendant on motion of the plainti , he shall be required to
a pear and answer within twenty days from notice of the endency of

e action and the order making him defendant, or such urther time‘

as the court or judge thereof may prescribe.

SEC. 303. The plaintiff in his complaint shall set forth the nature of
his estate in the propert , whether it be in fee, for life, or for a term
of years, and for whose ife, or the duration of such term, and that he
is entitled to the possession thereof, and that the defendant wrongfully
withholds the same from him to his damage in such sum as may be
therein claimed. The property shall be described with such certaint
as to enable the possession thereof to be delivered if a recove be h .

SEC. 304. The defendant shall not be allowed to give in evi ence any
estate in himself, or another in the property, or any license or right
to the possession thereof, unless the same he pleaded in his answer.
If so pleaded, the nature and duration of such estate, or license, or
right to the possession shall be set forth with the certainty and particularit requlred in a complaint. If the defendant does not defend for
the w ole of the property, he shall specify for what particular art he
does defend. In an action against a tenant the judgment shall Be conclusive against the landlord who has been made defendant in place of

the tenant to the same extent as if the action had been originallycommenced a ainst him.

SEC. 305. he jury by their verdict shall find as follows: '

First. If the verdlct be for the plaintiff, that he is entitled to the
possession of the prope described in the com laint, or some part
thereof, or some undivide share or interest in eit er, and the nature
and duration of his estate in such property, part thereof, or undivided
share or interest in either, as the case may be;

Second. If the verdict be for the defendant, that the laintiff is not
entitled to the possession of the ro erty described in e complaint,
or to such part thereof as the de en nt defends for, and the estate in
such property or part thereof, or license or right to the possession of
either, established on the trial by the defendant, if any; in effect as
the same reqiliired to be leaded.

SEC. 306. he plainti shall only be entitled to recover damages for
withholding the property for the term of six years next precedin the
commencement of the action, and for any period that may elapse om
such commencement to the time of giving a verdict therein, exclusive
of the use of permanent im rovements made by the defendant. When

rmanent improvements ave been made upon the property by the

efendant, or those under whom he claims, holding under color of title adversely to the claim of laintiif in good faith, the value thereof
at thief time of trial, not excee 'ng such damages, shall be allowed as a
set-o .

SEC. 307. If the right of the plaintiff to the possession of the pro erty
expire after the commencement of the action, and before the tria , the
verdict shall be given according to the fact, and judgment shall be
given only for the damages.

SEC. 308. The court or judge thereof, on motion, and after notice to
the adverse party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing the
party a plying therefor to enter upon the roperty in controversy,
and ma e survey and admeasurement thereo , for the purposes of the
action. ~

SEC. 309. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof
shall be served upon the defendant, and thereupon the party may enter
upon the property and make such survey and admeasurement, but if any
unnecessary injury he done to the premises he shall be liable therefor.

SEC. 310. An action for the recovery of the possession of real property against a person in possession can not be prejudiced by any alienation made by such person either before or after the commencement of
the action; but if such alienation be made after the commencement
of the action, and the defendant does not satisfy the jud ment recovered for damages for withholding the ossession, such amages may
be recovered by action against the pure aser.

SEC. 311. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance. so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover ossession of the real property without a foreclosure and sale accor ing to
law, and a judgment thereon.

SEC. 312. In an action for the recover of dower before admeasurement or by a tenant in common of rea pro erty against a cotenant,
the plainti shall show, inaddition to the evi ence of his right of possesslon, that the defendant either denied the plaintiffs right or did
some act amounting to such denial.

SEC. 313. When 1n case of a lease of real property and the failure of

tenant to y rent the landlord has a subsisting right to reenter for

‘ or judge thereof, be enti

such a fai ure, and ma bring an action to recover the possession of
such property, and suc action is equivalent to a demand of the rent
and a reentry upon the property. But if, at any time before judgment
in such action, the lessee or his successor in interest as to the whole or
a part of the property pay to the plaintiff or bring into court the
amount of rent then in arrear, with interest, and the costs of the action,
and erform the other covenants or agreements on the part of the lessee, he shall be entitled to continue in the possession according to the

terms of the lease. ~
SEC. 314. In an action to recover the possession of real property the
judgment therein shall be conclusive as to the estate in such property
and the ri ht to the ssession thereof, so far as the same is thereby
determine , upon t e party against whom the same is given and
against all persons claiming from, through, or under such party after
the commencement of such action, except as in this section provided.
When service of the summons is made by publication and judgment
is given for want of answer, at any time within two years from the
entr thereof, the defendant or his successor in interest as to the
who e or any part of the roperty shall, upon application to the court
tlled to an order vacating the judgment and

— granting him a new trial upon the payment of the costs of the action.

SEC. 315. If the plaintiff has taken possession of the propert before
the jud ment is set aside and a new trial ranted, as provide in the section ast preceding, such possession sha%l not be thereby affected in
any way, and if judgment be given for the defendant in the new trial
he sha be entitled to restitution by execution in the same manner as
if he were plaintiff. . '

SEC. 316. In an action to recover the possession of real property
by a tenant in dower or his successor in interest, if such a state in
dower has not been admeasured before the commencement of the
action, the plaintiff shall not have execution to deliver the possession
thereof until the same beadmeasured, as follows:

First. At any time after the entry of judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, he may, u on notice to the adverse arty, move the court for
the appointment o referees to admeasure t e dower out of the real
property of- which ‘the possession is recovered by the action. The
court shall allow such motion unless it appear probable on the hearing that a partition of such property can not be made without prejudice to the interests of the other owners. In the latter case the court
shall disallow the motion, and thereafter the plaintiff shall only proceed for partition or sale of such real pro erty as provided in the chapter of this code entitled “Of Actions or the Partition of Real
Property ;” .

4 Second. If the court allow the motion, thereafter the proceedings
shall be conducted as provided in such chapter. At any time after
the confirmation of the report of the referees the plaintiff may have
execution for the delivery of the possession of the property according
to the admeasurement thereof, and for the damages recovered, if any,

for withholding the same, if such damages remain unsatisfied;

Third. If the motion for admeasurement be made at the term at
which judgment was given, the notice thereof shall be served on the
adverse party at such time as the court by general rule or special
order may prescribe.

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE.

OF ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE, AND TRESPASS ON REAL PROPERTY.


317. Private nuisance, and action therefor; when warrant allowed to
abate it.

318. How warrant issued, and mode of

roceeding under.

319. en defendant may have stay of

warrant.

SEC. 317 . Any person whose property is affected by a private nuisance, or whose personal enjoyment thereof is in like manner
thereby affected, may maintain an action for damages therefor. If

execution to enforce the same, on motion,

judtiment be given for the plaintiff in such actionilhe may, in addition
e
ing a warrant to issue to the marshal to abate such nuisance. Such
motion must be made at the term at which judgment is given, and
shall be allowed of course, unless it appear on the hearing ,
nuisance has ceased, or that such remedy is inade uate to abate or
prevent the continuance of the nuisance, in whic latter case the
plaintiff may proceed to have the defendant enjoined.

SEC. 318. I the order be made, the clerk shall thereafter, at an
time within six months, when requested b the plaintifl’, issue suc
warrant directed to the marshal, requiring im forthwith to abate the
nuisance at the expense of the defendant, and return the warrant as
soon thereafter as may be, with his proceedings indorsed thereon.
The expense of abatin the nuisance may be levied by the marshal on
the property of the de endant, and in this respect the warrant is to be
deemed an execution against roperty. . * '

SEC. 319. At any time be ore the order is made, or the warrant
issues, the defendant may, on motion to the court or judge thereof,
have an order to stay the issue of such warrant for such period as may
be necessary, not exceedin six months, and to allow the defendant to
abate the nuisance himself, upon his giving an undertakin to the

plaintiff in a sufficient amount, with one or more sureties, to t e satisaction of the court or judge thereof, that he will abate it within the
time and in the manner specified in such order.

SEC. 320. If the plaintiff is not notified of the time and place of the
application for the order provided for in section three hundred and
nineteen, the sureties therein provided for shall justify as bail upon
arrest, otherwise such justification may be omitted, unless the plaintiff
re uire it. If such order be made and undertaking given, and the
de endant fails to abate such nuisance within the time specified in said
order, thereafter, at any time within six months, the warrant for the
abatement of the nuisance may issue as if the same had not been

sta ed.

SEC. 321. If a guardian, tenant in severalty or in common for life
or for years, of real property, commit waste thereon, any person
injured thereby may maintain an action for damages therefor against

such guardian or tenant, in which action there may be judgment for
treble damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party committing or

permitting the waste, and of eviction from the property. But jud ment of orfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor of t e
person entitled to the reversion against the tenant in ssession when
the injury to the estate in reversion is determined in e action to be
equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to have
been done or suffered in malice.

SEC. 322. Whenever any person shall cut down, girdle, or otherwise
injure, or carry off any tree, timber, or shrub on the land of another
person, or on the street or highway in front of any person’s house,
village, town, or city lot, or cu tivated grounds, or on the commons or
public grounds of any village, town, or city, or on the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, in an action b such
person, village, town, or ci? against the person committin suc trespasses, or any of them, if ju gment be given for the plainti it shall be
given for treble the amount of damages claimed or assessed therefor,
as the case may be.

SEC. 323. If upon the trial of such action it shall appear that the
trespass was casual or involuntary, or that the defendant had probable
cause to believe that the land on which such trespass was committed
was his own, or that of the person in whose service or by whose direction the act was done, or that such tree or timber was taken from uninclosed woodland for the purpose of repairing any ublic highway or
bridge upon the land or adjoining it, judgment shall) only be given for
sing e damages.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR.

ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL UNDERTAKINGS, AND FOR FINES AND FORFEITUREB.

 
324. Official undertakings, to whom 329. Who ma maintain action for fines

deemed a security. and for eitures.
325. Who may maintain action thereon. 330. Actions for penalties not to exceed
326. When leave must be obtained be- certain amount.

fore action can be commenced. 331. Judgment by collusion between
327. Judgment no bar to action for an- plaintiff and defendant.

other delinquency. 332. Disposition of fines and forfeitures.
328. Amount of judgment. .

SEC. 324. The oiiicial undertakin or other security of a public officer to an county, city, town, or ot er municipal or public corporation
of like c aracter therein, shall be deemed a security to the United
States, or to such city, town, or other municipal or ublic corporation
as the case may be, and also to all persons several y for the oflicial
delinquency a inst which it is intended to rovide.

SEC. 325. hen a public ofiicer, by ofiicial misconduct or neglect of

A duty, shall forfeit his oflicial undertaking or other security, or render

his sureties therein liable upon such undertaking or other security,

any erson injured by such misconduct or neglect, or who is by law’

entit ed to the benefit of the security, may maintain an action thereon

in his own name, against the officer and his sureties to recover the
amount to which he ma by reason thereof be entitled. 7
SEC. 326. Before suc action can be commenced by a plaintiff other
than the United States, or the municipal or public corporation named
in the undertaking or other security, leave shall be obtained of the

' by law is not to exceed a certain amount, the action may

court or judge thereof where the action is triable. Such leave shall
be granted upon the production of a certified copy of the undertaking
or other security, an an aiiidavit of the plaintiff, or some person in
his behalf, showin the delinquenc . But if the matters set forth in
the affidavit be suc that, if true, t e party ap lying would, clearly not
be entitled to recover in the action, the leave s all not be granted.- -If
it does not appear from the complaint that the leave herein provided for
has been granted, the defendant on motion shall be entitled to judgment
of nonsult; if it does, the defendant may controvert the allegation,
and dif tlhe issue be found in his favor, judgment may be given accor ng y. 3

SEC. 327. A 'udgment in favor of a party for one delinquency shall
not preclude e same or another party from maintaimn another
action on the same undertaking, or other security, for anot er delinuenc . ~

SEC. 328. In an action u 11 an official undertakin or other security,
if judgment has already een recovered against t e suret therein,
other than by confession equal in the aggregate to the pena t or any
part thereof of such undertaking or other security, and if suc recovery be established on the trial, judgment shall not be given against
such surety for an amount exceeding such penalty, or such portion
thereof as is not already recovered against him. ‘

SEC. 329. Fines and forfeitures may be recovered by an action in
the name of the oflicer or person to whom they are by law given, or
in the name of the oilicer or person who by law is authorized to
prosecute for them.

SEC. 330. When an action shall be commenced for a penalty which

e commenced
for that amount, and if judgment be given for the plaintiff, it may be
for such amount or less, in the discretion of the court, in proportion
to the offense.

SEC. 331. A recovery of a judgment for a penalty or forfeiture by
collusion between the plaintiff and defendant, with intent to save the
defendant, Wholly or partially, from the consequences contemplated by
law, in case where the penalty or forfeiture is given, wholly or partly,
to the person who prosecutes, shall not bar the recovery of the same
by another person. 

SEC. 332. Fines and forfeitures not ‘specially granted or otherwise
appropriated by law, when recovered, shall be aid to the clerk of the
district court. Whenever, by the provisions of aw, any property, real
or personal, shall be forfeited to the United States, or to an oilicer
for its use, the action for the recovery of such pro erty may e commenced wherever the defendant may be found, or w erever such property may be.

CHAPTER

ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST PUBLIC CORPORATIONS AND OFFICERS.

333. How actions may be maintained by 335. How pleadings of public corporapublic corporations, and for what tions verified. .
causes. 336. How judgment  pubhc cor334. Actions against public corporations, poration satisfi
and what causes.

SEC. 333. An action may be maintained by an incorporated town,
school district, or other public corporation of ike character in the
district in its corporate name, and upon a cause of action accruing to
it in its corporate character, and not otherwise, in either of the following cases: .

First. U n a contract made with such Yglblic corporation;

Second. pon a liability prescribed by w in favor of such public
co oration;

ird. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such public corporation;

Fourth. To recover damages for an injury to the corporate rights
or roperty of such public corporation.

SEC. 334. An action may be maintained aainst any of the Public
corporations in the district mentioned in the t preceding sec ion in
its corporate character, and within the scope of its authority, or for
an injury to the rights of the plaintiff arising from some act or omission
of ‘such public corporation. '

SEC. 335. In such actions the leadings of the public corporation.

shall be verified by the chief o cer representing it in its corporate
capacity or by such other ofiicer, agent, or attorney as he may designate, in the same manner as if such oiiicer were a defendant in the
action. '

SEC. 336. If judgment be given for the recovery of money or damages against a pubhc corporation, no execution shall issue thereon for
the co ection of such money or damages, but such judgment in such
res ect shall be satisfied as follows: '

irst. The party in whose favor such judgment is given may, at any '

time thereafter, when an execution might issue on a like udgment
against a private person, present a certified transcript of t e record
thereof to the oflicer of such ublic corporation who is authorized to
draw orders on the treasurer t ereof;

. Second. On the presentation of such transcript, such oiiicer shall
draw an order on such treasurer for the amount of the jud ent in
favor of the party for whom the same was given. Therea r such
order shall be presented for payment, and paid, with like eifect and in
like manner as other orders upon the treasurer of such public corporation;

Third. The certified transcript herein provided for shall not be furnished by the clerk, unless at the time an execution might issue on such
judgment if the same were against a rivate person, nor until satisfaction of the jud ment in respect to sue money or damages be acknowledged as in or inary cases. The clerk shall include in the transcript a
memorandum of such acknowledgment of satisfaction and the entry
thereof. Unless the transcript contain such memorandum no order
upon the treasurer shall issue thereon.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX.

; OF AGITONS TO AVOID CHARTERS, LETTERS PATENT, AND TO PREVENT

THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE AND TO DETERMINE
THE RIGHT THERETO.
 

337. Scire facias and quo warranto abol- 343. When relator’s éght may be pleaded
ished. and determin in the action. ~
338. Action against public or private cor- 344. If judgment be given in favor of remion to be commenced on the later what he may do.
' tion of the governor. 345. Relator after judgment may have
339. Action to annul the existence of action for damages.

corporation. 346. Actions againstseveral persons claim340. Action for the tmurpation of office ing oflice or franchise.
or franchise. 341. Who to rosecute actions, pleadings may nne him.
by w om verified, how leave . Judgment against co ration.
granted and who deemed co- . Copy of judgment ro to be filed.
 . How judgment enforced.

342. Duty of prosecuting attorney as to ‘
commencing action.

SEC. 337 . The writ of scire facias, the writ of quo warranto, and
proceedings by information in the nature of quo warranto are abolished, and the remedies heretofore obtainable under those forms may
be obtained by an action in the mode prescribed in this chapter. .

SEC. 338. An action may be maintained in the name of the United
States, whenever the governor shall so direct, against a corporation
eitherpublic or private, for the pur se of avoiding the act of incorporation, or the act renewing or mo ifying its corporate existence, on
the ground that such act or either of them was procured upon some
fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact by the persons incorporated, or some of them, or with their knowledge and consent; or for annulling the existence of such corporation, when the
same has been formed under any eneral law operating in this district
therefor, on the ground that suc incorporation, or any renewal or
modification thereof, was procured in like manner.

SEC. 339. An action may be maintained in the name of the United
States against a corporation other than a public one on leave ranted
by the court or judge thereof where the action is triable, for t e purpose of avoiltliing the clilaxifer or annulling the existence of such corration w enever it s a —
pOFirst. ,OiIend against any of the provisions of the acts, or either of
them, creating, renewin , or modifyin such corporation or the provisions of any general aw under whic it became incorporated; or,

Second. Violate the rovisions of any law by which such corporation forfeits its charterlby abuse of its powers; or,

Third. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises by failure to exercise for a period of one year its powers; or,

Fourth. Whenever it has done or omitted any act which amounts
to a surrender of its corporate rights, rivileges, and franchises; or,

Fifth. Whenever it exercises a franc ise or privilege not conferred
upon it b%Vlaw.

Sixth. henever any such corporation or association of persons
shall combine for the purpose of forming a trust or agreement to prevent competition or to control the price, production or sale of any
goods, products, or merchandise. °


SEC. 340. An action may be maintained in the name of the United
States upon the information of the United States attorney or upon the
relation of a private party against the person offending 1n the followin%]crases:
' st. When any person shall usu , intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public oflice, civ' or military, or any franchise
within the district, or any oiiice in a corporation, either pu lic or private, created or formed b or under the authority of the district; or,

Second. When any public ofiicer has done or suffered an act which,
by the rovisions of law, makes a forfeiture of his oiiice; or,

Third: When any association or number of persons act within the
district as a corporation without being duly incorporated.

SEC. 341. The actions rovided for in this chapter shall be com-menced and prosecuted y the United States attorney. When the

action is upon the relation of a private party, as allowed in section
three hundred and forty, the pleadings on be alf of the district shall
be verified by such relator as _1f he were the plaintiff in the action, or
otherwise as provlded 1n sectlon seventy-one; 1n all other cases such
pleading shal be verified by the attorney in like manner, or otherwise
as rovlded in such section. When an action can only be commenced
by eave as provided in section three hundred and thirty-nine, such
leave shall be ranted when it uiplpears by affidavit that the acts or
omissions in suc section specifne ave been done or suffered by such
corporation. When an action is commenced on. the information of a
private person, as allowed in section three hundred and forty, having
an Interest 1n the questlon, such. party, for all the purposes of the
alutilclmb, a(1i1d as 630 the e1fl"ec€_§f any Judgment that may be glven therein,
sa e eem aco am1.

SEC. 342. When directed by the governor, as prescribed in section
three hundred and thirty-eight,’ it shall be the dut of the prosecuting
attorney to commence the act1o_n therem prov} ed for accordingly.
In all other actlons provlded for in th_1s chapter it shall ‘be h1s duty 
commence such act1on upon leave given where leave 1s requlred 1n
every case of public interest, whenever he has reason to beheve that
a cause of action exists and can be roven, and also for like reasons in
every case of prlvate interest on y in which satisfactory security is
EIIIVED to 1'ihe_d1str1ct('.i Eu inciemnlfy 1t aga1nst the costs and expenses

a may e incurre ere y.

SEC. 343. Whenever an action is brought against a person for anv

- of the causes specified in subdivision one of section three hundred and

forty, the United States attorney, in addition to the statement of the
cause of action, may also separately set forth in the com laint the
name of the person rightfully entitled to the oflice or franc ise, with
a statement of the facts constituting his right thereto. In such case,
judgment may be given upon the ri ht of the defendant, and also upon
the right of the person so allege to be entitled, or only upon the
right of the defendant as justice may require.

SEC. 344. If jud ment be given upon.the right of the person so
alle ed to be entit ed, and the same be in favor of such person, he
sha be entitled to the possession and enjoyment of such franchise, or
to take upon himself the execution of such office, after qualifying

himself therefor as required by law, and to demand and receive the

possession of all the books, papers, and property of Whatever nature
elonging thereto._ '

SEC. 345. If judgment be given upon the right and in favor of the
person so alleged to be entitled, he ma afterwards maintain an action
to recover the damages which he ma ave sustained by reason of the

remises. In such action the defen ant may be arrested and held to
Rail in the same manner and with the like effect as in other actions
where the defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 346. Several ersons ma be joined as defendants in an action
for the causes spec’ ed in sub ‘vision one of section three hundred
and forty, and in such action their respective rights to such office or
franchise ma be determined. 3

SEC. 347. hen adefendant, whether a natural erson or a corporation, against whom an action has been commenced or any of the causes
s ecified in subdivision one of section three hundred and fort , is

etermined to be ilty of usurping, or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding or exercisin any ofiice or franchise, udgment shall be given
that such defendant e excluded therefrom. he court may also in its
gijiclfretion impose a fine upon the defendant not exceeding two thousand
rs.

SEC. 348. If it be determined that a corporation against which an

action has been commenced pursuant to this chapter has forfeited its
rate rights, privileges, and franchises, jud ent shall be given that
suc cor ration be excluded therefrom, an that the corporation be
dissolveifo

SEC. 349. If judgment be given against a corporation the effect of
which is that such corporation ceases to exist, or whereby any letters
patent are determined to be vacated or annulled, it shall be the duty of
the United States attorney to cause a copy of the judgment roll to be
filed with the ohicer issuing the certificate of corporation or the letters
patent to such cor ration.

SEC. 350. A ju gment given in any action provided for in this chapter, in respect to costs and disbursements, may be enforced by
execution as a judgment which requires the pafyment of money, and in
all other respects obedience thereto may be en orced by attachment of
the body of the defendant, or, if the defendant be a corporation, the
body of any or all of the oflicers or members of such corporation refusing or neglecting obedience thereto.

CIEIAPTEB. THIRTY-SEVEN.

OF ACTIONS BY AND AGAIN ST EXEOUTORS OR ADLIINISTRATORS»

So
351. atcausesof action do not survive. 357. Executor of his own wrong not lia352. 5 1: causes of action do survive. ble as such.

358. When a death ensues from an in- 358. When action may be commenced
jury. against executor or administrator.

354. Representatives regarded as one per- 359. Claim must be presented before acson. ~ tion can be commenced.

355. When judgment for want of answer 360. When provisional remedies allowed

is evidence of assets. against executors or administra356. Effect of inventory as evidence, and tors. how it may be contradicted or
avoided.

SEC. 351. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person
dies with the person of either party, except as provided in section
three hundred and fifty-three; but the provisions of this chapter shall

not be construed so as to abate the action mentioned in section thirtysix, or to defeat or prejudice the right of action given by section
thirty-one.

SEC. 352. All other causes of action by one person against another,
whether arising on contract or otherwise, S11I‘VlV6 to the personal representatives of the former and against the personal representatives of
the latter. When the cause of action survives, as herein provided, the
executors or administrators may maintain an action thereon a inst
the part against whom the cause of action accrued, or, after his eath,
against is personal representatives.

SEC. 353. When the death of a person is caused by the wrongful act
or omission of another, the personal re resentatives of the former may
maintain an action therefor against the atter, if the former might have
maintained an action, had he lived, against the latter for an injury
done by the same act or omission. Such action shall be commenced
within two years after the death, and the damages therein shall not
exceed ten thousand dollars, and the amount recovered, if any, shall be
exclusively for the benefit of the decedent’s husband or wife and children when he or she leaves a husband, wife, or children, him or her
surviving; and when any sum is collected it must be distributed by the
plaintiff as if it were unbequeathed assets left in his hands, after pa ment of all debts and expenses of administration, and when he or s e
leaves no husband, wife, or children, him or her surviving, the amount
recovered shall be administered as other personal property of the
deceased person; but the plaintiff may deduct therefrom the ex ses of
the action, to be allowed the proper court upon notice, to wgiven

in such manner and to such, persons as the court deems proper.

SEC. 354. In an action a inst several executors or administrators,
they shall all be consider as one person, representing their testator
or lntestate, and judgment may be given and execution issued against
all of them who are defendants in the action, although the summons
be served only on part of them, in the same manner and with the like
effect as if served on all, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 355. When a judgment is given a inst an executor or administrator, for want of an answer such ju gment is not to be deemed
evidence of assets in his hands unless it appear that the complaint
alleged assets and that the summons was serve upon him.

SEC. 356. In an action against executors or administrators, in which
the fact of their having administered the estate of their testator or
intestate," or any art thereof, is put in issue and ‘the inventory of the
property of the eceased returned by them is given in evidence, the
same may be contradicted or avoided by evidence-First. That may roperty has been omitted in such inventory, or
was not returne tllerein at its full value, or that since the return
thereof such property has increased in value;

Second. That such property has perished or been lost without the

fault of such executors or administrators, or that it has been fairly and

duly sold by them at a less price than the value so returned, or that
since the return of the inventory such pro erti has deteriorated in
value. In such action the defendants can notlbe c arged for any things
in action specified in their inventory unless it a pear that they have
been collected or with due diligence might have Ireen.

SEC. 357. No person is liable to an action as executor of his own
wrong for having taken, received, or interfered with the property of

a deceased person, but is responsible to the executors or administrators
of such deceased person for the value of all property so taken or
received and for all injury caused by his interference with the estate
of the deceased.

SEC. 358. An action may be commenced against an executor or

administrator at any time after the expiration of twelve months from 7

the granting of letters testamentary or of administration and until the
final settlement of the estate and discharge of such executor or administrator from the trust, and not otherwise.

SEC. 359. Such action shall not be commenced until the claim of the
plaintiff has been duly presented to such executor or administrator,
and by him disallowed. If such claim is presented after the expiration
of the period of six months, mentioned in sections eight hundred and
twenty and eight hundred and twenty-one, the executor or administrator in an action therefor shall only be liable to the extent of the
assets in his hands at the time the summons is served upon him.

SEC. 360. In an action a ainst an executor or administrator, as such,
the provisional remedies o arrest and attachment shall not be allowed
on account of the acts of his testator or intestate; but for his own acts
as such executor or administrator such remedies shall be allowed for
the same causes and in like manner and with like effect as in actions
generally.

CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT.

GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO ACTIONS OF AN EQUITABLE NATURE.

 
361. Limitation of actions. 367. What objections if not taken b de362. In whose name an action to be pros- murrer or answer may be ma e on
ecuted. the trial.
363. Plaintiffs and defendants, who may 368. Counterclaim of defendant.
be. 369. What causes of actions may be
364. Same sub'ect. united.
365. Service 0 the summons. 370. Arrest and bail in actions of equi366. Service of the summons by publica- table nature.
tion.

SEC. 361. An action of an equitable nature shall only be commenced
within the time limited to commence an action as provided in chapter
two of this title; and an action for the determination of any right or
claim to or interest in real property shall be deemed within the limitations provided for actions for the recovery of the possession of real
property; but no action shall be maintained to set aside, cancel, annul,
or otherwise affect a patent to lands issued by the United States, or to comI any person claiming or holding under such patent to convey the lands
ggscribed therein or any portion of them to the plaintiff in such action,
or to hold the same in trust for or to the use and benefit of such

laintiif, or on account of any matter, thing, or transaction which was
had, done, suffered, or transpired prior to the date of such patent,
unless such action is commenced within ten years from the date of
such patent. In an action upon a new promise, fraud, or mistake the
limitation shall only be deemed to commence from the makin of the
new promise or the discover of the fraud or mistake: Prov‘ ed, This section shall not be construe so as to bar an equitable owner in possession of real property from defending his possession by means of his

equitable title; and in any action for the recovery of any real property,
or the possession thereof, by any person or persons claiming or holding the legal title ‘to the same under such patent against any person or
persons in possession of such real property under any equitable title,
or having in equity the right to the possession thereof as against the
plaintiff in such action, such equitable right of ossession may he
pleaded by answer in such action or set up by comp aint to enjoin such
action or execution upon any judgment rendered therein; and the right
of such equitable owner to defend his possession in such action, or by
complaint for injunction, shall not be barred by lapse of time while an
action for the possession of such real property is not barred by the
provisions of chapter two of this title.

SEC. 362. Every action of an equitable nature shall be prosecuted
in the name of the real party in interest, except as in this section
otherwise provided. An executor or an administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized to sue by statute, may
sue withoutgoining with him the person for whose benefit the action
is prosecute . A trustee of an express trust within the meanin of
this section shall be construed to include a person with whom an in
whose name a contract is made for the benefit of another.

SEC. 363. All persons havin an interest in the subject of the action
and in obtaining the relief fglemanded may be joined as plaintiffs,
except as in this chapter otherwise provided. Any erson may be
made a defendant who has or claims an interest in t e controversy
adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a necessary art to a complete
determination or settlement of the questions invo ve therein.

SEC. 364. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in
interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the consent
of anyone who should have been joinedas plaintiff can not be obtained,
he may be made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the
complaint; and when the question is one of a common or general
interest of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous, and
it may be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or
more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole. .

SEC. 365. \Vhen there is more than one defendant in the action,
service of only one copy of the complaint shall be required, the same
to be served on the defendant desi nated by the plaintiff or his attorney by a direction indorsed on suc summons, but the summons served
on the other defendants shall contain a brief statement of the cause of
action and relief demanded.

SEC. 366. In addition to the causes enumerated in the subdivisions
of section forty-seven, service of the summons may be made by publication in the followin cases:

First. VVhen the suliject of the action is real or personal property

' in the district, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest actual
or contingent therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or partly
in excludingvthe defendant from any lien or interest therein;

Second. hen the action is -for divorce, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 367. The objection to the jurisdiction of the court, or that the
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action,
if not taken by demurrer or answer, may be made on the trial.

SEC. 368. The counterclaim of the defendant shall be one upon
which an action might be maintained b the defendant against the
plaintiff in the action; and in addition to t e cases specified in the subdivisions of section sixty-four, it is suiiicient if it be connected with
the subject of the action. 
SEC. 369. The plaintiff in an action of an equitable nature may unite
severffzl causes of action in the same complaint, where they all arise
out o —

First. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the
same subject of action;

Second. Contract, express or implied; or,

Third. In'uries, with or without force, to property;

Fourth. laims to real property, or any lnterest therein, with or
without an account for the rents and profits thereof;

Fifth. Claims to personal pro erty, or any interest therein, with or
without an account for the use t ereof; '

Sixth. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract or by operation of law.

But the causes of action so united must all belong to one of these
classes, and must affect all the parties to the action, and not require
different places of trial, and shall be separately stated.

SEC. 370. The writ of ne exeat is abolished, and instead thereof the
plaintiff in an action may have the defendant arrested and held to bail
in like manner and with like effect as provided in the chapter of this title “Of arrest and bail.” A cause of arrest in an action shall be the
same as those specified in section ninety-nine, so far as the same may
exist, and not otherwise.

CH‘AP'rER THIRTY-NINE.

OF THE TRIAL OF ISSUES IN ACTIONS OF AN EQUITABLE NATURE.
 .

372. How an when testimony taken. and effect thereof.
373. Conduct of the trial. 378. Same after trial.
37 4. Objections to depositions, when and 379. Chapters 26, 27, and 28 to apply.

how made. 380. When judgment may be 'ven in
375. Same subject. vacation; entry, rol ,and nal rec376. Chapters 20 and 24 shall apply. ord thereof.

SEC. 371. The provisions of chapter fifteen of this title shall apply
to actions of an equitable nature except as in this chapter otherwise or

specially provide Both issues of law and fact shall be tried by the
court, unless referred. Whenever it becomes necessary or proper to
inquire of any fact b Ehe verdict of a jury, the court may lilirect a
statement t ereof an t at a jury be forme to inquire of t e same.
The statement shall be tried as an iisue of facthin an action, and the
verdict may be read as evidence on t e trial of t e action.

SEC. 372. All issues ((1>f fact i3 actiolrlns of an eqtlilitablednature  be
trie by t e court an if trie by t e court t e evi ence s a be
presented and the trial conducted in the sameinanner as other actions:

vrovided, The court may, in its discretion, refer the case to a referee
pursuant to the provisions of this title. In all such actions the court,
in rendering its decisions therein, shall set out in writing its findings of fact upon all the material issued of fact presented by the pleadings
together with its conclusions of law thereon; but such findings of fact
and conclusions of law shall be separate from the judgment, and shall

be filed with the clerk, and shall be incorporated in, and constitute a

part of, the judgment roll of the case; and such findings of fact shall
have the same force and effect, and be equally conclusive, as the verdict
of a jury in an action. Exce tions may be taken durin the trial to
the ruling of the court, and a so to its findings of fact, an a. statement
of such exceptions re ared and settled as in an action, and the same
shall be filed with t e c erk within ten days from the entering of the
decree, or such further time as the court may allow.

SEC. 373. When the action is called for trial, the trial shall proceed
in the order prescribed in subdivisions one, two, three, four, and five
of section one hundred and eighty—seven, unless the court for special
reasons otherwise directs.

SEC. 374. Upon the trial either arty may object to the reading of a
deposition, or any part thereof, W . en offered by the other because the
witness is incompetent, or the testimony is so, or irrelevant, and not
otherwise. All other objections to de ositions shall be taken by written exceptions filed with the clerk wit in twenty days from the filing
of the testimony, and may be heard and decided by the court or judge
thereof at an time thereafter before the trialof the action.

SEC. 375. hen it appears from the deposition that a par was
present at the examination of a witness, suc party shall not be eard

to object to anything in or concerning such deposition not excepted to
at the time of taking the same, except the objections allowed to be
taken on the trial as rovided in section three hundred and seventytwo of this title. hen any part of the examination of a witness is
excluded for any reason, so much of the cross-examination as relates
to the same matter is excluded also. ' '

SEC. 376. The provisions of chapters twenty and twenty-four of

this title shall apply to actions of an equitable nature, but the final
determination of the rights of the parties thereto is called a judgment,
and any intermediate determination is called an order. '

SEC. 377. A judgment dismissing an action may be given against
the plaintiff in any of the cases specified in subdivisions one, two, and
three of section two hundred and thirty—seven, except the last clause
of such subdivision three. Such judgment is a determination of the
action, but shall not have the effect to bar another action for the same
cause or any art thereof.

SEC. 378. henever upon the trial it is determined that the plaintiff
is not entitled to the relief claimed, or any part thereof, a judgment
shall be given dismissing the action, and such judgment shall have the
effect to bar another action for the same cause or an part thereof,
unless such determination be on account of a failure 0 proof on the
part of the plaintiff, in which case the court may, on motion of such
plaintiff, give such judgment without prejudice to another action by
the plaintiff for the same cause or any part thereof.

SEC. 379. The provisions of chapters twenty-six and twenty-seven

of this title, from and inclusive of section two hundred and forty-one '

to and inclusive of section two hundred and forty-four, shall apply to
actions of an equitable nature. The rovisions of chapter twentyeight shall apply to controversies whic mightibe the subject of such
an action. .

SEC. 380. When upon the submission of such an action the court is
unadvised as to what judgment ought to be given therein, it may
reserve the case for further consideration, and may decide the same
and give such judgment in vacation by filing the same with the clerk.

When a judgment is given in an action of an equitable nature, unless
otherwise ordered by the court, it shall be entered by the clerk within
the day It IS given. Sections two hundred and fifty-one, two hundred
and fifty-two, two hundred and fifty-four, two hundred and fifty-five,
and two hundred and fifty-nine, of this title shall a ply to actions of
an equitable nature. The rovisions of chapter tfurty of this title

shall apply to judgments an the final record or roll thereof.
CHAPTER FORTY.

OF THE MODE OF ENFORCING A JUDGMENT IN ACTIONS OF AN
EQUITABLE NATURE.
 
381. When equivalent to performance. 382. Certain chapters to apply.

SEC. 381. A judgment requiring] a party to make a conve ance,
transfer, release, acquittance, or ot er l1ke act within a period t erein

specified shall, if such party do not comply therewith, be deemed and .

taken to be e uivalent thereto. The court or judge thereof may
enforce an or er or judgment in an action of an equitable nature,
other than for the payment of money, by punishing the party refusing
or neglecting to comply therewith, as for a contempt.

SEC. 382. _The provisions of chapter thirty-one of this title shall
ap ly to the enforcement of jud ments so far as the nature of the
ju gment may require or admit o it, but the mode of trial of an issue
of act in a proceeding against a garnishee shall be according to the

mode of tria of such 1ssue 1n an action.

CHAPTER FORTY-ONE. .

OF INJUNCTION.

 

383. Definition of, and how permanent 386. When defendant may be restrained
injunction enforced. during the pendency of the action.

384. Allowance of injunction. 387. Allowance of injunctionafter answer.

385. Service of the order allowing the 388. Motion to vacate or modify injuncinjunction. tion. 

SEC. 383. An injunction is an order requiring a defendant in an
action to refrain from a particular act. It is only allowed as a provisional remedy, and when a judgment is given enjoining a defendant,
such judgment shall be effectual and binding on such defendant without
other proceeding or process, and may be enforced, if necessary, as
provided in section three hundred and eighty-one.

SEC. 384. An injunction may be allowed b the court or judge
thereof at an time after the commencement 0 the action and before
jud ment. efore allowing the same the court or judge shall require
of t e plaintiff an undertakin , with one or more sureties, to the effect
that he will pay all costs an disbursements that may be decreed to
the defendant, and such damages, not exceeding an amount therein
specified, as he may sustain by reason of the injunction if the same be
wrongful or without sudicient cause.

SEC. 385. The undertaking and aihdavits, if any upon which the
injunction is allowed, shall be filed with the clerk. The order may be
served as a summons and returned to the clerk, with a proof of service indorsed thereon, except that the service shall be made upon the
defendant personally. The order may be filed with the clerk at once,
and shall be deemed to be served upon the defendant from the date of
its allowance, if it a pear therefrom that the defendant appeared
before the court or ju ge at the allowance thereof.

SEC. 386. W'hen it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is
entitled to the relief. demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act the
commission or continuance of which during the litigation would produce injury to the plaintiff; or when it appears by aflidavit that the
defendant is doing, or threatens or is about to do, or is procuring or
suffering to be done, some act in violation of the plainti1f’s rights concerning the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual; or when it ap ears by affidavit that the defendant threatens
or is about to remove or is ose of his property, or any part thereof,
with intent to delay or de raud his creditors, an‘ injunction may be

. allowed to restrain such act, removal, or disposition.

SEC. 387. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant
has answered, except upon notice, but in such case the defendant may
be restrained until the decision of the court or judge allowing or refusing the injunction; and before answer, if the court or judge deem
it proper that the defendant should be heard before allowing an injunction, an order may be made requiring the defendant to show cause, at
a s ecified time and place, why the injunction should not be allowed,
and) in the meantime the defendant may be restrained.

SEC. 388. If the injunction be allowed without notice, the defendant
may, at any time after answer, and before trial, apply, upon notice, to
the court .or judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The ap lication may be made upon affidavits in addition to the answer, and) if
so, the plaintiff may oppose the same by aflidavits, or other evidence,
in additlon to those upon which the injunction was allowed. If, upon
the hearing of the motion, it satisfactorily appear that the injunction
should not have been allowed, either in whole or in part, it shall be
vacated or modified accordingly. 3

CHAPTER FoR'rY-Two.

OF THE FORECLOSURE OF ' LIENS UPON REAL PROPERTY.

 

389. Liens ucpon real property, how fore- 394. Action for foreclosure can not be
close . maintained during pendency of

390. Parties defendant. action for the debt.

391. Where two or more liens upon the 395. Nature of judgment where debt
same (property. payable in installments some of

392. How ju gment enforced. which not due.

393. Propierty scald upon foreclosure, how 396. Effect of payment before sale.
re eeme .

SEC. 389. A lien upon real property, other than that of a judgment,
whether created by mortgage or otherwise, shall be foreclosed, and
the property ad'udged to be sold to satisfy the debt secured thereby,
by an action 0 an equitable nature. ln such action, in addition to
the judgment of foreclosure and sale, if it appear that a promissory
note or other personal obligation for the payment of the debt has been
given by the mort agor or other lien debtor, or by any other person
as rincial or ot erwise, the court shall also ad'ude a recoverv of
the amount of such debt against such person or persons, as the case
may be, as in the case of an ordinary judgment for therecovery of
monev.

SEC. 390. Any person having a lien subsequent to the plaintiff upon
the same roperty or any part thereof, or who has given a romissory
note or ot er personal obligation for the payment of the ebt or any
part thereof, secured by the mortgage or other lien which is the subject of the action, shal be made a defendant in_the action, and any
person having a rior lien may be made defendant at the option of the
plaintiff, or by t e order of_ the court when deemed necessary

SEC. 391. When It is adjudged that any of the defendants have a
lien u on the pro erty, the court shall make a like judgment in relatlon t ereto and t e debt secured thereby as if such defendant were a
plaintiff in the action; and when a judgment is given foreclosing two
or more liens upon the same property or any portion thereof in favor
of different persons not united in interest, such judgment shall determine and specify the order of time, according to their priority, in
which the debts secured by such lien shall be satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale of the property.

SEC. 392, The jud ment_may be enforced by execution as an ordinary judgment for t e recovery of money except as in this section
otherwise or specially provided:

First. When a judgment of foreclosure and sale is iven, an execution may issue thereon against the property adjudge to be sold. If
the judgment is in favor of the plaintiff onlv, the execution may issue
as in or inary cases, but if it be in favor of different persons not united
in interest, it shall issue upon the joint request of such persons, or

upon the order of the court or judge thereof, on the motion of either

of them.

Second. When the judgment is also against the defendants or any

one of them in erson, and the roceeds of the sale of the groperty
t e

upon which the ien is foreclose is not sufficient to satisfy judgment as to the sum remaining unsatisfied to either, the judgment may
be enforced by execution as in ordinary cases. When in such case the
judgment is in favor of different persons not united in interest it shall
be deemed a separate judgment as to such persons, and may be
enforced accordin ly.

SEC. 393. A jufgment of foreclosure shall have the effect to bar the
equity of redemption, and pro erty sold on execution’ issued upon a
judgment may be redeemed in ike manner and with like effect as real
property sold on an execution issued on a judgment.

SEC. 394. During the pendency of an action for the recovery of a
debt secured by any lien mentioned in section three hundred and
eightv—nine, an action can not be maintained for the foreclosure of
such lien, nor thereafter, unless judgment be given in such action that
the plaintiff recover such debt or some art thereof and an execution
thereon against the property of the efendant in the judgment is
returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.

SEC. 395. When an action is commenced to foreclose a lien by which
a debt is secured, which debt is payable in installments, either of
interest or principal, and any of such installments is not then due, the
court shall adjudge a foreclosure of the lien, and may also ad'udge a
sale of the property for the satisfaction of the whole of such ebt, or
so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the installment then
due, with costs of action; and in the latter case the judgment of foreclosure as to the remainder of the roperty may be enforced b 1 an
order of sale, in Whole or in part, whenever default shall be ma e in
the payment of the installments not then due.

SEC. 396. If, before a jud ent is given, the amount then due, with
the costs of action, is broug t into court and paid to the clerk, the
action shall be dismissed, and if the same be done after judgment and
before sale, the effect of the jud ment as to the amount then due and
paid shall be terminated, and e execution, if any have issued, be
recalled by the clerk; When an installment not due is adjudged to be
paid, the court shall determine and specify in the judgment What sum
shall be received in satisfaction thereof, which sum may be e ual to
such installment, or otherwise, according to the present value t ereof.
The provisions of this chapter as to liens upon personal property are
not to be construed so as to exclude a person having such a lien from
anv other remedy or right in regard to such property.

CHAPTER FORTY-THREE.

OF ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

Sec.
Who may maintain an action for 424. Mortgages and other securities, how
partition. _ taken by referees.
. Complaint,'what it shall contain. 425. Estate for life or years, how dis. What lien creditors may be made posed of.
defendants, etc. 426. Compensation of such estate in case
. Summons, how directed. of sale.
. U onwhom summons may be served 427. If consent not given, court to deterpublication. mine the value of such estate.
. Answer, what to contain. 428. Rule for the determination of the
. Rights of the parties may be put in value.
issue, etc. 429. Rights of unknown tenants to be
404. When order of sale may be made protected.
instead of partition. . Inchoate orcontingent interests, how
405. How referees to make partition. provided for.
406. Proceedings on report of referees. . Terms of sale to be made known at
407. Who not affected thereby. the time of sale. 6
408. Expenses of referees. . Referees not to purchase.
409. When order of sale may be made . Report of referees, what to contain.
_ upon report of referees. . . Report may be excepted to; effect
410. In case of partial sale, how estate for of confirmation.
life or years set off. ' . Proceedinos when a party or incum411. When reference ordered to ascertain I brancertbecomes purchaser.
lien creditors. . When and what proceeds of sale to
412. Referees toascertain amount of liens. be invested.
413. Notice to lien creditors. . In whose name securities taken or
414. Duties of referee. investments made.
415. Exceptions to report. . Same subject.
416. Effect of confirmation of report. . When clerk to keep account and
417. Distribution of proceeds of sale. receive interest.
418. When party may be required to ex- . When equal partition can not be
haust other securities. made, court may adjudge compen419. Proceedings not to delay or affect cer- sation.
tain arties. . When proceedings of sale paid to
420. Procee s of sale to be distributed or ouardian of infant.
' aid into court. . When paid to guardian of insane
421. W en action to continue.
422. Sale by referees, how made.
423. Court may direct sale to be made on
credit.

person.
. Costs of partition, how apportioned.

SEC. 397. When several persons hold and are in possession of real
property as tenants 1n common, 1n Wh1ch one or more of them have

an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, or when several persons
hold alst tenants in common a vefsteld remainder or reversion in any real
pro e y, any one or more o t em ma maintain an action of an
equitable nature for the artition of suchyreal property, according to
the respective rights of t e persons interested therein, and for a sale
of such property, or a part of it, if it appears that a partition can not
be had without great prejudice to the owners. '

SEC. 398. The interest of all persons in the property, whether such
persofps Be knpwn or lplnklnowmfshall tlrglset forthhin tlahe ccifmplaiint,
speci ca y an partic ar y, as ar as own to t e ainti ° an if
one or more of the parties, _or the share or uantity of ‘interest’ of any
of the parties, be unknown to the laintifi, or be uncertain or contingent, or the ownership of the in eritance depend upon an executory device, or the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such
pagties caan ngthbe rliamecflf, tlliailzlfactkshall ge set florth in lthe complairit.

SEC. 399. The plaintiff shall make creditors having liens upon the
property or any gortion thereof, defendants in the agion. hen the
ien is upon an undivided interest or estate of any of the parties, such
lien, if a partition be made, is thenceforth a lien only upon the share
assigned to such party, but such share shall be first charged with its
just proportion o the costs of the partition, in preference to such lien.

SEC. 400. The summons shall be directed by name to all the tenants
in common who are known, and _in the same manner to all lien creditors who are made parties to the action, and generall to all persons
unknown, having or claiming an interest or estate in t e property. 4

SEC. 401. If a party having a share or interest in or lien upon the
property be unknown, or either of the known parties reside out of the

district or can not be found therein, and such fact be made to appear
by affidavit, the summons may be served upon such absent or unknown
party by ublication, directed by the court or judge, as in ordinary
cases. hen service of the summons is made by publication, it must
be accompanied by a brief description of the property which is the
subject of the action. ~

SEC. 402. The defendant shall set forth in his answer the nature and
extent of his interest in the property, and if he be a lien creditor, how
such lien was created, the amount of the debt secured thereby, and
remaining due, and whether such debt is secured in any other way,
and if so, the nature of such other security.

SEC. 403. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs as well as
defendants, may be put in issue, tried, and determined in such action,
and where a defendant fails to answer, or where a sale of the property
is necessary, the title shall be ascertained by proof to the satisfaction
of the court before the judgment for partition or sale is given.

SEC. 404. If it be alleged in the complaint and established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence, without such allegation in the
complaint, to the satisfaction of the court, that the property, or any
part of it, is so situated that partition can not be. ma e without reat
prejudice to the owners, the court may order a sale thereof, an for

that purpose may appoint one or more referees. Otherwise, u on the ' .

requisite proofs being made, it shall adjudge a partition accor ing to
the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the court, and
appoint three referees therefor, and shall designate the ortion to
remain undivided for the owners whose interests remain un nown or
not ascertained.

SEC. 405. In making the partition the referees shall divide theproperty and allot the several portions thereof to the respective parties,
quality and quantity relatively considered, according to the respective
rights of the parties as determined by the court, designating the several
portions by proper landmarks, and may emlploy a surveyor with the
necessary assistants to aid them therein. 0T e referees shall make a
report of their proceedings, specifyin therein the manner of executing
their trust, describing the pro erty lvided and the shares allotted to
each party, with a particular escription of each share.

SEC. 406. The court may confirm or set aside the report in whole or
in part, and if necessary aplpoint new referees. Upon the report being
confirmed, a judgment sha be -given that such partition be effectual
forever, which judgment shall be binding and conclusiveFirst. On all parties named therein, and their le 1 representatives,
who have at the time any interest in the property ivided, or any part
thereof, as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as
entitled to the reversion, remainder, or inheritance of such property
or any part thereof after the termination of a particular estate therein,
or who by any contin ency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in
the property, or who ave an interest in any undivided share thereof
as tenants for years or for life;

Second. On all persons interested in the property who may be
unknown, to whom notice shall have been given of the application for
paatition by publication, as directed by section four hundred and one;
an

Third. On all other persons claiming from such parties or persons,
or either of them.

SEC. 407. But such judgment and partition shall not affect any tenants for years or for life of the whole of the property which is the
subject of partition; nor shall such judgment or partition preclude any
person, except such as are specified in the last section, from claiming title to the property in uestion, or from controverting the title of the
parties between whom t e partition shall have been made.

SEC. 408. The expenses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed, shall be ascertained and
allowed by the court, and the amount thereof, together with the fees
allowed by law to the referees, shall be paid by the plaintiff, and may
be allowed as art of the charges.

SEC. 409. I the referees report to the court that the property of
which partition shall have been adjudged, or any separate portion
thereof, is so situated that a partition thereof can not be made without
great prejudice to the owners and the court is satisfied that such report
1s correct, it may thereupon, by an order, direct the referees to sell
the property or separate portion thereof so situated.

SEC. 410. When a part of the property only is ordered to be sold,
if there be an estate for life or years in an undivided share of the
property, the whole of such estate may be set off in any part of the
property not ordered to be sold.

SEC. 411. If an order of sale be made, and before a distribution of
the proceeds thereof, the plaintiffs shall roduce to the court a certificate showing the liens remainin unsatis ed, if any, by judgment upon
the pro erty, or any portion t ereof, and unless he do so the court
shall or er a referee to ascertain them.

SEC. 412. If it appear by such certificate, or reference in case the

certificate is not produced, that any such liens exist, the court shall
appoint a referee to ascertain what amount remains due thereon or
secured thereby, respectively, and the order of priority in which they
are entitled to be paid out of the property.

SEC. 413. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be served, at least ten
days before the time for a pearance, on each person having suchlien
by judgment to appear be ore the referee at a specified time and place
to make proof by his own aflidavit or otherwise of the true amount
due, or to become due, contin ently or absolutely, on his judgment.

SEC. 414. The referee shal receive the evidence and report the
names of the creditors whose liens are established, the amounts thereon

or secured thereby, and their priority, respectively, and whether con- '

tingent or absolute. He shall attach to his report the proof of service
of the notices and the evidence before him.

SEC. 415. The report of the referee«-may be excepted to by either
party to the action or to the proceedings before the referee, in like
manner and with like effect as in ordinary cases. If a lien creditor be
absent from the district, or his residence therein be unknown, and
that fact appear by aiiidavit, the court or judge thereof may by order
direct that service of the notice ma be made upon his agent or attorney of record or by publication t ereof for such time and in such
manner as the order may prescribe.

SEC. 416. If the report of the referee be confirmed, the order of
confirmation is binding and conclusive upon all parties to theaction
and upon the lien creditors who have been duly served with the notice
tpl appear before the referee as provided in section four hundred and
t irteen.

SEC. 417. The proceeds of the sale of the incumbered property shall
be distributed by the judgment of the court as follows:

First. To ay its just proportion of the general costs of the action;

Second. 0 pay the costs of the reference;

Third. To satisfy the several liens, in their order of priority, by
payment of the sums due and to become due,‘ according to the judgment°

Fourth. The residue among the owners of the property sold, accordin to their res ective shares. ~

SEC. 418. W enever any party to the action or who holds a lien
upon the property or any part thereof has other securities for the
payment of the amount of such lien, the court may, in its discretion,
order such securities to be exhausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just deduction to be made from the
amount of the lien on the property on account thereof. .

SEC. 419. The proceedings to ascertain the amount of the liens and
to determine their priority, as above provided, or those hereinafter
authorized to determine the rights of parties to funds paid into court,
shall not delay the sale nor affect any other party whose rights are not
involved in such proceedings.

SEC. 420. The proceeds of sale and the securities taken by the
referees, or an part thereof, shall be distributed by them to the persons entitled t ereto whenever the court so directs. But if no such
direction be given all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into
court or deposited as directed by the court.

SEC. 421. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or parcel belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and who are known,

, are paid into court, the action may be continued as between such arties

for the determination of their respective claims thereto, which s all be
ascertained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be
taken in court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the court, and the
court may, if necessary, require such parties to present the facts or
law in controversy, by leading, as in an original action.

SEC. 422. All sales of) real plroplerty made by the referees shall be
made by ublic auction to the ig est bidder, in the manner required
for the sa e of real property on execution. The notice shall state the
time, place, and terms of sale, and if the property or any part of it is
to be sold subject to a prior estate, charge, or lien, that shall be stated
in the notice.

SEC. 423. The court shall, in the order of sale, direct the terms of
credit which may be allowed for the purchase money of any portion of
the premises of which it may direct a sale on credit; and for that portion of which the purchase money is requiredby the provisions hereinafter contained to be invested for the benefit of unknown owners,
infants, and parties out of the district.

SEC. 424. The referees may take separate mortgages and other
securities for the whole or convenient portions of the purchase money
of such parts of the property as are directed by the court to be sold
on credit, in the name of the clerk of the court, and his successor in
ofhce; and for the shares of any known owner of full age, in the name
of such owner.

SEC. 425. When the estate of any tenant for life or years, in any
undivided part of the property in question, shall have been admitted
by the parties, or ascertained by the court to be existing at the time
of the order of sale, and the person entitled to such estate shall have
been made a arty to the action, such estate may be first set off out of
any part of t e property, and a sale made of such parcel, subject to
the rior unsold estate of such tenant therein; but if in the judgment
of t e court a due re ard to the interest of all the arties require that
such estate be also so d, the sale may be so ordered?

SEC. 426. Any person entitled to an estate for life or years in an
undivided part of the property, whose estates shall have been sol ,
shall be entitled to receive such sum in gross as may be deemed upon
principles of law a plicable to annuities a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and w 1ch the person so entitled shall consent to acce t
instead thereof, by an instrument duly acknowledged or roved in t e
same manner as deeds for the purpose of record, and ed with the
c er . _

SEC. 427. If such consent be not given, as provided in the last preceding section, before the report of sale, the court shall ascertain and
determine what proportion of the proceeds of the sale, after deducting
expenses, will be .a just and reasonable sum to be invested for the
benefit of the person entitled to such estate for life or years, and shall
order the same to be deposited in court for that urpose.

SEC. 428. The roportion of the proceeds of t e sale to be invested
as provided in t e section last preceding shall be ascertained and
determined in the several cases as follows:

First. If an estate in dower be included in the order of sale, its proportion shall be one—third of the proceeds of the sale of the property,
or of the sale of the undivided share in such property upon which the
claim of dower existed;

Second. If an estate by the curtesy, or other estate for life or years,
be included’ in the order of sale, its proportion shall be the whole roceeds of the sale of the property, or of the sale of the undivided s are
thereof in which such estate may be.

And in all cases the proportion of the expenses of the proceeding
shall be deducted from the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 429. If the persons entitled to such estate for life or years be
unknown, the court shall provide for the rotection of their rights in
the samg manner, as far as may be, as ii) they‘ were known and had
ap eare .

SEC. 430. In all cases of sales in partition, when it ap ears that a
married woman has an inchoate right of dower in any of t e property
sold, or that any person has a veste or contingent future right or estate
therein, the court shall ascertain and settle the proportional value of
such inchoate. contin ent, or vested right or estate according to the

rinciples of law app icable to annuities and survivorship, and shall

'rect such proportion of the proceeds of sale to beinvested, secured,
or paid over in such manner as to protect the rights and interests of
the parties.

SEC. 431. In all cases of sales of property, the terms shall be made
known at the time; and if the premises consist of distinct farms or
lots, they shall be sold separately, or otherwise if the court so directs.

SEC. 432. Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of
either of them, shall be interested in any purchase; nor shall the guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property,
being the subject of the action, exce t for the benent of the infant.
All sales contrary to the provisions o this section shall be void.

SEC. 433. After completing the sale, the referees shall report the
same to the court, with a description of the different parcels of lands
sold to each purchaser, the name of the urchaser, the price paid or
secured, the terms and conditions of the sa e, and the securities, if any,
taken. The report shall be filed with the clerk.

SEC. 434. The report of sale may be excepted to by any party
entitled to a share of the proceeds, in like manner and with like effect
as in ordinary cases. If the sale be connrmed, the order of confirmation shall direct the referees to execute conve ances and take securities

ursuant to such sale, which acts the are ereby authorized to do.

uch order shall have the effect to disc arge the property of the estate
or interest of every person ‘mentioned in section four hundred and six,
and of tenants for life or ears of the property sold, and shall be binding and conclusive upon a 1 such persons, as if the same were a decree
for the partition of such property, and upon all persons whomsoever
as to the regularity of the proceedin s concerning such sale, except as
provided in section four hundred an thirt -two.

SEC. 435. When a part entitled to a s are of the property or an
incumbrancer entitled to ave his lien paid out of the sale becomes a
purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to him.

SEC. 436. When there are proceeds of sale belonging to an unknown
owner, or to a person without the district who has no legal representatives within it, or when there are proceeds arisin from the sale of an
estate subject to the prior estate of a tenant for ife or years, which
are paid into the court or otherwise deposited by order of the court,

the same may be invested under such order in securities on interest for
the benefit of the persons entitled thereto.

SEC. 437. When the security for the proceeds of sale is taken, or
when an investment of any such proceeds is made, it shall be done,
except as herein otherwise provided, in the name of the clerk of the
court and his successors in oflice, who shall hold the same for the use
and benefit of the parties interested, sub'ect to the order of the court.

SEC. 438. When security is taken by t e referees on a sale, and the
parties interested in such security, by an instrument in writing under
their hands delivered to the referee, agree u on the shares and proportions to which they are respectively entitled), or when shares and proportions have been previousl ad°udged by the court, such securities
shall be taken in the names 0 an payable to the parties respectively
entitled thereto, and shall be delivered to such arties upon their
receipt therefor. Such agreement and receipt sha 1 be returned and
filed with the clerk.

SEC. 439. The clerk in whose name a security is taken or by whom
an investment is made, and his successors in oflice, shall receive the
interest and princi al as it becomes due, and ap ly and invest the same
as the court may irect; and shall file in his ofIl)ce all securities taken,
and kee an account in a book provided and kept for that purpose in
the clerk’s office, free for inspection by all persons, of investments
and moneys received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 440. “Then it ap ears that partition can not be made equal between the parties, accor ing to their res ective rights, without rejudice to the rights and interests of some of) them, the court may a judge
compensation to be made by one party to another on account of inequality of partition; but such compensation shall not be required to
be made to others by owners unknown, nor by infants unless in case
of an infant it appear that he has personal pro erty sufficient for that
purpose. and that his interest will be romote thereby.

SEC. 441. VVhen the share of an in ant is sold the proceeds of the
sale may be paid by the referees making the sale to his general guardian, or the special guardian appointed for him in the action, upon such
guardian giving the security required by law or directed by order of
the court. ,

SEC. 442. The guardian who may be entitled to the custody and
management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged
incapable of conducting his own affairs, whose interest in real property shall have been sold, may receive in behalf of such person his
share of the roceeds of such real property from the referees on
executing, wit sufficient sureties, an undertaking, approved by the
judge of the court, that he will faithfully discharge the trust reposed
in him, and will render a true and just account to the person entitled,
or to his legal representatives.

SEC. 443. The costs of partition, including fees of referees and
other disbursements, shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled
to share in the lands divided, in proportion to their respective interests
therein, and may be included and specified in the judgment. In that
case they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the jud ment may
be enforced by execution against the parties separately. \§’hen, however, a litigation arises between some of the parties only, the court
may require the expenses of such litigation to be paid by thejparties
thereto, or any of them.

CHAPTER F ORTY-FOUR.

OF ACTIONS OF AN EQUITABLE NATURE BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS,
ADMINISTRATORS, LEGATEES, HEIRS, AND DEVISEES.
 

444. In what actions chapter 37 shall 453. Section 452 not to affect a case where
apply. . debt charged upon real estate by
445. An action against next of kin by will.
creditor of the estate. 454. Preference of debts, and definition
446. Each liable for the whole amount thereof. ‘
received. - 455. How judgmentagainst heiror devisee
447. Next of kin may maintain an action enforced.‘
to compel contribution. A 456. When heirs or devisees personally
448. An action against legatees by creditor liable. ‘
of the testator. 457. Judgment against several heirs or
449. Apportionment of costs in an action devisees jointly to be apportioned
against next of kin or legatees. among them.
450. Payment of the amount recovered . Devisees not liable when there are
against any one satisfies the judg.- assets.
ment as to such person. . Liable for deficiency only.
451. Heirs or devisees liable for the debts . Two preceding sections not to affect
of their ancestor or testator. a case where the debt is charged

452. Inhwlgiit cases and to what extent not upon the real property by the will.
a e.

SEC. 444. The provisions of chapter thirty-seven of this title shall
a ply to actions of an equitable nature by and against executors and
a ministrators, except as in this chapter otherwise or speciall provided. Sections three hundred and fifty-one, three hundred an nftytwo, and three hundred and fifty-three of such chapter shall not so

apply. All causes of actions of an equitable nature by one person
against another, however arising, survive to the personal representatives of the former and against the personal representatives of the
latter. When the cause of action survives, as herein provided, the
executors or administrators may maintain an action of an e uitable
nature thereon against the party against whom the cause 0 action

accrued, or after is death against his personal representatives.

SEC. 445. The next of kin of a deceased person are liable to an
action by a creditor of the estate to recover the distributive shares
received out of such estate, or to so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy his debt. The action may be against all the next of kin
jointly or against any one or more of them severally.

SEC. 446. In such action the plaintiff may recover the value of all
the assets received by all the defendants in the action if necessary to
satisfy his debt; and the amount of the recovery shall be apportioned
among the defendants, in proportion to the value of the assets received
by each; and no allowance or deduction shall be made from such
amount on account of there being other next of kin to whom assets
have also been delivered. 

SEC. 447. Any one of the next of kin against whom a recovery is
bad pursuant to section four hundred and forty-six may maintain an
action against all the other next of kin of the deceased person to whom
any such assets have been delivered jointly, or against any of them
separately, for a just and equal contribution, and may recover of each
defendant such amount as shall be in the same proportion to the whole
sum collected of the plaintiff as the value of the assets delivered to

such defendant bore to the value of all the assets delivered to all the
next of kin of the deceased.

SEC. 448. Legatees are liable to an action by a creditor of the testator
to recover the value of an legacy received by them._ The action may
be maintained against a the legatees jointl or against any one or
more of them severally. In such action the p intiff shall not recover
unless he shoWs— '

First. That no assets were delivered by the executor or administrator
of the testator to his next of kin; or

Second. That the value of such assets has been recovered by some
other creditor; or

Third. That such assets are not sufficient to satisfy the demand of
the plaintiff.

And in the last case he shall recover only the deficiency. The Whole
amount which the laintiif shall recover shall be ap ortioned among
all the legatees of t e testator in proportion to the va ue of their legacies respectively, and his proportion shall only be recovered of each
le atee.

SEC. 449. In an action against several next of kin or legatees jointly
for assets delivered to them, if a recovery be had against such next of
kin or le atees, the cost of such action shall be apportioned among the
several efendants in proportion to the amount recovered against each
of t em.

SEC. 450. A decree against several next of kin or legatees shall be
satisfied as to any one of them by the payment or satisfaction of the
amount recovered against such defendant.

SEC. 451. Heirs and devisees are liable to an action by a creditor of
a deceased person to recover the debt of their ancestor or testator to
the extent of the value of any real property inherited by or devised
to them. If such action be against the heirs, all the heirs who are liable
shall be made parties to the action.

SEC. 452. But the heirs are not liable for the debt, unless it a pear
that the personal assets of the deceased Were insuflicient to disc arge
it, or that after due proceedings the creditor has been unable to collect
the debt from the personal representatives of the deceased,‘ or from
his next of kin or egatees. If the personal assets were suiiicient to

ay a part of the debt, or in case a part thereof shall have been colected, the heirs of such deceased erson are liable for the residue.

SEC. 453. The section last prece in shall not affect the liability of
heirs for a debt of their ancestor W ere such debt was by his Will
expressly charged exclusively on the real properties descended to such
heirs, or Where such debt is by the Will expressly directed to be paid
out of the real property descended before resorting to the personal
property.

SEC. 454. In cases Where the next of kin, legatees, heirs, and devisees are liable for the debts of their ancestors, as herein provided,
they shall be liable therefor Without other priority or preference than
suc ancestors would be. The Word “debt,” as used 1n this chapter,

shall be construed to include all claims for the payment of money
Which survive against the personal representatives of the deceased, as
provided in section four hundred and forty-four.

SEC. 455. A judgment against an heir or devisee on account of the
debt of his ancestor or testator may be enforced by execution against
the real property shovvn to have descended to the heir or devisee, and
not otherwise. Such judgment shall have preference as a lien on such

real property to any jud ent or decree obtained against such heir or
devisee on account of a ebt or demand due in his own right.

SEC. 456. When it ap ears in the action that before the commencement thereof the heir or devisee has aliened the real ro erty descended
to him, or any part thereof, he shall be personall liable for the value
of the property so aliened, and a judgment may e given against him
therefor, to be enforced by execution, as if the judgment were for his
own debt. N 0 real roperty aliened in good faith and for a valuable
consideration by an eir or devisee before action commenced against
him is liable to an execution for the debt of his ancestor or testator,
or in any manner affected by the judgment therefor against such heir
or devisee.

SEC. 457. In an action against several heirs jointly, or several devisees jointly, the amount which the plaintiff recovers must be apportioned among all the heirs of the ancestor or devisees of the testator in
pro ortion to the value of the real property descended or devised, and
suc proportion only can be recovered of each heir or devisee.

SEC. 458. A devisee shall not be liable to the creditor of his testator
unless it appear that the personal assets of the testator and the real
property descended to his heirs were insuflicient to discharge the debt,
or unless it appear that after due proceedin s the creditor has been
unable to recover the debt, or any part thereo ,=- from the personal representatives of the testator or from his next of kin, legatees, or heirs.

SEC. 459. In either of the cases s ecified in the section last recedin
the amount of the deficiency of t e personal assets, and of the rea
property descended, to satisfy the debt of the plaintiff, r the amount
which such plaintiff may have failed to recover from the%ersonal representatives of the testator, his next of kin, legatees, and heirs, may
be recovered of the devisees of such testator, to the extent of the value
of the real property devised to them respectively.

SEC. 460. The two sections last preceding shall not affect the liabilit
of devisees for a debt of their testator where such debt was by his W’
expressly charged exclusively u n the real property devised or by
the terms of the will made paya le by the devisee, or out of the real
property devised, before resortin to the personal property or to any
other real property descended or evised.

CHAPTER FORTY-FIVE.

ACTIONS TO DECLARE VOID OR DISSOLVE THE MARRIAGE CONTRACT.

 

461. Husband or wife may maintain 468. Residence of parties.
action. 469. Same.

462. What marriages absolutely void. 470. Pleas in bar by defendant.

463. What marriages void when so de- 471. Maintenance and custody of children
clared. pending action.

464. At whose action marriages declared 472. Judgment for maintenance for the
void. custod of children. _

465. At whose action marriages declared 473. Power 0 court to modify decree.
voidable. 474. Right to remarry.

466. Action to declare marriage valid.

467. For what causes marriages may be
dissolved.

SEC. 461. A husband or Wife may maintain an action of an equitable
nature against the other for the dissolution of the marriage contract,
or to have the same declared void, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 462. All marria es which are prohibited by law on account of
consanguinity between t e parties, or on account of either of them having a former husband or wife then living, shall, if solemnized within
the district, be absolutely void. A

SEC. 463. When either of the parties to a marriage shall be incapable
of making such contract or assenting thereto for want of legal a e or
sufficient understanding, or when the consent of either party sha 1 be
obtained b force or fraud, such marriage shall be void from the time
it is so dec ared by the decree of a court having jurisdiction thereof.

SEC. 464. A marriage may be declared void from the beginning, at
the action of either party, for any of the causes specified in section
four hundred and sixty-two, and whether so declared or not shall be
deemed and held to be void in any action or proceeding whatever in
which the same may come in question; but a marriage once declared
to be valid by the judgment of a court havin jurisdiction thereof, in
an action for that purpose, can not afterwar s be questioned for the
same cause, directly or otherwise. .

SEC. 465. A marriage shall not be declared void for any of the causes
specified in section four hundred and sixt -three, except at the action
or claim of the party laboring under the isability, or upon Whom the
force or fraud was imposed or practiced; nor at the action or claim of
such party if it appears that the parties freel cohabited together as
husband and wife after the party had arrive at legal age, acquired

sufficient understandin , been restored to reason, freed from the force,

or discovered the frau , as the case may be.

SEC. 466. When either husband or wife shall claim or pretend that
the marriag@is void or voidable, as provided in sections four hundred and sixt -two and four hundred and sixty-three, the same may be
declared vali and lawful at the action of the other; and in such action
the court shall have power, if the pleadings and proof authorize it, to
declare such marriage void from the beginnin or from the time of the
jigdgment, or that it is valid and lawful, an binding on the ‘parties
t ereto.

SEC. 467. The dissolution of the marriage contract may be declared
at the action of the injured party for either of the following causes:

First. Impotency existing at the time of the marriage and continuin to the commencement of the action%econd. Adultery;

Third. Conviction of felony;

Fourth. Willful desertion for the period of two years;

Fifth. Cruel and inhuman treatment calculated to impair health or
endanger life;

Sixth. Habitual gross drunkenness contracted since marriage and
continuing for one year prior to the commencement of the action.

SEC. 468. When a marriage has been solemnized in the district an
action may be maintainedto declare it void if the plaintiff is an inhabitant of the district at the commencement of the action. If the marriage has not been solemnized in the district, such action can onl be
maintained when the plaintiff has been an inhabitant thereof for t ree
years prior to the commencement of the action.

SEC. 469. In an action for the dissolution of the marriage contract
the plaintiff therein must be an inhabitant of the district at the commencement of the action and for three years prior thereto, which resiI

dence shall be sufficient to give the court jurisdiction without regard

to the place where the marriage was solemnized or the cause of action
arose.

SEC. 470. In an action for the dissolution of the marriage contract

on account of adultery the defendant may admit the adultery’ and '

show in bar of the action either—

First. That the act was committed by the procurement or with the
connivance of the plaintiff; or,

Second. That the act had been expressly for iven, or im liedly so,
by the voluntary cohabitation of the parties after nowledge t ereof; or,

Third. That the plaintiff has been guilty of adultery also without
the procurement or connivance of the defendant and not forgiven as
provided in subdivision second of this section; or,

Fourth. That the action has not been commenced within one year
after the discovery of the act by the plaintiff. ‘

When the action is for any of the causes specified in subdivisions
third, fourth, fifth, or sixth of section four hundred and sixty-seven,
the defendant may admit the charge and show in bar of the action that
the act was committed by the procurement of the plaintiff, or that it
has been expressly forgiven; and in case the action is founded on subdivision third of the section four hundred and sixty-seven, the

defendant may also show in bar thereof that the action was not prosecuted within one year after the same occurredto the laintiif.

SEC. 471. After the commencement of an action, an before a judgment therein, the court or judge thereof may, in its discretion, provide by order as follows:

First. That the husband ay, or secure to be paid, to the clerk of
the court such an amount 0 money as may be necessary to enable the
wife to prosecute or defend the action, as the case may be;

Second. For the care, custody, and maintenance of the minor children of the marriage during the pendency of the action;

Third. For the freedom of the wife from the control of the husband
durin the pendency of the action, and the court ‘may restrain either
or botgh parties from disposing of the property of either party pendin the action.

SEC. 472. Whenever a marriage shall be declared void or dissolved
the court shall have power to further decree as follows: '

First. For the future care and custody of the minor children of the
marria e as it ma deem just and roper, having due re rd to the
age and sex of suc children, and un ess otherwise manifest y improper
giving the reference to the party not in fault;

Second. or the recovery of the party in fault, and not allowed the
care and custody of such children, such an amount of'money, in gross
or installments, as may be just and roper for such party to contribute
toward the nurture and education t ereof;

Third. For the recovery of the party in fault such an amount of
money, in gross or in installments, as ma be just and proper for such
party to contribute to the maintenance 0 the other;

Fourth. For the delivery to the wife, when she is not the party in
fault, of her personal property in the possession or control of the busband at the time of giving the jud ent;

Fifth. For the appointment o one or more trustees to collect,
receive, expend, manage, or invest, in such manner as the court shall

direct, any sum of money adjudged for the maintenance of the wife
or the nurture and education of minor children committed to her care
and custody; _
f Slixth. To change the name of the wife when she is not the party in
au t. ‘

SEC. 473. At any time after a judgment is given the court or judge

‘thereof, upon the motion of either arty, on notice shall have power
to set aside, alter, or modify so muc of the judgment as may provide
for alimony or for the appointment of trustees for the care and custody
of the minor children, or the nurture and education thereof, or the
maintenance of either party to the action. '

SEC. 474. A judgment declaring a marriage void or dissolved by the
action or claim of either party shall have the effect to terminate such
marriage as to both parties, exce t that neither (party shall be capable
of contractin marrla e with a t ird person, an if he or she does so
contract,‘ shal be liab e therefor as if such judgment had not been
given, until the action has been heard and determined on appeal, and
1f no apgleal be taken, the expiration of the period allowed by law to
take su appeal.

CHAPTER FORTY-SIX.

OF ACTIONS TO DETERMINE ADVERSE CLAIMS AND BOUNDARIES.

Soc. Sec.

475. An action to determine adverse 478. Mode of proceeding thereafter.

claims. 479. Oath and duties of commissioners.
476. An action to establish boundaries. 480. Their report.
477. Pleadings in such action.

SEC. 475. Any person in possession, by himself or his tenant, of
real property may maintain an action of an equitable nature against
another who c aims an estate or interest therein adverse to him, for
the purpose of determining such claim, estate, or interest.

SEC. 476. In any case where any dispute or controversy exists, or
may hereafter arise, between two or more owners of adjacent or contiguous lands in the district, concerning the boundary lines thereof, or
the location of the line or lines dividing such lands, either party or a
any party to such dispute or controversy may bring and maintain an

' action of an equitable nature in the district court of the district, for
the purpose of having such controvers or dispute determined, and
such boundary line or lines, or dividing ines, ascertained and marked
by proper monuments, upon the ground where such line or lines may
be ascertained to‘be, and established in such action. ,

SEC. 477. The complaint in such action shall be suflicient if it appears
therefrom that the plaintiff and defendant or defendants are owners of
adjacent lands; that there is a controversy or dispute between the
parties concerning their boundary or dividing line or lines, and it shall
not be necessary to set forth the nature of such dispute or controversy
further than that the plaintiff shall describe the boundary or dividing
line as he shall claim it to be. The defendant, in his answer, shall set
forth the nature of his claim with reference to the location of the line
in controvers . '

SEC. 478. '¥he mode of proceeding under this Act shall be analogous
to that of other actions of an equitable nature: Provided, At the time

of entering the judgment fixing the true location of the disputed boundary or d1V1Cl1Bg hne the court shall appoint three disinterested comm1ss1oners, one of whom shall be a practical surveyor, and shall direct
the commissioners to go upon the lands of the parties and establish
and mark out upon the grounds, by proper marks and monuments,
the boundary or dividing line as ascertained and determined by the
court in its judgment.

SEC: 479. Before entering upon the discharge of their duties the
commissioners shall make and tile their oath, in writing, to faithfully

and impartially Eerform their duties as such commissioners, and after11

deslgnating the e by proper marks and monuments, they shall file,
in the court and cause, a report of their doin s as such commissioners,
and the same shall be, when approved or con rmed by the court, a part
of the judgment roll in the cause.

SEC. 480. The report of the commissioners may be confirmed by the
court, upon written motion of either party to such action, whenever it
shall appear to the court that the motion was served upon the adverse

' arty two days before the presentation thereof, and that no exceptions

ave been filed to the report within two days after the service. If
exceptions are hled as aforesaid to the report, the exceptions ma be
hear with the motion to confirm, and the motion mav confirm, modify,
or set aside the report, as shall seem’ just, and in the latter case ma

appoint a new commission or refer the matter to the same commiss1oners with appropriate instructions.

CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN.

§

GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING ACTIONS.
 

481. Lost papers, how supplied. 485. Jurisdiction over corporations.

482. Successive actions. 486. Exercise of jurisdiction. ,

483. Consolidation of actions. 487. When majority of referees may act.
484. When court has jurisdiction. 488. Computation of time.

SEC. 481. If an original pa er or pleading be lost orwithheld by
any person, the court or ]11 ge thereof may order a verified copy
thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.

SEC. 482. Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or transaction whenever, after the former action, a new cause of
action arises therefrom.

SEC. 483. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time
between the same parties and in the same court upon causes which
might have been‘ joined, the court may, ‘upon the motion of the defendant, order the same to be consolidated. An action is deemed to be
pending from the commencement thereof until its final determination
upon appeal, or until the expiration of the period allowed to take an

appeal.

SEC. 484. No natural person is subject to the jurisdiction of the
district court of the district unless he appear in the court, or be found
within the district, or be a resident thereof, or have property therein;
and in the last case onl to the extent of such property at the time
the jurisdiction attache . But this section is not to be construed to
limit the wer of the said court to declare a marriage void or a dissolution t ereof when the defendant is a nonresident of the district,

in the cases provided for in chapter forty-five.

SEC. 485. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of the district court of the district unless it a pear in the court, or have been
created by or under the laws of the istrict, or have an agency established therein for the transaction of some portion of its business, or
have propert therein; and in the last case only to the extent of such
property at t e time the jurisdiction attached.

SEC. 486. When the court has jurisdiction of the parties it may
exercise it in respect to an cause of action, wherever arising, except
for the specific recovery 0 real property situated Without the district,
or for injury thereto.

SEC. 487. Whenever there is more than one referee all must meet,
but a majority of them may do any act which might be done by all;
and whenever any authority is conferred on three or more persons it
may be exercised by a majority of them, upon the meeting of all, unless
ex ressly otherwise provided. , .

SEC. 488. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided
in this code, shall be com uted by excluding the first day and includin the last, unless the. ast day fall upon a Sunday, Christmas, or
ot er legal holiday, in which case the last day shall also be excluded.
The time for the publication of legal notices shall be computed so as
to exclude the first day of publication and to include the day on which
the act or event of which notice is given is to happen . or which completes the full period required for publication.

CHAPTER FORTY—EIGHT.

OF OFFERS TO COMPROMISE AND THE INSPECTION OF WRITINGS.

 
488. Offers to com romise, how accepted 490. Order for the inspection of papers.
and effect t ereof..

SEC. 489. The defendant may, at any time before trial, serve upon
the plaintiff and offer to allow jud ment to be given against him for
the sum, or the proéiertyl, or to t e effect therein specified. If the
plaintiff accept the 0 er, e shall, by himself or attorney, indorse such
acceptance thereon, and file the same with the clerk before trial, and
Within three days from the time it was served upon him; and thereupon judgment shall be given accordingly, as in case of a confession.
If the offer be not accepted and filed Within the time prescribed, it
shall be deemed Withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence on the

trial; and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable judgment, he‘

shall not recover costs accruing after the service of the notice of the
offer, but the defendant shall recover of him costs and disbursements
from the time of such service.

SEC. 490. The court, or judge thereof, while an action is pending,
may order either party to give the other, within a specified time, an
inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of any book, document, or paper in his possession, or under his control, containing
evidence or matters relatin to the merits of the action, or the defense
therein. If obedience to t e order be neglected or refused, the court
may exclude the book, document, or paper from being given in evidence, or, if Wanted as evidence by the party a plying therefor, may
direct the jury to presume it to be such as he a leges it to be; and the
court may also punish the party so neglecting or refusing as for a

contem t. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from

compel ing another to produce books, documents, or papers when he
is examined as a Witness.

CHAPTER FORTY-NINE.

OF MOTIONS AND ORDERS.

 

491. Order and motion, definition of. 494. Application refused not to be re492. Motions, to whom and where made. peated.
493. Notice of motion, time of, and when
necessary.

SEC. 491. Every direction of a court or judge made or entered in
writing, and not included in a judgment is denominated an order. An
ap lication for an order is a motion.

SEC. 492. Motions shall be made to the court or jud e, as provided
in other parts of this code. They shall be made at t e place where
the action is triable, except when made to a judge of the court before
whom the action is pending and without notice, in which case an order
ma be made b such judge in any part of the district.

SEC. 493. hen a notice of a motion is necessary, it shall be served
twenty days before the time appointed for the hearing; but the court,
or judge thereof, may prescribe, by order indorsed upon the notice,
a shorter time. Notice of a motion is not necessary, except when this

code requires it, or when directed by the court or judge 1n pursuance
thereof.

SEC. 494. If an application for an order, made to a jud e of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending, be refuse in whole
or in part, or be granted conditionally, no subsequent application for
the same order shall be made to any other judge. A violation of this section is punishable as a contempt, and an order made contrary
thereto may be revoked by the judge who made it, or vacated by the

court, or judge thereof, in whic

CHAPTER 

the action or proceeding is pending.

OF NOTICE AND THE SERVICE AND FILING OF PAPERS.

 
495. Notices to be in writing. 500. When party absent from the district;

496. Notices and other papers, how when service to be made on attorserved and upon whom. ney.

497. When service may be made by 501. Foregoing provisions not to apply to
mail; time allowed for distance. summons.

498. How copy deposited and when serv- 502. Notice is valid, though defective in
ice deemed to be made. form.

499. Appearance, how made; defendant 503. Filing of papers.
not to be heard before appearance.

SEC. 495. Notices shall be in writing, and notices and other papers
shall be served on the party or attorney in the manner prescribed in
this chapter where not otherwise provided by this code.

SEC. 496. The service or deposit in the post-otlice, when served by
mail, may be made b any person other than the party hi1nself.- The
proof of service shally be the same as roof of service of a summons,
and shall be returned with the original) notice, or other paper of which

service is made, at the time and lace therein rescribed for the hearing or other proceeding to be ha thereon. T e service may be personal by delivery of a copy of the notice or other paper to the party
or attorney on whom the service is required to be made, or it may be
as follows: _ .

First. If upon an attorney, it may be made during h1s.abs‘ence from
his oflice by leaving the copy with his clerk therein, or_ with the person
having charge thereof; or when there is no person. in the_ ofli_ce, by
leaving it between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the

evening in a conspicuous place in the oflice, or if it be not open to

admit of such service, then by leavin it at the attorney’s residence ,

with some erson of suitable age and iscretion. . O

Second. f upon a party, it may be made by leaving the copy at his
residence between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the
evening with some person of suitable age and discretion. .

SEC. 497. Service by mail may be made when the person for whom
the service is made and the person on whom it is made reside in different places, between which there is a communication b mail, adding one
day to the time of service for every twenty miles 0 distance between
the place of deposit and the place of address. '

SEC. 498. In case of service by mail the copy must be deposited in
the post-oflice, addressed to the person on whom it is to be served at
his place of residence, and the postage paid. The service shall be
deemed to be made on the first da after the deposit in the post-oflice
that the mail leaves the place of eposit for the place of the address,
and not otherwise. i

SEC. 499. A defendant appears in an action when he answers, demurs,

or gives the plaintiff written notice of his appearance, and until he

does so appear he shall not be heard in such action or in any proceeding ertaining thereto, except the giving of the undertakings allowed
to t e defen ant in the provisional remedies of arrest, attachment,
and the delivery of personal property. When the defendant has not
appeared, notice of a motion or other proceeding need not be served
upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of bail, or unless directed
by the court or judge thereof in pursuance of this title.

SEC. 500. ?When a party is absent from the district and has no attorney in the action, service may be made b mail if his residence be known;
if not known, on the clerk for him. Vghen a party, whether absent or
not from the district, has an attorney in the action, service ofnotice or
other papers shall be made upon the attorney.

SEC. 501. The foregoing provisions do not a ply to the service of a
summons or other process, nor so much thereo as allows service to be
made of any notice or other paper to bring a party into contempt, otherwise than upon such party ersonally.

SEC. 502. A notice or ot er paper is valid and effectual, althou h
defective either in respect to the title of the action in which it is ma e,
or the name of the court or the parties, if it intelligently refer to such
action.

SEC. 503. All undertakings, afiidavits, or other papers required by or
provided for in this code shall be filed with the clerk, exce t when this
code otherwise specially provides. A pleading or pa er s all be filed
by deliverin the same to the clerk at his oflice, who s all indorse upon
it the day 0 the month and the year, and subscribe his name thereto.
The clerk shall not be required to receive for filing any paper unless

the name of the court, the title of the cause and the paper, and the
names of the parties, -and the attorney, if there be one, is intelligibly

indorsed on the back of it, or unless the contents thereof can be read
by a. person of ordinary skill.

CHAPTER FIFTY-ONE.

OF APPEALS AND WRITS OF ERROR.

 

504. Appeals and write of error,“ how 507. From what an appeal maybe taken.

taken. 508. Laws regulating procedure and prac505. What judgments shall be final. tice on appeal.
506. When may be taken. 

SEC. 504. Appeals and writs of. error may be taken and prosecuted
from the final ]11d ents of the district court for the district of Alaska

or any division t ereof direct to the Supreme Court of the United‘

States in the following cases, namely: In prize causes and in all cases
which involve the construction or application of the Constitution of
the United States, or in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty made under

its authority is drawn in question, or in which the constitution or law_

of a State is claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the
United States; and that in all other cases where the amount involved
or the value of the subject-matter exceeds five hundred dollars the
United States circuit court of appeals for the ninth circuit shall have
jurisdiction to review by writ of error or appeal the final judgments,
orders, of the district court.

SEC. 505. The judgments of the circuit court of appeals shall be
final in all cases coming to it from the district court, ut whenever
the 'ud es of the circuit court of appeals may desire the instruction
of t.l1egSupreme Court of the United States upon any , uestion or
proposition of law which shall have arisen in any case pen 'ng before
the circuit court of appeals on writ of error to or appeal from the
district court, judges may certify such uestion or proposition to the
Supreme- Court, and thereupon the upreme Court shall give its
instruction ulpon the questions and propositions certified to it, and its
instruction s all be binding upon the circuit court of appeals.

SEC. 506. No appeal or writ of error by which an final order or
judgment ma be reviewed under the provisions of t 's Act shall be
taken or sue out exce t within one year after the entry of the order
or judgment sought to e reviewed.

SEC. 507 . An appeal ma be taken to the circuit court of appeals
from any interlocutory or er granting or dissolving an injunction,
refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction, made or rendered in any
cause pending before the district court within sixty days after the
entry of such interlocutory order. The proceedings in other respects
in the district court in the cause in which such interlocutory order was
made shall not be stayed during the pendency of such appeal, unless
otherwise ordered by the district court.

SEC. 508. All provisions of law now in force regulating the procedure and practice in cases brought by appeal or writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the United States or to the United States circuit
court of appeals for the ninth circuit, except in so far as the same may

be inconsistent with any provision of this Act, shall regulate the procedure and practice in cases brought to the courts, respectively, from
the district court for the district of Alaska. The provisions of this
cha ter shall apply to all cases pending in the district court of Alaska
at t e time this Act takes effect.

CHAPTER FIFTY-TWO.’

OF COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

Sec Sec.

509. Costs; compensation of attorney. 519. Fees of referees.

510. When costs allowed to plaintiff. 520. Costs on postponement, etc.

511. Costs in several actions on same 521. Plea of tender and effect as to costs.

cause. 522. Guardian of infant plaintiff liable.

512. Costs, when allowed to defendant. 523. Costs where person sues or defends
513. Disbursements, when allowed. in the right of another.

514. Costs and disbursements in an action 524. Costs on review of inferior court.

of an uitable nature. 525. Costs in certain cases.

515. Who liab e for fees. 526. Security for costs.

516. Costsand disbursements, how taxed. 527. Same subject.

517. When objections made. 528. Costs on motion, etc.

518. Effect of such appeal.

SEC. 509. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys shall
be left to the agreement, expressed or implied, of the parties; but
there may be allowed tothe prevailing party in the judgment certain
sums by wa of indemnity for his attorney fees in maintaining the
action or de ense thereto, which allowances are termed costs.

SEC. 510. Costs are allowed of course to the plaintiff upon a judgment

in the district court in his favor in the following cases:

First. In an action for the recovery of the possession of real property, or where a claim of title or interest in real property, or right to
the possession thereof, arises upon the pleadings, or is certified by the
court to have come in question u on the trial;

Second. In actions for fines an forfeitures, and the actions provided
for in cha ters thirty-five and thirty-six of this title;

Third. n an action involving an open mutual account, where it
appears to the satisfaction of the court that the sum total of such
accounts of both parties exceeds one hundred and fifty dollars;

Fourth. In an action for the recovery of personal property;

Fifth. In an action not hereinbefore specified, for the recovery of
money or damages, when the plaintiff shall recover fifty dollars or
more. '

But in an action for assault, batte , false imprisonment, libel,
slander, malicious prosecution, criminal’ conversation, seduction, or
breach of promise of marriage, if the plaintiff recovers less than
fifty dollars damages, he shall recover no more costs and disbursements than damages; and in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, if the plaintiff recover property or the value
thereof, as established on the_trial, and damages for the detention of
the same, in all less than fifty dollars, he shall recover no more costs
and disbursements than the sum of such value and damages.

SEC. 511. When several actions shall be prosecuted for the same
cause of action, against several parties who might have been joined as
defendants in the same action, disbursements shall be allowed the
plaintiff in each action if he prevail therein; but costs shall not be

' allowed such plaintiff in more than one of such actions, which shall be

at his election, unless the party or arties prosecuted in such other
action or actions shall at the time of t e commencement of the previous
action have been without the district or secreted therein.

SEC. 512. Costs are allowed of course to the defendant in the actions
mentioned in section five hundred and eleven unless the plaintiff be
entitled to costs therein; and when there are several defendants not
united in interest, and making separate defenses by separate answers,
costs shall be allowed or not to each of such defendants as if the action
were commenced against him separately.

SEC. 513. A party entitled to costs shall also be allowed for all necessary disbursements, including the fees of officers and witnesses, the
necessary expenses of taking depositions by commission or otherwise,
the expense of publication of the summons or notices, and the postage where the same are served by mail, the compensation of referees,
and the necessary ex ense of copying any public record, book, or
document used as evi ence on the trial.

SEC. 514. In an action of equitable nature costs and disbursements
shall be allowed to a party in whose favor a judgment is given in like
manner and amount as in other actions, without reference to the
amount recovered or the value of the subject of the action, unless the
court otherwise directs.

SEC. 515. Every officer, witness, or other person required to do or‘
perform any act or service for any art to any action or proceeding
whatever shall be entitled to demand an receive from such party the

compensation which the law allows therefor in advance; but a party
to any action or proceeding in any court of justice in the district may,

at his option, pay the fees of the oflicers thereof in advance or we
such ollicers an undertaking with suflicient sureties therefor. he
costs and disbursments which a party is entitled to recover from
another may be collected by the execution to enforce the judgment as
a art thereof. The fees secured to the officers of the court, or either
0 them, by any party to the judgment may be collected by an execution against the property of such party and that of his sureties in
the undertaking therefor. Such oflicers’ execution may issue in the
‘name of the clerk as plaintiff in the writ and for the benefit of all officers of the court to whom fees are so due and secured, whenever an
execution might issue to enforce the judgment at the instance of the
prevailing party therein.

SEC. 516. Costs and disbursements shall be taxed and allowed by the
clerk. No disbursements shall be allowed any party unless he shall
file with the clerk within five days from the entry of judgment a statement of the same, which statement must be verilied except as to fees A

of officers. A statement of disbursements may be filed Wlth the clerk
at any time after five days, but in such case a copy thereof must be
served upon the adverse party. A disbursement which a partir is
entitled to recover must be taxed, whether the same has been pai or
not by such party. The statement of disbursements thus filed, and

‘costs, shall be allowed of course unless the adverse party, within two

days from the time allowed to file the same, shall file is objections
thereto, statin the particulars of such objections. .

SEC. 517. hen objections are made to the claim for costs and disbursements, the clerk shall forchwith (pass upon the same, and indorse

upon the verified statement, or appen thereto, the charges allowed or

disallowed. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the clerk in the
allowance of costs or disbursements may appeal from such decision to
the court within five days from the date of ‘such decision, by serving
a notice of. such appeal ‘and in what lparticulars, u on the adverse
party or his attorney, which appeal sha be heard an determined by
such court, or judge thereof, as soon thereafter as convenient.

SEC. 518. Such ap eal shall stay the proceedings as to the costs and
disbursements to W ich the appeal is taken or relates, unless the
respondent file with the clerk an undertakin , with one or more sureties, to the effect that if the decision of the c erk be reversed or modified he Will make such restitution as the court or ]11d e may direct.
The sufliciency of the sureties in the undertaking may e excepted to
by the appellant, and they _be required to _]ustify in like manner and
with like effect as in an ordinary undertaking for an appeal.

SEC. 519. The fees of referees shall be four dollars per day to each

for every day spent in the business of the reference, but the parties .

may agree in writing upon any other rate of compensation, and thereupon such rates shall be allowed.

SEC. 520. Upon an application to postpone a trial, the payment to
the adverse party of a sum, not exceeding ten dollars, as_costs may
be imposed by the court as a condition of granting the postponement;
and in all cases where this code authorizes a court or judge to allow a
party to do any‘ act in an action or proceeding upon terms, such court
or judge may, as a condition of such allowance, impose upon such
party the payment of a like sum as costs.

SEC. 521. When in any action for the recovery of money or damages
only the defendant shall allege in his answer that before the commencement thereof he tendered to the plaintiff a certain amount of money in .

full payment or satisfaction of the cause of action, and now brin s the
same into court and deposits it with the clerk for the laintiii’, i such
allegation of tender be found true, and the plaintiff 0 not recover a
greater sum than the amount so tendered, he shall not recover costs off
the defendant, but the defendant shall recover them off him.

SEC. 522. When costs or disbursements are adjudged against an
infant plaintiff, the guardian by whom he appeared in the action shall
be responsible there or, as if he were the actual plaintiff in such action,
and payment thereof may be enforced against him accordingly.

SEC. 523. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a person e ressly authorized
by statute to prosecute or defend therein, costs sha be recoveredas in
ordinary cases, but such costs shall only be chargeable upon or collected
off the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court or judge
thereof shall order the same to be recovered off the plaintiff or defendant personally for mismanagement or bad faith in such action or the
defense thereto.

SEC. 524. When the decision of any officer, tribunal, or court of
inferior jurisdiction is brought before,a court for review, such review
shall, for all the purposes of costs or disbursements, be deemed an
appeal to such court upon errors in law, and costs therein shall be
allowed and recovered accordingly.

SEC. 525. In all actions prosecuted or defended in the name and for
the use of any ublic corporation in the district the public corporation
shall be liable or and may recover costs in like manner and with like
effect as in the case of natural persons. When the action is upon the

information of any natural person, he shall be liable in the lirst instance
for the defendant s costs; and such costs shall not be recovered from
the United States until after execution issued therefor against such
person and returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.

SEC. 526. The attorney of a plaintiff who resldes out of the district,
or is a forei n corporation, against Whom costs are adjudged in favor
of the defen nt, is liable to such defendant therefor; and if he neglect
to pay the same upon the information of such defendant, shall be punished as for a contempt. The attorney may relieve or discharge himself
froln such liability by filing an undertaking at the commencement of
the action, or at any time thereafter before judgment, for the payment
to the defendantof the costs and disbursements that may be adjudged
to him, executed by one or more suflicient sureties.

SEC. 527. The sureties in such undertaking shall possess the qualifications of sureties in an undertaking for bail on arrest, and their sufficiency may be exce ted to by the defendant at any time within five
days from notice of Eling the same and if so, they shall justify in an
amount not less than two hundred dollars, in like manner and with like
effect as such sureties for bail on arrest. Until the time for exceptin
to the sufficiency of the sureties has ex ired, or if excepted to, unti
they be found suiiicient, the attorney is iable as if no undertaking had
been given. A deposit of two hundred dollars, or other sum which
the court or judge may direct, with the clerk may be made in lieu of
such undertaking. _

SEC. 528. A sum not exceeding five dollars as costs may be allowed
to the prevailing party on a motlon, in the discretion of the court, and
may be absolute or directed to abide the event of the action. In any

action or peroceeding as to which the allowance and recovery of costs

may not provided for in this title, costs may be allowed or not,
according to the measure herein prescribed, and_ apportioned among
the parties, in the discretion of the court. CHAPTER FIFTY-THREE.

OF THE RECORDS AND FILES OF COURT.

 

529. Records of court, what constitute. 535. Final record, what to be recorded
530. Register, how ke t. therein.

531. Journal, what to entered therein. 536. Jury book, how kept.

532. Judgment docket, how arranged. 537. Files of the court, what are.

533. Execution docket, how kept. 538. Custody of the records and files.
534. Fee book. what to be entered there- 539. Searclhfland examination of records

in. an es.

SEC. 529. The records of the district court are a register, journal,
judgrgent docket, execution docket, fee book, jury book, and final
recor .

SEC. 530. The register is a book wherein the clerk shall enter, by
its title, every action or roceeding commenced in, or transferred or
appealed to. the court W ereof he is clerk, according to the date of its
commencement, transfer, or appeal; and thereafter, until the entry of
judgment, note therein, according to the date thereof, the filing or
1-srturn of any paper or process, or the making of any order, rule, or
-. Lllcr direction in or concerning such action or proceeding.

SEC. 531. The journal is a book wherein the clerk shall enter the

proceedings of the court durin term time,- and such proceedings in
vacation as this code specially irects.

SEC. 532. The judgment docket is a book wherein the judgments are
docketed, as elsewhere provided in this code. Each pa e thereof shall
be divided into eight columns, and headed as follows: udgment debtors; Jud ment creditors; Amount of judgment; Date of entry in
journal; hen docketed; Appeal, when taken; Decision on appeal;

Satisfaction, when entered.

SEC. 533. The execution docket is a book wherein the clerk shall
note, under the title of every cause, the issue and return of execution,
and generally the filing or return of any paper or process, or the making of any order, rule, or other direction therein, from and after the
entry of jud ment or decree until satisfaction or performance thereof.

SEC. 534. he fee book is one wherein the clerk shall enter, under
the title of ever cause, against the party to which the service is rendered, the clerk s fees earned, and received or not received, and none
other, except as s ecially directed by this code.

SEC. 535. The nal record is a book wherein the clerk shall record
the apers, pleadings, and proceedings in a cause, as elsewhere provided
in t is code. 

SEC. 536. The jury book is one wherein the clerk shall enter the
names of the persons attending upon the court at a particular term as

rand or trial jurors, the time of the attendance of each, and when
gisiharged or excused, and the amount of fees and mileage earned by
eac .

SEC. 537. The files of the court are all papers or process filed with
or by the clerk of the court in any action or proceeding therein or
before the jud e thereof.

SEC. 538. T e records and files of the court are to be kept in the’

clerk’s ofiice in the custody of the clerk, and he is responsible for
them. The shall not be taken out of the office by anyone, except by
the judge o the court, or an attorney thereof when allowed by special
order of the court or judge, or some general rule therefor prescribed
by the court and entered in the journal.

SEC. 539. Whenever requested the clerk, upon being tendered legal
fees therefor, shall furnish to any person a certiiied co y of any portion
of such records or files, and no person other than such) clerk is entitled
to make such copy or to the use of the records or files for such purposes.
Whenever requested the clerk shall search such records and files and
give a certificate thereof according to the nature of the inquiry.

CHAPTER FIFTY-FOUR.

GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
540. Parties to special proceedings, how 541. Judgments, orders, and motions.
designated.

SEC. 540. The party prosecuting a writ of review, writ of mandamus,
writ of habeas co1 us, or a proceeding for contempt shall be known as
the plaintiff, and t e adverse party as the defendant.

SEC. 541. A judgment in a special proceeding is the final determination of the rights of the parties therein. The definition of a motion

:1 nd an order in an action are applicable to similar acts in a special
proceedings.

CHAPTER FIFTY»-FIVE.

OF TEE wnrror REVIEW.

I

 
542. Writ of certiorari to be known as 547. To whom directed.

writ of review. 548. Sta of proceedings; when return543. Who may prosecute. ahle

544. By whom allowed and how applied 549. When. and by whom writ issued;

for. how served.
545. When allowed. . . 550. Incomplete return; limitation of writ.
546. Undertaking of plaintiff. 551. Power of court to review.

SEC. 542. The writ formerly known as the writ of certiorari is
known in this title as the writ of review.

SEC. 543. Any party to any process or proceeding before or by any
inferior court, oflicer, or tribunal may have the decision or determination thereof reviewed for errors therein as in this chapter prescribed.
Upon a review, the court may review any intermediate order involving
the merits necessarily affecting the decision or determination sought
to be reviewed. .

SEC. 544. The writ shall be allowed by the district court or judge
thereof, upon the petition of the plaintiff, describing the decision or
determination sought to be reviewed with convenient certainty, and
setting forth the errors alleged to have been committed therein. Such
petition shall be signed by the plaintiff or his attorney, and verified

y the certificate of an attorney of the court, to the effect that he had
examined the process or proceeding and the decision or determination
therein, and that the same is erroneous, as alleged in the petition.

SEC. 545. The writ shall be allowed in all cases where there is no

ap eal or other lain, speedy, and adequate remedy, and where the in erior court, 0 ’cer, or tribunal in the exercise of judicial functions
appears to have exercised such functions erroneously, or to have
exceeded it or his jurisdiction, to the injury of some substantial right
of the plaintiff.

SEC. 546. Before allowing the writ, the court or judge shall require
the party applying therefor to give an undertaking, with one or more
sureties, subject to its or his approval, in the amount to be hxed by it
or him, conditioned that he will perform the judgment or decision
sought to be reviewed in case the district court shall so order, and
judgment may be given by said court against the applicant and his
surety or sureties in case the judgment or decision sought to be
reviewed shall be affirmed for the amount thereof, andthe costs of
said proceedjn .

SEC. 547. T e writ shall be directed to the court, officer, or tribunal
whose decision or determination is sought to be reviewed, or to the
clerk or other person having the custody of its records or proceedings,

requiring it or them to return the writ to the district court, within a ‘

time therein specified, with a certified copy of the record or proceedings in question annexed thereto, that the same ma be reviewed by
such district court, and requiring the defendant to esist from further
proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 548. The words in the writ requiring the stay of proceedingsmay be inserted or omitted in the discretion of the court or judge
issuing the same, and the proceedings shall be stayed or not accord~
ingly. The writ shall be made returnable at the next term of the

district court, or in vacation, and if the latter, the same may be tried‘

and judgment given therein, by the judge thereof, in like manner and
with like effect as in term time.

SEC. 549. Upon the lilin of the order allowing the writ, and the
petition and undertaking o the plaintiff, the clerk shall issue the writ,
according to the direction of the order. The writ shall be served by
delivering a copy of the original to the opposite party in the action or
proceeding sought to be reviewed, at least ten days before the return
of the original writ, and may be served by an officer or person authorized to serve a summons, who shall indorse on the original writ the
manner of service thereof. 

SEC. 550. If the return to the writ be incom lete, the court may
order a further return to be made. In no case s all a writ be allowed
unless the a plication therefor be made within six months from the
date of the ecision or determination complained of.

SEC. 551. Upon the review the court shall have power to afiirm,
modify, reverse, or annul the decision or determination reviewed, and,
if necessary, to award restitution to the plaintiff, or, by mandate,
direct the inferior court, ofiicer, or tribuna to proceed in the matter
reviewed according to its decision. From the judgment of the district
court on review an appeal may be taken in like manner and with like
effect as from a judgment of such district court in an action.

CHAPTER FIFTY-SIX.

OF THE WRIT OF MANDAMUB.

Soc. Sec

‘ 552. Mandamus to be known as in this 55:5. If defendant fail to show cause, perchapter. zriniptory writ to issue.
553. To whom writ may issue; notto con- 560. P1 ings and mode of proceeding
trol judicial discretion. therein.
554. How writ applied for and by whom . Recovery of damages.

allowed and issued. . Recovery of damages 9. bar to other
555. How directed and served. suit or action.

556. Either alternative or peremptory; . When court may impose fine upon
what to contain. defendant.
557. When peremptory writ shall be is- . How tried. .

\ sued in first instance. . A peal from 'udgment f district
558. When defendant may show cause, Idourt. J O

and how.

SEC. 552. The writ of mandamus is known in this code as prescribed
and regulated in this chapter.

SEC. 553. It may be issued to any inferior court, corporation, board,
ofiicer or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law
s cia y enjoins as a duty resultm from an ofiice, trust, or station.

ut though the writ may require sue court, corporation, board, officer,
or person  exercise its or his judgment, or proceed to the discharge
of any of its or his functions, it shall not control judicial discretion.
The writ shall not be issued in any case where there is a plain, speedy,
and adequate remedy in the ordinary course of the law.

SEC. 554. The writ shall be allowed by the court, or judge thereof,
upon the petition, verified as a com laint in an action, of the party
beneficially interested. It may be a lowed with or without notrce to
the adverse party, as in the case of a writ of review. Upon the filing

of the petition and order of allowance, the writ shall be issued by the
clerk in accordance therewith.

SEC. 555. The writ shall be directed to the court, corporation, board,
officer, or person mentioned or designated in the order of allowance,
and may be served thereon by any oflicer or person authorized to serve
a summons by delivery of a copy of the original to such ofiicer or
person, or to any member of such court, or to any oflicer of such corjlroration upon whom this code authorizes a summons to be served.

he proof of service shall be the same as in a writ of review, and
obedience to the writ may be enforced in such manner as the court, or
judge thereof, shall direct.

SEC. 556. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. When it
is alternative, it shall state concisely the facts according to the petition,
showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to tperform it, and command him that immediately after the
receipt of e writ, or at some other specified time, he do the act
requlred to be performed, or show cause before the court or judge
thereof by whom the writ was allowed, at a time and lace thereln
s ecified, why he has not done so; and that he then an there return
t e writ, with his certificate annexed, of having done as he is commanded, or the cause of his omission thereof. When peremptory,
the writ shall be in similar form, except that the words re uiring the
defendant to show cause why he has not done as comman ed, and to
return the cause therefor, shall be omitted.

SEC. 557. When the ri ht to require the performance of the act is
clear, and it is apparent t at no valid excuse can be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus shall be allowed in the first
instance; in all other cases the alternative writ shall be first issued.

SEC. 558. On the return day of the alternative writ, or such further
day as the court or judge thereof may allow, the defendant on whom
the writ shall have been served may show cause by demurrer or answer
to the writ in the same manner as to a complaint in an action.

SEC. 559. If the defendant do not show cause by demurrer or answer,
a peremptory mandamus shall be allowed against him. If the answer
contain new matter, the same may be demurred or replied to b the
plaintiff within such time as the court or judge may prescribe. f the
replication contain new matter, the same may be demurred to by the
defendant within such time as the court or judge may prescribe, or he
may countervail such matter on the trial or other proceedings by
proof, either in direct denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 560. The pleadings in the proceeding by mandamus are those
mentioned in the two sections last preceding. They are to have the
same effect, and to be construed and may be amended in the same
manner, as pleadings in an action. Either party may move to strike
out, or be allowed to plead over after motion or demurrer allowed or
disallowed, and the issues joined shall be tried and the further proceedings thereon had in like manner and with like effect as in an act1on.

SEC. 561. If judgment be given for the plaintiff, he shall recover
the damages which he shall have sustained byreason of the premises,
to be ascertained in the same manner as in an action, together with

costs and disbursements, and a peremptory mandamus shall be awarded g

without delay. _

SEC. 562. A recovery of damages by virtue of this chapter against a
party who shall havemade a return to a writ of mandamus is a bar to
an other action against the same party for the same cause. _

SEC. 563. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed to a public

officer or bod commanding the performance of an public duty speciall

enjoined by

W, if it appear to the court or ju ge thereof that suc

oflicer or any member of such body has without just excuse refused or
neglected to perform the duty so en'oined, the court or 'udge may

imprison, or impose a line, not excee in

one thousand do rs, upon

every such officer or member of such bo y for each refusal. ~
SEC. 564. In the district court the writ may be made returnable either
in term time or vacation, and if the latter, may be tried and determined
before the judge thereof in like manner and with like effect as in term
time.
SEC. 565. From the judgment of the district court, or judge thereof,
refusing to allow a mandamus, or directing a perem tory mandamus,
an appeal may be taken in like manner and with ' e effect as in an
action.

CHAPTER FIFTY-SEVEN.

OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS.

.. Who may prosecute.

. Who not entitled to
. By whom allowed, and application

prosecute.

therefor.

. Petition for writ; what it shall contain.

. When allowed.

. What the writ shall contain.

. Not to be disobeyed for want of form.
. What the return shall contain.

. Person to be produced. . Warrant to issue in case of neglect

or refusal to obey.

. If officer neglects, to whom warrant

to issue.

. Precept to marshal.
. When cause to be inquired into.
. If any 1

. W en party to be remanded.
. In certain cases, when to be discause shown, discharge

charged.

. Legality of certain judgments and

process not to be inquired into.

. On commitmentforcriminal offenses,

how to proceed.

. Until judgment given, how to be

kept.

. When notice to be given to third

party.

. Notice, when given to the district

A 587.
588.

attorney.
Return may be controverted.
Pleadings on the return.

Sec.

589.
590.

When roduction of person dispens with.

Judgment of discharge or dismissal
of proceedings.

. Precept requiring the production of

the_ person.

. Obedience to judgment of discharge,

how enforced.

. Pe_rson once dischaiged not again

imprisoned.

. When warrant to issue in lieu of

habeas corpus.

. Arrest of the person having custody

of the party.

. Warrant, how executed and the proceedings thereon.

. Person arrested to be committed or

bailed.

. Penalty for refusing copy of order.
. When district attorney may apply

for a writ.

. By whom served; tender of fees and

undertaking.

. How served.

. Same subject.

. Duty to obey writ. . When charges for producing party

ma be ordered paid.

. Proo of service.
. Within what time return to be made.
. What court has jurisdiction.

Appeal from judgment; question not
to be reexamined.

SEC. 566. Every (person imprisoned, or otherwise restrained of his

liberty, within the

istrict, under any pretense whatsoever, except in

the cases specified in the next sectiont, may rosecute a writ of habeas

corpus according to the provisions 0

this c a ter, to inquire into the

cause of such imprisonment or restraint, and ' illegal to be delivered
therefrom.   '

SEC. 567. Persons properly imprisoned or restrained by virtue of
the legal judgment of a competent tribunal of civil or criminal jurisdiction, or by virtue of an execution re ularly and lawfully issued
upon such judgment or decree, shall not e allowed to prosecute the
writ.

SEC. 568. The writ shall be allowed by the court or the judge
thereof, upon the petition of the arty for whose relief it is intended,
or by some other person in his be alf, signed and verified by the oath
of the petitioner, to the effect that he be ieves it to be true.

SEC. 569. The petition shall state in substanceFirst. That the party in whose behalf the writ is applied for is
imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, the place where, and oflicer or
person by whom he is imprisoned or restrained, naming both parties,
if their names be known, or describing them, if not known;

Second. That such person is not imprisoned or restrained b virtue
of any order, judgment, or process specified in section five undred
and sixty-seven;

Third. The cause or pretense of such imprisonment or restraint,
according to the best knowledge or belief of the petitioner;

Fourth. If the imprisonment or restraint be in virtue of any order,

. warrant, or process, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the Eztition,
a

or it must be alleged that, by reason of the removal or conce ent of

‘ the dparty before the application, a demand of such copy could not be
ma e,

or that such demand was made, and the legal fees therefor tendered to the person having the party in his custody, and that a copy

was refused;
Fifth. If the imprisonment or restraint be alleged to be illegal, in

what the alleged illegality consists;

Sixth. That the legality of the imprisonment or restraint has not
been already adjudged upon a prior writ of habeas corpus to the
knowled e or be ief of the ggtitioner.

SEC. 570. The court or ju e to whom the petition is presented must

allow the writ without delay, unless it appears from the petition itself,

or from the documents annexed thereto, that the person for whose
relief it is intended is b the provisions of this chapter prohibited from
prosecuting the writ. pon the filing of the petition and the order of
allowance with the clerk, the clerk shall issue the writ immediately in

‘ accordance therewith.

SEC. 571. The writ shall command the defendant to produce the person imprisoned or restrained, by whatsoever name he may be charged
or called, and certify and return therewith the time and cause of is
imprisonment or restraint, before the court or judge allowing the writ,
at a time and place therein specitied, or immediatel after the receipt
of the writ, to do and receive what shall then and t ere be considered
concerning the person so imprisoned or restrained; or when it ap ears
by the petition and documents thereto annexed that the cause or o ense
for which the person is imprisoned or restrained is not bailable, the
production of the party may be dispensed with, though such production be prayed for in the tition. and the writ issued accordingly

SEC. 572. The writ sh not be disobeyed for any defect o orm.
It is sufficient-—

First. If the oflicer or person having the custody of the arty
im risoned or restrained be designated either by his name of o ce, if
he ve any, or by his own name, or if both such names be unknown

or uncertain, he may be described by an assumed appellation; and
anyone who may be served with the writ is to be deemed‘ the ofiicer
or person to whom it was directed, although it may be directed to him
by a wrong name or descri tion, or to another person;

Second. If the person w o is directed to be produced be designated
by name, or if his name be uncertain or unknown, he ma be described
in any other way, so as to designate the erson intende .

SEC. 573. The oflicer or person upon W om the writ shall have been
duly served shall state in h1s return, plainly and unequivocally— .

First. Whether he has or has not t e party in his custody or power
or under his restraint, and if he have not, whether he has had the
party in his custody or under his power or restraint at any and what
time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ;

Second. If he has the party in his custody or ower, or under his
restraint, the authority and true cause of suc imprisonment or
restraint, setting forth the same at large;

Third. If the party be detained by virtue of any writ, warrant, or
other written authority, a copy thereof shall be annexed to the return,
and the original shall be produced and exhibited on the return of the
writ to the court or judge before whom the same is returnable;

Fourth. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been served
shall have had the party in his power or custody or under his restraint

at any time prior or subsequent to the date of the writ, but has trans-_

ferred such custody or restraint to another, the return shall state particularly to whom, at what time, for what cause, and by what authority
such transfer took place. The return shall be signed by the person

making the same, and, except where such person shall be a sworn

public officer and shall make s return in his ofiicial capacity, it shall

be verified b oath. .

SEC. 574. he person or officer on whom the habeas corpus shall
have been served shall also bring the body of the person in his custod ,
according to the command of such writ, except in the case of the sickness of such person, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 575. If the person upon whom such writ shall have been duly
served shall refuse or neglect to obey the same by producing the party
named in such writ and making a full and explicit return thereto within
the time required, and no sufficient excuse be shown, it shall be the

dut of the court or judge before whom such writ shall have been ~

ma e returnable, upon due proof of the service thereof, forthwith to
issue a warrant against such person, directed to the marshal, and
commanding him forthwith to apprehend such person and bring him
immediately before such court or judge; and on such person being so
brought he shall be committed to close custody until he shall make
return to such writ and comply with any order that may be made in
relation to the person for whose relief such writ shall have been issued.

SEC. 576. If the marshal or any deputy shall have neglected to return
such writ, the warrant may be directed to any other person to be designated therein, who shall have full power to execute the same, and
such marshal or deputy upon being brought u may be committed to
an jail or other place of lmprisonment in the district.

SEC. 577. The court or judge by Whom any such warrant shall be
issued may also, at the same time or afterwards, issue a prece t to the
marshal or other person to whom such warrant shall have been irected,
commanding him to bring forthwith before such court or judge the

party for whose benefit such writ shall have been allowed, who shall
thereafter remain in the custody of such marshal or person until discharged or remanded.

SEC. 578. The court or judge before whom the party shall be brought
on such writ shall, immediately after the return thereof, proceed to
examine into the facts contained in such return and into the cause of
the imprisonment or restraint of such party, whether the same shall
have been upon commitment for any criminal or supposed criminal
matter or not.

SEC. 579. If no legal cause be shown for such imprisonment or
restraint, or for the continuation thereof, the court or judge shall disghzlagge such party from the custody or restraint under, which he is

e .

SEC. 580. It shall be the duty of the court or judge forthwith to
remanld such party if it shall appear that he is legally detained in
custody.

SEC. 581. If it a pear on the return that the prisoner is in custod
by virtue of an or er or civil process of any court legally constitute ,
or issued by an officer in the course of judicial proceedings before

' ' him, authorized by law, such prisoner shall be discharged in either of

the following cases:
' First. When the jurisdiction of such court or officer has been
exceeded, either as to matter, place, sum, or person;

Second. When, though the ori inal imprisonment was lawful, yet
by some act, omission, or event w ich has taken place afterwards the
party has become entitled to be discharged;

Third. When the order or process is defective in some matter of
substance r uired by law, rendering such process void;

Fourth. hen the order or rocess, though in proper form, has
been issued in a case not allowed) by law;

Fifth. When the person having the custody of the prisoner under
such order or process is not the person empowered by law to detain
him; or,

Sixth.- When the order or process is not authorized by any judgment

8 of any court, nor by any pl'OVlSl0I_1 of law.

SEC. 582. But no court or judge, on the return of a writ of habeas
corpus, has power to inquire into the legality or (justice of any order,
judgment, or process specified in section five hun red and sixty-seven,
nor into the justice, propriety, or legality of any commitment for a
contempt made by a court, officer, or body, according to law, and
charge in such commitment, as provided b law. ' ~

SEC. 583. If it appear that the party has een legally committed for
a criminal offense, or if he appear by the testimony offered with the
return, or upon the hearing thereof, to be probably uilty of such
offense althou h the commitment be irregular, he sha forthwith be
remanded to t e custody or placed under the restraint from which he
was taken, if the officer or person under whose custody or restraint
he was be legally entitled thereto; if not so entitled, he shall be com-‘
mitted to the custody of the officer or person so entitled.

SEC. 584. Until judgment be given u on the return, the party ma
either be committed to the custody of t e marshal or placed in suc
care or under such custody as his age and other circumstances may
re uire.

SEC. 585. When it appears, from the return to the writ, that the

pa named therein is in custody on an order or process under which
anot er person has an interest in continuing his imprisonment or
restraint, no order shall be made for his discharge until it shall appear
that the party so interested, or his attorne , shall have had notice of
the time and lace at which such writ shall ave been made returnable.

SEC. 586. hen it appears from the return that the party is imprisoned or restrained on a criminal accusation, the court or judge shall
make no order for his discharge until notice of the return is given to
the district attorney.

SEC. 587. The plaintiff in the proceeding, on the return of the writ,
may, b replication, verified as in an action, controvert any of the
materia facts set forth in the return, or he may allege therein any fact
to show, either that his imprisonment or restraint is unlawful, or that
he is entitled to his discharge; and thereupon the court or judge shall
proceed in a summary way to hear such evidence as may be produced
in support of the imprisonment or restraint, or against the same, and
to dispose of the party as the law and justice of the case may require.

SEC. 588. The plaintiff may demur to the return, or the defendant
may demur to the new matter, if any, set forth in the replication of
the plaintiff, or by proof controvert the same, as u n a direct denial
or avoidance. The pleadin herein provided for s all be made within
such time as the court or j u ge shall direct, and they shall be construed
and have the same effect as in an action.

SEC. 589. Whenever, from the sickness or infirmity of the party, he
can not without danger be produced, the otlicer or person in whose
custody he is may state that fact in his return to the writ, and if satisfied of the truth of the alle tion, and the return be otherwise suflicient, the court pr judge sh proceed to decide on the return and to
dispose of the matter in the same manner as if the party had been
produced.

SEC. 590. If it appear that the party detained is illegally imprisoned
or restrained, judgment shall be given that he be forthwith discharged;
otherwise judgment shall be given that the proceeding be dismissed
and the part remanded.

SEC. 591. otwithstanding the issuing of the writ without requiring a

the production of the person, the court or judge before whom the
same was returnable may, before final decision, issue a precept to
the oflicer or other person to whom the writ was directed, requiring
the production of the person.

SEC. 592. Obedience to a judgment for the discharge of a person
imprisoned or restrained, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
may be enforced by the court or judge by proceedings for a contempt.
No ofiicer or other person is liable to any action or proceeding for
obeying such 'udgment of discharge.

SEC. 593. 0 person who has been finally discharged upon a proceeding by habeas corpus, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
shall be again imprisoned, restrained, or kept in custody, for the same
cause; but it is not to be deemed the same causeFirst. If he have been discharged from a commitment on a criminal
charge, and be afterwards committed for the same offense by the legal
order or process of the court, wherein he is bound by recognizance or
undertaking to appear, or in which he is indicted or convicted for the
same offense’ or,

Second. If, after a judgment or discharge for a defect of evidence,

or for a material defect in the commitment, ina criminal case, the
party be again arrested on suliicient evidence, and committed by legal
process for the same offense; or,

Third. If, aftera civil action, the party have been discharged for
any illegality in the judgment, decree, or process hereinbefore specified,
and be afterwardsimprisoned for the same cause of action; or, “

Fourth. If, in a civil action, he have been discharged from commitment on a writ of arrest, and be afterwards committed on execution,
in the same action, or on a writ of arrest in another action, after the
dismissal of the first one.

SEC. 594. Whenever it ap ears by satisfactor evidence that any
person is illegally im risone or restrained, an that there is good
reason to believe that e will be carried out of the district, or suffer
some irreparable injury before he can be relieved by the issuing of a
writ of habeas corpus, any court or judge authorized to issue such
writ may issue a. warrant recitin the facts, and directed to the marshal or any other person therein esignated, commanding such oflicer
or erson to take such person, and forthwith to bring‘ him before
suc court or °udge, to be dealt with accordin to law. ,

SEC. 595. hen the proof mentioned in the ast section shall also be
sufhcient to justify an arrest of the person having the party in his
custody, as for a criminal offense, committed in the taking or detaining of such party, the warrant may also contain an order for the arrest
of such person for such offense. ’ ‘

SEC. 596. Any officer or person to whom such warrant shall be
directed shall execute the same by bringing the party therein named
and the person who detains him, if so commanded by the warrant, before

the court or jud e issuing the same; and thereupon the person detaining such rty s all make a return in like manner, and the like proceeding s all be had thereon as if a writ of habeas corpus had been
issued in the first instance.

SEC. 597. If the person having such party in his custody be brought

before the court or jud e as for a criminal o ense, he shall be examined,
committed, bailed, or ischar ed by the court or judge in like manner
as in other criminal cases of t e like nature.

SEC. 598. Any oflicer or other person refusing to deliver a copy of
any order, warrant, process, or other authority by which he shall detain
any person to anyone who shall demand such copy and tender the fees
therefor shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

SEC. 599. Whenever a writ of habeas cor us is required in any action
or proceeding, civil or criminal, to which t e United States is a party,
the application therefor may be made by the district attorney, and
whenever so issued the court or judge shall state in the order of allowance that it was issued on such application. 9

SEC. 600. A writ of habeas corpus may be served by the marshal,
or by an other person therein designated, at any place Within the district, an the service thereof shall not be deemed complete, so as to
require the prisoner to be brought up before the court or judge issuing the same, unless the party serving the same shall tender to the
person in whose custody the prisoner may be, if such person be a marshal or other otlicer, the fees allowed by law for bringing up such prisoner; nor unless he shall also enter into an undertaking to such marshal
or other officer, as the case may be, in a penalty double the. amount of
the sum for which such prisoner may be detained, if he be detained

for an specific amount of money, and if not, then _in such a sum as
the ju ge granting the writ shall direct, not exceeding one thousand
dollars, to the effect that such person shall dpaiy the charges for carryinlglback such prisoner if he shall be reman e , and that such risoner
w' not escape by the way, either in going to or returnin rom the
place to which he is taken. If such fees be not paid, or suc security
be not tendered, the oflicer to whom the writ IS directed shall make
return thereto, in the manner required by section five hundred and
seventy-three, and shall state therein the reason why such prisoner is
not produced, and thereupon the court or judge granting the writ may
proceed as if the prisoner,were produced. But this section, from and
inclusive of the words “and the service thereof,” does not apply to
a case wherein the writ is issued on the application of the district
attorney.

SEC. 601. The writ of habeas corpus may be served by delivery of
a certified copy of the original to the oflicer or person to whom it is
directed, or, if he can not be found, by leaving such copy at the jail or
other place in which the party is imprisoned or restrained, with any
under officer or other erson having charge for the time of such party.

SEC. 602. If the o cer or person on whom the writ ought to be
served conceal himself, or refuse admittance to the person attempting
to serve it, it may be served by aflixin it in some conspicuous place
on the outside either of his dwelling liouse or the jail or other place
where the party is confined. ‘

SEC. 603. It is the duty of the marshal or other oflicer upon whom
a writ of habeas corpus has been served, whether such writ be directed
to him or not, upon payment or tender of the fees allowed by law and
the delivery or tender of the undertaking herein prescribed, to obey
and return the writ according to the exigency thereof; and it is the
duty of every other person upon whom the writ is served, having the
custody of the person for whose benefit it is issued, to obey and return
it in like manner without requiring the payment of any fees, unless
the judgment of such fees has been required by the court or judge

allowing such writ.

SEC. 604. Every court or judge allowing a writ of habeas corpus,
directed to a person other than the marshal or other officer, may, in
its discretion, require, in order to render the service effectual, that the
charges of producin the party be paid by the applicant; and in such
case the court or 'u ge shall, in the order allowing the writ, specify

q the amount of suc char es, which shall not exceed the fees allowed by

law to marshals for simi ar services. .

SEC. 605. The proof of service of the writ of habeas corpus shall be
the same as in the service of a summons, except that the same shall
be indorsed upon a co y of the writ made b the oliicer or person
serving it, and returne to the clerk who issue the writ.

SEC. 606. If the writ be returnable at a certain time, such return
shall be made and the party produced, if required or there be no valid
excuse therefor, as herein provided, at the time and place specified
therein; if it be returnable forthwith, and the place of return be within
twenty miles of the place of service, the return must be made and the
party produced within twenty-four hours, and the same time is allowed
for every additional twenty miles. 

SEC. 607. At any time after the allowance of such writ or warrant
by the court or judge thereof, the plaintiff therein, or the person

a plying therefor on his behalf, may give notice to the 'udge issuing

t e same, and thereupon, if necessary to avoid delay, suc jud e shall '

by order require that the return be made and the party produce before
him at such time and place as may be convenient.

SEC. 608. Any party to a proceeding by habeas corpus, including the

United States when the district attorney appears therein, may appeal ~

from the judgment of the district court refusing to allow such Writ or
any final judgment therein, either in term time or vacation, in like
manner and with like effect as in an action. No question once finally
determined upon a proceeding by habeas corpus shall be reexamined
upon another or subsequent proceeding of the same kind.

CHAPTER FIFTY-EIGHT.

OF THE PUNISHMENT OF CONTEMPTS.

 
Contempts deiined. 617. Return of warrant, and proceedings
. Punishment for contempt. on appearance.
. In presence of court, how punished. 618. Determination and sentence. ’

. In other cases, mode of proceeding. 619. Judgment to indemnify party in. If defendant imprisoned, may be jured.

brought ug. 620. When party ma be imprisoned.
. The United tates is plaintiff; when 621. Person also liab e to indictment.

district attorney may rosecute. 622. If arty do not appear proceedings
. When defendant bail ; how war- thereon. ’

rant executed. . 623. Appeal from judgment.
. Bail, how given.

SEC. 609. The following acts or omissions, in respect to a court of
justice, or roceedings therein, are deemed to be contempts of the
authority 0 the court:

First. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the
judge While holding the court, tendin to impair its authority or to
interrupt the due course of a trial or ot r judicial proceedin ;

Second. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or vio ent dis- ‘

turbance, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial
proceeding;

Third. isbehavior in oiiice, or other willful neglect or violation of
duty, by an attorney, clerk, marshal, or other person appointed or
selected to e1-form a judicial or ministerial service;

Fourth. eceit, or abuse of the process or proceedings of the court,
by a part to an action or special proceeding;

Fifth. isobedience of any lawful, judgment, order, or process of
the court;

Sixth. Assumin to be an attorney or other officer of the court, and
acting as such wit out authority in a particular instance;

Seventh. Rescuing any person or propert in the custody of an
officer b virtue of an order or process of sue court;

Eight . Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action or
proceeding while’going to, remaining at, or returning from the court
where the same is for trial;

Ninth. ~. An other unlawful interference with the process or proceedin s of the court;

' Tent . Disobedience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be
sworn or answer as a Witness; '

Eleventh. When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly conversing With a party to an action or proceeding to be tried at such
court, or with any other person in relation to the merits of such action,
or proceeding, or receiving a communication from a arty or other
person in respect to it without immediately disclosing t e same to the
court‘

Twelfth. Disobedience b an inferior tribunal, magistrate, or otlicer
of the lawful judgment, or er, or process of a superior court or proceeding in an action or proceeding contrary to law, after suc action
or proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction of such
inferior tribunal, magistrate, or ofiicer. The conduct specified in subdivisions first and second of this section, when committed before a
judicial oflicer, or disobedience of the lawful order or rocess of such
officer made in the cases specified in section seven hun red and eleven,
is also to be deemed a contempt of the authority of such oflicer.

SEC. 610. Every court of justice and every judicial ofiicer has power
to unish contempt by fine or imprisonment, or both. But such fine
sha I not exceed three hundred dollars nor the imprisonment six

_ months; and when the contempt is not one of those mentioned in subdivisions first and second of the last section, or in subdivision first of section seven hundred and eleven it must appear that the right or
remedy of a part to an action or proceeding was defeated or prejudiced thereby be ore the contem t can be punished otherwise than by
fine not exceeding one hundred ollars.

SEC. 611. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or oiiicer, it may be unished summarily,
for which an order must be made reciting the acts as occurring in

such immediate view and presence, determining that the rson proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contemfpt and that e be pun9 .
ished as therein prescribed. In other cases 0 contempt the trial shall
proceed upon testimony produced as in criminal cases and the accused
shall be entitled to be confronted with the witnesses against him, but
such trial shall be by the court or, in the discretion of the court, upon
application of the accused, a trial by jury may be had as in any criminal case. I

SEC. 612. In cases other than those mentioned in the section last
preceding, before any proceedin s can be taken therein the facts constituting the contempt must be s own by an aiiidavit resented to the
court or judicial oiiicer, and thereupon such court or o cer may either
make an order upon the person charged to show cause why he should
not be arrested to answer, or issue a warrant of arrest to bring such
person to answer in the first instance.

SEC. 613. If the arty charged be in the custody of an officer, by
virtue of a. le 9.1 or er or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence for a fe ony, an order may be made for the production of such
person by the otlicer having him in custody, that he may answer, and

e shall thereupon be produced and held, until an order be made for
his disposal. _

SEC. 614. In the proceeding for a contempt the United States is the
plaintiff. In all cases of public interest the roceedin may be prosecuted by the district attorney on behalf of lihe Unite States; and in
all cases where the proceedin is commenced upon the relation of a

rivate party, such party shal be deemed a coplaintiff with the United
tates. ~

SEC. 615. Whenever a Warrant of arrest is issued pursuant to this chapter the court or judicial otlicer shall direct therein Whether the
person charged may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant or detamed in custody Without bail, and if he may be bailed, the
amount in which he may be let to bail. Upon executing the Warrant
of arrest, the marshal must keep the person in actual custody, bring
him before the court or judicial officer, and detain him until an order
be made in the premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to
be discharged as provided in section six hundred and sixteen.

SEC. 616. The defendant shall be discharged from the arrest upon
executin and delivering to the marshal, at any time before the return
day of the Warrant, an undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to
the effect that the defendant Will appear on such return day, and abide
the order or judgment of the court or officer thereupon, or pay, as
ma be directed, the sum s ecified in the Warrant.

SEC. 617. The marshal s all return the Warrant of arrest, and the
undertaking, if any, iven him by the defendant, by the return day
therein specified. en the defendant has been brought up or has
a peared, the court or judicial oflieer shall proceed to investigate the
c arge by examining such defendant and witnesses for or against him,
for which an adjournment may be had from time to time if necessary.

SEC. 618. Upon the evidence so taken the court or judicial oflicer'

shall determine Whether or not the defendant is guilt of the contempt
charged, and if it be determined that he is so gui ty, shall sentence
him to be punished as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 619. If any loss or injury to a party in an action or proceeding,
prejudicial to his rights therein, have been caused by the contem t,
the court or judicial oflicer, in addition to the punishment imposed or
the contempt, may give judgment that the party aggrieved recover off
the defendant a sum of money sufficient to indemnigy him and to satisfy
his costs and disbursements, Which judgment, an the acceptance of
the amount thereof, is a bar to any action or proceeding by the
ag rieved part for such loss or injury.

SEC. 620. hen the contempt consists in the omission or refusal to

rform an act which is yet in the power of the defendant to erform,

hi may be imprisoned until he shall have performed it; an in such
case the act must be specified in the Warrant of commitment.

SEC. 621. Persons proceeded against according to the provisions of
this chapter are also liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it
be an indictable offense; but the court, before his conviction is had on
the indictment, in passing sentence, shall take into consideration the
punishment before lnflicted. '

SEC. 622. When a Warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the
defendant do not appear on the return day, the court or judicial otlicer
may issue another Warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to
be prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, and the
aggrieved party join in the action, and the sum s ecified therein be
recovered, so much thereof as will compensate sue part for the loss
or injury sustained by reason of the misconduct for whic the Warrant
was issued shall be deemed to be recovered for such party exclusively.

SEC. 623. Either party to a judgment in a proceeding for a contem t may appeal therefrom in like manner and with like effect as from
a ju ent m an action; but such appeal shall not have the effect to
stay $2 proceeding in any other action or proceeding, or upon any

judgment, decree, or order therein concerning which or wherein such
contempt was committed. Contempts of justices’ courts are punishable in the manner specially provided in the procedure before them.

CHAPTER FIFTY-NINE.

OF THE MEANS OF THE PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE.

Sec.

.. Subpoena for witness defined. 632. Disobedience to subpoena, how pun. Subpoena, how and by whom issued. ished.
. Subpoena, when and to whom issued 633. Forfeiture therefor.

in blank. 634. When warrant may be issued to

. Subpoena, how served. bring witness.

. How served if witness concealed. 635. Warrant of arrest or commitment.

. Proof of service. 636. If witness be a prisoner, how pro. When witness obliged to attend. duced or examined.

. Person present compelled to testify.

SEC. 624. The process by which the attendance of a witness is
required is a subpoena. It is a writ directed to a person and requiring
his attendance at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness
in a particular action, suit, or proceeding therein s ecified, on behalf
of a particular party therein mentioned. It may a so require him to
bring with him any books, documents, or other things under his control which he is bound by law to roduce in evidence.

SEC. 625. The subpoena is as fo lows: ‘

First. To require attendance before a court of record, or at the trial of an issue therein, or out of such court in an action, suit, or proceeding pendin%‘therein, by.the clerk of such court;

Second. 0 require attendance before a commissioner appointed to
take testimony by a court of the United States, or any State or Territory, or any foreign country, by any clerk of a court of record, in
places within the jurisdiction of such court;

Third. To require attendance before the judge, justice of the eace,
or other person authorized by law to take the testimony or a davit

of another, by such judge, justice of the peace, or other person, in the

places within their respective jurisdiction.

SEC. 626. The subpoenas authorized by subdivisions first and second
of the last section, upon the request of a party and an attorney of the
court, shall be issued by the clerk in blank, and delivered to such party
or attorney, who may thereafter fill up such blank with the name of
the witness or witnesses that he may desire to be subpoenaed, and cause
the same to be served as in this chapter re uired. ’

SEC. 627. A subpoena may be served by t e arty or any other competent person over ei hteen years of age. he service is made by
reading and showing t e original and dehvering a cop to the witness
personally, iving or offering to him at the same time t e fees to which

e is entitle for travel to and from the place designated, and one day’s

_ attendance there. Such service must be made so as to allow the witness a reasonable time for preparation and travel to the place of
attendance.

SEC. 628. The marshal or any deputy or any person specially
appointed by him, but none other, is authorized and required to break
into any building or vessel in which a witness may be concealed, so as

to prevent the service of a subpoena, and serve the same upon such
witness.

SEC. 629. Proof of service of a subpoena shall be made in the same
manner as in the service of a summons.

SEC. 630. A witness is not obliged to attend for oral examination or
otherwise at a place distant more than one hundred miles from the
place where he resides or at which he may be served with a subpoena;
except that in an action or proceeding pending in a court of record
the court or judge thereof, upon the aflidavit of the party, or some one
on his behalf, showing that the testimony of the witness is material
and his oral examination important and desirable, may indorse upon
the sub na an order for the attendance of the witness; the service of
such su poena and order and the pa ment of legal fees to the witness
are sufiicient to require his atten ance, if he be served within the
district.

SEC. 631. A person present in court or before a judicial officer may
be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance
before such court or oflicer on a subpoena.

SEC. 632. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be sworn, or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an aflidavit or deposition when
required, may be punished as a contempt by the court or oiiicer before
whom he is required to attend or the refusal takes place, and if the
witness be a party his complaint, answer, or reply may be stricken
out.

SEC. 633. A witness disobeyin ‘a sub oena duly served shall forfeit
to the part re uiring his atten ance t e sum of fifty dollars and all
damages w ich e may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend,
which forfeiture and damages may be recovered by an action at law.

SEC. 634. In case of the failure of a witness to attend, the court or

oflicer before whom he is required to attend, upon proof of the due

service of the subpoena and tender of his fees, may issue a warrant to

the marshal reiquiringlhim to arrest the witness and bring him before
cer w

the court or o ere his attendance was required.

SEC. 635. Eve warrant of commitment issued by a court or oiiicer
pursuant to this c apter shall specify therein the cause of the commitment; and if it be for refusing to answer a question such question shall
be stated in the warrant.

SEC. 636. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a prison within
the district, an order for his examination in the prison upon a deposition, or for his temporary removal and production, before a court or
<f)flilcer, for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made as

o1 ows:

First. B the court or judge thereof in which the action or proceedin is pen ing, unless it be a court of a justice of the peace; .

cond. By any judge of a court of record, when the action or proceeding is pending in a justice’s court, or when the witness’s deposition,
afiidavlt, or oral examination is required before a judge or other person
out of court;

Third. Such order shall only be made u on the affidavit of the party
desiring the order, or some one on his be alf, showing the nature of
the action or roceeding, the testimony expected from the witness,
and its materia ity; ,

Fourth. If the witness be imprisoned at the place where the action or

roceeding is pendin , and for a cause other than a sentence for felony,
° roduction may ei required; in all other cases his examination
shall) be taken by deposition.

CHAPTER Srxrr.

OF THE MODE OF TAKING THE TESTIMONY OF WITNESS.
 

 I-Iow authenticated if taken outside 640. Proof of publication by ailidavit.
the district. 641. Where affidavit may be filed, and

638. Aiiidavit, when may be used. effect thereof.
639. When deponent to be produced for .
cross-examination.

SEC. 637. An aflidavit or deposition taken in any State or Territory
of the United States, the District of Columbia, or in a foreign country, otherwise than upon commission, must be authenticated as follows
before it can be used in the district: .

First. It must be certified by a commissioner appointed by the

overnor of the district to take afiidavits and depositions in such
State, Territory, District, or country, or

Second. It» must be certified by a judge of a court having a clerk
and a seal to have been taken and subscribed before him at a time
and place therein specified, and the existence of the court, the fact that
such judge is a member thereof, and the genuineness of his signature
shall be certified b the clerk of the court, under the seal thereof.

SEC. 638. An a davit may be used to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other paper in an action or proceeding to obtain a
provisional remedy, the examination of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other case expressly pI‘OV1ded
for by law, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 639. Whenever a provisional remed has been allowed upon aflidavit, the party against whom it is allow may serve upon the party
by whom it was obtained a notice requiring the person making the ailidavit to be produced before some ofiicer authorized to administer oaths,
therein named, for cross-examination. Thereu on the party to whom
the remedy was allowed shall lose the benefit of t e aflidavit and all proceedings founded thereon, unless within eight days, or such other time
as the court or judge thereof may direct, upon a previous notice to his
adversary of at least three days, he produce the deponent for examination before the ofiicer mentioned in the notice, or some other of like
authority, provided for in the order of the court or judge. Upon such
production the deponent may be examined by either party, but a party
shall not be obliged to produce a witness for examination as in this section provided, except within the district where the provisional remedy
was allowed. T

SEC. 640. Proof of the publication of a document or notice required
by law, or by an order of court or a judge, to be published in a newspaper, may be made by the afiidavit of the printer of the newspaper or

is foreman or principal clerk annexed to a copy of the document or
notice, specifying the times when and the paper in which the publication was made. But such afiidavit must be made within six months
after the last day of publication.

SEC. 641. If such afiidavit be made in an action or proceeding pend. ing in a court, it may befiled with the clerk thereof; and the same is

primary evidence of the facts therein stated.

CHAPTER SIXTY-ONE.

OF DEPOSITIONS.

I?
800- ' Sec.
642. Deposition, when used. 644. When de osition taken of witness

643. Testimony of witness out of the Within ' trict.
dlstrict.

SEC. 642. In all cases other than those mentioned in section six
hundred and thirty-eight Where a written declaration under oath is
used, it must be adeposition.

SEC. 643. The testimony of a Witness out of the district ma be
taken by deposition in an action at any time after the service ofy the
summons or the a pearancc of the defendant, and in a special proceedin% at any time a ter a question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 644. The testimony of a Witness in the district may be taken

. by deposition, in an action, at any time after the service of the summons, or the appearance of the defendant; and in a special proceeding
after a question of -fact has arisen therein in the following cases:

First. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, by
the adverse arty;

Second. hen the Witness’s residence is such that he is not obliged
to attend in obedience to the subpcsna, as provided in section six hundred and thirty;

Third. When the Witness is about to go more than one hundred
miles be ond the place of trial;

Fourth’. When the Witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial, is
nevertheless foo infirm to attend;

Fifth. Wnen the testimony is required upon a motion, or in an
other case Where the oral examination of the Witness is not require .

CHAPTER SIXTY-TWO.

OF THE MANNER OF TAKING DEPOSITIONS OUT OF THE DISTRICT.
 
645. Testimony of a witness out of the 649. Trial, when postponed therefor.

district, how taken. 650. Deposition taken out of district be646. Commission, how and by whom fore commission.

issued. ~ 651. Either party may attend or require
647. Interrogatories may be annexed. written interrogatories.
648. Contents of commission.

SEC. 645. The deposition of a Witness out of the district may be taken
upon commission issued from the court, or Without commission before a
commissioner appointed by the overnor of the district to take depositions in any State, Territory, or istrict of the United States, or in any
foreign country.

SEC. 646. The, commission may be issued by the clerk of the court,
or by a justice of the peace in acause in his own court, on the application of either party upon five days’ previous notice to the other. It
shall be issued to a person aglreed upon by the parties, or if they do not
agree, to a judge, 'ustice of t e peace, notary public, or clerk of a court,
selected by the o cer issuing it. .

SEC. 647. Such interrogatories, direct and cross, as the respective
parties may prepare, to be settled by the clerk or justice in a summary
manner as to the form thereof, if the parties disagree, may be annexed
to the commission, or when the parties agree to that mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories.

SEC. 648. The commission shall authorize the commissioner to administer an oath to the witness and to take his deposition in answer to the
interrogatories, or when the examination is to be without them, in
respect to the question in dispute, and to certi the deposition to the
court in a sealed envelope, directed to the cler or justice who issued

the commission, or other person desi nated and agreed upon, and for-_

ward it to him by mail or other usua channel of conveyance.

SEC. 649. A trial or other proceeding shall not be postponed by reason
of a commission not being returned, except it appear by affidavit that
the testimony of the witness is material and necessary, and that proper
diligence has been used to obtain it.

SEC. 650. The deposition of a witness out of the district, and in any
State, Territory, or District of the United States, may also be taken
before a commissioner ap ointed by the governor of the district to
take depositions in such Sptate, Territory, or District, upon giving to
the adverse party eight days’ notice of the time and place of the
examination, the name of the commissioner, and the witness, if the
distance of the place of examination from the place where the testimony is to be used does not exceed fifty miles, and one day in addition for every additional twenty-five miles.

SEC. 651. Either party may attend upon such examination and
examine the witnesses upon oral interro atories, but if either party,
by a written notice to the other within t ree days from the service of
the original notice, re uire it, it shall be taken upon written interrogatories, to be settle , if not agreed upon, by the same officer and in
the same manner as in case of a deposition upon commission; and in
such case the deposition shall be taken, certified, and directed by the
commissioner in the same manner as a deposition upon commission.

CHAPTER SIXTY-THREE.

OF THE MANNER OF TAKING DEPOSITIONS IN THE DISTRICT.
 

652. Depositions in the district, when 656. May be used by either arty; objectaken, and notice thereof. tions to relevancyor orm.

653. How taken; either party may at- 657. Proof before using certain depositend. tions; insufiicient notice.
654. Certificate of oflicer. 658. Depositions may be read at any
655. Deposition, to whom forwarded. time; exclusion of a portion.

SEC. 652. Either party may take the testimony of a witness in the
district by deposition, in the cases allowed by this code, before the
clerk of a court of record, or other person authorized to administer
oaths, on iving the adverse party previous notice of the time and
place of _t e examination, the name of the officer, and the witness;
such notice shall be given at least three days before the day of the

v examination, if the distance of the place of examination from the residence of the person to whom notice is given does not exceed twentyfive miles, and one day in addition for every additional twenty-five
miles, unless the court or judge thereof by order rescribe a shorter
time. When a shorter time is prescribed the order s all be served with
the notice.

SEC. 653. Either party ma. attend upon such examination and
examine the witness upon ora interrogatories. The deposition shall
be written by the oliicer taking the same, or by the witness, or by
some disinterested person, in the presence and under the direction of
such oflicer. When completed it shall be read to or by the witness
and subscribed by him. Before subscribing it the witness shall be
allowed, if he desire it, to correct or explaln any statement in the
deposition, but such statement, although corrected and explained, shall
remain a part of the deposition.

SEC. 654. The officer taking the deposition shall append thereto his
certificate, under the seal of is oflice, if there be a seal, to the effect

that the deposition was taken before him, at a lace mentioned, betweencertain hours of a day or days mentioned, an reduced to writing by a
person therein named; that, before roceeding to theexamination, the
witness may be duly sworn to tell) the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth; that the deposition was read to or by the witness
and then by him subscribed. 
SEC. 655. The officer taking the deposition shall inclose the same in
a sealed envelope, directed to the clerk of the court, or the justice of
the peace before whom the action or proceeding is pending, or such
other person as may by writing be agreed u on, and deliver or forward
the same accordingly by mail or other usua channel of conveyance.

SEC. 656. A depositlon taken pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be used by either party upon the trial or proceedin
against any party giving or recelving the notice subject to all lega
exceptions. But no ob]eotions can be made at the trial to the relevancy of the testimony or the form of the interrogatory, unless the
same appear by the deposition or written interrogatories to have been
taken at the time of the examination or the settling of such interrogatories. Section six hundred and fifty-three, except the first sentence
thereof, and sections six ‘hundred and fifty-four and six hundred and
fifty-five shall apply to depositions taken out of the district on oral
interrogatories.

SEC. 657. If a de osition be taken under subdivisions two, three, or
four of section six undred and sixty, before the same can be used
proof shall be made that the witness did reside beyond the service of
a subpoena, or that he still continues absent or infirm, as the case may
be. A deposition taken, whether in the district or without, upon
insufficient notice or otherwise, not substantially in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, may be excluded from the case, unless
such insufficient notice or other omission has been waived by the consent or conduct of the adverse party.

SEC. 658. When a deposition has once been taken it may be read in
the same action or proceedin , or in any other action or proceedin ,
between the same parties or t eir representatives upon the same su ect, and is then to be deemed the evidence of the party readin it.
]When any portion of a deposition is excluded from a case, so muc of
the adverse examination as relates thereto is excluded also.

CHAPTER SIXTY-FOUR.

OF THE GENERAL RULES OF EXAMINATION.
 

. Order of proof, how regulated. 666. Cross-examination, as to what it
. Witness not under examination may extends.
be excluded. , 667. Party not to impeach his own wit. Interpreter sworn, when. ness.
662. Court may control mode 0. mterro- 668. Witness, how reexamined.
gation. 669. How witness impeached.
663. Direct and cross-examination de- 670. Same subject.
fined. 671. Evidence of good character, when
. Leading questions defined. , allowed.
665. When witness may testify or refresh 672. Writing shown to witness may be
his memory from writing. inspected by adverse party.

SEC. 659. The order of proof shall be regulated by the sound discretion of the court. Ordinarily, the party beginning the case shall
exhaust his evidence before the other begins.

SEC. 660. If either party require it, the judge may exclude mm the
court room any witness of the adverse party not at the time under
examination, so that he may not hear the testimony of other witnesses.

SEC. 661. When a witness does not understand and s eak the English '

lan uage, an interpreter shall be sworn to interpret or him.

SEC. 662. The court may exercise a reasonable control over the
mode of interrogation, so as to make it as rapid, as distinct, as little
annoying to the witness, and as effective for the extraction of the
truth as may be; but, subject to this rule, the parties may ut such
legal and pertinent questions as they see fit. The court, owever,

may sto the production of further evidence, u on any particular
point, w en the evidence upon it is alreadv so ull as to preclude
reasonable doubt.

SEC. 663. The examination of a witness by the party producing him
is denominated the direct examination; the examination of the same
witness u on the same matter, by the adverse party, the cross-examination. he direct examination must be comp eted before the crossexamination begins, unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. 664. A question which suggests to the witness the answer
which the examining party desires 1S denominated a leading or suggestive question. On a direct examination, leading questions are not
allowed, unless merely formal or preliminary, except in the sound
discretion of the court, under special circumstances making it appear
that the interests of justice require it.

SEC. 665. A witness is allowed to refresh his memory, respecting a
fact, by anything written by himself or under his direction at the time
when the fact occurred or immediately thereafter, or at an other time
when the fact was fresh in his memory and he knew that t e same was
correctly stated in the writing. But in either case the writing must
be produced, and may be inspected by the adverse party, who may, if
he choose, cross-examine the witness upon it, and» may read it to the
jury. So, also, a witness may testify from such a writing, though he
retain no recollection of the particular facts; but such evidence shall
be received with caution.

SEC. 666. The adverse arty may cross-examine the witness as to
any matter stated in his 'rect examination or connected therewith,

and in so doing may put leading questions; but if he examine him as
to other matters, suc examination is to be subject to the same rules
as a direct examination.

SEC. 667. The arty producing a witness is not allowed to impeach
his credit by evi ence of bad character, but he may contradict him by
other evidence, and may also show that he has made at other times
statements inconsistent with his present testimony, as provided in section six hundred and seventy.

SEC. 668. A witness once examined shall not be reexamined as to
the same matter without leave of the court; but he may be reexamined
as to any new matter upon which he has been examined by the adverse

partiy. After the examinations on both sides are concluded the witness
s

hal not be recalled without leave of the court. Leave is granted or .

withheld in the exercise of a sound discretion. - .

SEC. 669. A witness may be impeached by the party against whom
he was called, by contradictory evidence or by evidence that his eneral reputation for truth is bad, or that his moral character is suc as
to render him unworth of belief, but not by evidence of particular
wrongful acts; exce t that it may be shown by the examination of the
witness or the recor of the judgment that he has been convicted of a
crime.

SEC. 670. A witness may also be impeached b evidence that he has
made at other times statements inconsistent with is present testimony;
but before this can be done the statements must be related to him, with
the circumstances of times, places, and persons present; and he shall
be asked whether he has made such statements, and, if so, allowed to
explain them. If the statements be in writing, they shall be shown to

the witness before any uestion is put to him concerning them.

SEC. 671. Evidence 0 the ood c aracter of a party is not admissible
in a civil action or procee ing unless the issue therein involve his
character, nor of a witness in any action or proceeding until the character of such witness has been impeached.

SEC. 672. Whenever a writing is shown to a witness it may be
inspected by the adverse party, and if proved by the witness, shall be
read to the jur before his testimony is closed, or it shall not be read,
except on reca ' g the witness.

CHAPTER Sixrir-irivii.

OF THE EFFECT OF EVIDENCE.
 
673. On what points jury to be instructed.

SEC. 673. The jury, subject to the control of the court in the cases
specified in this code, are the judges of the effect and value of evidence
addressed to them, except when it is thereby declared to be conclusive.
They are, however, to be instructed by the court on all proper occasions:

First. That their power of j udgin the effect of evidence is not arbitrary, but to be exercised with leg discretion and in subordination

to the rules of evidence; _ . _ _
Second. That they are not bound to find in conformity with the

_ declarations of any number of witnesses which do not produce conviction in their minds against a less number, or against a presumption
or other evidence satisfying their minds;

Third. That a witness willfully false in one part of his testimony

ma be distrusted in others;
ourth. That the testimony of an accomplice ought to be viewed
with distrust and of the oral admissions of a party wlth caution;

Fifth. That in civil cases the aiiirmative of the issue shall be proved,
and when the evidence is contradictory the fmdin shall be according
to the pre onderance of evidence; that in crimina cases guilt shall be
establishe beyond reasonable doubt;

Sixth. That evidence is to be estimated not only by its own intrinsic
weight, but also according to the evidence which it 1s in the power of
one side to produce and of the other to contradict; and, therefore,

Seventh. That if the weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered

when it appears that stronger and more satisfactory was within the
power of the party, the evidence offered’ should be viewed with distrust.

CHAPTER SIXTY-SIX.‘
or run RIGHTS AND DUTIES or wrrnnssns.

 

674. Witness (bound to attend when sub- 677. When witness protected from a: nae . rest.
675. t questions witness bound to 678. To make afhdavit if arrested.

answer. 679. Court may discharge witness from
676. Right of witness to protection. arrest.

SEC. 674. It is the duty of a witness, duly served with a subpoena
and tendered mileage and fees for the day named, to attend at the time
appointed, with any papers, books, documents, or other thing under
his control re uired by the sub oena, to answer all pertinent and legal
questions, and], unless sooner ' charged, to remaln until the testimony is closed; but a witness, at the end of each day’s attendance,
may demand of the part or his attorney the payment of his legal fees
for the next following a , and if not then paid he is not obliged to
remain longer in attendance. . _

SEC. 675. A witness shall answer questions legal and rrtinent to
the matter in issue, though his answer may establish a e aim a inst
himself. But he need not give an answer which will have a °rect
tendency to subject him to criminal prosecution, or to degrade his
character, unless, in the latter case, it be as to the very fact in issue,
or to afact from which the fact in issue would be presumed. This
privile e’ is the privilege of the witness, but a witness must answer as
to the act of his revious conviction for felony.

SEC. 676. It is t e right of the witness to be protected from irrelevant,
insulting, or improper questions, or from harsh or insulting demeanor;
to be detained only so long as the interests of justice require it; to be
examined onl as to matters legal and pertinent to the issue.

SEC. 677 . very person who has been, in good faith, served with a
subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge, commissioner,
referee, or other officer, is exonerated from arrest in a civil case while
going to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there, and
returning therefrom; The arrest of a witness contrary to this section
is void, and when willfully made is a contempt of court; and the oflieer

making it is responsible to the witness arrested for double the amount of damages which may be assessed against him therefor, and is also liable to

an action at the suit of the party serving the witness with the subpoena
for the dama es sustained y him in consequence of -the arrest.

SEC. 678. ut the ofiicer making the arrest is not liable in any wa
therefor, unless the person. making the exception make, if require ,
an aflidavit statingFirst. That he has been served with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a court, judge or other oflicer, specifying the same, the
place of attendance, and the action or proceeding in which the subpoena was-’issued; and

Second. That he has not been thus served by his own procurement,
with the intention of avoiding an arrest. The affidavit may be taken
by the oflieer, and exonerates him from liability for not making the
arrest or for discharging_the witness when arrested.

SEC. 679. The court, Judge, or oflicer before whom the attendance
of the witness is required may dischar e a witness from an arrest made
in violation of section six hundred an seventy-seven.

CHAPTER SIXTY-SEVEN.

OF EVIDENCE IN PARTICULAR CASES.

Sec Sec.

686. Whoever pays or delivers entitled to 683. Offer of compromise not an admisreceipt. sion.

681. Objections to tender must be speci- 684. Confession of adultery in divorce
tied. cases

682. Rules for construing description of
real property.

SEC. 680. Whoever pays mone , or delivers an instrument or property, is entitled to a receipt there or from the person to whom the payment or ‘delivery is made, and may demand a proper signature to such
receipt as a condition of the payment or delivery.

SEC. 681. The person to whom a tender is made shall at the time
specify any objection he may have to the money, instrument, or property, or he must be deemed to have waived it; and if the ob]ection be
to the amount of money, the terms of the instrument, or the amount
or kind of property, he must specify the amount, terms, or kind which
he requires, or be precluded from objecting afterwards.

SEC. 682. The following are the rules for construing the descriptive part of a conveyance of real property when the construction is
doubtful and there are no other suflicient circumstances to determine it:

First. Where there are certain definite and ascertained particulars in
the description, the addition of others which are indefinite, unknown,
or false does not frustrate the conveyance, but it is to be construed by
sud) particulars, if they constitute a suflicient description to ascertain
its application;

Second. When permanent and visible or ascertained boundaries or
monuments are inconsistent with the measurement, either of lines,
an les, or surfaces, the boundaries or monuments are paramount;

hird. Between different measurements which are inconsistent with
each other, that of angles is paramount to that of surfaces, and that of
lines paramount to both;

Fourth. When a road or stream of water not navigable is the boundary, the rights of the grantor to the middle of the road or the thread

of the stream are included in the conveyance except where the road
or bed of the stream is held under another tit e;

Fifth. When tide water is the boundary, the rights of the grantor
to low-water mark are included in the conveyance;

Sixth. When the description refers to a map, and that reference is
inconsistent with other particulars, it controls them, if it a pear that
the parties acted with reference to the map; otherwise t e map is
subordinate to other definite and ascertained particulars.

SEC. 683. An offer of compromise is not an admission that anything
is due; and no evidence thereof shall be permitted.

SEC. 684. In an action for the dissolution of the marriage contract on
the round of adultery, a confession of adultery, whether in or out of

thep eadings, is not of itself suflicient to justify a decree of dissolution.
CHAPTER Srxrr-EIGHT.

OF PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
 

Sec.
685. Evidence may be perpetuated. 689. Papers filed with deposition, primary
686. Order for examination, how ob- evidence.

tained. 690. When the de sition may be used.
687. Service of the order and notice in 691. How objecte to when produced.

case of nonresidents. 692. Power and duty of the oiiicer taking
688. How taken and where tiled. deposition.

SEC. 685. The testimony of a witness may be taken conditionally
and perpetuated as rovided in this chapter.

SEC. 686. The or er for taking the testimony may be made by any
judge of the district court upon the application of the party desiring
it, when it appears from the petition 0 such party, verified as a complaint— °

First. That the applicant is a party or expects to be a party to an
action or proceeding in a court in the district, or that he has an interest
in real property or some easement or franchise therein about which a
controversy may arise which would be the subject of such an action
or roceedin ;

econd. Tgat the testimony of a witness, whose name and place of

_ residence is stated, is material to the prosecution or defense, as the

case may be, of such action or proceeding, or possible controversy, and
generally the question involved therein, and the facts expected to be
proved by the witness; Third. The names and residence of the adverse parties or persons
alcllversely interested, so far as the applicant knows or can ascertain
t em.

The judge may thereupon in his discretion make an order allowing
the examination, prescribing therein the place thereof, and how long
before the examination the order and notice of the time and place
therefor shall be served. _ .

SEC. 687 . If it appear that the adverse arties or persons adversely
interested, or any of them, reside out of t e district, or are unknown,
the judge shall direct that, as to such parties or persons, service of the
order and notice shall be made by publication, in the same manner as a
summons. Upon proof of the service, the deposition may be taken
conditionally by the judge who made the order of examination, or by
any other oflicer or person therein designated.

SEC. 688. Every interrogatory or answer, or declaration of the witness, shall be taken down, unless the parties otherwise agree. The
deposition, when com leted, shall be carefully read to and subscribed
by the witness and t en certihed by the judge or other oiiicer or
person taking t e same and immediately thereafter hled in the oflice of
the clerk of the court, together with the order for the examination
of the witness, the petition on which the same was granted, the notice,
and the proof of service of the order and notice. .

SEC. 689. The papers filed with the deposition, as required by the
last section, or a certified copy thereof, are rimary evidence of the
fahgtstgtated therein to show compliance with the provisions of this
c r. _

SEC. 690. If thereafter a trial be had between the persons named in
the petition as parties actual, expectant, or possible, or their representatives or successors in interest, upon roof of the death or insanity of the witness, or that he is beyond t e district and his residence
unknown, or of his inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity, the deposition or a certified copy thereof may
be 'ven in evidence by either party.

SEC. 691. The deposition when so taken, when produced in evidence,
ma be objected to as if it was the oral testimony of the witness,
except that the form of the interrogatory shall not beobjected to.

SEC. 692. The judge, oiiicer, or other person taking the deposition
shall control the examination, to the end that the whole truth may be
declared by the witness, and if no one appears other than the applicant, he shall prevent leading and suggestive interrogatories by such
ap licant, exce t when the same may be necessary or merely formal,
an shall himse f cross-examine the witness, concluding with the general interrogatory to the effect whether the witness knows anything

further in relation to the matter which would be of benefit to either
Patti“ ‘

CHAPTER SIXTY-NINE.

or onus AND AFFIRMATIONB.

693. Who authorized to take testimony 695. Same subject.
and administer oaths. 696. Who may afirm.

894. Form may be varied to suit witness’ 697. Aflirmation equivalent tooath; when
belief. false to be deemed perjury.

SEC. 693. Every court, judge, clerk of a court, commissioner, ustice
of the peace, or notary ublic is authorized to take testimony 1n any
action or proceeding, an such other persons in particular cases as this
code elsewhere authorizes. Every such court or officer is authorized
to administer oaths and affirmations generally, and every such other
person in the articular case authorized.

SEC. 694. henever the court or oflicer before which a person is
oEered as awitness is satisfied that he has a eculiar mode of swearing,
connected with or in addition to the usua form of administration,
which, in his opinion, is more solemn or obligatory, the court or officer
ma in its discretion adopt that mode.

SEC. 695. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than

the Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

SEC. 696. An person who has conscientious scruples against taking
an oath may ma e his solemn aflirmation.

SEC. 697. Whenever by any provision of thistitle an oath is required,
an afiirmation is to be deemed equivalent thereto, and a false aHirmation is to be deemed perjury equally with a false oath.

CHAPTER Snvmrrr.

OF COURTS OF JUSTICE.

 

. Judicial power, how vested. 707. Judicial officer, dennition of. When

. The district court. disqualified to act.

. Justice's court. 708. Appointment of judge pro tempore.

. Mode of proceeding. 709. J u icial oiiicer not to act as attomey,

. J urisdiction of justice’s court. except.

. Jurisdiction not to include certain 710. Power of a judge out of court.
cases. 711. Power of judicial officers.

. Where action may be commenced. 712. Powers, how exercised.

. Power of court respecting judicial 713. Power to take and certify aiiidavits.
proceedings. 714. Same subject.

. Power, how exercised.

SEC. 698. The judicial power in the ‘district of Alaska is vested in a
district court, in commissioners exercising the powers of probate
courts, and in commissioners as ex oilicio justices of the peace.

SEC. 699. The district court is a court of general jurisdiction, civil
and criminal, and also shall have admiralty jurisdiction.

SEC. 700. A justice’s court is a court held by a commissioner as ex
oflicio justice of the peace Within the precinct for which he may be
appointed. There are no particular terms of such court, but the same
is always open for the transaction of business, according to the mode
of roceedm prescribed for it.

SEC. 701. he mode of proceeding and the rules of evidence are the
same in a justice’s court as in a like action or proceeding in a court of
record, ‘except where otherwise specially prov1ded.

SEC. 702. A justice’s court has jurisdiction, but not exclusive, of the
following actions:

First. For the recovery of money or damages only, when the amount
claimed does not exceed one thousand dollars;

Second. For the recovery of specific personal property, when the
value of the property claimed and the damages for the detention do not
exceed one t ousand dollars;

Third. For the recovery of any penalty or forfeiture, whether given
by statute or arising out of contract, not exceeding one thousand
dollars;

Fourth. Also, to give jud ent without action upon the confession
of the defendant for any of t e cases specified in this section, except for
a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute. ’

SEC. 703. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section does not
extend, howeverFirst. To an action in which the title to real property shall come in
question;

Second. To an action for false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation, seduction, upon a promise to marry,
1n actions of an equitable nature or in admiralty causes.

SEC. 704. In an action in a justice’s court to recover a penalty or
forfeiture given by statute the cause of action or some part thereof
must have arisen within the precinct where the action is commenced
or upon a lake, river, or other water bordering upon such precinct and
opposite thereto; but otherwise than this the jurisdiction of justice’s
court does not depend upon where the cause arose, provided that the
defendant shall reside in the precinct where the action is commenced,
or personal service can be had on the defendant in such precinct; and
if the defendant do not reside in the district, the action may be commenced in the precinct in which the plaintiff resides.

SEC. 705. Every court of justice has powerFirst. To preserve and en orce order in its immediate presence; '

Second. To enforce order in the proceedings. before it, or before a_ A

person or body empowered to conduct a jud1c1al investigation under
1ts authority;

Third. To "provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it
or its oflicers; ,

Fourth. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and process,
and to the orders of a judge out of court in an action or proceeding
pending therein;

Fifth. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its
ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected
uilith a judicial proceeding before It in every matter appertaining
t ereto;

Sixth. To compel the attendance of persons to testif in an action
or roceedin therein in the cases and manner provide by this code;

eventh. ' o administer oaths in an action, or proceeding pending
therein, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in the exercise
of its powers or the performance of its duties.

SEC. 706. For the effectual exercise of the powers specified in the
last section, the court may unish for contempt in the cases and the
manner provided in this co e. ,

SEC. 707. A judicial oflicer is a person authorized to act as a judge
in a court of justice. Such oflicer shall not act as such in a court of
which he is a member in any of the followin cases:

First. In an action or proceeding to which e is a party, or in which
he is directly interested;

Second. When he was not present and sitting as a member of the
court at the hearing of a matter submitted for its decision;

Third. When he is related to either party by consanguinity or afli nity
within the third degree-;

Fourth. When he has been attorney in the action or proceeding in
question for either party.

But this section does not apply to an application to change the place
of trial or the regulation of the order of business in court. In the
cases s eciiied in subdivisions three and four the disqualification may be
waive by the parties, and shall be deemed to be waived unless an appl1cation be made as provided in this code.

SEC. 708. Whenever it appears that the judge of the.dist_rict court
presiding in the division where the action is pending 1s dlsquahhed

under the rovisions of the section last preceding the action shall be
transferred) to another division of said court unless a jud e of another division will ap ear and preside during the disposition t ereof: Provided, however, hat the parties may by written stipulation agree upon
a member of the bar of said court to try the same.

SEC. 709. Any judicial oflicer may act as an attorney in any action
or proceeding to which he is a party or in which he is directly interested. A justice of the peace, otherwise authorized by law, may act
as an attorney in any court other than the one of which he is judge,
except in an action or roceeding removed therefrom to another court
for review; but no ju icial oflicer shall act as attorney in any court, or
otherwise other than as in this section allowed: Promided, No 'ustice
of the peace or other judicial oflicer shall have a partner who sh practice law or act as attorney in the court over which he presides.

SEC. 710. A judge may exercise, out of court, all the powers
expressly conferred upon a judge as contradistinguished from a court,
an not otherwise.

SEC. 711. Every judicial oflicer has powerFirst. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence, and
in the proceedings before him, when he is engaged in the performance
of a duty imposed upon him by this code or other statute; ' ,

Second. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in
this code; Third. To compel the attendance of ersons to testify in a roceedin%pendin before him in the cases an manner provided in t is code;

ourth. o administer oaths to persons, in a proceeding pending
before him, and in all other cases where it may be necessary, in the
exercise of his powers and the performance of his duties.

SEC. 712. For the effectual exercise of the powers specified in the
last section, a judicial oflicer may punish for contempt in the cases and
manner provided in this code.

SEC. 713. The judge of the district court has power in any part of
the district to take and certify— ,

First. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real prop—
erty,. or any other written instrument authorized or required to be
proved or acknowledged; A

Second. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any
court;

Third. An aflidavit or deposition to be used in any court of justice '

or other tribunal of the district;

Fourth. To exercise any other power and perform any other duty
conferred or imposed upon him by this code or other statutes. ’

SEC. 714. Every other judicial oiiicer may, within the precinct in
which he is chosen— ;

First. Exercise the powers mentioned in subdivisions one, two, and
three of the last section;

Second. Exercise any other power and perform any other duty conferred or imposed upon him by this code or other statutes. '

. CHAITER SEVENTY-ONE.

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS KESPEOTING THE COURTS AND JUDICIAL
OFFICERS. ‘

 

716. Sittings of court to be public; ex- 726. Application to court or judge, how
ceptions. addressed.
716. N onjudicial days; what legal busi- 721. Proceedings to be in English.

ness may be done. 722. Power of court to adjourn proceed717. If court appoint or adjourn for such ings.

day to be deemed for next judicial 723. Means to be used by court to execute
day. . its powers.

718. When judge does not attend.

719. Proceedings not affected by failure
of term or vacancy.

SEC. 715. The sittings of every court of justice are ‘public, except
as provided in this section. U n the agreement of t e parties to a
civil action or proceeding, iile with the clerk or entered upon the
journal, the court_ may direct the trial of an issue of law or fact, or
any other proceedin therein, to be private; and upon such order being
made all rsons sha be excluded elaxcept the oflicers of the court, the
parties eir witnesses and counse .

SEC. 716. Courts of, 'ustice may be held, and judicial business

1
transacted, on any day except as provided in this section. No court
can be opened, nor can any judicial business be transacted, on a Sunday, on a legal holiday or on a day appointed b the Executive
:.l111ath§:ii.'y _of the Unittid éttlateg  of_ the district as a ay of fasting or
n ving excep or e o owing pu oses:

Firsgl To give instructions to a jury t en deliberating on their
verdict° .

Second. To receive the verdict of a jury; _ _ .

Third. For the exercise of the powers of a ma 'strate in criminal
actions, or in proceedings of a criminal nature: rogrided, That this section shall not be so construed as to prevent the issuance of any
writ or order for which the judge granting the same may think an
emer enc exists. '

SEC. 717. If any of the days mentioned in the last section happen to
be a day appointed for holding a court, or to which it is adjourned, it
is deemed ap ointed for or adjourned to the next ]l1d1C1al day.

SEC. 718. no jud e attend on the day appointed for olding a
court before four o’c ock in the afternoon, the court shall stand
adjourned until the next day at nine o’clock; and if no judge attend on
that day before four o’clock in the afternoon it shall then stand
ad’ ed f the term.

SEC. 719. When proceeding in a court of justice, in any action or proceeding pending therein, is affected by a vacancy in the oilice of the
' b the fail re of a term thereof.
Juggizi. (’)7r20.yAn a plication or other proceeding laddregsed to a c?l1I't
hall beadd esse to it b its st le as given in t is co e° an a picaizion or otherrproceeding aydd resszd to a judicial oflicer shall be ad ressed
to him by his name, without any other title than his style of office.

SEC. 721. Ever Writing in any action or proceeding Whatever, in a .

court of justice 0 the district, or before a judicial oflicer, shall be in

the English language; but such abbreviations as are now commonly
used in that language may be used, and numbers may be expressed
by figures or numerals in the customar -manner.

SEC. 722. A court or judicial officer as power to adjourn any proceeding before it or him from time to time, as may be necessary, unless
otherwise ex ressly provided by this code.

SEC. 723. hen jurisdiction is by an law of the United States conferred on a court or judicial oflicer, all t 1e means to carry it into effect
are also given; and in the exercise of the jurisdiction, if the course
of proceeding be not specially pointed out by this code, any suitable
process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear

most conformable to the spirit of this code.

CHAPTER

OF REFEREES.
' . Referee, definition of.

SEC. 724. A referee is a person appointed by the court or a judicial
officer, with power-—
First. To try an issue of law or of fact in_a civil action or proceedin , and report thereon;
ond. To ascertain an other fact in a civil action or proceeding
when necessary for the in ormation of the court, and report the fact,
or to take and report the evidence in an action of an equitable nature;
Third. To execute an order, judgment, or decree, or to exercise any
other power or perform any other d_uty expressly authorized by this
code.

CHAPTER SEVENTY-T1-IREE. ‘

OF COMMISSIONERS TO ACKNOVVLEDGF‘. DEEDS.

Soc. Se 

725. How appointed, tenure of omce, 726. Seal and oath of office, and when and
powers and duties. where tiled.

SEC. 725. The governor may appoint as many commissioners in each
State Territory, and District of the United States as he may deem
expedient, who shall hold their ofiices for four years, and may within
the State, Territor , or District for which they are appointed, and not
otherwise, take an certifyFirst. The proof or acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property within the district or of any other written instrument to be used
or operated therein; 0

Second. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of any judgment of a
court of this district; ,

Third. An affidavit -or deposition to be used in any court of justice
or before an judicial oflicer of the district; and , A

Fourth. o exercise any other power, and perform any other duty,
conferred or imposed upon them by this code or other statutes.

SEC. 726. A commissioner appointed under the last section shall,
before he can exercise the powers therein conferred, provide himself

with a seal of oflice, and take and subscribe an oath beforea judicial
oflicer in the county, city, or town where he resides, faithfully to perform the duties of the oi-lice of a commissioner to take aflidavits, depositions, and the proof and acknowledgment of deeds, out of the district,
according to the laws thereof, and file such oath and an impression of
such seal in the oflice of the secretary of the district. The secretary
of the district shall collect five dollars for each certificate of ap ointment made under this chapter and disburse the same as provi ed in section thirty-two, title one, chapter one of this Act.

CHAPTER SEVENTY-FOUR.

OF THE CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT.
' .

 

727. Otiiee hours. 729. Can not act as attorney.
728. Deputy, how appointed. 730. Powers and duties of clerks.

SEC. 727 . The clerk of the district court shall keep his office open
for the transaction of business on ever judicial day from nine to
twelve in the forenoon and from one to ve in the afternoon.

SEC. 728. The clerk of the district court or any division thereof may
have a deputy, to be ap ointed by such clerk in writing, at each place
where regular or s ecia terms of court are held and to continue during
his pleasure. Sue deputy has the power to erform any act or duty
relating to the clerk’s office that his principal as, and his principal is
responsible for his conduct; and for all money received b him in his
official capacity each deputy clerk shall be entitled to sue compensation as the court or judge thereof may, subject to the ap roval of the
Attorney-General, allow, the same to be paid by the cler on order of
the court as other court ex enses are allowed and paid.

SEC. 729. The clerk of e district court is prohibited during his
continuance in office from acting, or having a partner who acts, as an
attorney of the court of which he is clerk.

SEC. 730. The clerk of the district court has power to take and certify the proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property
or an -other written instrument authorized or required to be proved
or ac nowledged, and it is the duty of such clerk——

First. To keep the seal of the court and aflix it in all cases where he
is required by law;

Second. To record the proceedings of the court;

Third. To keep the records, nles, and other books and papers appertaining to the court; ‘

Fourth. To file all papers delivered to him for that purpose in any
action or roeeeding in the court

Fifth. o attend the terms of the court of which he is clerk, to
administer oaths, and receive the verdict of a jury in any action or proceedin therein in the presence and under the direction of the court;

Sixt . To keep the journal of the proceedings of the court at its
terms, and under the direction of the court to enter its orders and
judgments; . . .

Seventh. '1‘o authenticate by certificate or transcript, as may be
required, the records, files, or (proceedin s of the court, or any other
paper appertaining thereto, an filed wit him;

Eighth. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred
and im sed upon him elsewhere by this code or other statute;

N in . In the performance of his duties to conform to the direction
of the court.

CHAPTER Smvmrrr-rlvn.

or Arronnnrs.

B 

731. When cause may be prosecuted or 734. Women may be admitted. . .
defended in n or by attorney. 735. Oath of oflice; order of admission.

782. Attorney a u lic officer; who may 736. Attorneys of other States and counact as suc . tries may appear as counsel.
733. Ap lication for admission and proof
ereon.

SEC. 731. Any action or proceeding may be prosecuted or defended

’ by a party in person or by attorney, except that the United States or a

coriporation, either pubhc or private, appears by attorney in all cases;
an where a party appears by attorney the written proceedings must
be in the name of the attorney, who is the sole representative of his
client as between him and the adverse arty.

SEC. 732. An attorney is a public 0 cer, but any person may act in
that capacity who has been admitted as such by the district court of
the district, or may be hereafter admitted, as provided in this chapter.

SEC. 733. An a licant for admission as attorney must apply to the
district court, an must showFirst. That he is a citizen of the United States, or has declared his
intention to become such, and is a resident of said district, and of the
age of twent -one years, which proof may be made by his own aiiidavit;

Second. hat he is a person of good moral character, which may be
proved by any evidence satisfactory to the court;

Third. That he has the requisite learning and ability, which must be
shown by the examination of the ap licant by the ]udges, or under
their direction, at the term at which tge apiplllication is made.

SEC. 734. Hereafter women shall be permitted to practice law as
attorneys in the courts of said district upon the same terms and conditions as men.SEC. 735. If, ouigon the examination, the ap licant be found qualified,
the court shall inister an oath to the agrp icant to support the Constitution and laws of the United States an of the district, and to faithfully and honestly demean himself or herself in oflice. The court shall
then direct an order to be entered to the effect that the applicant is a
citizen of the United States and of the district, of the age of twentyone years, of good moral character, and possessed of the requisite
learning and ability to practice as an attorney in all the courts of the
district, and has taken the oath of oflice; and upon the entry of
the order and payment of the legal fee, he or she is entitled to practice as such attorney, and not otherwise.

SEC. 736. Whenever an applicant for admission as attorney shall
present to the district court a certificate showing him to have been

uly admitted to practice as an attorney in the In hest courts of any
State or Territory of the United States, or in one 0% the circuit courts,
or the Supreme Court of the United States, such applicant may be
admitted to practice as an attorney without further examination.

CHAPTER SEVENTY-SIX.

OF THE DUTIES OF ATFORNEYS, AND THEIR AUTHORITY.

 
737. Authority of an attorney. 747. If accused do not appear, court to
738. Proceedings when party alleges that proceed.
attorney appears for him without 748. May demur to or controvert the
authority. accusation.
739. When attorney may be compelled 749. If demurrer not sustained must
to show authority. answer forthwith; judgment for
740. Attorney, how changed. want of answer or trial. ,
741. Notice of change. 750. Accusation on knowledge of the
742. Lien of attorneys. court presumed to be true, but
743. By what court and for what causes may be shown otherwise.
an attorney may be removed or 751. Proceeding to compel an attorney
suspended. to deliver over money or papers.
744. By whom the proceedings to be 752. How court to proceed if attorney
instituted. - claim a. lien.

745. Accusation, how made.
746. Order for accused to appear and
answer.

SEC. 737 . An attorney has authority-—

First. To bind his client in an of the proceedings in an action or
proceeding by his agreement file with the clerk or entered upon the
journal of the court, and not otherwise;

Second. To receive money or property claimed by his client in an
action or proceeding during the pendency thereof, or within three years
after judgment, and, upon the payment or delivery thereof, and not
otherwise, to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the
judgment. But this section does not prevent a party from employing
a new attorney to issue execution u on a judgment, or to take the other
sroceedings prescribed by this co e for its enforcement, and when he

oes so the authority of the former attorney ceases.

SEC. 738. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney appears
that he does so without authority, and the alle tion be verified by the
affidavit of the party, the court may, if it fin the allegation true, at
any stage of the proceedings, relieve the party for whom the attorney
has assumed to appear from the consequences of his act.

SEC. 739. The court or judge thereof may, on motion of either party,
and on showing reasonable grounds therefor, require the attorney for
the adverse party, or for any one of several adverse parties, to roduce or prove the authority under which he a pears, and until he oes
so may stay all proceedings by him on beha f of the party for whom
he assumes to appear. .

SEC. 740. The attorney in an action or proceeding may be changed
at any time before judgment or final determination, as follows:

First. Upon his own consent, nled with the clerk or entered upon
the journal; or,

Second. Upon the order of the court or judge thereof, on the application of the client or the attorney, for suflicient cause.

SEC. 741. When an attorney is changed, as provided in the last section, written notice of the change and of the substitution of a new
attorney, or of the ap earance of the party in person, shall be given
to the adverse party. {lntil then, he is bound to recognize the former
attorney.

SEC. 742. An attorney has a lien for his compensation, whether
specially a reed upon or implied, as provided in this section— .

First. on the papers of his client which have come into his possession in t e course of his professional employment;

Second, Upon money in his hands belonging to his client;

Third. Upon money in the hands of the adverse party in an action
or proceeding in which the attorney was employed from the time of
giving notice of the lien to that party;

Fourth. Upon a judgment to the extent of the costs included therein,
or, if there be a special agreement, to the extent of the compensation
special] agreed on, from the giving notice thereof to the party against
whom t e judgment is given and filing the original with the clerk
where such judgment is entered and docketed. This lien is, however,
subordinate to the rights existing between the parties to the action or
proceeding.

SEC. 743. An attorne may be removed or suspended by the district
court for either of the ollowing causes, arising after his admission to
practice:

First. Upon his being convicted of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of his
conviction is conclusive evidence;

Second. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a
court re(%uiring him to do or forbear an act connected with or in the
course o his profession;

Third. For being guilty of any willful deceit or misconduct in his
profession;

SEC. 744. The roceeding to remove an attorney as provided in the

last section shall e taken by the court, of its own motion, for matters
within its knowledge, or that of any of the judges thereof; otherwise
it may be taken upon the information of another.

SEC. 745. If the proceedings be upon the motion of the court or
judges thereof, for matters within its knowledge, the accusation shall
be made by an order of the court reciting the facts charged. If upon
the information of another, the accusation must be presented to the
court, in writing, and verified by the oathof the person making it, or
of some other person, to the effect that the charges therein contained
are true, as he believes. .

SEC. 746. After the accusation has been made or received the court
shall forthwith make an order requiring the accused to appear and
answer the accusation at a specified time in the same or a subsequent
term, and shall cause a copy of the order and of the accusation to be
served u on the accused within a prescribed time before the da
appointe in the order to appear and answer. But when the rocee ing is upon the information of another, the accusation shal be dismissed at once unless it appear therefrom that the accused should be
re uired to a pear and answer the same. '

SEC. 747. he accused must appear at the time appointed in the
order and answer the accusation, unless, for suflicient cause, the court
assign another day for that purpose. If he'do not appear, the court
may proceed and determine the accusation in his absence.

SEC. 748. The accused may deniur to the accusation for insufliciency
or controvert it by answer. The demurrer and answer shall be in
writing, and the latter shall be verified by the oath of the accused in
the same manner as a pleading in an action. ‘ .

SEC. 749. If a demurrer, for insufficiency, be not sustained, the
accused shall answer forthwith. If he plead uilty, or refuse to answer
the accusation, the court shall proceed to ju gment of removal or suspension. If he controvert the matters charged, the court shall‘ then,
or at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the accusation, and

give a judgment of removal, suspension, or acquittal, according to law
and the right of the case.

SEC. 750. When an accusation is made u on the knowledge of the
court, or the judges thereof, the facts shal be set forth as in other
cases, and the accused may controvert the accusation, Whereu on the
issues of fact shall be by the court referred to at least three °sinterested members of the bar, who shall report their findings of fact to the
court, and the judgment of the court shall be entered according to such
findings. ‘

SEC. 751. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money or papers
to a person from or for whom he has received them in the course of
professional em loyment, whether in a judicial proceeding or not, he
may be require , by an order of the court, to do so Within a specified
time or show cause why he should not be punished for a contempt.

SEC. 752. If, however,‘ the attorney claim a lien upon the money or
papers, un<}ileIl'1the provisions of section seven hundred and forty-two,
the court s a -—

First. Impose, as a condition of making the order, that the client
give security, in form and amount to be irected, to satisfy the lien
when determined in an. action; ‘or, _ _

Second. Summaril inquire into the facts on which the claim of a
lien is founded, and etermine the same; or, _ _ _

Third. Direct the trial of the controversy by a jury, or refer it, and
upon the verdict or report determine the same as in other cases.

CHAPTER SEVENTY-sinvnn.

OF RECEIVERS.

33¢, SEQ. .
753. In what cases he may be appointed. 754. His oath and undertaking.

SEC. 753. A receiver may be appointed in any civil action or proceeding, other than an action for the recovery of specific personal
pro erty— _ _ , i ,

F£i)rst. Provisionally, before judgment, on the application of either
party, when his ri ht to the property which is the subject of the action
or proceedin , an which is in the possession of an adverse party, 18

robable, an the property or its rents or profits are in danger of being
ost or materially injured or impaired; .

Second. After ju gment, to carry the sa(iine into e1a1ii"e_ct;l t t

Third. To dispose of the ropert accor in tot e ]u( gmen , or o
preserve it durin the pen ency o an appea , or when an eigecution

as been returne unsatisfied and the debtor refuses to apply his propert in satisfaction of the judgment;
Iiyourth. In cases provided in this code, or by other statutes, when a

corporation has been dissolved, or is insolvent or in imminent danger
of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights; .
Fifth. In the cases when a debtor has been declared insolvent.

SEC. 754. A receiver, before entering upon his duties, shall be sworn
faithfully to perform his trust to the best of his ability, and shall also
file with the clerk_ of the court an undertaking of one or more sufIicient sureties, in a specified sum, to be fixed by the court or udge
thereof, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the dutles of
receiver and will obey the orders of the court or judge thereof in
respect thereto. The sureties must justify in the same manner as bail
upon an arrest.

CIIAPTER SEVENTY-EIGHT.

OF THE TRIAL FEE.

Soc. Sec.

755. Trial fees. 760. When party too poor to pay.
756. Amount of. 761. Trial fee to be paid to the clerk.
757. Recovered as disbursement. 762. Trial fee in justice’s court.

758. Public corporation need not pay.

759. In jusciiioe-’s court, when and to whom

pal .

SEC. 755. Parties to a judicial proceeding are required to contribute
toward the expense of maintaining courts of justice, or a particular
action or proceeding therein, b the payment of certain sums of money,
as rovided in this cha ter, w ich are denominated trial fees.

SEC. 756. The trial ee is as follows:

First. In the district court, for every trial by jury, twelve dollars;
for every trial by the court, six dollars; for every judgment given
without trial, three dollars;

Second. In °ustice’s court, for every trial by jury, six dollars.
SEC. 757. The trial fee is to be(pa1d by the plaintiff, appellant, or

movin party before he is entitle to or can claim the trial or other
procee ing upon which such fee is imposed; and if the party paying
such fee prevail in the action, or roceeding, so as to be entitled to
recover costs therein, such fee shal be allowed and taxed as a disbursement and collected off the adverse party.

SEC. 758. When the United States or any ublic corporation is a
party to a judicial roceeding it need not pay t e trial fee in advance,
and if it be entitle to recover costs therein, such fee shall be allowed
and taxed in its favor as a disbursement and collected off the adverse
party as in ordinary cases.

SEC. 759. The trial fee in a °ustice’s court shall be paid to the justice
for the demand for a jury, an unless so paid the demand shall be disregarded and the trial proceed as if no such demand had been made,
exce t when a party is prosecuted in a criminal action at the suit of
the nited States, in which case the party is entitled to a jury trial
without the prepayment of such fee; and if judgment be iven a ainst
him, the fee shall be allowed and taxed in favor of the nited tates
as other disbursements in ordinary cases. ‘

SEC. 760. If at any time it appear to the satisfaction of the court or
°udge thereof, from the allidavlt of the party or other evidence, that

e can not pay the trial fee, such court or judge may direct that he be
allowed to proceed without the prepayment thereof; but if such party
prevail so as to be entitled to collect such fee as a disbursement off the
adverse party, when collected it shall be retained by the clerk as if
paid in advance. ,

SEC. 761. The trial fees shall be paid to the clerk of the court, who
shall -kee a regular account of them and by whom paid in his fee
book, an deposit them in the manner provided in the case of other
moneys collected by virtue of his office.

SEC. 762. In justice’s court the trial fee shall be paid to a justice.
He shall keep an account of them and by Whom paid, and distribute

the amount among the jury in the particular case in payment of their
legal fees.

CHAPTER SEVENTY-NINE.

OF GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECTIN G TIIE ADMINISTRATION OF ESTATES.



763. Probate jurisdiction of commis- 767. Index to such books.
sioner. 768. Costs and disbursements.
764. Forms of pleadings. 769. Orders and decrees for the payment

765. Nature of procedure. of money, how enforced.
766. Books and records. 

SEC. 763. The commissioners appointed in pursuance of this Act an
other laws of the United States have jurisdiction Within their res ective
precincts, subject to the supervision of the district judge, in a testamentary and probate matters; that is,

First. To take proof of wills;

Second. To grant and revoke letters testamentary, of administratior
and of rdianship;

Thir . To direct and control the conduct and settle the accounts of
executors, administrators, and guardians; '

Fourth. To direct the payment of debts and legacies, and the distribution of the estates of intestates;

Fifth. To order the sale and disposalof the real and personal property of deceased persons;

Sixth. To order the renting, sale, or other disposal of the real and
personal ro erty of minors;

Sevent . ' ‘o take the care and custody of the person and estate of a
lunatic or habitual drunkard, and to appoint and remove guardians
therefor; to direct and control the conduct of such guardians, and to
settle their accounts;

Eighth. To direct the admeasureinent of dower. ,

SEC. 764. There are no particular pleadings or forms thereof in pro
ceedings before commissioners when exercising the jurisdiction of
probate matters, as specified in the section last preceding, other than
as rovided in this chapter.

SEC. 765. The mode of proceeding is in the nature of a suit in equity
as distinguished from an action at law. The proceedings are in Writing, and are had upon the application of a party or the order of the
court. The court exercises its powers by means of—

First. A citation to the party;

Second. An aflidavit or the verified petition or statement of a party;

Third. A subpoena to a witness;

Fourth. Orders, judgments, and decrees;

Fifth. An execution of warrant to enforce them.

SEC. 766. The proceedings in probate matters shall be entered and

recorded in the following books:

First. A register, in which shall be entered a memorandum of all

oflicial business transacted by the court or judge thereof appertaining
to the estate of each person deceased under the name of such person;
that pertainin to the guardianship of an infant under the name of
such infant; that pertaining to an insane person or a drunkard under
his name‘

second’. A record of wills, in which shall be recorded all wills roven
before the court or judge thereof, with the order of probate t ereof,
and of all wills proved elsewhere upon which letters of administration
are issued by the direction of such court or Eudglel;

Third. A record of the appointment 0 a inistrators, whether
general or s ecial, or of a Eart-nership and of executors;

Fourth. record of t e appointment of guardians of infants,
insane persons, and drunkards;

Fifth. A record of accounting and distribution, in which shall be

' entered a summary balance sheet of the accounts of administrators, executors, and guardians, with the orders and decrees relating to the
same; a memorandum of executions issued thereon, with a note of satisfaction when satisfied; also orders and decrees relating to the sale of
real property and to the distribution of the proceeds thereof; and
notices of all money or securities paid or deposited in court as proceeds of such sales or otherwise; and a statement showing the names
of creditors, and the debts established and entitled to distribution, the
amount to which each person is entitled out of such fund, and the
amount actually paid to each person, and when paid;

Sixth. A record of the appointment of admeasurer of dower, with
all orders and decrees relating to the same, and the admeasurer’s

re rt; .

gdventh. An order book, in which shall be entered orders directing
the conduct of executors, administrators, or guardians; orders for publication of notice to creditors; orders in behalf of creditors, directing
debts to be paid or allowing an execution to be issued; appointments
of s cial guardians, appraisers, and referees; orders relating to the
pro uction of a will, to removal of executors, administrators, or guardians, or to sureties therefor; -and, generally, all other orders not
re uired to be entered in some other book. »

SEC. 767. To each of such books there shall be attached an index,
securely bound in the volume, referring to the entries or records, in
alphabetical order, under the name of the person to whose estate or
business they relate, and naming the page of the book where the entry
or record is made.

SEC. 768. Costs may be awarded in favor of one party against
another, to be paid personally or out of the estate or fund, in any
proceedings conteste adversely, but such costs can not exceed those
allowed in the trial of a civil action in the district court. Witness fees
and other disbursements similar to those allowed on the trial of a civil
action may also be allowed, to be paid in like manner.

SEC. 769. Orders, judgments, or decrees for the payment of money
mady be enforced, by execution or otherwise, in the same manner as
or e
cou

ras, judgments, or decrees for the payment of money in the district

CHAPTER EIGHTY.

OF THE COMMISSIONERS’ COSTS IN THE EXERCISE OF PROBATE
JURISDICTION.
860- Sec.

770. Commissioners shall have seal and 771. Fees of commissioners.
may appoint clerk.

SEC. 770. In the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred upon commissioners by this code in the administration of the estates of deceased
persons, and of minors, lunatics, and habitual drunkards, such commissioners shall sit as a probate court, which shall be always open
for the transaction of business. Such court shall have a seal, upon
which there shall be en raved the words “Probate court, district of
Alaska, precinct; ’ and such courts may appoint a clerk who

shall have the authority to attest such seal when attached to the lawful. .

orders and certificates of such court. *

SEC. 771. For the services rendered in the administration of the
estates of decedents and of minors, lunatics, and habitual drunkards,
the commissioners shall receive fees as follows:

First. For the granting of letters of administration or guardianship,
two dollars

Second. For every other order made in ‘the course of administration fifty cents; allowance or disallowance of claims, fifty cents;
Third. For the hearing of any objection, one dollar;

Fourth.‘ For making and certifying transcripts to the district court,
ten cents per folio.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-ONE.

OF THE PROOF OF WILLS AND THE APPOINTMENT OF EXEOUTORS AN D
ADMINISTRATORS.



772. Inwhat precinct will may be roven. 787. Effect of vacancy.
773. Letters testamentary with e will 788. New administrator may maintain
annexed. action against former one.
774. Who entitled to letters of adminis- 789. Power of the court over an admintration. istrator.
775. When persons entitled must apply. 790. When deceased a member of a co776. Administration to be granted to the partnership. _
husba (1, unless. ' . Partnership property may be admin777. Underta ng of executor or admin- istered by surviving partner.
istrator. . His power and duties in such
778. Qualification and justification of cases.
sureties. . Undertaking of administrator of the
779. Nonresidents and minors as execu- Wplartnership. _ _
tors. . en admmisti-ation of partnership
780. Special administrator. pro rty_devolves upon the gen781. Petition to state facts. era administrator.
782. When will found after 8dIIliI1iBtl‘8:- . Dut of surviving partner toward
tion granted, ministrator.
783. Heir may apply for removal of ex- 796. How last section may be enforced.
ecutor or administrator. . Who not qualified to act as executor
784. Nonresident executor or adminis- or administrator.
trator may be removed. . Form of letters testamentary. _
785. New undertaking when old insufl‘i- 799. Form of letters of administration.
cient. 800. Resignation of executor or admin786. Effect of new undertaking or failure istrator.
to give it.

SEC. 772. Proof of a will shall be taken by the commissioner as foll :
Oviviirst. When the testator, at or immediately before his death,

zivasi an inhabitant of the precinct, in Whatever place he may have
re ;

Second. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of the district,
shall have died in the precinct, leaving assets therein; _

Third. VV hen the testator, not being an inhabitant of the district,
shall have died out of the district, leaving assets in the precinct;

Fourth. When the testator, not being an inhabitant of the district,
shall have died out of the district, not leaving assets therein, but where
assets thereafter came into the precinct;

Fifth. When real property, devised by the testator, is situated in
the precinct and no other commissioner has gained jurisdiction under
either of the receding subdivisions of this section.

SEC. 773. hen a will is proven, letters testamentary shall be issued
to the persons therein named as executors, or to such of them as give

notice of their acceptance of the trust and are qualified. If all the

persons therein named decline to accept or be disqualified, letters of
administration, with the will annexed, shall be issued to the erson

to Whom the administration would have been granted if there ha been

no will.

SEC. 774. Administration of the estate of an intestate shall be granted
by the commissioner authorized to take proof of a Will as prescribed
in section seven hundred and sevent -two in case such intestate had
made a Will. Administration shall e granted, and letters thereof
issued, as follows:

First. To the widow or next of kin, or both, in the discretion of the
court;

Second. To one or more of the principal creditors; or

Third. To any other person competent and qualified Whom the court
may select.

SEC. 775. The persons named in the subdivisions of the last section,
if qualified and competent for the trust, shall be entitled to the administration in the order therein named. If those named in subdivision
one do not apply for the administration Within thirty days from the
decease of the intestate, they shall be deemed to have renounced their
right thereto; but the commissioner in his discretion may, if they
reside within the precinct, direct that a citation issue to them, requiring them within such period to apply for or renounce their ri ht of
administration; and if the persons named in subdivision two o not
make such ap lication within forty days from such decease, they shall
be deemed to ave renounced their right to the administration also.

SEC. 776. If the deceased were a married Woman the administration
of her estate shall in all cases be granted to her husband if he be

ualified and competent for the trust and apply therefor Within thirty

a s from her deeease, unless by force of a marriage settlement or
ot erwise she shall have made some testamentary disposition of her
property which shall render it necessary and proper to grant the
administration to some other person.

SEC. 777. No executor or administrator is authorized to act as such
until he shall file with the commissioner havin jurisdiction of the
estate an undertaking in a sum not less than doub e the probable value
of the estate, with one or more suflicient sureties, to be approved by
the commissioner, to be void upon condition that such executor or
arlministrator shall faithfully perform the duties of his trust according

to law: Provided, When by the terms of his will a testatorl shall
expressly declare that no bonds shall be required of his executor, such
executor may act upon taking an oath to faithfull fulfill trust without
filing the undertaking in this section mentioned’: Promided fwrtlzer,
Such executor shall be criminall and civilly liable as other executors
and administrators are for any ereliction of duty.

SEC. 778. Whenever the penal sum mentioned in the undertaking
prescribed in the preceding section exceeds two thousand dollars, three
or more sureties may become severally liable for portions of the sums
if the ag regate sum for which such sureties became liable-shall equal
the pena sum required in the undertakin .

SEC. 779. If a person be named in a wi l as executor who is a nonresident of the district or a minor, upon the removal of such disability
he is entitled to qualify as such executor, if he apply therefor within
thirty days from the removal of such disabilit , if otherwise com etent. , If in the meantime an administrator wit the will annexed as
been appointed, his owers and duties cease with the qualification of
such executor; but  another executor has qualified. and is acting as
such they thereby become joint executors.

SEC. 780. When for an reason there shall be a delay in issuing
letters testamentary or o administration, and the property of the
deceased is in danger of being lost, injured, or depreciated, the commissioner may appoint a special administrator to take charge of the estate,
who shall ualify in ike manner and have the owers and perform
the duties o an administrator generally, except that he is not authorized to pay the debts of or otherwise discharge any obligations against
the deceased. Upon the issuing of letters testamentary or of administration the wers of the special administrator cease.

SEC. 781. In an a plication to prove a will or for the appointment
of an executor or a ministrator the petition shall set forth the facts
necessary to give the court jurisdiction, and also state whether the
deceased left a will or not, and the names, age, and residence, so far
as known, of his heirs.

SEC. 782. If, after administration has been granted upon an estate,
a will of the deceased be found and proven, the letters of administration shall be revoked and letters testamentary or of administration with
the will annexed shall be issued; and if, after a will has been proven
and letters’ testamentary or of administration with the will annexed
have been issued thereon, such will should be set aside, declared void
or inoperative, such letters shall be revoked and letters of administration issued.

SEC. 783. Any heir, legatee devisee, creditor, or other person interested in the estate may appl for the removal of an executor or administrator who has become ofy unsound mind or been convicted of any
felon or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or who has in any
way een unfaithful to or neglectful of his trust, to the robable loss
of the applicant. Such application shall be by petition an upon notice
to the executor or administrator, and if the court find the charge to be
true it shall make an order removing such executor or administrator

and revoke his letters. _
SEC. 784. If an executor or an administrator become a nonresident

of the district he may be removed and his letters revoked in the manner prescribed in the last section, except that the notice may be given

by publication or posting for such time as the court or judge thereof
may direct.

SEC. 785. Whenever the amount of an executor’s or administrator’s
undertaking is insufficient, or the sureties therein, or either of them,
have become nonresidents of the district, or are likely to or have
become insolvent, such executor or administrator shall be required to
give a new and sufiicient undertaking. The application for such new
undertaking may be made by any heir, legatee, devisee, creditor, or
other person interested in the estate, and in the manner prescribed in section seven hundred and eighty-three for the removal of executors
and administrators.

SEC. 786. Such new undertaking, when given and received, shall
discharge the sureties in the former undertaking from any liabilities
on account of their principal arising from his acts or omissions subsequent thereto. When a new undertaking is ordered, if the executor
or administrator fail to comply therewith within hve days from the
entry thereof, or such further time as the order may prescribe, thenceforward the authority of such executor or administrator shall cease,
and he shall be deemed removed and his letters revoked.

SEC. 787. Whenever an executor or administrator shall die, resign
or be removed, if there be a coexecutor or coadministrator, he shall
thenceforward exercise the powers and perform the duties of the trust;
and if all the executors or administrators shall die, resign, or be
removed, administration of the estate remaining unadministered shall
be ranted to those next entitled, if they be competent and qualified.

SEC. 788. The surviving or remaining executor or administrator, or
the new administrator, as the case may be, is entitled to the exclusive
administration of the estate, and for that purpose may maintain any
necessary and proper action or proceeding on account thereof, against
the executor or administrator ceasing to act, or against his sureties or
re resentatives.

SEC. 789. Whenever it appears probable to the commissioner that
any of the causes for removal of an executor or administrator exist or
have transpired, as specified in section seven hundred and eighty-three
it shall be the duty of such commissioner to cite such executor or
administrator to appear and show cause wh y he should not be removed,
and if he fail to a pear or show suflicient cause an order shall be made
removing him an revoking his letters; and it is the duty of the commissioner to exercise a superviso control over the executor or

_ administrator, to the end that he fait fully and diligently perform the

duties of his trust according to law.

SEC. 790. The executor or administrator of a deceased person .who
was a member of a copartnership shall include in the inventory of
such person’s estate, in a separate schedule, the whole of the property
of such partnership; and the ap raisers shall estimate the value
thereof, and also the value of such) person’s individual interest in the

partnershi property after the pavment or satisfaction of all the
debts and Tiabilities of the partnership.

SEC. 791. After the inventory is taken the partnership property
shall be in the custody and control of the executor or administrator
for the urpose of administration unless the surviving partner shall,
within ve days from the filing of the inventory, or such further time

as the commissioner may allow, ap ily for the administration thereof
and give the undertaking therefor ereinafter prescribed.

SEC. 792. If the survivin partner apply therefor, as provided in
the last section, he is entitled to the administration of the partnership
estate if he have the ualifications and competency required for a general administrator. e is denominated an administrator of the artnership, and his powers and duties extend to the settlement 0 the
partnership business generally and the payment or transfer of the
interest of the decea ed in the partnership property remaining after
the payment or satis action of the debts and liabilities of the artnership to the executor or general administrator within six mont ‘ from
the date of his appointment, or such further time, if necessary as the
commissioner ma allow. In the exercise of his powers and the performance of his uties the administrator of the partnership is subject
to the same limitations and liabilities and control and jurisdiction of

- the court as a general administrator.

SEC. 793. The undertakin of the administrator of the partnership
shall be in a sum not less t an double the value of the partnership
property and shall be given in the same manner and be to the same
effect as the undertaking of a general administrator.

SEC. 794. In case the surviving partner is not appointed administrator of the partnership, the administration thereof devolves upon
the executor or eneral administrator; but, before entering upon the
duties of such a ministration, he shall give an additional undertaking
in double the value of the partnership property.

SEC. 795. Every surviving partner, on the demand of an executor
or administrator of a deceased partner, shall exhibit and give information concerning the property of the partnership at the time of the
death of the deceased partner, so that the same may be correctly inventoried and ap raised; and in case the administration thereof shall
devolve upon t e executor or administrator, such survivor shall deliver
or transfer to him on demand all the property of the partnership,
including all books, papers, and documents pertainin to t e same, and
shall afford him all reasonable information and faci ities for the performance of the duties of his trust. '

SEC. 796. Any surviving partner who shall refuse or neglect to com1y with the requirements of the last section may be cited to appear
Before the commissioner, and unless he show cause to the contrary the
commissioner shall require him to comply with such section in the
particular complained of.

SEC. 797. The following persons are not qualified to act as executors
or administrators: Nonresidents of the district; minors; judicial ofiicers;
persons of unsound mind, or who have been convicted of any felony,
or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.

SEC. 798. Letters testamentary may be in the following form:

DISTRICT or ALASKA, SS
Precinct. '

To all persons to whom these presents shall come, greeting:

Know ye, that the will of , deceased, a copy of which
is hereto annexed, has been duly proven before the commissioner for
the precinct aforesaid, and that , who is named executor
therein, has been duly appointed such executor by the commissioner

aforesaid. This, therefore, authorizes the said . to administer the estate of the said , deceased, according to law.

In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name and
afiixed the seal of this court said day of , anno Domlm
19""'o ’

A B, Commissioner.

SEC. 799. Letters ‘of administration may be in the following form:

DISTRICT or ALASKA, 88 ° '
Precinct. '

To all persons to whom these resents shall come, greeting:
Know ye, that it appearing to t e commissioner aforesaid that
has died intestate, leaving at the time of his death property in
this district, such commissioner has duly appointed
administrator of the estate of such , deceased’ this, therefore, authorizes the said ———, to administer the estate of
said according to law.

In testimony whereof, et cetera;
the same as in letters testamentary. Letters to an administrator of
the partnership with the will annexed, or to a special administrator,
may be issued according to the foregoing forms, with such variations
as may be pro er in the particular case.

SEC. 800. T e commissioner, in his discretion, may allow an executor
or administrator to resi n when it appears that such executor or
administrator is not in degault in any matter connected with the duties
of his trust. Such executor or administrator shall ay the cost of the

hall surrender his
his powers as such shall cease from that

proceeding), 'and, if the apiplication is allowed, he s
e

tters to e canceled, an
time forward.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-TWO.

or THE INVENTORY or THE ESTATE.‘


801. Wlwn and how made and verified. 809. Who entitled to possession and con802. What to contain. trol of property.

803. Appraisement and appointment of 810. When person charged with secretappraisers. ing property or writin .

804. Oat of appraisers. 811. Mode of examination egg such per805. Ap raisement of money and debts. sons.

806. De t due by person named in will 812. Proceeding in case such person reas executor. fuses to appear.
807. Discharge or bequest of a claim by 813. Proceeding to compel account.
0

will. . o _ 814. Damages r conversion before ad808. Property discovered after filing m- ministration.
ventory.

SEC. 801. An executor or administrator shall within one month
from the date of his appointment, or such further'time as the commissioner may allow, make and file with the commissioner an inventory, verified by his oath, of all the real and personal roperty of the
deceased which shall come to his possession or knowledge.

SEC. 802. The inventory shall contain an account of all money belong1ng to the deceased, or a statement that nope has come to the possession

or knowledge of the executor or administrator; also a statement of all
debts due the deceased, the written evidence thereof, and the security
therefor, if any exist, specifying the name of each debtor, the date of
each written evidence of debt, the security therefor, the sum ori inally
payable, the indorsements thereon, if any, and their dates, and t 0 sum
ap earing then to be due thereon.

SEC. 803. Before the inventory is filed the property therein specified
shall be appraised at its true cash value by three disinterested and competent persons, who shall be appointed by the commissioner; but if
any part of the property shall be in a precinct other than that wherein
administration is granted, the appraisers thereof may be ap ointed by
such commissioner or the commissioner of the precinct W erein the
property shall be; in the latter case a certified copy of the order of
ap ointment shall be filed with the inventory.

SEC. 804. Before makin the appraisement the appraisers shall each
make and subscribe an afii avit, to be filed with the inventory, to the
effect that he will honestly and impartially appraise the ropert which
slgalll be exhibited to him according to the best of his Enowle ge and
a i ity.

SEC. 805. The a praisers shall appraise each article of property
separately and set own the value thereof in dollars and cents opposite
the entry of the article in the inventor . Money, of whatever nature,
that is a legal tender is to be appraise at its nominal value; but debts
of all descriptions or kinds are to be appraised at that sum which, in
the judgment of the ap raisers, may be realized from them by due
process of law. When t e appraisement is completed, the inventory
shall be signed by the appraisers.

SEC. 806. The naming anyone executor in a will shall not 0 erate to
discharge such executor from any claim which the testator ha against
him, but the claim shall be included in the inventory; and if the erson so named afterward take upon himself the administration 0 the
estate he shall be liable for such sum as for so much money in his
hands at the time the claim became due and payable; otherwise he is
liable for such claim as any other debtor of the deceased.

SEC. 807. The discharge or bequest in a will of any claim of the
testator against a person named as executor therein, or against aniv
other rson shall, as against the creditors of the deceased, be invali .
Siich c aim shall be included in the inventory, and for all purposes of
administration is to be deemed and treated as a specific legacy of that
amount.

SEC. 808. If, after the filing of the inventory, property not mentioned therein shall come to the knowledge or possession of the
executor or administrator, it is his duty immediately to make an
inventory thereof and cause the same to be a praised in the manner
prescribed in this title and file the same with t e commissioner.

SEC. 809. The executor or administrator is entitled to the possession and control of the propert of the deceased, both real and personal,
and to receive the rents an profits thereof until the administration is
com leted, or the same is surrendered to the heirs or devisees by order
of e‘court or judge thereof; but where such property, or any portion thereof, is in the ossession of a third person, by virtue of a valid
subsisting lease or ba° ment, the possession and control of the executor
or administrator is subordinate to the right of the lessee or bailee.

During the time the property is in the possession or control of the
executor or administrator, it is his duty to keep the same in repair
and preserve it from loss or decay as far as possible.

SEC. 810. Whenever it appears probable from the aflidavit of an
executor or administrator, or of an heir or other person interested in
the estate, that any person has concealed or in any way secreted or
disposed of- any pro erty of the estate, or any writing relating or pertaining thereto, or t at such person has knowledge of any such property or writing being so concealed, secreted, or disposed of, and refuses
to disclose the same to the executor or administrator, the commissioner,
upon the application of such executor or administrator, may cite such
person to appear and answer under oath concerning the matter charged.

SEC. 811. Such examination may be oral or upon written interrogatories filed by the applicant, but in either case the answers of the
persons cited shall be reduced to writing and subscribed by him and

led. If such person be not in the precinct where administration is
granted, the proceeding may be either before the commissioner of such
precinct or before the commissioner of the precinct where such person
resides or may be found. In the latter case a certified copy of the
written interrogatories, if any, and the examination or other proceeding
thereon, or connected therewith, shall be filed with the commissioner
where administration is granted.

SEC. 812. If the person so cited refuses to appear or. answer such
interrogatories as may be allowed to be put to him touching the matter charged, he may be punished for a contempt or may at once be
committed, by the warrant of the commissioner, to jail, there to remain
in close custody until he submits to the order of the commissioner. 

SEC. 813. The commissioner, upon the application of the executor
or administrator, may cite any person who has been intrusted with any
of the roperty of the deceased to appear and answer concerning the
same w en it appears probable that such person refuses or neglects to
render to the executor or administrator a true account thereof. The
application shall be made and the proceeding conducted in a manner
prescribed in sections eight hundred and ten, eight hundred and eleven
and eight hundred and twelve, concerning property or writings alleged
to be concealed, and with like effect.

SEC. 814. If any person shall, before administration is granted,
embezzle, alien or in any way convert to his own use any of the
property of a deceased person, he shall be liable to the executor or
alcllministrator in double the amount of damages which may be assessed
t erefor.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-THREE.

OF THE SUPPORT OF THE WIDOW AND MINOR CHILDREN.



815. Provision for widow and minor 818. When the whole of estate to be set
children before administration. apart to widow and children.

816. Property to be set apart, and effect 819. When estate all deemed assets.
0

817. Further order for support, when
made.

SEC. 815. Until administration of the estate has been granted and the
inventory filed, the widow and minor children of the deceased are entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, all the wearin apparel
of the family, and household furniture of the deceased, an also to
have a reasonable provision allowed for their support during such
period, to be allowed by the commissioner.

SEC. 816. Upon the filing of the inventory the commissioner shall
make an order setting apart for the widow or minor children of the
deceased, if any, all the property of the estate by law exempt from
execution. The property thus set a art, if there be a Widow, is her
property, to be used or expended by er in the maintenance of herself
and minor children, if any; or if there be no widow, it is the property
of the minor child, .or if more than one, of the minor children, in equal
shares, to be used and expended in the nurture and education of such
child or children by the guardian thereof as the law directs.

SEC. 817. If the property so exempt is insufficient for the support
of the widow and minor children, accordin to their circumstances
and condition in life, for one year after the fging of the inventory, the
commissioner may order that the executor or administrator pay- to
suclr Widow, if any, and if not, then to the guardian of such minor
children, an amount suiiicient for that purpose.

SEC. 818. If from the inventory of an intestate’s estate, who died .

leaving a widow or minor children, it ap ears that the value of the
estate does not exceed one hundred and ft dollars over and above
property exempt from execution, upon the in of the inventory the
commissioner shall make a decree providing t at the whole of the
estate, after the payment of funeral expenses and e nses of administration, be set apart for such widow or minor chil ren in like manner and with like effect as in case of property exempt from execution.

There shall be no further proceeding in the administration of such
estate unless further property be discovered.

SEC. 819. If an intestate leave neither widow nor minor children all
the property of the estate is assets in the hands of the administrator,

for the yment of funeral expenses, expenses of administration, payment 0 the debts of the deceased, or distribution according to law.

CHAPTER Eieirrr-roUiz_.

OF CLAIMS AGAINST THE ESTATE.



. Publication of notice and contents
thereof.

. Proof of- publication; effect of not
presenting claim.

825. Jud ment against deceased in his
1' etime. _

826. When and how claim may be referred.

822. Claim, hpw presented, and verification 0 .

823. Claim to be allowed or rejected; if
barred, not to be allowed.

824. Effect of 'udgment against executor or ' 'strator.

827. Proceeding by referee, and effect of.
828. Claim of executor or administrator.
829. How such claim may be determined.

SEC. 820. Every executor or administrator shall, immediately after
his appointment, blish a notice thereof in some newspaper published
in the precinct, i there be one, or otherwise in such paper as may be
designated by the commissioner, as often as once a week for four successive weeks, and oftener if the conmrissioner shall so direct. In case

’ except as stated, and t

of publication in a paper published without the precinct, the executor
or administrator shall also post a notice in at least three ublic laces,
to be designated by the commissioner in his order, one o Whic shall
be at or immediately adjacent to the ost-office nearest the residence
of the decedent at the time of his deat . Such notice shall require all
persons having claims against the estate to present them, with the
proper vouchers, within six months from the date of such notice, to
the eifcieclutor or the administrator, at a place within the precinct therein
s eci e .

SEC. 821. Before the expiration of. the six months mentioned in the
last section',,a co y of the notice as published, with the proper proof
of publication, s all be filed with the commissioner. A claim not
presented within six months after the hrst ublication of the notice is
not barred, but it can not be paid until t e claims presented within
that period have been satisfied, and if the claim be not then due, or if
it be contin ent, it shall nevertheless be presented as any other claim.
Until the a ministration has been completed a claim against the estate
not barred by the statute of limitations may be presented, allowed,
and paid outof any assets then in the hands of the executor or administrator not otherwise appropriated or liable.

SEC. 822. Every claim resented to the executor or administrator
shall be verified by the a davit of the claimant or some one on his
behalf who has personal knowledge of the facts, to the effect that the
amount claimed is justl due, that no payments have been made thereon,

hat there is no just counterclaim to the same, to
the knowledge of the afliant. When it a pears or is alleged that there
is any written evidence of such claim, t e same may be demanded by
the executor or administrator, or that its nonproduction be accounted
for.

SEC. 823. When the claim is presented to the executor or administrator, as prescribed in the last section, if he shall be satisfied that the
claim thus presented is just, he shall indorse u on it the words “ examined and approved,” with the date thereof, an sign the same oflicially,
and shall pay such claim in due course of administration; but if he
shall not be so satisfied, he shall indorse thereon the words .“ examined
and rejected,” with the date thereof, and sign the same ofiicially.
Every executor or administrator shall keep a list of all demands legally
exhibited against the estate of the testator or intestate, and shall, every
three months, file with the commissioner a statement of all such claims
as have been presented, and whether the same have been allowed or
rejected by him. If any executor or administrator shall refuse to allow
any claim or demand against. the deceased after the same may have
been exhibited to him in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
the claimant may present his ‘claim to the commissioner having jurisdiction or to the district court or the jud e thereof for allowance,
giving the executor or administrator thirty ays’ notice of such a plication to the court. The district court or the judge thereof shall have

power to hear and determine in a summary manner all demands
against any estate agreeably to the provisions of this chapter, and

w ich have been so rejected by the executor or administrator, and shall
cause a concise entry of the order of allowance or rejection to be made
on the record, Whic order shall have the force and effect of a judgment, from which an appeal may be taken as in ordinary cases: Provided, No claim which shall have been rejected by the executor or

administrator, as aforesaid, shall be allowed by an court, judge,
referee, or jury, except upon some competent or satis actory evidence
other than the testimony of the claimant. No claim shall be allowed
by the executor or administrator or the district court or judge which
is barred by the statute of limitations.

SEC. 824. The effect of a judgment against an executor or administrator, on account of a claim against the estate of his testator or intestate, is only to establish the claim as if it had been allowed by him, so .

as to require it to be satisfied in due course of administration, unless it
appear that the complaint alle ed assets in his hands applicable to the
satisfaction of such claim, an that such allegation was admitted or
found to be true, in which case the jud ment may be enforced against
such executor or administrator ersonatflly.

SEC. 825. A claim establishe by judgment against the deceased in
his lifetime need not be verified by aflidavit, but it is sufficient to present a certified copy of the judgment docket thereof to the executor
or administrator for allowance or rejection, as in other cases; but this section is not to be construed to prevent an execution from being issued
upon such judgment, as elsewhere provided in this code.

SEC. 826. If the executor or administrator doubt the validity of any
claim presented to him, he may agree, in writing, with the claimant
that an order of reference be made by the commissioner thereof concerning the same. Upon the Jiling of such agreement, the commissioner shall make the order accordin ly.

SEC. 827. The referee shall proceegl to hear and examine the matter,
and report thereon to the commissioner, where the order of reference
was made, in the same manner and with like effect as if the order was
made in an action upon such claim.

SEC. 828. If the executor or administrator is himself a creditor of
the testator or intestate, his claim, duly verified, may be presented to
the commissioner for allowance or rejection; but the allowance of such
claim by such commissioner does not conclude a creditor, heir, or other
person Interested in the estate in any action or proceeding between
such executor or administrator and such creditor, heir, or other

rson.

SEC. 829. If the commissioner reject the claim of the executor or
administrator, either in whole or in art, or in case the same is not
presented for allowance, as provide in the last section, the executor
or administrator may retain the amount thereof until the final settlement of his accounts, when, if the same is controverted or objected to
by any person interested in the estate, the right of the executor or
administrator to have the allowance claimed shall be tried and determined by the court. If the claim is not presented to the commissioner, as provided in the section last preceding, before it is barred by
the statute of limitations, such claim can not be allowed, retained, or

recovered.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-FIVE.

OF THE SALE OF PROPERTY BY EXECUTORS O_R ADMINISTRATORS.



830. Sale of property, how made, and ap- 845. Proceeding in case property approplicatlon therefor. priated insufficient.
. Order of sale of personal property. 846. Bequests and legacies, when liable for
. Sales of pro rty thereunder. debts. ~
. May be sol at private sale. 847. Sale of contract for the purchase
. When real pro rty may be sold of real property.
where special y devised. . Sale subject to payments to be made
. Petition for order of sale of real on contract. *
property. . Assignment of contract and effect
. Citation to heirs and devisees to thereof.
show cause. . Ordertoredeemmortgaged property.
. Service of citation. . Order for the sale 0 mortgaged
. Hearing and order of sale. property.
. Sale, how made; security for pur- . Application of proceeds of sale.
chase money. . When mo e foreclosed or suit
. Return of sale, and objections there- commenced or that purpose.
to. . When debt not due, how satisfied.
. When sale confirmed and when va- . Effect of order confirming sale.
cated. 856. Fraudulent or void conveyance of
. Recitals in conveyance and effect judgments of the deceased.
thereof. 857. Order allowing proceedings to va. When real property may be sold to cats.
a-y legacy, etc. 858. Disposition of property recovered
844. S e of property under will. on such proceeding.

SEC. 830. No sale of the property of an estate is valid unless made
by order of the commissioner, as in this chapter prescribed, unless
herein otherwise provided. The application for an order of sale shall
be by the petition of the executor or administrator, and in case of real
property a citation to the heirs and others interested in such property.

SEC. 831. Upon the filing of the inventory the executor or administrator may make an application to sell the personal property of the
estate for the purpose of paying the funeral charges, expenses of administration, the claims, if any, against the estate, and for the purposes of
distribution; and it shall be the duty of the commissioner togrant such
order, if in his judgment it is for the best interest of the estate, and to
direct and prescribe the terms of sale upon which such property shall
be sold, whether for cash or on credit.

SEC. 832. Thereafter the executor or administrator shall sell such

ersonal property from time to time for the purposes specified in the
ast section, and as often and as much thereof as may be necessary.
Such sale shall be conducted in the same manner as a sale of personal
property on execution, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.

SEC. 833. If, upon the application for an order of sale, or upon a
subsequent application for that purpose, it appears to the commissioner that it would be for the interest of the estate, he may order that
the executor or administrator may sell all the personal property of the
estate or any article thereof at private sale. If any articles of personal
property have been specially bequeathed, they are to be exempt from
the operation of the order of sale so long as any property of the estate
not specially devised or bequeathed remains unsold or appro riated to
the purposes s eciiied in section eight hundred and sixty-eig t.

SEC. 834. hen the proceeds of the sale of personal property have
been exhausted, and the charges, expenses, and claims specified in section eight hundred and thirty-one have not all been satisfied, the executor or administrator shall sell the real property of the estate, or so
much thereof as may be necessary for that purpose. If any of such
real property have been specially devised, it shall be exempt from the
operation of the order of sale in the same manner as personal property
specially be ueathed. » ~

SEC. 835. he petition for the order of sale of real property shall
state the amount of the sales of personal property, the charges,
expenses, and claims still unsatisfied, so far as the same can be ascertained, a descri tion of the real property of the estate, the condition
and probable va ue of the different portions or lots thereof, the amount
and nature of any liens thereon, the names, ages, and residence of
the devisees, if any, and of the heirs of the deceased, so far as known.

SEC. 836. Upon the filing of thepetition a citation shall issue to the
devisees and heirs therein mentioned, and to all others unknown, if
any such there be, to appear at a time therein mentioned, not less than
thirty days after the service of such citation, to show cause, if any
exist, why an order of sale should not be made as in the petition
prayed for.

SEC. 837. Upon an heir or devisee known and resident within the
district such citation shall be served and returned as a summons; and
upon an heir or devisee unknown or nonresident it may be served by

ublication or posting, or both, not less than four weeks, or for suc

llirther time as the commissioner may prescribe. When service is
bad by osting, the citation shall be posted at not less than three
public p aces within the precinct, one of which shall be the post-office
nearest to the place where the decedent resided at the time of his
death. When service of the citation is made by publication or posting, there shall be given with it a brief description of the property
described in the petition.

SEC. 838. If, upon the hearing, the court find that it is necessar
that the real property, or any portion thereof, should be sold, it shaE
make the order accordingly, and prescribe the terms thereof, whether
of cash or credit, or both; and if such property can not be divided
without probable injury and loss to the estate, it ma order that it, or
any specific lot or portion thereof, shall be sold who y, whether otherwise necessar or not.

SEC. 839. pon the order being made, the executor or administrator
shall sell the roperty therein specified upon the terms directed and
in the mannerlierein otherwise provided. Such sale shall be made in
the same manner as like property is sold on execution: Provided,
however The commissioner may, if thou ht best, order said property
to be sold on the premises. When the sa e is u on credit the executor
or administrator shall take the note of the pure aser for the purchase
Eoneyf with a mortgage upon the property to secure the payment

ereo .

SEC. 840. Within ten days after the sale of real property the executor or administrator shall make a return of his proceedin s concerning such sale. Upon such return any of the ersons cite to appear
on the application for the order of sale may e his objections to the
confirmation of such sale.

SEC. 841. Upon the hearin the court shall confirm the sale and
decree that the executor or a ministrator make a conveyance to the
purchaser, unless it appear that there were irregularities in the sale,

or that the sum bidden for the property is dis roportionate to the
value thereof, and that a sum exceeding such id at least ten per
centum, exclusive of the expenses of a new sale, may be obtained
therefor, in either of which cases the court shall make an order vacating the sale and directing that the property be resold; and upon such
second sale the property, or an specific portion or lot thereof, ordered
to be resold shall be sold as i no previous sale had taken place. In
case no objections are made to the‘ confirmation of the sale as provided
in the section last precedin , the court shall nevertheless examine the
proceedings concerning suc sale, and, if it appear proper, may make
the order of resale rovided for in this section in the same manner and
with like effect as i objections had been filed thereto.

SEC. 842. A conveyance executed by an executor or administrator
shall set forth the date of the order directing the sale, and the book,
number thereof, and page containing the same, and the date of the
order confirming the sale and directing the conveyance, and the book,
number thereof, and age containing the same, and the title of‘ the
court making such or ers, and shall operate to convey all the estate,
right, and interest of the testator or intestate in the premises at the
time of his death.

SEC. 843. When a testator shall have specially bequeathed any specific article of personal property, or, given any legacy by Will, and
there shall not be suflicient personal property, besides such specific article or the value of such legacy, to ay the funeral charges, expenses
of administration, and claims againstt e estate, the executor or administrator shall obtain an order to sell the real property sufficient to make
up the deficiency, in the manner hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 844. When the testator shall make provision in his Will for the’
sale or disposition of all or any particular portion of his estate, for the
payment of funeral charges, expenses of administration, or of claims
against the estate, the property so appropriated may be sold or disposed of as directed by the executor or administrator with the will
annexed, Without an order of the court therefor; but he shall be bound
to conduct the sale and make a return thereof in all respects as -if it
Were made by order of the court, unless there are special directions in
the will concerning the manner and terms of sale, in which case he
shall be governed by such directions in such respects.

SEC. 845. If the provision made by the will or the ro erty thereby
appropriated be insuflicient for the purpose intendeg, the remaining
portion of the estate may be sold for that purpose, according to the
provisions of this chapter.

SEC. 846. The property, real and personal, given by the will to any

A devisee or legatee 1s liable for the payment of the funeral charges,

expenses of administration, and of claims against the estate; and if
there be more than one such devisee or legatee, then in proportion to
the value or amount of the several devises and legacies; except that
specific devises and legacies shall be exempt from such liability, if such

appear to have been the intention of the testator and there be other

sufficient pro erty to satisf such charges, expenses, and claims.

SEC. 847. the decease Was, at the time of his death, a part to a
contract for the purchase of real property, his interest in suc real
prgperty by virtue of such contract may be sold in the same manner
as such contract had been executed in the lifetime of the deceased,

by a conveyance to him of such property according to the legal effect
and terms of such contract.

SEC. 848. If there be any payments due, or to become due, on such
contract, to the vendor of the deceased, sale is made subject thereto,
and before the same can be confirmed, or the contract assigned to the
purchaser, such purchaser shall execute an undertakin , with one or
more suflicient sureties in an amount not less than doub e the value of
all the payments then due or to become due, for the benefit of whom
it may concern, to be void upon the condition that such purchaser will
make  such payments according to the terms of such contract, and
indemnify the executor or administrator or others whom it may concern, against all damages, costs, and expenses by reason of any covenant or agreement contained in such contract.

SEC. 849. The order of confirmation of such sale shall direct the
executor or administrator to make an assignment of such contract to
the purchaser which assignment shall vest in the purchaser, his heirs
and assi us, all the estate, right, and interest of the deceased at the
time of  death in such real ‘property, and give to the purchaser the

same rights and remedies against the vendor thereof as the deceased
would have had or been entitled to if living.

SEC. 850. If the deceased left any property, real or personal, under
mortgage, and did not devise or provide for the redemption of the
same by will, the commissioner, upon the application of the executor

or administrator or the application of an eir or creditor, or other
person interested in the estate, may order the executor or administrafor to redeem such property out of the proceeds of the other personal
pro rty, if it a pear that such redemption would be for the interest
of e estate, an not prejudicial to creditors.

SEC. 851. If, upon such application, such redem tion be deemed not

roper or inexpe ient, the commissioner shall or er such property to
he sold in like manner and with like effect as is provided in other cases
of the sale of real property by this chapter; and the conveyance to
the purchaser shall operate to convey to im all the estate, ri ht and
interest which the deceased would have had in the property ad not
the same been mortga ed by him.

SEC. 852. Ten days efore making an order for the application of
the proceeds of such sale, the mortgagee or other person to Whom the
debt which is secured by such mort ge is payable shall be cited to
appear and show the amount of his ebt, and make his objections, if
any, to the report of the e enses of the proceeding and sale as
claimed by the executor or a inistrator; and thereupon the court
shall order that the proceeds of the sale be first applied to the payment
of the proper ex enses of the roceedin and sale, and secondly, to
the satisfaction 0 such debt, and) the resi ue, if any, in due course of
administration.

SEC. 853. The three sections last preceding shall not be construed to
include a mortgage which has been foreclosed, or upon which a suit
has been commenced for foreclosure before the ap lication for the
order of redemption or sale is made, nor to an other ien arising upon
jud ent or decree given against the decease in his lifetlme.

SEC. 854. If the debt secured by the mortgage mentioned in section
eight hundred and fifty be not due at the time of the makin of the
order for redemption or a plication of the proceeds of sale, t e party
to whom it is payable sha be entitled to receive in satisfaction thereof

such spin as may be ascertained to be equal to the present value
thereo .

SEC. 855. The order of confirmation of sale in this (phapter nlilentioned is conclusive as to the regularity of the sale an no furt er.
All purchases of the roperty of the estate by an executor or administrator, however méi e, whether directly or indirectly, are prohibited,
and if made are voi .

SEC. 856. Whenever the assets of the estate are insuflicient to satisfy the funeral char es, expenses of administration, and the claims
 Sf
su ere anyconveyanc s '
personal, , with intent tp delay, hlindtei-,
or defrau ore ‘tors or W en sue conveyance trans er or sa e as
been so made 6r suffered that the same is void in law as against creditors, or when the deceased in his lifetime has suffered consented, or
procured any judgment or decree  be given against him with such
intent or in such manner as to be likewise void, it is the duty of such
executor or adminstrator to make application by petition to the commissioner for leave to commence an prosecute to final judgment or
decree the necessary and proper actions or proceedings to have such
conveyance, transfer sale, or judgment declared void, and the property
affected thereby discharged from the effect thereof.

SEC. 857. If upon the agplication it appear to such commissioner that
the assets are insuflicient or the purposes specified in the last section,
and that it is (probable that the conveyance, transfer, or judgment was
made, sutfere , consented to, or procured with the intent or in the
manner specified in the last section, he shall make the order directin
the proceedin s to be commenced and prosecuted as to any or all 0
the matters a eged in the petition and necessary to supply the deficiency in the assets.

SEC. 858. The roperty recovered by means of any procee 5 in
pursuance of the_ ast two sections_ is to be sold and appropriate to
supply the deficiency mentioned in section eight hun red and fiftysix in the same manner as other like propert ; but the right to or
interest in the surplus, if any, remains as if suc proceeding had not
been allowed or commenced.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-SIX.

OF THE AOOOUNTS OF EXEGUTOB8 AND AD TOR&



. When filed and what to contain. 865. Administrator chargeable with
. Proceeding if administrator neglect amount of inventory.
to file account. 866. For what administrator responsible.
. Order for the a ent of expenses, 867. Expenses and compensation of adcharges, an e aims. ministrator.
. Final account, when filed and what 868. Same,subject.
to contain. 869. Amount of compensation.
. Objections to nnal account, by 870. Proceeding in case of neglect to file
Whom, and when made. final account.
864. Decree u on linal account and effect 871. Administrator may compound for
thereo . debt due estate.

SEC. 859. An executor or administrator shall, within six months
from the date of the notice of his appointment, and every six months

thereafter until the administration is completed and he is discharged
from his trust, render an account, verified by his own oath, and file
the same with the commissioner, showin the amount of the money
received and expended by him, from W om received and to whom
paid, with the proper vouchers for such ayments, the amount of the
claims resented against the estate and a lowed or disallowed and the
name 0 the claimants of each, and any other matter necessary to show

. the condition of the affairs thereof. I

SEC. 860. An executor or administrator who shall fail to file an
account as required in the last section may be required by a citation
or ordered by a commissioner to appear and do so, either u on the
application of an heir or creditor, or other person intereste in the
estate, or without it. If the executor or admmistrator refuses or neglects to appear when cited, or to file the account as required, he may
be punished as for a contempt, or by warrant of the commissioner be
committed to close custody 1n jail until he consent to do so.

SEC. 861. Within thirty days after the filing of the first semiannual
account, and at each semiannual account thereafter, the commissioner
shall ascertain and determine if the estate be sufficient to satisfy the
claims allowed by the executor or administrator, within the hrst six
months or any succeeding period of six months thereafter, after the
date of the notice of his appointment, after payin the funeral charges
and expenses of administration; and if so, he sha so order and direct;
but if the estate be insuflicient for that purpose, he shall ascertain
what per centum of such claims it is sufficient to satisfy, and order
and direct accordingly.

SEC. 862. When the estate is full administered it shall be the duty
of the executor or administrator to e his final account. Such account
shall be verihed and contain a detailed statement of the amount of
money received and expended by him, from whom received and to
whom paid, and refer to the vouchers for such payments, and the
amount of money and property, if any, remaining unexpended or
unappropriated. Upon the filing of the final account, the commissioner shall make an order directing notice thereof to be given in the
same manner as the notice of an appointment of an executor or administrator, and appoint a day not less than sixty days subsequent there- ,

after for the caring of objections to such fmal account and the
settlement thereof. ’

SEC. 863. An heir, creditor, or other person interested in the estate
may, on or before the day appointed for such hearing and settlement,
file his objections thereto, or to any particular item thereof, s ecifying the particulars of such objections; but no creditor shall be a owed
to object to such account whose claim has been satisfied, as allowed by
the executor or administrator or established by judgment.

SEC. 864. Upon the hearing the court shall give a decree allowing
or disallowing the final account, either in whole or in part, as may be
'ust and right; and such decree in any other action or proceeding

etween the arties interested or their representatives is primary
evittlletdnce of t e correctness of the account as thereby allowed and
set e . .

SEC. 865. An executor or administrator is chargeable in his account
with all the property of the estate which may come into his possession, at the value of the appraisemcnt contained in the inventory,
except as in this chapter otherwise provided.

SEC. 866. He shall not make profit by the increase in value of the
roperty of the estate, or suffer loss for the decrease in value or the
estruction thereof, wlthout his fault; and if any of the property of

the estate sell for more than its appraised value he shall account for
the excess and if any such property sell for less than its aplpraised
value he shall not be responsible for the loss, unless occasione by his
fault. He shall not be accountable for the debts due the estate if it
appear that they remain uncollected without his fault. He shall not
purchase any claim against the estate which he re resents, and if he
satisfies any such claim for less than its nomina value -he is only
entitled to charge in his account the sum actually paid.

SEC. 867. An executor or administrator shall be allowed, in the settlement of his account, all necessary expenses incurred in the care,
management, and settlement of the estate, including reasonable attorney’s fees in any necessary liti tion or matter requiring legal advice
or counsel. For his services e shall receive such compensation as
the law provides; but when the deceased, by his will has made special
provision for the compensation of his executor, such executor 1s not
entitled to any other compensation for his services unless he shall,
within ten days after his appointment, subscribe and file with the
commissioner a written declaration renouncing the compensation provided by the will.

SEC. 868. Notwithstandin the provision in the will for the compensation of an executor, i the estate be insufficient to satisfy the
claims against it, the commissioner shall reduce such compensation, so
far as may be necessary to satisfy such claims, to an amount equal to
what the executor would have been entitled to if no such provision
had been made.

SEC. 869. The compensation provided by law for an executor or an
administrator is a commission upon the whole estate accounted for by
him, ‘as follows: «

First. For the first thousand dollars, or any less sum, at the rate of
seven per centum thereof;

Second. For all above that sum and not exceeding two thousand"

dollars, at the rate of five per centum thereof;
Third. For all above two thousand and not exceeding four thousand

' dollars, at the rate of four er centum thereof;

Fourth. For all above t e last-mentioned sum, at the rate of two
per centum thereof.

In all cases, such further compensation as is just and reasonable may
be allowed by the commissioner for any extraordinary and unusual
services not ordinarily required of an executor or administrator in the
discharge of his trust.

SEC. 870. Before the time appointed for the hearin and settlement
of a final account the executor or administrator shall le with the commissioner a copy of the notice thereof, with the proper proof of its
publication or posting as directed. An executor or administrator who
shall fail to file his final account as provided in section eight hundred
and sixty-two may be proceeded against in like manner and with like
effect as provided in section eight hundred and sixty in case of failure
to file a semiannual account.

SEC. 871. Whenever a debtor of a deceased person is unable to pay
all his debts, an executor or administrator, by an order of the commissioner, may compound with him and give him a discharge upon

receiving a fair and just proportion of his effects; but if such compounding is procured or produced by the fraudulent representations
o

or conduct such debtor, such payment shall only operate to discharge a like amount of the debt.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-SEVEN.

OF THE PAYMENT OF CLAIMS AND CHARGES.


872. Order of payment of charges and 88(l. Distribution and‘ payment of legaclaims. ‘ cies.

873. Proceeds of real property to be ap- 881. When real property discharged from
plied in satisfaction of lien. administration. 874. How judgment or decree satisfied 882. Application of heir or other person
when given in lifetime of deceased. for share of estate.
875. If ‘estate insufiicent, payment to be 883. Notice and proceedings thereon.

in proportion. 884. Qualification of sureties in under876. Funeral cha es, who may incur taking, and costs.

and when al owed. 885. Application for decree to refund.
877. Administrator may retain compen- 886. Proceedings thereon, and how desation and expenses. cree enforced.
878. Debts not due or contingent.

879. Administrator liableto creditor personally, when.

SEC. 872. The char es and claims against the estate which have been
presented and allowe , or presented and disallowed but subsequently
established by judgment Within the first six months after the date of
the notice of appointment of the executor or administrator, shall be
paid in the following order, and those resented and allowed or estabished in like manner with each succee ing period of six months thereafter during the continuance of the administration in the same manner:
First, funeral charges; second, taxes of whatever nature due the United
States; third, expenses of last sickness; fourth, all other taxesof whatever nature; iifth, debts referred by the laws of the United States; sixth,
debts which at the deat of the deceased were a lien upon his property
or any right or interest therein according to the riority of their several
liens; seventh, debts due em loyee of decedent or wages earned within
the ninety days immediate y preceding the death of the decedent;
eighth, all other claims against the estate.

SEC. 873. The preference given by subdivision sixth of the last section shall extend only to the proceeds of the property upon which
the lien exists, and as to such proceeds such debt is to be preferred to
any of the classes mentioned in such section other than the taxes upon
such propert .

SEC. 874. If such debt has been established by judgment against
the deceased in his lifetime, such judgment, if the proceeds of the
personal property be not suflicient to satisfy it, may, in the discretion
of the commissioner be either satisfied from the proceeds of the sale
of the pro erty by the executor or administrator upon which it is a
lien, or en orced by execution against such property. Such sale by
the executor or administrator discharges the property from the lien of
the judgment, but the same attaches to the proceeds thereof, after
deducting therefrom the expenses of sale.

SEC. 875. Exce t as specially rovided in the last three sections, if
the estate be insu cient to pay a l the claims and’charges of any one

class, payable within any period of six months during the administration, as provided in section eight hundred and seventy-two, each
creditor of such class shall be paid in proportion to the amount of his
claim, and not otherwise. a

SEC. 876. The executor named in the will, or if there be none, or if
he do not attend to it, then the husband, widow, or next of kin, in the
order herein named, are authorized to incur funeral charges on account
of the estate in the burial of the deceased before administration of the
estate is granted, and the burial of the deceased may be in a manner
and at a cost according to his circumstances and condition in life; but
no funeral charges, except those necessary to give the deceased a plain
and decent burial, shall be allowed out of the estate where the assets
are not sufficient to satisfy all other claims against it, including the
legacies and devises, if there be any.

SEC. 877. The executor or administrator may retain in his hands, in

reference to any claim or charge against the estate, the amount of
his own compensation and the necessary expenses of administration.

SEC. 878. A debt due and payable is not entitled to preference over
one of the same class not due if the latter be presented within the
same period. A debt not due, Whether contingent or absolute, upon
being presented shall, if absolute, be satisfied by the payment of such
sum as the commissioner may prescribe by order to be equal to its
present value, and if contingent, by the payment into court for the
benefit of the creditor, subject to the contingency, of a sum, to be
ascertained in like manner, equal to its present value.

SEC. 879. When, upon the filing of a semiannual account, an order
is made determining and prescribing the amount of assets applicable
to the claims then presented, as provided in section eight hundred and
sixty-one, thereafter the executor or administrator is personally liable
to each creditor included in such order for such amount. '

SEC. 880. If all the charges and claims shall have been satisfied upon
the first distribution of the assets, or as soon thereafter as they may
be, the commissioner shall direct the payment of le acies and the distribution of the remaining proceeds of the persona property among
the heirs or other persons entitled thereto. . l

SEC. 881. The real property of the deceased is the propert of those
to Whom it descends by law or is devised by Will, sub]ect to t e possession of the executor or administrator, and to be applied to the satisfaction of claims against the estate, as by this chapter provided; but upon
the settlement of the estate and the termination of the administration
thereof so much of such real property as remains unsold or unappropriated is discharged from such possession and liability Without any order
or decree therefor. But if there be any surplus of the proceeds of sale
of such real property, or any part thereof, the commissioner shall order
and direct a distribution of such surplus among those Who would have
been entitled to such land if the same had not been sold.

SEC. 882. At any time after the filing of the first semiannual account
any heir, devisee, or legatee may apply to the commissioner by petition
for an order that he have the possession and rents and profits thereof
of the portion of the real property to which he may be entitled, and

~ that payment be made to him of his legacy or distributive share of the

personal pro erty of such estate, as the case may be.
SEC. 883. otice of the application shall be given to the executor or

administrator thirty days before the time at which it is made. If
upon the hearmg 1t aplpeag that the estate is but little in debt, the
commissioner may 1n _ is iscretion grant t e petition or some part
thereof upon the condition that such a plicant file with the commissloner, within a time in the order speci ed, an undertaking, with one
or more suflicient sureties for the benefit of whom it may concern in
ahsum gpttrble this valucého sucih real ropertiyillegapy, or distributive
s _are e vo1 upon e con ition t at suc eir e atee or devisee
 pay, when required, his portion toward satis ying’ any claim
agalnst the estate. _ . .

SEC. 884. The sureties In such undertakm shall have the same qualiiications as sureties in bail upon arrest, an shall justify before the
commissioner in like manner. The costs of the proceeding shall be
paid by the a plicant. ' _ . . _

SEC. 885. f after the g1v1ng of such undertaklng 1t shall become
necessaryahfo satisfy any claim against the estate, to require the payment of or any part of the sum therein specified it shall be the
duty_ of the executor or administrator to apply by etition to the commissloner for a decree to that effect. Notice of t e application shall
be given  the party filing the undertaking twenty days before the
tlII§6 at whlchfthe applicaltlion 1s made.

SEC. 886. upon t e earing it appear necessary and proper that
such payment should be made, the commissioner shall decree accordingly_, specifying therein the amount to be paid, and within what time;
and 1f the amount be not pald w1th1n the time speclfred, the decree
may be enforced a ainst such party and the sureties 1n the undertaking,
by executlon, in e same manner as a judgment in the district court.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-EIGHT.

OF GUARDIANS AND WARDS.

12


. Next of kin to be guardian. 903. Management of ward’s estate.
. Commissioner to appoint guardian. 904. Inventory and appraisal of the
. Who to nominate guardian. Ward’s estate. .
. Powers and duties of guardian. 905. Management and investment of
. Bond of guardian. property.
. Testamentary guardian. 906. Removal or resignation of guardian.
. Bond of testamentary guardian. 907. Marriage of female ward.
. Guardian in judicial proceedings. 908. New bond.
. Guardians for insane persons, etc. 909. Action against sureties on guardian’s
. Guardian for insane person. bond.
. Powers and duties of guardians of 910. Proceedings in case of suspected eminsane person. bezzlement.
. Guardian for spendthrift. 911. Guardians for nonresident minors.
899. Order of notice to be filed with the 912. Powers and duties of such guardians.
clerk of district court. 913. Bond of.
900. Allowance for defense of ward. 914. First guardianship exclusive.
901. Guardian for spendthrift, powers 915. Expenses and compensation.
and duties. 916. Joint account.
902. Payment of debts in settlement of 917. “Insane erson” and “spendthrift”
_ accounts. define .

SEC. 887. Whenever it becomes the duty of a commissioner to appoint
a guardian for a minor, the relatives of such minor, whether ma e or
female, upon application to the commissioner, shall in all cases be

appointed, the nearest relative having precedence: Promlded, Said
applicant shall be of good moral character and be otherwise competent
to discharge the duties of guardian to such ward.

SEC. 888. The commissioner for each precinct, when it shall appear
to him necessary or convenient, may appoint guardians to minors and
others being inhabitants or residents in such precinct, and also such as
shall reside without the district and have any estate within the same.

SEC. 889. If the minor is under the age -of fourteen years the com- ‘
missioner may nominate and appoint his guardian, and if he be above
that age he ma nominate his own guardian, who, if approved by the
commissioner avin jurisdiction of the estate, shal be a ointed
accordin ly; and if t e guardian nominated by such minor sha not be
a prove by such commissioner, or if the minor shall reside without
t e district, or if, after having been cited by the commissioner, he shall
ne lect to nominate a suitable erson, the commissioner may nominate
an ap oint the guardian in e same manner as if the minor were
under ourteen years of age.

SEC. 890. Every guardian so appointed shall have the custody and
tuition of the minor and the care and mana ement of his estate, and
shall continue in office until the minor shall ave arrived at the age of
twent -one years, or until the guardian shall have been discharged
accor 'ng to law: Provided, however, The father of the minor, if livin ,
and in case of his death the mother, while she remains unmarri
being themselves res ectively competent to transact their own business,
shall be entitled to t e custody of the person of the minor and to the
care of his education.

SEC. 891. Every such guardian shall give bond, with surety or
sureties, to the United States, in such sum as the commissioner may
order, with conditions as follows:

First. To make a true inventory of all the real estate, and of all
goods, chattels, rights, and credits of the ward that shall come to his
possession or knowledge, and to return the same tothe commissioner
at such time as the latter may order; Second. To dispose of and manage all such estate and effects according to law and for the best interest of the ward, and faithfully to
discharge his trust in relation thereto, and in relation to the custody,
education, and maintenance of the ward;

Third. To render, on oath, an account of the property in his hands,
including the (pliéoceeds of all real estate sold by him, and of the management and ' gosition of all such property, within a year after his
ap ointment, an at such other times as the commissioner shall direct;

ourth. At the expiration of his trust, to settle his accounts with
the commissioner or with the ward or his legal representatives, and to
pay and deliver over all the estate and effects remaining in his hands
or due from him on such settlement, to the person or persons who shall
be legally entitled thereto.

SEC. 892. Ever father may, by his last will in writing, ap int a
guardian or guar ians for any of his children, whether born at e time
of making the will or afterwards, to continue during the minority of
the child or for a less time. And eve mother may, by her last will
in writin , appoint a guardian or guar ians for any of her children to
continue uring the minority of the child or for a less time: Pr ' ,

i The father of such child or children is dead and has not appointed a
guardian, or whenever, by judgment of divorce between such father

and mother, the custody of such child or children has been awarded to
the mother; and every such testamentary guardian shall have the same
ppggs fairtilcll perfeirm the Salélie duties.wti;l1i bregglrd to the person Iaind
e _ o e war as a gua_r an a poin y e commissioner: omdec_Z, _Nothi;i1g in this iilctlolhf stl1ilall)bet‘q(qnsti;fue£dl to deprive elither Itihe
surviving a er or_ mo er 0 e _cus y o e person 0 is or er
childien, such surviving parent being competent to transact his or her
own usiness.

SEC. 893. E.very.such testamentary guardian shall give bond in like
manner and with hke conditions as is before required of a guardian
apfiointed by the commissioner: Provided, When the testator in a
En dap1po1i1ntii::gbthe.guartclhiaq) sheill lllialilre oiédtered onreqluested thelt such

on s a no . e given e_ on s a no e require , un ess om a
change in the situation or circumstances of the guardian, or for other
sufiicient cause, the commissioner shall think proper to require it.

SEC. 894. Nothing contained in this chapter shall impair the power
of the_ district court or courts of a justice of the peace to a point a
guardian to defend the interests of any minor impleaded in such courts
or interested in any suit or matter therein ending, nor their power to
appoint or allow any person as next friemf for a minor to commence,
prosecute, or defen_d,any suit in his behalf. _ , _

SEC. 895. Commissioners in their respective precincts shall have
power to appoint guardians to take care, custody, and management of
the estates, real and ersonal of all insane persons, idiots, and all who
are incapable ofcon ucting their own affairs, and the maintenance of
their families and the education of their children.

SEC. 896. When the relatives or friends. of any insane person, or
any other _persons inhabitants of the precinct in which such insane
person resides, shall apply to the commissioner by_ petition in writing
to have a guardian ap ointed for him, the commissioner shall cause
notice to be given to tile supposed insane person of the time and place
appointed for hearing the case, not less than ten days before the time
so appointed; and if, after a full hearing, it shall appear to the commissioner that the person in question is incapable of taking care of
himself, the commissioner shall appoint a uardian of his person and
estate, with the powers and duties hereina er specified.

SEC. 897. Every guardian so appointed for an insane erson shall
have the care and custody of the erson of the ward and t e management of all his estate, and he sha give bond to the United States in
like manner and in like conditions as is before prescribed with respect
to the guardian of a minor excepting that the provision relating to
the education of the ward s all be omitted in the condition of the bond.

SEC. 898. When an person, by excessive drinking, gaming, idleness, or debauchery 0 any kind, shall so spend, waste, or lessen his
estate as to expose himself or his family to want or suffering, the commihssiener fog eluch precinct of which such spenlcllthrift is 3. reside-gilt lcg
in a itant s a cause notice to e 'ven to suc su pose s end r’
of the time and place appointed foighearing the cash), not less than ten
days before the time so appointed; and if, after a full hearing, it shall
appear  the commissioner that the person complained of comes within

e description contained in this section, he shall a point a guardian

of his (person and- estate, with the powers and uties hereinafter
specifie .
SEC. 899. After the order of notice has been issued, the commissioner

shall cause a copy of the same to be filed in the oiiice of the clerk of the
district court, and if a guardian shall be appointed on such application,
all contracts, excepting for necessaries, and all gifts, sales, or transfers of real or personal estate made by such spendthrift after such
filing of the order of notice in the office of the district court, and before
the termination of the guardianshi , shall be null and void.

SEC. 900. When a guardiansha be appointed for an insane person
or s ndthrift, the commissioner shall make an allowance, to be paid
by e guardian, for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Ward in
defending himself against the proceeding.

SEC. 901. Every guardian so appointed for a spendthrift shall have
the care and custody of the person of the ward and the management
of all his estate until the guardian shall be legally discharged; and he
shall give bond to the United States in like manner and 'With like condition as is before directed With respect to the guardian of an insane

erson. 
SEc. 902. Every guardian ap ointed under the provisions of this chapter shall pay all just debts ue from his Ward out of his personal
estate, if sufficient, and if not, out of his real estate, upon obtaining a
license for the sale thereof, as provided by law; he shall also settle all
accounts of the ward, and demand, sue for, and receive all debts due
to him, or may, with the approbation of the commissioner, compound
for the same, and give a discharge to the debtor upon receivin a fair
and just dividend of his estate and effects, and he shall appear or and
represent his Ward. in all legal actions and proceedings, unless When
another person is appointed for that purpose as guardian or next friend.

SEC. 903. The guardian shall also manage the estate of his Ward
fru ally and Without Waste, and apply the income and profits thereof,
so ar as may be necessary, for the comfortable and suitable maintenance and sup ort of the Ward and his family, if there be any; and if
the income an profits be insufficient for that purpose, the guardian
may sell the real estate, u on obtaining a license therefor as provided
by law, and shall apply t e proceeds of such sale, so far as may be
necessary, for the maintenance and support of the Ward and his family.

SEC. 904. Upon the taking of any inventory, as required by this chapter, the estate and effects comprised therein shall be appraised by
three suitable persons, to be appointed and sworn in like manner as is
required with respect to the inventory of a deceased testator or intestate; and every guardian shall account for and dispose of the personal
estate of his Ward in like manner as is directed with respect to executors and administrators.

SEC. 905. Commissioners in their respective precincts, on the application of a guardian or any person interested in the estate of any Ward,
after notice to all other persons interested, ma authorize or require
the guardian to sell and transfer any stock in the public funds, or in
any bank, insurance company, or other corporation, or any other personal estate or effects held by him as guardian, and invest the proceeds of such sale, and also all of the moneys in his hands, in real
estate, or in any other manner that shall be most for the interest of all
concerned therein; and such commissioner may make such further
order and give such directions as the case may require for managing,
invesging, and disposing of the estate and effects in the hands of the
guar ian.

SEC. 906. When any guardian appointed either by a testator or by

a commissioner shall become insane or otherwise incapable of discharging his trust, or be unsuitable therefor, the commissioner, after
notice to such guardian and to all others interested, ma remove him;
and every guardian, upon his request, may be allowe to resign his
trust when it shall appear to the commissioner proper to allow the
same, and upon every such resignation or removal, and also upon the
death of any guardian, the commissioner shall appoint another in his
stea .

SEC. 907. The marriage of any female who is under guardianshi as
a minor shall operate as a dischar e of her guardian; and the guar ian
of any insane person or spendthrigt may be discharged by the commissioner when it shall appear, on the application of the ward or otherwise, that such guardianship is no longer necessary.

SEC. 908. The commissioner may require a new bond to be given by
any guardian, and ma discharge the. existing sureties from future
responsibility, in the ike case and upon the like terms as are prescribed with regard to executors or administrators.

SEC. 909. No action shall be maintained against the sureties on any
bond given by a guardian unless it be commenced within three years
from the time when such guardian shall be discharged: Promlded, If
at the time of such discharge the person entitled to brin such action
shall be out of the district the action may be commence at any time
within three ears after his return to the district.

SEC. 910. pon complaint made to the commissioner by any_guardian or by the ward, or by any creditor or other person interested in
his estate, or by persons having claims thereto in expectancy, as heir
or otherwise, agalnst anyone suspected of having concealed, embezzled,
or conveyed away any of the money, goods, or effects of the ward, the
commissioner may cite and examine such suspected person and proceed
with him as to such charge in the same manner as is provided respecting persons suspected of concealing or embezzling effects of a deceased
testator or intestate.

SEC. 911. When any minor or other person likely to be put under
guardianship according to the rovisions of this chapter shall reside
without the district and shall ave any estate thereln, any friend of
such person, or anyone interested in his estate, in expectancy or otherwise, may apply to the commissioner of any precinct in which there
may be any estate of such absent person, and after notice to all ersons interested, to be given in such manner as the commissioner s all
order, and after a full hearing and examination, if it shall appear
proper the commissioner may appoint a guardian for such absent

person.
SEC. 912. Every guardian appointed according to the provisions of
the preceding section shall have the same owers and duties with
res t to any estate of the ward that may be ound within the district,
an also with -respect to the person of the ward if he shall come to
reside therein as are prescribed to any other guardian appointed by
force of this chapter.

SEC. 913. Ever such rdian shall give bond to the United States
in like manner an with 11 e condition as is above provided with respect
to other guardians, excepting that the rovisions res ecting the
inventory, the dis osal of the estate, and t e account to e rendered
by the guardian s all be confined to such estate and eifects which shall
‘come to his hands in the district, and that the provisions respecting the

custody of the ward shall not be applicable unless the ward shall come
to reside in the district.

SEC. 914. The guardianship which shall first be legally granted of
any rson residing without the district shall extend to all the estate
of e ward within-the same, and shall exclude the jurisdiction of the
commissioner of any other precinct. ,

SEC. 915. Every guardian shall be allowed the amount of all his
reasonable e enses incurred in the execution of his trust, and shall
also have suc compensation for his services as the commissioner
before whom his accounts are settled shall consider just and reasonable.

SEC. 916. When an account is rendered by two or more joint guardians, the commissioner may, in his discretion, allow the same upon
the oath of an one of them.

SEC. 917. The words “insane erson” are intended to include every
idiot, every person not of soun mind, every lunatic and distracted
person; and the word “spendthrift” is intended to include any one
who is liable to be ut under ardianship on account of excessive
drinking, gamin , itgeness, or ebauchery; and these words shall be
so construed in a the provisions relating to guardians and Wards contained in this code.

CHAPTER EIGHTY-NINE.

'OF THE SALE OF LANDS BY GUARDIAN, AND DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

918. When guardian may sell real prop- 931. When foreign guardian may iile copy
erty of ward. of his appointment,

919. Proceeds to be placed on interest. 932. When foreign guardian may be li920. Application of proceeds. censed to sell._

921. Investment of proceeds. 933. Where proceedings may be insti922. Residue, when considered as real tuted.

estate. 934. Disposition of residue of proceeds.
923. Petition for license to sell. 935. Costs, when to prevailing parties.
924. Order to show cause. 936. Limitation of suits to recover estates
925. Service of order. ' sold by guardian.
926. When certificate of commissioners 937.  irregularities not to avoid

necessary. e.
927. Bond of guardian. 938. Liabili of guardian for misconduct.
928. His oath. 939. Sale, w en not held void, although
929. Notice of sale. inegular.
930. License, how long in force.

SEC. 918. When the income of the estate of any person under
uardianship, whether as a minor, insane person, or spendthrift, shall
e insufficient to maintain the ward and his family, his guardian may

sell his real estate for that urpose, u on obtaining a license therefor
and proceedin therein in t e manner ereinafter provided.

SEC. 919. hen it shall appear upon the representation of any such
guardian that it would be for the benefit of his ward that his real
estate, or any part thereof, should be sold, and the proceeds thereof
be put out on interest or invested in some productive stock, his guardian may sell the same’ accordingly, upon obtaining a license therefor
and proceedin therein as hereinafter rovided.

SEC. 920. I the estate be sold for t e maintenance of the ward and
his family as provided in section nine hundred and eighteen, the
guardian shall ap ly the proceeds of the sale for that purpose, so far
as necessary, and

shall put out the residue, if any, on interest, or

invest -it in the best manner in his power, until the capital shall be
wanted for the maintenance of the ward and his family, in which case
the capital may be used for that urpose, so far as may be necessary,
in like manner as if it had been t e personal estate of the ward.

SEC. 921. If the estate is sold in order to put out and invest the roceeds as provided in section nine hundred and nineteen, the guar ian
shall make the investment according to his best judgment, or in pursuance of an order of the commissioner relating thereto.

SEC. 922. 11 every case of the sale of real estate as provided in this chapter, the residue of the proceeds, if any remain upon the final settlement of accounts of the Guardianship, shall be considered as real
estate of the ward and shall be disposed of among the same persons

and in the same manner as the real estate would have been if it had i

not been sold. ~ i
SEC. 923. In order to obtain a license for such sale the guardian

shall_present to the commissioner of the precinct in which he was‘

‘appointed guardian ,a petition therefor setting forth the condition of
e estate of his ward and the facts and circumstances under which it
is founded, tending to show the necessity or e ediency of such a
sale, which petition shall be verified by the oath o the petitioner.

SEC. 924. If it shall appear to the commissioner from such petition
that it is necessary or Would be beneficial to the ward that such real
estate or some art of it should be sold, he shall thereupon make an
order directing e next of kin of the ward and all persons interested
in the estate _to appear before him at a time and place to be therein
specified, not less than four nor more than eight weeks from the time
of making such order, to show cause why a license should not be
granted for the sale of such estate. '

SEC. 925. A cop of such order shall be personally served on the
next of kin of suc ward, and on all ersons interested in the estate,
at least ten days before the hearing 0 the petition, or shall be published at least three successive weeks in a newspaper circulating in the
district, to be specified by the commissioner. '

SEC. 926. No such license shall be granted for the sale of any real
estate of a ward, excepting that of a minor, unless the commissioner
of the precinct of_ which the ward is an inhabitant shall certify in
writing his a robation of the proposed sale. ‘

SEC. 927. very guardian licensed to sell real estate as aforesaid
shall, before the sale, ive bond to the United States, with suflicient
surety or sureties, W1 condition to sell the same in the manner prescribed for sales of real estate by executors or administrators, and to
account for and dispose of the proceeds of the sale in the manner
provided by law.

SEC. 928. Such guardian shall also, before fixing on the time and
place of sale, take and subscribe an oath before the commissioner or
some otheroflicer competent to administer the same, in substance as
follows: That in dis osing of the estate which he is hcensed to sellhe
will use his best ju gment in fixing the time and lace of sale, and
that he will exert his utmost endeavors to dispose o the same in such
Eanner as will be most for the advantage of all persons interested

erem.

SEC. 929. He shall also give public notice of the time and place of
sale and shall proceed therein in like manner as is prescribed for executors and administrators; and the evidence of giving such notice may

be perpetuated in the same manner and with the same effect as is provided in the case of sales of real estate by executors and administrators.

SEC. 930. N 0 license granted in pursuance of this chapter shall be
in force for more than one year after the time of granting the same.

SEC. 931. When any minor, insane person, or spendthrift residing
out of the district shall be put under guardianship in the State or
county in which he resides, and shall have no uardian appointed in
the district, the foreign guardian may file an aut enticated co y of his
appointment With the commissioner of any precinct in which t ere may
be real estate of the Ward; after which he may be licensed by the
commissioner to sell the real estate of the ward 1n any precinctin the
same manner and upon the same terms and conditions as are prescribed in this chapter in the case of a guardian appointed in the district,
except in the particulars hereinafter mentioned.

SEC. 932. Every foreign guardian so licensed to sell real estate shall

i take and subscribe the oath in the like case of guardians ap ointed in

the district, and shall give notice of the time and place 0 sale, and
conduct the same in the same manner prescribed for guardians
appointed in the district, and may perpetuate the evidence of the
notice in the same manner. .

SEC. 933. All the proceedin s required to be had before the commissioner in any recinct in the is-trict respecting such sale by a foreign
guardian shal be had before the commissioner for the precinct in
which the authenticated cop of his appointment is filed.

SEC. 934. Upon every such sale by a foreign guardian the proceeds
of sale, or as much thereof as may remain u on the final settlement of
the accounts of guardianship, shall be considered as real estate of the
Ward, and shall be dis osed of among the same persons and in the same
proportions as the rea estate would have been according to the laws
of the district if it had not been sold; and the foreign ardian shall,
in every case, before making the sale, give bond ‘to the nited States
with suiiicient surety or sureties, with condition to account for and
dis ose of the‘ same according to law.

SEC. 935. If any person shall appear and object to the grantin of
any license prayed for under the provisions of this chapter, an it
shall appear to the commissioner that either the petition or the objection is unreasonable, the commissioner shall give judgment for costs
against the losing party in the cause.

SEC. 936. No action for the recovery of any estate sold by a guardian under the provisions of this chapter shall be maintained by the
ward, or by any person claimin under him, unless it be commenced
Within flV8 years next after tie termination of the guardianship,
excepting only that persons out of the district, and minors and others
under legal disability to sue at the time when the causeof action shall
accrue may commence their action at any time Within five years next
after the removal of the disability or after their return to the district.

SEC. 937. In case of an action relating to any estate sold by a guardian under the provisions of this chapter, in which the ward, or any

‘person claiming under him, shall contest the validity of the sale, the

same shall not be avoided on account of any irregularity in the proceedings: Provided, It shall appear_Fi_rst. That the guardian Was licensed to make the sale by a comm1ss1oner of. competent jurisdiction; ‘

. Second. That he gave a bond that was approved by the commiss1oner;
Third. That he took the oath prescribed in this chapter; _
Fourth. That he gave notice of the time and place of sale as prescribed by law; and
Fifth. That the premises were sold accordingly at public auction,
and are held by one who purchased them in goo faith. 
SEC. 938. If, in relation to such sale, there should be any neglect or
misconduct in the proceedings of the guardian, by which any person
interested in the estate shall suffer dama e, such aggrieved party may
recover such damage in an action on t e bond of such guardian or
otherwise as the case may require. 
SEC. 939. If the validity of any sale made by a guardian under this
cha ter shall be drawn in question by any person claiming adversely
to e title of the ward, or claiming under any title that is not derived
from or through the ward, the sale shall not be held void on account
of any irregularity in the proceedings: Promlded, The guardian was
authorized to make the sale by the pro er commissioner, and that he
did accordingly execute and acknowle ge, in legal form, a deed for
the conveyance of the premises.

CHAPTER NINETY.

OF APPEALS IN PROBATE CASES.

Bee. Sec.

940. Appeals to district court. 942. Duty of district judge.

941. Exceptions and orders of commis- 943. Proceedings in such cases.
sloner.

SEC. 940. There shall be an appeal to the district court of the district of Alaska from all orders of the commissioners exercising the
jurisdiction of a court of probate. A

SEC. 941. In the case of decedents any heir, legatee, devisee, creditor, or other erson interested in the estate, and in the case of minors,
lunatics, and abitual drunkards, any creditor or relative within the
third degree of consanguinity, may file with the commissioner exceptions to any order of such commissioner granting or revoking letters
of administration or of guardianship, a lowing semiannual or final
accounts, allowing or rejecting claims, directing the payment of debts
or legacies or the distribution of estates, ordering the sale or disposal
of real or personal property, or other roceeding. Upon the filing of
such exception the commissioner sha make a transcript of all ‘dies,
papers and evidence pertainin to such order or proceeding and forward the same to the clerk of t e district court.

SEC. 942. Upon the filing of such exceptions the district judge shall
proceed on due notice to hear and determlne the same at such time and
In such manner as he shall prescribe by order, and for that purpose
may receive and entertain aflidavits and depositions or hear oral
evidence.

SEC. 943. Upon such hearing the district court or judge thereof shall
determine the issues so raised according to the very right of the matter and make such order in the remises as he ma see ht, which order
shall be entered in a docket to gs kept by the c erk of the court for

 
  

that purpose, properly indexed, and a copy o te same sa e orwarded to the commissioner before whom the exceptions were filed,
who shall thereupon proceed in accordance with such _order. Such
orders shall be deeme a judgment, subject to appeal in the manner
provided for appeals from judgments in the district court.

CHAPTER NINETY-ONE.

or THE RECORDS AND mus or A .ms'rIoi«:’s COURT.


944. Records and files of a justice’s court, 946. Docket and files, public writings.
what constitutes.

945. Docket of justice, what entries to be
made therein.

SEC. 944. The records and files of a justice’s court are the docket and
all papers and process filed in or returned to such court concerning or
belonging to any proceeding authorized to be had or taken therein or

* before the justice of the peace who holds such court.

SEC. 945. The docket of a justice of the peace is a book in which he
must enterFirst. The title of every action or roceeding commenced in his court
or before him, with the names of t e parties thereto and the time of
the commencement thereof;

Second. The date of making or nling any pleading, and, when the
same is made orally, a plain statement of the substance thereof and the
verification thereto when one is required;

Third. An order allowing a provisional remedy, and the date of issuin and returning the summons or other process;

%‘ourth. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or
their failure to do so;

Fifth. Every postponement of a trial or proceeding, and upon
whose ap lioation, and to what time;

Sixth. he demand for a jury, if any, and by whom made; the order
for a jury, and the time a pointed for trial thereby; A

Seventh. The return 0 an order for a jury, the names of the persons impaneled and sworn as a jury, and the names of all witnesses sworn and at whose request;

Eighth. The verdict of the jury, and when given; and if the jury
disagree and are discharged without giving a verdict, a statement of
such disagreement and discharge;

Ninth. The judgment of the court, and when given;

Tenth. The fact of an appeal having been made and allowed, and the
date thereof, with a memorandum of the undertaking thereof, and the
justification of the sureties‘ therein;

Eleventh. Satisfaction of the judgment or any part thereof;

Twelfth. A memorandum of all orders relatin to the admission of
bail, taking bail, or commitment for want thereog;

Thirteenth. All other matters which may be material or specially
re uired by any statute.

SEC. 946. The docket and nles of a justice’s court are to be safely
and securely kept b the justice of the (peace, and by him delivered to
his successor in o ce when demande . Such docket and files are
public writings.


CHAPTER ‘ INETY-TWO.

or GENERAL rEovIsIoNs IN RELATION To own. ACTIONS IN .rUsrIoE’s
oouncr.

Soc. Sec.
947. Code of Civil Procedure to govern. 956. Disposition of defendant arrested in
948. Summons, by whom issued, and re- civil action.

quirements' of. - 957. Defendant entitled to give bail.
949. Same sub'ect. 958. Undertaking of bail.
950. Service 0 summons. 959. Undertaking for delivery of personal
951. When served and by whom. property.
952. Undertaking for costs, when may 960. Real property can not be attached

be required. by rocess froma justice’s court.
953. Sureties in such cases. 961. J us ' cation of sureties.

954. Provisional remedies.
955. Who may serve writ of arrest, ato ' tachment, and order for the delivery of personal property.

SEC. 947. A civil action in a justice’s court is commenced and prosecuted to final determination, and judgment enforced therein, in the
manner provided in this code for similar actions in courts of record,
exce t as otherwise provided: Provided, Necessary disbursements shall
in a cases be allowed the prevailing party.

SEC. 948. The summons shall be Issued and signed by the justice,
and must require the defendant to appear before such justice at atime
and place to be named therein not less ‘than six nor more than twenty
days from the date thereof, to answer the complaint of the plaintiff,
or °udgment for want thereof will be taken a ainst him,

SEC. 949. The summons shall be issued an signed by the justice, .
and ma be in the following form:

To e United States marshal of the district of Alaska or any
deputy: In the name of the United States of America We command

you to summon to appear before the undersigned, a justice of

the peace in precinct in said district, on the day of ,
19———, at the hour of o’clock, in the of said day,
at , in the said precinct, to answer the complaint of ,

founded upon an instrument of writing (or note or account, or for
trespass or inju to property, or any similar statement, as the case
may be), and w erein he demands dollars. Given under my

hand this day of , 19——.
A B,

Commissioner and ex oflicio Justice of the Peace.

SEC. 950. The service of the summons may be made as follows: First,
by delivering a copy thereof to the defendant; or, second, by leavinga copy of the summons at the usual place of abode of the defendant,
with some person of the family above the age of fifteen years; and if
a defendant shall refuse to hear the summons read, or to receive acopy
thereof, at the offer of the officer to read the same or to deliver a copy
thereof, such refusal shall be a sufficient service of the summons; or if
the defendant be a corporation, then to the president, secretary, or a
managing or local agent thereof.

SEC. 951. The summons must be served at least five days before the
time therein required for the defendant to appear.

SEC. 952. If the plaintiff is a nonresident of the precinct, the justice
may require him to give an undertaking, with one ‘or more sureties,
for the costs and disbursements of the action before issuing the summons, and if at an time before the commencement of the. trial the
defendant ap ly therefor, the justice must require such tglaintiifto give
such underta °ng; but if the plaintiff is a resident _of e precinct the
justice may, in his discretion, upon a like application on _the part of
the defendant require such plaintiff to give such undertaking. _

SEC. 953. The undertaking may be in substantially the ollowing
form: “I, A , ’or “We, A B and C D, undertake to pay E F, the
defendant in this action, all costs and disbursements that may be
adjudged to him in this action.” The sureties must possess the quahfications of bail upon arrest, and if required by the defendant must
justify in_a sum not less than ’dfty dollars. A deposit of fifty dollars
with the justice, or such less sum as he may deem sufficient, is equivalent to giving the required undertaking; and if the undertaking or
deposit in lieu thereof is not given or made upon the day the same is
demanded the justice must dismiss the action as for want of prosecution.

SEC. 954. In a civil action in a justice’s court a plaintiff is entitled
to the benefit of the provisional remedies of arrest, attachment, and

delivery of personal property claimed in the action, as in like "cases in ~

a court of record. All affidavits, orders, and undertakings for such
remedies are to be taken or made and filed with the justice, and such
process is to be issued by and made returnable before him.

SEC. 955. A writ of arrest, of attachment, and order for the delivery
of personal property claimed in the action may be served and executed
by any person authorized to serve a summons.

SEC. 956. A defendant who has been arrested in a civil action must,
if he require it, be at once taken before the justice who issued the
writ, for the purpose of giving bail. If he do not so require, the officer making the arrest shal keep him in his custody, and take him before
such justice on the day and at the hour the defendant is required to
apgear and answer.

SEC. 957. Upon the defendant being brought before the justice,
either on the day on which he is required to appear and answer or
before, he must be allowed to give bail if he desire to.

SEC. 958. The undertaking of bail may be given with one or more
sufficient sureties, and must be taken by the justice. The plaintiff
may then and there except to the sufliciency of the bail, and unless he
do so he shall be deemed to have accepted it.

SEC. 959. The undertaking for an order for the delivery of personal

' property claimed in the action shall be taken by the justice who makes

the order, and he shall require the sureties therein to justify as bail
upon arrest; and no exceptions to the sufficiency of such sureties
shall thereafter be allowed.

SEC. 960. Real property or any interest therein can not be attached
upon a writ of attachment in a civil action in a justice’s court.

SEC. 961. Whenever sureties in an undertaking given in a provisional remedy by either party are re uired to justify, the justification
shall be made before the justice in w ose court the action is pending,
and upon the notice prescribed in such cases by this code, or upon a
shorter notice, to be prescribed by order of the justice.

CHAPTER NINETY-THREE. - ’

or mm PLEADINGS IN .msr1oE’s oounr.

Bee. 
962. No formal pl ' gs necessary” . 964. Action on lost instrument.
963. Same subject. ‘ _

SEC. 962. No formal pleadings on the part of either plaintiff or
defendant shall be required in a 'ustice’s court; but before any process shall be issued in any action t e plaintiff shall ‘die with the justice
the instrument sued on, and a statement of the account as of the facts
constituting the cause of action upon which the action is founded; and
the defendant shall, before the tr1a1 is commenced, file the instrument,
account, or statement of his set-off or counterclaim relied upon.

SEC. 963. When the action is founded on any instrument of writing

urporting to have been executed by the defendant, and the debt or
age claimed may be ascertained by such instrument, the same
shall be filed with the justice, and no other statement or pleading shall
be required. If the action be u on an account, a bill of the items constitutlng the account shall be ed. In all other cases a statement of
the facts constituting the cause of action and the amount or sum demanded shall be filed with the justice; but no action shall be dismissed or
discontinued for want of any such statement as cause of action, or for
any defect or insufficiency thereof, if the laintiff shall file the instrument or account as a suiiicient statement efore the jury is sworn or
the trial commenced, or when required by the justice.

SEC. 964. If such instrument be alleged to be lost or destroyed, it
shall be sufiicient for the plaintiff to file with the justice the affidavit of
himself, or some other credible person, stating such loss or destruction,
and setting forth the substance of such instrument. CHAPTER NINETY-FOUR.

or THE POSTPONEMENT or TRIALS IN JUs'rIon’s COURT.

Boo.

Sec.

966. When postponement allowed. 969. Costs of the same.

966. When 1t discharges defendant from 970. Change; when deemed completed.

arrest. 971. Proceeding when title to land is in

967. When de 'tion to be taken. ~ issue.

968. Change 0 place of trial.

SEC. 965. When a cause is at issue upon a question of fact the_ justice must, upon sufficient cause shown, on the application of elther
party, postpone the trial for a period not exceeding sixty days.

SEC. 966. When the defendant is in custody a ostponement of the
trial granted upon the apglication of the plainti for a longer period

than one day discharges t e defendant from such arrest; and in such
case the justice must indorse upon the writ of arrest, “The defendant
is discharged from custody upon the within process,” and sign the
same with his name and office.

SEC. 967 . An application for the postponement of a trial must be
granted unless the party applying therefor, if required by the adverse
party, consent to take the deposition of any Witness of such adverse

party then in attendance upon the court. If the consent is given, the
justice must take such deposition, and the same may be read on the
trial, subject to the same objections as if the witness were present and
gave the testimony orally. ' _

SEC. 968. The justice may change the place of trial, on notice of
either party to the action, when it appears from the aflidavit of such

y e1 erpailirliirst. That the justice is a party to, or directly interested in, the
event of the action, or connected by consan °nity or atlini , within
the third degree, with the adverse party or ose for whom e prosecutes or defends;

Second. That the justice is so prejudiced against the party making
the motion that he can not expect an impartia trial before the °ustice;

Third. That the convenience of arties and witnesses would e promoted b such change, and that e motion is not made for the purpose of elay.

The motion for change of the place of trial can not be made or
allowed in an action until after the cause is at issue on a question of
fact only. the motion is allowed, the change shall be made to the
nearest justice. Neither party shall be entitled to more than one
chan e of the place of trial, exce t for causes not in existence when
the grst change was allowed. en the place of trial has been
changed, the 'ustice shall forthwith transmit to the nearest justice a
transcri t of t e proceedings had in such cause, with all the original
pa ers ed therein.

SEC. 969. The costs of such change of venue shall be paid by the

party a plying therefor, and not taxed as a part of the costs in the
case: romlded, It shall not be necessary to issue new subpoenas to
witnesses; but the witnesses shall agpear before the justice before

whom the cause has been transferre without the issue of any other
notice than the allowance of the motion to change the venue.

SEC. 970. Upon the filing of the transcri t and lpapers with the °ustice to whom t e cause has been transferre , the c ange of venue s all
be deemed complete, and thereafter the action shall proceed as though
it had been commenced before such justice.

SEC. 971. If it appear on the trial of any cause before a justice of the
peace, from the evidence of either party, that the title to lands is in

uestion, which title shall be disputed by the other arty, the justice
s all immediately make an entry thereof in his docket and cease all
further proceedings in the cause, and shall certify and return to the
district court a transcript of all the entries made in his docket relating
to the case, to ether with all the process and other papers relating to
the action, in tie same manner and within the same time as upon an
appeal; and thereupon the district court shall proceed in the cause to
final judgment and execution in the same manner as if the action had

been originally commenced therein; and the costs shall abide with the
event of the action.

CHAPTER Nmnrr-mm.

or TRIAL BY JURY m .rUsr1o:s’s oounr.

Soc. Sec.

972. Demand for jury, how and when 976. Oiiicer to summon persons qualified
I_nade- _ to serve.

973. Trial by court, how Judgment may 977. Order forj , how served.
be given. _ 978. Deficiency h w supplied.

974. Order to summon jury. 979. Number of peremptory challenges.

975. When to require Jurors to appear. 980. Qualéitcatiom of jurors in justice’s

co

SEC. 972. When a cause is at issue upon a question of fact, if either
party then demand a jury trial, and deposit with the justice the trial

* ee, such issue must be tried by a jury and not the court; but

otherwise it must be tried by the court.

SEC. 973. When an issue of fact is tried by the justice it is not necessa that there should be any special statement of the facts found or
law etermined on such trial, but it is sufficient for the court to give
judgment generally, as the law and the evidence may require, for the
plaintiff or the defendant, setting forth therein for what amount, or
what relief, or to what effect the same is given.

SEC. 974. When a jury has been demanded b a party to an action
in a justice’s court, the justice must make an or er in writing, directed
to the marshal or any deputy, or to any person authorized to act as a
constable therein, commandin him to summon six persons to serve as
jurors in the action between t e parties, naming them, at a time and
place to be named therein.

SEC. 975. The order shall require the jurors to appear before the
justice forthwith, or at some time after it to which the trial of the
issue may be ostponed.

SEC. 976. he officer serving the order for a jury must do so impartially, by selectin only such persons as he knows or has good reason
to believe are qua iiied according to law to serve as jurors in the court
to which they are summoned and in the particular action for which
the are selected.

SEC. 977 . The oflicer must serve the order by giving notice to each
of the persons selected of the time and place he is required to appear,
and for what purpose, and return the same according to the direction
therein, with the names of the persons summoned, verified by his own
certificate.

SEC. 978. If a sufficient number of jurors do not appear at the time
and place required, or if any of those appearing are peremptorily
challenged, or upon a challenge for cause found disqualified, the justice
must order the proper officer to summon a sufficient number of other
qualified persons, until the jury is completed.

SEC. 979. Each party is entitled to two peremptory challenges and
no more. 

SEC. 980. A person competent to act as a juror in a justice’s court
must possess the qualifications prescribed by this code for jurors in
the district court, and must also be an inhabitant of the precinct in
which the court is holden at the time he is summoned.

CHAPTER Nnwrr-srx.

or JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION IN .rusr1on’s oounr.
 
981. Docketlng judgment in district 989. Executionto enforce judgment when
court. against real property.
982. Effect of same. 990. Execution, when returnable, and by
983. Setting of mutual judgment. _whom served.

984. Conditions of judgment proposed as 991. Filing transcript in another pre-T

set-off. cinct._
985. When transcript stays execution. 992. Transcnpt of judgment, how en~
986. If judgments mutual, justice must forced.
set-off. 993. Execution, renewal of.

987. Judgment for difference. 994. Justice may enforce judgment given
988. Judgment does not affect title to by his predecessor.

real property.

SEC. 981. Whenever a judgment is given in a justice’s court in favor
of anyone, for the sum of ten dollars or more, exclusive of costs or
disbursements, the party in whose favor such judgment is given may,

'within one year thereafter, file a certified transcript thereof with the

clerk of the district court, and thereupon such clerk shall immediately
docket the same in the judgment docket of the district court.

SEC. 982. From the time of docketing a j ud ment of a district court,
as provided in the last section, the same shal be a lien upon the real
propert of the defendant, as if it were a judgment of the district
court W erein it is docketed.

SEC. 983. A party against whom a judgment is given in a justice’s
court ma , upon three days’ notice to the adverse party, apply to the
justice 0 such court to have another judgment 'ven in a justice’s
court, between the same parties and against such verse party, set off
against such first-mentioned judgment.

SEC. 984. There must be no existing ri ht of appeal from the judgment proposed as a set-off; and if such ju gment was given in another
court than the one where the application is made, the party pro sing
such set-off must produce a transcript of such judgment, certifjgd by
the proper justice, which certificate shall also state how much of the
judgment remains unsatisfied, and that the transcri t is given for the
purpose of being set off against the judgment to W ‘ch it is proposed
as a set-off.

SEC. 985. The justice making such transcript and certificate shall
make an entry thereof in his docket and thereafter all proceedings to
enforce such judgment shall be staye , unless the transcript be returned,
with the certificate of the proper justice indorsed thereon, to the effect
that it has not been allowed to be set off.

SEC. 986. If, upon the hearing,of the application, the justice finds
that the judgments are mutual, he shall give judgment allowing the
proposed set-off.

SEC. 987. If there is any difference in the amount of the two judgments, judgment for the difference must be given in favor of the party
owning the largest judgment. If the justice refuse to allow the
set-off, he shall so certify on the transcript and return it to the party
making the ap lication.

SEC. 988. Although the title to real property may be controverted
or questioned in an action in a justice’s court, the judgment in such

action in no way affects or determines such title as between the
parties thereto or otherwise.

SEC. 989. Execution to enforce a judgment in a justice’s court must
not be issued against or levied'upon the real property of the defendant° but when a judgment iven by a justice has been duly docketed
in» e district court therea r it must be enforced as a judgment of
such district court. 1

SEC. 990. An execution issued by a justice must be made returnable
in thirty days from the date thereof, and may be directed to the marshal or any deputy or other officer authorized to act as constable in
such precinct, and must be executed by any of such oflicers when delivered to him.

SEC. 991. When an execution is returned unsatisiied in whole or in
part for want of (goods and chattels of the defendant whereon to levy,
the party entitle to the benefit of the judgment may have a certiiied
transcript thereof and file the same with any justice in any other
precinct.

SEC. 992. Upon the filing of a transcript the justice must make an
entry thereof in his docket, and thereafter execution may issue to
enforce such judgment, or any part thereof remaining unsatisfied, as
if it had been given by such justice with whom the transcript is filed.

SEC. 993. At any time before the expiration of the return day of
the execution it may be renewed for another period of thirty days, at
the request of the plaintiff, b an indorsement to that effect, made by
the justice thereon. Such in orsement must be dated, and if any part
of such execution has beensatisfied, must state the amount then due
thereon. An entry of such renewal must also be made in the docket
of the justice. ,

SEC. 994. A justice of the peace has authority and power to enforce
a judgment given by his predecessor in oflice, or by a justice whose
docket has been transferred to him, and to complete any unfinished
business be un before such predecessor, or entered in such docket, as
if the sameiad been given or begun before himself.

CHAPTER NINETY-SEVEN.

- OF APPEALS FROM JUSTICE’S COURT IN dI'V]L ACTIONS.

 .

995. Appeal, who may take, and from 1001. Qualification and justification of
what judgment. sureties.

996. To what court and within what 1002. Transcript, when filed and what
time. constitutes.

997. How taken. ' 1003. Appeal, how perfected and tried.

998. Undertaking, when to stay pro- 1004. Dismissal of appeal.
ceedings. 1005. Judgment in the appellate court.

999. When proceedings stayed by under- 1006. Defective undertaking, how cured.
taking for costs. 1007. Amendment of pleadings in the

1000. Allowance of appeal and return of appellate court.

execution.

SEC. 995. Either party may appeal from a judgment given in a
°ustice’s court, in a civil action, when the sum in controversy is not
ess than fifty dollars, or for the recovery of personal property of the
value of not less than fifty dollars, exclusive of costs in either case,
exwpt when the sum is given by confession or for Want of an answer,
as prescribed in this chapter, and not otherwise.

SEC. 996. The ap eal is taken to the district court, and may be
taken within thirty ays from the date of the entry of the judgment.
The party appealing is known as the appellant an the adverse party
the respondent, but the title of the action Is not th_erelt>ly changed.

SEC. 997. An aglgeal is taken by serving a notice ereof on the
adverse party or attorney and filing the ori inal, with the proof
of service indorsed thereon, with the 'usti_ce, and y givmg the undertaking for the costs of the appeal as eremafter provlded. _

SEC. 998. The undertaking of the appellant must be given w1th
one or more sureties to the effect that the appellant will pa  costs
and disbursements that may be awarded agamst him on t e appeal;
but such undertaking does not stay the roceedings unless the undertaking further provides to the effect fo owing, that the a pellant will
satisfy an judgment that may be given agamst him in t e appellate
court on t e a peal.

SEC. 999. ltpthe jud ent appealed from be in favor of the :ppellant, the proceedings t ereon are stayed by the notice of apps an
the undertakin for the costs of the appeal.

SEC. 1000. Vghen an appeal is taken 1; e justice must allow the same

and make an entry thereo in his docket, stating whether the proceedings are thereby stayed or not. When the proceedings are stayed, if
an execution has been issued to enforce the judgment, the justice must
recall the same by written notice to the officer holdin the execution
and thereu on it must be returned and all property ta en thereon and
npt sold re eased; and if the body of the defendant has been taken on
execution he must be discharged from custody.

SEC. 1001. All sureties in an undertaking under the provisions of

this cha ter must have the qualifications of bail upon arrest, and, if
require by the adverse party, must justify before the justice in like
manner.

SEC. 1002. Within twenty days after the allowance of the appeal
the appellant must file with the clerk of the district court a transcript
of the cause. The transcript must contain a copy of all the material
entries in the justice’s docket relating to the cause or the appeal, and
must have annexed thereto all the original papers relating to the cause
or the appeal and filed with the justice.

SEC. 1003. Upon the filing of the transcript with the clerk of the
district court the appeal is perfected, and the action shall be deemed
pending and for trial therein as if originally commenced in such court,
and the district court shall proceed to hear, try, and determine the
same anew, without regarding any error or other imperfection in the
original summons and the service thereof or on the trial, 'udgment, or
other proceeding of the justice or marshal in relation to t e cause.

SEC. 1004. The district court, on motion of the respondent, may, at
any time before the action is called for trial, dismiss the appeal, if it
satisfactorily appear that the transcript and original apers annexed
are incomplete 1n any material particular, unless upon t e cross motion
of the appellant it makes a rule upon the justice to supply such omission, upon such terms against the a pellant as may be just. At any
time before the trial the court may ' miss the appeal upon the motion
of the appellant.

SEC. 1005. When an appeal is dismissed the district court must give
judgment as it was 'ven in the court below, and against the appellant,
for the costs and glsbursements of the appeal. When judgment is

given in the appellate court against the appellant, either with or without trial of the action, it must also be given against the sureties in his
undertaking according to the nature and eifect of it. If the appellant
fail to file such transcri t within the time required, the adverse party

may hle a transcript o the Ludlgment of the justice, and the notice
an undertaking on appeal, W ic , on demand, the justice shall deliver
to him for that purpose, and thereupon have such appeal dismissed and
jsiégtglgilent against the appellant and his sureties as provided in this

SEC. 1006. An appeal ‘can not be dismissed on the motion of the
respondent, on account of the undertaking therefor being defective,
if e appellant, before the determination of the motion to dismiss,
will execute a sufficient undertakin , and file the same in the appellate
court, upon such terms as may be eemed just.

SEC. 1007. In all cases of appeal the bill of items of the account sued
on, or filed as a counterclaim or set-off, or the abatement of the plaintiif’s cause of action, or of the defendant’s counterclaim or set-oii‘, or
other ground of defense filed before the justice, may be amended upon
appeal in the appellate court to supply any defect, deiiciency, or
omission therein, by filing formal pleadings therein when by such
amendment substantial justice will be promoted; and in all cases when
required by the court, or by either party to the action, formal pleadings shall be filed on either side upon the trial of the cause on appeal;
when either party requires such formal pleadings, he shall cause to be
served on the opposite party a notice thereof in writing, and file the
same in the court where the cause is pendin by the first day of the
term of such court at which such cause is to e tried; but no new item
or cause of action not embraced or intended to be included in the

original account or statement shall be added by such amendment.
CHAPTER NINETY-EIGHT. i

or  0U8 PROVISIONS RELATING TO .rus'rioi«:’s oounr.

 
1008. Judgment of justices may be re- 1011. Special deputies.
viewed. 1012. Party entitled to one hour.

1009. A peals, where jury is demanded. 1013. Proceedings for contempt.
1010. he may act as attorney. 1014. Punishment for contempt.

SEC. 1008. No provision of this code in relation to appeals or the
riglht of appeal must be construed so as to prevent either party to a
ju gment given in a justice’s court from having the same reviewed in
the district court for errors in law appearing upon the face of such
judgment or the proceedings connected therewith, as provided in
cha ter fifty-five.

SEC. 1009. No appeal can be taken, by the party who demanded a
jur , from a judgment in a justice’s court given upon the verdict of
suc jury, un ess the jud ment be for an amount of money not less
than iifty dollars or for e recovery of personal property of the value
of not less than fifty dollars, exclusive of costs and disbursements in
either case. _

SEC. 1010. Any person may act as attorney for another in a j ust1ce’s
court, except a person or oflicer serving any process in the action or

proceeding other than a subpoena.

SEC. 1011. Whenever it appears to the 'ustice that any races or
order authorized to be issued or made by is code will not served
for want of an oflicer, such justice may appoint any suitable person,
not being a party to the action, to serve the same; such an appointment may be made by an indorsement on the rocess or order, in substantially the following form, and signed by e justice with his name
of office: “ I hereby appoint A B to serve the within process, or order,”
as the case may be.

SEC. 1012. A party is entitled to one hour in which to make his
ap rance after the time specified in the summons, and not otherwise;
an if the justice be then actually engaged in other oflicial business he
may on his own motion, postpone further proceedings in the case

un such oflicial business has been completed or he can be disengaged
therefrom.

SEC. 1013. Chapter fifty-eight of this title, defining contempts, and
the proceeding for punishlng a party guilty of contempt, shall apply to
justlces’ courts, except as in this chapter otherwise specially provi ed.

SEC. 1014. The punishment for a contempt in a justice’s court shall
be by fine or imprisonment, or both; but the fine shall in no case
exceed twenty-five dollars, nor the imprisonment ten days.

CHAPTER N INETY-NINE.

OF FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINEB.

 
1015. When entry upon real property 1026. Notice to <¥uit must be in writing;

allowed; not to be made wi service o
force. 1027. N otice' to quit, how long served
1016. Action to recover possession of before action brought.
Eremises forcibly entered or held 1028. Action can not be maintained bey force. fore expiration of period for
1017. Necessary averments and com- which rent paid.

plaint. 1029. Crops sown, etc., before lease ex1018. Action for, how conducted. 1res, tenant may cultivate and

1019. Summons in, how served and re- est.

turned. . 1030. Merits of title not to be uestioned
1020. Continuance, for what time granted. in action; limitation 0 action.
1021. Action for, trial b commissioner. 1031. Notice to quit in action under Code
1022. Verdict of jury an judgment on. of Civil Procedure.
1023.- Form of execution. 1032. Precinct dehned.
1024. A eal by defendant.

1025. n wful holding by force, what
deemed to be.

SEC. 1015. No person shall enter upon any land, tenement, or other
real property, but in cases where entry is given by law; and in such
cases the entry shall not be made with force, but only in a peaceable
manner.

SEC. 1016. When a forcible entry shall be made upon any remises,
or when an entry shall be made in a peaceable manner and t e possession shall be held by force, the person entitled to the premises may
maintain an action to recover the possession thereof before the commissioner of the precinct in which such real property is situated.

SEC. 1017 . In such action it shall be sufliclent to state in the complaint a description of the premises with convenient certainty, that
the defendant is in possession thereof, that he entered upon the same

with force, or unlawfully holds the same with force, as the case may
besand that the laintifl’ is entitled to the possession thereof.

SEC. 1018. Suc action, except as hereina teres ecially provided, shall
be conducted in all respects as other actions be ore commissioners.

SEC. 1019. The summons shall be served and returned as in other
cases; such service shall be not less than two nor more than four days
before the day of trial appointed by the commissioner.

SEC. 1020. No continuance shall be granted for a longer period than
two days, unless the defendant applyin therefor shall give an undertaking to the adverse party, with good andsuflicient security, to be
approved by the commissioner, conditioned for the payment of the
rent that may accrue if judgment be rendered against the defendant.

SEC. 1021. If the action be tried by the commissioner without a
jury, and after hearing the evidence he shall conclude that the complalnt is not true, he shall enter judgment against the plaintiff for
costs; if he find the complaint true, or if judgment be rendered by
default, he shall render a general judgment agamst the defendant’ and
in favor of the laintiif for restitution of the premises and costs of
action; if he find) the complaint true in part, he shall render judgment
for the restitution of suc part only, and the costs shall be taxed as
the commissioner shall deem just and equitable. ,

SEC. 1022. If the action be tried by a jury, and they shall find the
complaint true, they shall render a general verdict of guilty a ainst
the efendant;'if not true, then a general verdict of not guilty;  true
in part, then a verdict setting forth the facts they find; and the commissioner shall render judgment according to the verdict.

SEC. 1023. The execution, should judgment of restitution be rendered, may be in the following form:

DISTRICT or ALASKA. ’

To the marshal of said district:

Whereas a certain action for the forcible entry and detention (or
the forcible detention, as the case may be) of the following described
premises, to wit: ~ , lately tried before me, wherein was
plaintiff and was defendant, judgment was rendered on the

day of , anno Domini , that the plaintiif, ,
have restitution of said premises; and also that he recover costs in the
sum of , . In the name of the United States you are therefore
hereby commanded to cause the defendant to be forthwith removed
from said premises, said laintiif to have restitution of the same; also,
that you levy of the 00 s and chattels of said defendant, and make
the costs aforesaid an all accruing costs; and of this writ make legal
service and due return.

Witness my hand this day of , anno Domini .

3
Commissioner.

SEC. 1024. If judgment be rendered against the defendant for the
restitution of the real pro erty described in the complaint, or an
part thereof, no appeal shal be taken by the defendant from suc

all, in addition to the undertaking now required

udgnent until he s _ .
y w upon appeal, give an undertak1ng to the adverse party, with

two sureties, who shall justify in like manner as bail upon arrest, for
the payment to the plaintiff of twice the rental value of the real property of which restitution shall be adjudged from the rendition of such
judgment until final judgment in the action, if such judgment shall be
affirmed upon a peal.

SEC. 1025. T e following shall be deemed cases of unlawful holding
by force within the meaning of this chapter:

First. When the tenant or person in possession of any premises
shall fail or refuse to pay any rent due on the lease or agreement
under which he holds, or deliver up the ossession of the premises for
ten days after demand made in writing or such possession;

Second. When, after a notice to quit as provided in this chapter,
any person shall continue in the possession of any premises at the
expiration of the time limited in the lease or agreement under which
such person holds, or contrary to any condition or covenant thereof,
or without any written lease or agreement therefor.

SEC. 1026. A notice to quit must be in writing and ‘must be served
upon the tenant or person in ossession by being delivered to him or
left at the remises in case of is absence therefrom.

SEC. 1027. An action for the recovery of the possession of the premises may be maintained in the cases specified in subdivision second of section one thousand and twenty—five when the notice to quit has been
served upon the tenant or person in possession for the period of ten
days before the commencement thereof, unless the leasing or occupation is for the purpose of farming or agriculture, in which case such
notice must be served for the period of ninety days before commencement of_ such action. 
SEC. 1028. The service of a notice to quit upon a tenant or person
in possession does not authorize an action to be maintained against
him for the possession of the premises before the ex iration of any

_ period for which such tenant or person may have paid t e rent of such

premises in advance. _ _ .

SEC. 1029. When the leaslng or occupation is for the pu ose of
farming or agriculture, the tenant or person in possession shal , after
the termination of such lease or occupancy, have free access to the
premises to cultivate and harvest or gather any crop or produce of
the soil planted or sown by him before the service of notice to uit.

SEC. 1030. In an action to recover the possession of any lan , tenement, or other real roperty, where the entry is forcible or when
the possession thereofp is unlawfully held by force, the merits of the title shall not be inquired into, and three years’ quiet possession of the
premises immediately preceding the commencement of such action by
the arty in possession, or those under whom he holds, may be
plea dedi in bar thereof, unless the estate of such party in the premises
18 en e . °

SEC. 1031. In any action _to recover the possession of real property,
as provided in chapter thirty-two of the Code of Civil Procedure,
notice to quit, when necessary, may be given as prescribed in this chapter, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to prevent such action being maintained for the recovery of the ossession
of real property, although the entry of the defendant be fhrcible or
his holding unlawful and with force.

SEC. 1032. That wherever the word “precinct” occurs in this Act
It shall be construed to mean the neighborhood in which the commissioner resi es, as designated in -the order of his appointment, unless

where the court by special order, duly made and entered, definitely
prescribes the limits of the precinct.

CHAPTER om HUNDRED.

OF WITNESSES, INSPECTION AND PROOF OF RECORDS AND OF PRIVATE
SEALS.

8ec.. Sec.

1033. Competent witnesses. 1038. Competency of physician.
1034. Incompetent witnesses. 1039. Inspection of public records.
1035. Competency of husband and wife. 1040. Proof of public records.
1036. Competency of attorney. 1041. Private seals abolished.
1037. Competency of clergyman. 1042. Title by adverse possession.

SEC. 1033. Neither parties nor other persons who have an interest
in the event of an action or proceeding are excluded as Witnesses; nor
those who have been convicted of crime; nor persons on account of
their opinions on matters of religious belief; although in every case,
except the latter, the credibility of the witness may be drawn in question, accordin to the rules of the common law.

SEC. 1034. %‘he following persons shall not be witnesses: 1. Those
of unsound mind at the time of the transaction and of their roduction
for examination. 2. Children under ten years of age, W 0 appear
incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting Which
the are examined, or of relating them truly.

SEC. 1035. A husband shall not be examined for or against his Wife,
Without her consent, nor a Wife for or against her husband, Without
his consent; nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards be,
without the consent of the other, examined as to any communications
made by one to the other during marriage, but the exception does not
apply to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to
a criminal action or proceeding for a crime committed by one against
the other. .

SEC. 1036. An attorney shall not, Without the consent of his client,
be examined as to any communication made by his client to him, or
his advice given thereon, in the course of his professional employment.

SEC. 1037 . A priest or clergyman shall not, Without the consent of
the person making the confession, be examined as to any confession
made to him in his professional capacity, in the course of discipline
enjoined by the church to which he belon s.

SEC. 1038. A physician or surgeon shal not,_ against the objection
of his patient, be examined in a civil action or roceeding as to any
information acquired in attending the patient W ich was necessary to
enable him to rescribe or act for the patient.

SEC. 1039. very person has a right to inglpect any public Writing
or record in said district, and every public 0 cer having the custody
thereof is bound to ermit such ins ection, and to give on demand and
on payment of the egal fees there or, a certified copy of such writing or record, and such copy shall in all cases be evidence of the

OI‘1 nal. .

SEC. 1040. A 'udicial, legislative, or executive record of said district, or of any tate or Territory of the United States, or of any
foreign country, or of any political subdivision of either, may be

roved by the roduction of the original, or b _a copy thereof, certied by the cler or other person havin the egal custody thereof
with the seal of the court or the oflicia seal of such person aflixed
thereto, if it or he have a seal or otherwise authenticated as required
by sections nine hundred and dve, nine hundred and six and nine hundied and seven of the Revised Statutes of the United étates.

SEC. 1041. Private seals and scrolls as a substitute therefor are
abolished and are not required to an instrument, but the effect thereof,
when used, shall remain unchange . _

SEC. 1042. The ‘uninterrupted adverse notorious possession of real
property under color and claim of title for seven years or more shall

e conc usively presumed to give title thereto except as against the

United States.

CHAPTER ONE HUNDRED AND ONE.

or INDIsrENsABLE' EvIDENoE.

1043. Sale or transfer of personal prop- 1046. Sale or transfer of real roperty.
erty. 1047. When last section to ect certain
1044. Agreement not in Writing, when cases.
void. 1048. Sale or transfer of boat or veael.
1045. As to representatives concerning
third persons. .

SEC. 1043. Every sale or assi nment of rsonal property, unless
accompanied by the immediate elivery an the actual and continued
change of possession of the thing sold or assigned, shall be presumed
prima facie to be a fraud a ainst the creditors of the vendor or
assignor, and subsequent purc asers in good faith and for a valuable
consideration, during the time such property remains in the possession of said vendor or assignor.

SEC. 1044. In the following cases an agreement is void unless the
same or some note or memorandum thereof expressing the consideration be in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged, or by
his lawfully authorized agent:

(1) An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within a
year from the making thereof; . _

(2)h An agreement to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of
anot er;

(3). An agreement by an executor or administrator to pay the debts
of his testator or intestate out of his own estate; _

(4) An agreement made upon consideration of marriage, other than
a mutual promise to mari'y; _

(5) An agreement for the sale of personal property at a price not
less than fifty dollars, unless the buyer accept and receive some part of
such personal pro erty, or pay at the time some part of the purchase
price; but when t e sale is made by auction, an entry by the auctioneer in his sale book, at the time of the sale, of the property sold, the
terms of the sale, the price, and the names of the purchaser and person
for whose account the sale is made, is a sufficient memorandum.

(6) An agreement for leasing for a longer period than one year, or
for the sale of real property, or of any interest therein, or to charge
or encumber the same.

(7) An agreement concerning real property made by an agent of the

party sought to be charged, unless the authority of the agent be in
Writing.

SEC. 1045. No evidence is admissible to charge a person upon a
re resentation as to the credit, skill, or character of a third person
un ess such representation or some memorandum thereof be in writirtilg, ang either subscribed by or in the handwriting of the party to be
c arge .

SEC. 1046. N o estate or interest in real property, other than a lease
for a term not exceeding one year, nor an trust or power concerning
such property, can be created, transferre , or declared otherwise than
by operation of law, or by a conveyance or other instrument in writing
subscribed by the party creating, transferring, or declaring the same,
or by his lawful agent under written authority, and executed with
such formalities as are required by law.

SEC. 1047. The last section shall not be construed to affect ‘the power
of a testator in the disposition of his real property by a last will
and testament, nor to prevent a trust arising or being extinguished
by implication or operation of law, nor to affect the power of a court
to compel specific performance of an agreement in relation to such
property.

SEC. 1048. A sale or transfer of a boat or vessel 1s not val1d_ unless
it be in writing and signed by the party making the transfer.

