Chapteb 1. —Of the parties.
2. —Of the mode of commencing suit.
3. —Of the issue, execution and return of the summons.
4. —For the recovery of personal property in specie.
5. — Of actions for realty and use and occupation.
6. —Of defamation.
7. —Of pleadings.
8. —Of the trial and its incidents.
9. - -Of evidence.
10. — Bills of exception.
11. — Of the removal of the trial.
12. —Proceedings when suit is brought or judgment rendered for a less
amount than that of which the court has jurisdiction ; and calcula
tion of interest by the clerks.
13. —Appeals from justices of the peace, and removal of causes by certiorari.
14. —Costs.
15. — Amendments.
16. — For the correction of errors after judgment, prevention of abuse of
process, and for rehearing in certain cases.
17. —Of the revival of judgments.
18. —Of execution and forthcoming bonds.
19. —Garnishment on judgments.
20. —Of limitation of actions.
CHAPTER 1.
OF THE PARTIES.
§ 2890 (2523). Suits on contracts to pay money brought in name of
lieneficial oioner, subject to defenses against payee, <f~c.; exception.—
« Actions upon promissory notes, bonds or other contracts, express
or implied, for the payment of money, must be prosecuted in the
name of the party really interested, whether he has the legal title
or not, subject to any defense the payor, obligor or debtor may
have had against the payee, obligee or creditor previous to notice
of assignment or transfer, except in actions upon bills of exchange,
promissory notes payable in bank, or at a designated place of pay
ment, and commercial instruments, in which cases the suits must
be instituted in the name of the persons having the legal title.* (1)
§ 2891 (2524). Beneficiary sole parly on record. —In all cases
where suits are brought in the name of the person having the
legal right, for the use of another, the beneficiary must be consid
ered as the sole party on the record.
§ 2892 (2525). Husband and icife ; token joined as plaintiffs or
defendants. —Husband and wife must be joined, either as plaintiffs
or defendants, when the wife has an interest in the subject matter
of the suit, unless the suit relate to her separate estate, when she
must sue, or be sued alone. (2)
§ 2893 (2526). Infants sue by next friend, and defend by guardian.
Infants must sue by their next friend, and be defended by a guard
ian, to be appointed by the court. Guardians may sue in their
own names for the use of their wards, in all cases where the
wards have an interest, and the judgments enure to their ben-
efit. t (3)
§ 2894 (2527). Persons rum compotes mentis, imthout resident guard
ians, sue by next friend. —Idiots, lunatics, or persons of unsound
mind, having no guardian resident in this state, may sue by thennext
friend ; and if, upon the termination of such suit, any estate
delivered or paid to
such guardian as has been appointed, or may afterwards be
appointed.
§ 2895 (2528). Guardian may be substituted or suit proceed in name
of person non compos mentis, when restored.—If, pending the suit or
proceeding, a guardian is appointed, his name may be substituted
for that of the next friend; and if the mind of such person of
unsound mind be restored, the suit or proceeding may be con
tinued in his own name.
§ 2896 (2529). Unmarried woman may me for her seduction. —An
unmarried female may prosecute as plaintiff an action for her own
seduction, and may recover such damages as may be assessed in
her favor.
§ 2897 (2530). Suits for seduction of a child brought by either
parent.—A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family,
the mother, may prosecute as plaintiff for the seduction of the
daughter, though the daughter be not living with nor in the ser
vice of the plaintiff at the time of the seduction nor afterwards,
and there be no loss of service ; but the institution of suit by the
daughter is a bar to an action by the father or mother.
§ 2898 (2531). Parent may sue for injury to a child, and guardian
injury to a ward. —A father, or in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for an injury to
a minor child living in the family, and a guardian for an injury to
his ward.
§ 2899. Father, and if dead, the mother, may sue for causing death
minor child. —b When the death of any minor child is caused by
the wrongful act, or omission, of any officer or agent of an incor
porated company, or private association of persons, the father of
such child, or if the father be not living, the mother, may main
tain an action against such corporation or private association of
persons, for such wrongful act or omission, and may recover such
damages as the jury may assess.*
§ 2900 (4423). Action for damages caused by act amounting to
—The rule that a civil action will not lie for an injury
amounting to a felony until after a prosecution for the offense, is
abolished. For any injury, either to the person or property,
amounting either in fact or prima facie to a felony, an action may
be maintained by the party injured before any prosecution of the
offender, in the same manner as if the offense were a misdemeanor
or a trespass only.
§ 2901 (2532). On desertion of husband, wife may sue in any
action in his name. —When a husband and father has deserted his
family, the wife and mother may prosecute or defend in his name,
any action which he might have prosecuted or defended, and has
the same powers and rights he might have had. (1)
§ 2902 (2533). State sues in its own name, and no affidavit nor
security required of it. —The state of Alabama may sue in its own
name, and is entitled to all the remedies provided for the enforce
ment of rights between individuals, without giving bond or
security, or causing affidavit to be made, though the same may
be required if the action were between private citizens ; and the
direction, in writing, of the executive of the state to the attorney
bringing the suit, is a sufficient authority for bringing the suit.f
§ 2903 (2537). Suits not to Ik. brought against a county until claim
has lieen presented to the court of county commissioners.—No suit can
be brought against a county until the claim or demand has been
presented within the time limited by section 832 (909), to the
court of county commissioners, and either disallowed or reduced
by such court, and refused by the party. (2)
§ 2904 (2538). Suits against partners by service on one., and the
judgment binds all ; or only one may tie. sued. —Two or more persons
associated together as partners in any business or pursuit, who
transact business under a common name, whether it comprise the
names of such persons or not, may be sued by their common
name, and the summons in such case being served on one or more
of the associates, the judgment in the action binds the joint
property of all the associates, in the same manner as if all had
been named defendants, had been sued upon their joint liability,
and served with process ; any one of the associates or his legal
representative may also be sued for the obligation of all. (1)
§ 2905 (2539.1. Alt joint promises or covenants in writing construed
as joint and several. —When two or more persons are jointly bound
by judgment, bond, covenant, or promise in writing of any descrip
tion whatsoever, the obligation or promise is in law several as well
as joint, and suit may be instituted thereon against the legal
representatives of such as are dead.
§ 2906 (2540). Defendant may deposit money in court, and on affi
davit that another claims it, lie discharged. —A defendant against
whom an action is pending upon any contract for the payment of
money, may, at any time before issue joined, make affidavit in
writing that a person not a party to the action, and without collu
sion with him, claims the money in controversy, and deposit the
money in court, praying an order that the person so claiming the
money be substituted in his place. The court must thereupon
direct notice to be given to the claimant of the money, and the
plaintiff, and may in its discretion, after such notice has been
served, make the order prayed for ; and thereupon the substituted
defendant stands in the place of the original defendant, and the
latter is discharged from liability. (2)
§ 2907 (2541). Manner of giving notice when claimant is a non
resident. —If the person claiming the money is a non-resident, the
court must direct the manner of giving notice.
§ 2908 (2542). Action* which in their nature survive, do not abate
by death, dec., of either party, tint may revive in eighteen months. —No
action abates by the death or other disability of the plaintiff or
defendant, if the cause of action survive or continue ; but the
same must, on motion, within eighteen months thereafter, be
revived in the name of or against the legal representative of the
deceased, his successor or party in interest ; or the death of such
party may be suggested upon the record, and the action proceed
in the name of or against the survivor. (3)
§ 2909 (2543). Death of nominal plaintiff' not to alter the action.
When suit is brought for the use of another, the death of the
nominal plaintiff does not abate the suit, but it proceeds in the
name of the beneficiary ; when the beneficiary dies it must be
revived in the name of his personal representative, whether the
nominal plaintiff be living or not.
§ 2910 (2544). On citation to representative after Heath of defendant,
judgment may l>e rendered. —When suggestion is made of the death
of a party to the suit, and motion to revive, the legal representa
tive of such deceased must be cited to appear at the next term
and defend, and on failure to do so, after service of citation on
him, judgment may be rendered against such legal representative,
after eighteen months from the grant of letters, in the same man
ner as if he had appeared. (1)
§ 2911 (2545). In suite against, defendants, jointly bound, discon
tinuance may be entered as to those not served, or alias issued. —When
any suit is instituted against two or more persons, upon any joint,
or joint and seA'eral contract, or upon any joint, or joint and
several cause of action, the plaintiff may, at his election, sue out
an alias summons, or discontinue as to those on whom the sum
mons is not served, and proceed to judgment against those on
whom it has been executed. (2)
§ 2912 (2546). Suits against joint obligors do not abate on death of
one or more. —Suits against joint obligors shall not abate or be
discontinued or dismissed as to any one or more of such obligors,
who die pending the same, but may be revived against the repre
sentatives of such deceased obligor or obligors ; and the suits may
proceed against the survivors and such representatives, but no
judgment must be rendered against such representatives until
after the lapse of eighteen months from the grant of letters. (2)
§ 2913 (2547). Juclament rendered against survivor and postponed
as to representative. —In suits against joint obligors, where one dies
pending the suit, judgment may be rendered against the survivor
at the trial term, and the suit be continued as to the representa
tive of the deceased obligor, and the judgments when rendered,
shall be several as to the survivors and the representatives of the
deceased, and the satisfaction of one judgment shall be the satis
faction of all the judgments as to principal, interest and damages,
except where the same, being against the principal obligor, is or
may be assigned by the plaintiff for the benefit of a surety under
the laws of this state, authorizing such assignments of judgments
in other cases. (3)
§ 2914 (2548). Suits by or against unmarried woman do not abate
by Iter marriige, (ftc —Suits brought by or against an unmarried
woman, do not abate by her marriage, but the marriage being sug
gested upon the record, the suit proceeds in her name acquired by
the marriage, and judgment is rendered accordingly. If judgment
be rendered against her, it may be satisfied out of her separate
estate.
§ 2915. (2549). Suits on tail notes, bills of exchange, drc. : not to
authorize suits on lost fiank notes. —Suit may be brought on a bond,
note, bill of exchange, or other mercantile instrument, which has
been lost, or destroyed by accident ; and if affidavit is made by the
plaintiff of such loss and destruction, and the contents thereof,
and that the same has not been paid, or otherwise discharged, and
accompanies the complaint, it must be received as presumptive
evidence both of the contents, and loss or destruction of such
instrument ; unless the defendant, by plea, verified by affidavit,
denies the execution of such bond, note, or bill, or the endorse
ment, acceptance, or the^contents thereof ;win which case proof of
such execution, indorsement, acceptance, or] contents, must be
made by the plaintiff; but this section must not be so construed
as to authorize a suit for the recovery of a note or bill issued by
an incorporated bank to pass as money, and alleged to be lost or
destroyed. When the suit is against an executor or administrator,
he may controvert the oath of the plaintiff of the loss, destruction,
or contents of the instrument sued on, by swearing to the best of
his knowledge and belief. (1)
§ 2916 (2550). Execution not to issue on such judgment till bond and
security is given. —When suit is brought under the provisions of
the preceding section, to recover upon a bill of exchange or other
instrument which by the provisions of this Code is declared sub
ject to the law merchant, and alleged to have been lost or
destroyed before the maturity thereof, no execution must issue on
the judgment until the plaintiff execute bond payable to the
defendant, with surety, in twice the amount of the recovery, with
condition to pay all such damages as he may sustain by reason of
the judgment and the payment thereof-*
§ 2917 (2552). Person injured may sue. in his own name on any
official, guardian's, or executor's bond. —For any breach of any offi
cial bond or undertaking of any officer of this state, executor,
administrator, or guardian, or of any bond or undertaking given
in an official capacity to the State of Alabama, or any officer
thereof, the person aggrieved may sue in his own name, assigning
the appropriate breach. (2)
§ 2918 (2553). Any citizen may sw for a penalty imposed by law.
When a penalty is imposed by statute, and no mode is provided
therein for the recovery thereof, any citizen of the state may sue
for the same, on behalf of himself and the county in which it is
instituted.
§ 2919 (2554). Plaintiff suing several, liable to costs to those who
cast him. —When a suit is instituted against several defendants,
whether sued as partners, or otherwise, the plaintiff may recover
against one or more, but is liable to costs to those against whom
he does not obtain judgment.
§ 2920 (2555). Actions survive to the representative. —All actions
on contracts, express or implied, all personal actions, except for
injuries to the person or reputation, survive in favor of and against
the personal representatives, t (3)
§ 2921 (2556). Actions for recovery of, and actions for trespass on
land* survive to or against heir or representative. —Real actions to
try the title, or for the recovery of the possession of lands, and
actions for injuries to lands, survive in favor of heirs, devisees, or
personal representatives, and against heirs, devisees, tenants, or
personal representatives, according to their respective rights, and
the court must direct the record and judgment to be so framed as
to secure their rights and declare their respective interests. (1)
§ 2922 (2557). When performance of contract is prevented by death,
the representative recovers a ratable compensation. —When a party
contracts for the performance of services by himself for a stipu
lated period of time, and is prevented from the performance of his
contract by death before the expiration of the time, his legal rep
resentatives may recover a ratable compensation for the service
actually rendered, notwithstanding the contract is entire for the
whole period.
§ 2923. Suits brought in name of state for use of county, or school
teacher, or qffior ; costs, hoiv taxed.—cln all suits against the super-
intendent of education, upon his official bond, for moneys appor
tioned or belonging to any county of this state for school pur
poses, the action shall be brought in the name of the state for the
use of such county ; and in all suits against a county superin
tendent of education, on his official bond, for money due or
belonging to any teacher or officer of the public schools of the
state, the action shall be brought in the name of the state for the
use of such teacher or officer. In the event the state should be
cast in such suit, the cost shall be taxed against the county,
teacher, or officer, for whose benefit the suit was instituted.
CHAPTER 2.
OF THE MODE OF COMMENCING SUIT.
§ 2924 (2558). Civil actions commenced by summons. —All civil
actions in the courts of record of this state for the recovery of
real estate or any interest therein, or for waste or trespass on
land, or for the recovery of money or personal property, or for the
recovery of damages, except in such cases as are otherwise pro
vided by this Code, must be commenced by the service of a sum
mons.
§ 2925 (2559). Summons issued by clerk and. accompanied by the
complaint. —The summons must be issued by the clerk of the court,
and be accompanied by the complaint of the plaintiff, signed by
him, or his attorney, setting forth the cause of action. (2)
§ 292. (5 (2560). Form of tlie summons. —The summons must be in
the following form :
The State of Alabama, ) To any sheriff of the State of Alabama.
— county. ( You are hereby commanded to sum
mon A B., to appear at the next term of the circuit court to be
held for said county, at the place of holding the same, then and
there to answer the complaint of C. D.
Witness my hand, this — day of . E. F., clerk. (2)
§ 2927 (2561). Branch summons when there are several defendants
in different counties. —When any joint, or joint and several cause of
action exists, and the defendants reside or may be found in dif
ferent counties, a summons may issue from the court having juris
diction of any one of such defendants, and be executed in any
county, which must be returned and filed in the court from which
the process issued, and constitute but one suit, in the same man
ner as if but one summons had issued against all the defendants ;
and it is the duty of the clerk, on issuing such branch summons,
to indorse thereon that it is a branch of the original suit, and that
all the summonses constitute one suit and are for one and the
same cause of action. (1)
§ 2928 (2562). Freeholders or householders sued only in their oitin
counties, except for injuries to or recovery of real estate. —No free
holder a nor householder of this state, having a permanent residence
within it, must be sued out of the county of his residence, unless
the suit be for the recovery of real property or the possession
thereof, or for a trespass thereto, when the suit must be instituted
in the county where the land lies. Any summons issuing contrary
to the provisions of this section must be abated on the plea of the
defendant.
§ 2929 (2563). Persons residing in neiu counties not organized, sue
and are sued in the old counties. —Persons residing in new counties
may sue and are liable to be sued in the counties from which their
residences are taken, until such new counties have elected their
officers, and are organized.
§ 2930. Where suit may be brought on bond of state officer. —^Suit
on the official bond of any state officer, or of any person who lias
been a state officer, may be instituted in the county of the resi
dence of such officer, or retired officer, or in the county of the
residence of any one of his sureties, or in the county of Mont
gomery, as the governor may deem best.
§ 2931. Where tvarden of the penitentiary may sue. —cThe warden
of the penitentiary is authorized to bring suit in all cases for dues
to the penitentiary, or on contracts with him as warden, either in
the county of Elmore, or in the county of the residence of either
defendant in the suit, as the warden may prefer ; but when such
suit is brought against a party outside of 'the county of Elmore, it
shall only be done on contracts made after the second day of Feb
ruary, A. D. 1876. This section shall not apply to contracts, obli
gations, or indebtedness existing at that date, which have come or
may hereafter come into the hands of the warden, by assignment
or as collateral security.
CHAPTER 3.
OF THE ISSUE, EXECUTION AND RETURN OF THE SUMMONS.
§ 2932 (2564). Summons executed by leaving a ropy : return. —The
summons must be executed by the sheriff or other officer, in any
county in the state, by leaving a copy of the summons and coin-
plaint with the defendant, which fact he must return with the pro
cess. (1)
§ 2933 (2551). Sen-vice, on one representative is sufficient. —When
there are two or more executors or administrators of an estate,
service of summons on one is sufficient. (2)
§ 2934 (2568). Summons to corporation, by copy left with the presi
dent &c. —When the suit is against a corporation, the summons may
be executed by the delivery of a copy of the summons and com
plaint to the president, or other head thereof, secretary, cashier,
or managing agent thereof. (3)
§ 2935 (2569). When officers unknown, summons left, with any
while agent. —If affidavit is made that the officers named in the
preceding section are unknown, or reside out of the state, the
summons may be served on any white person in the employ of, or
doing business for such corporation.* (3)
§ 2936 (2572). When executed in an adjoining county. —When a
summons issues to the sheriff of the county in which the defendant
resides, he may execute it in adjoining county, if the defendant is
there found.
§ 2937 (2573). Summons to a county executed on judge of probate.
When a county is a defendant, the summons must be executed by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the judge of
the probate court. (4)
§ 2938 (2570). When executed by coroner or special coroner. —In the
cases provided for by chapter three, title ten, part one, the sum
mons must be directed to and served by the coroner, or special
coroner, as the case may be.
§ 2939 (2565). Summons to lie executed three days before return :
when returned, dc. —The summons must be executed at least three
days before the return day thereof, and be returned to the office
whence it issued, on or before the return day; but when the sum
mons has been executed twenty days or more before the return
day, it must be returned five days after the execution thereof.
§ 2940 (2566). Issued less than three days before return day. —Where
the summons is issued less than three days before the term of the
court next thereafter, it must be made returnable to the next suc
ceeding term.
§ 2941 (2567). Return day is the first day of the term.—The return
day of the summons is the first day of the court to which it is
returnable, t
CHAPTER 4.
FOR THE RECOVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY' IN SPECIE.
§ 2942 (2593). In actions of detinue, the plaintiff may give bond, and
require the sheriff' to seize the property, if bond be. not given. —When
a suit is brought for the recovery of personal chattels in specie, if
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make affidavit that the prop
erty sued for belongs to the plaintiff, and execute a bond in such
sum and with such surety as may be approved by the clerk, with
condition that if the plaintiff fail in the suit, he will pay the
defendant all such costs and damages as he may sustain by the
wrongful complaint, it is the duty of the clerk to indorse on the
summons that the sheriff is required to take the property men
tioned in the complaint into his possession, unless the defendant
give bond payable to the plaintiff, with sufficient surety, in double
the amount of the value of the property, with condition that if the
defendant is cast in the suit, he will, within thirty days thereafter,
deliver the property to the plaintiff and pay all costs and damages
which may accrue from the detention thereof.* (1) '
§ 2943 (2594). On neglect of defendant to give Itond for five days,
property to l>e delivered to plaintiff on his giving Imnd. —If the defend
ant neglect for five days to give such bond, the property sued for
must be delivered to the plaintiff, on his giving bond, with suffi
cient surety, in double the value of the property, payable to the
defendant, with condition to deliver the property to the defendant
within thirty days after judgment, in case he fail in the suit, and
to pay damages for the detention of the property and costs of suit.
If the plaintiff fail for five days to give such bond, after the expira
tion of the time allowed the defendant, the property must be
returned to the defendant. (2)
§ 2944 (2595). Value of each article tq Ik assessed separately, with
the damages for its detention ; judgment in such suits. —Upon the
trial of any cause for the recovery of property in specie, the jury
must, if they find for the plaintiff, if practicable, assess the value
of each article of the property separately, and also assess damages
for its detention ; if they find for the defendant, they must in like
manner assess its value ; and if in the possession of the plaintiff, as
sess the damages for its detention. Judgment against either party
must be for the property sued for, or its alternate value, witn
damages for the detention to the time of trial. (3)
§ 2945 (2596). On failure to d< liver the property after judgment,
mention issues mi bond. —If either of the parties who are unsuc
cessful in the suit, fail within thirty days after judgment to deliver
the property to the sheriff, and return be made thereof by him of
the fact, the bond in either case has the force and effect of a judg
ment, and execution may issue thereon against all the obligors,
for the alternate judgment so rendered as aforesaid, and the dam
ages and costs. (1)
§ 2946 (2597). Bonds taken by sheriff' to lie. returned in ten days ;
penalty for neglect. —All bonds taken Tinder sections 2942 (2593) and
2943 (2594), must be returned within ten days thereafter to the
clerk of the court in which the suit is pending ; and on failure, the
sheriff is liable to the successful party to the amount of the value
of the property, and the damages for its detention, as assessed by
the jury, with interest thereon from the rendition of the judgment,
to be recovered by motion to the court in which such judgment
was rendered, on three days notice ; or may be at any time com
pelled to make such return by attachment.
§ 2947 (2598). Delivery compelled by attachment or distringas. —
Any party recovering specific property may compel its restoration,
when practicable, by a writ of distringas, or by moving for an
attachment.
CHAPTER 5.
OF ACTIONS FOR REALTY AND USE AND OCCUPATION.
§ 2948 (2599). Seal not necessary to pass legal title to lands. —A
seal is not necessary to convey the legal title to land, to enable
the grantee to sue at law. Any instrument in writing, signed by
the grantor, or his agent having a written authority, is effectual to
transfer the legal title to the grantee, if such was the intention of
the grantor, to be collected from the entire instrument. (2)
§ 2949 (2600). On recovery of land with a growing crop, possession
retained to gather crop, on giving bond for rent. —In actions for the
recovery of land, or the possession thereof, if it be made to appear
that the defendant has a crop planted or growing on the premises,
if the jury find for the plaintiff, they must also find the value of
the premises during the current year, and no writ of possession
can be issued until the expiration of the year, if ihe defendant exe
cutes a bond in double the amount of the rent, payable to the
plaintiff, with surety to be approved by the clerk, with condition
to pay the rent so assessed at the expiration of the year.
§ 2950 (2601). Bond filed with the clerk, and has the force of a judg
ment. —The bond so taken must be filed in the clerk's office ; has
the force and effect of a judgment; and if not paid at maturity,
the clerk, on the application of the plaintiff', must issue execution
against all the obligors.
§ 2951 (2602). Suggest hni of adverse possession for three years to be
tried Iry a jury. —When a suit is brought to recover land, or the
possession thereof, the defendant may, at any time before the trial,
suggest upon the record, that he and those whose possession he
has, for three years next before the commencement of the suit,
have had adverse possession thereof. In such case, if the jury- find
for the plaintiff, they must also ascertain by their verdict whether
such suggestion be true or false. (1)
§ 2952 (2603). If found to be true, the verdict must show the value
of the land, the improvements, and the rents. —If they find it to be
false, they must return a verdict as in ordinary cases for the dam
ages ; if they find it to be true, they must assess the value at the
time of the trial, of the permanent improvements made by the
defendant, or those whose estate he has, and also ascertain by
their verdict the value of the lands and tenements, and of the use
and occupation of the land, not including the increased value
thereof by reason of such improvements ; if the value of the use
and occupation as assessed, exceed the value of the permanent
improvements made, judgment must be rendered against the
defendant for the excess. (1)
§ 2953 (2604). If value of improvements greater than the rents, pos
session retained for one year. —If the value of the improvements
exceed the value of the use and occupation, no writ of possession
shall issue for one year after the rendition of the judgment, unless
the plaintiff or his legal representative pay the defendant, or
deposit with the clerk for him, the excess of the assessed value of
the improvements over the value of the use and occupation. (1)
§ 2954 (2605). If not paid by plaintiff' for one year, defendant, on
■payment of value of land, acquires a good title. —If the plaintiff, or
his legal representative, neglect to pay such excess for the term
of one year, and the defendant, or his legal representative, within
three months after the expiration of the year, pays to the clerk of
the court, for the use of the plaintiff, the value of the lands and
tenements as assessed by the jury, the plaintiff is forever barred
from his writ of possession, and from maintaining any action what
ever against the defendant, his heirs or assigns, for the recovery
of such lands and tenements, or the possession thereof.
§ 2955 (2606). Landlord made a party on his motion. —When the
suit is against a tenant, the landlord must, on his motion, be made
defendant
§ 2956 (2607). Actions for use and occupation of land, when sus
tained,. —A reasonable satisfaction may be recovered for the use
and occupation of land—
1. When there has been a demise by deed, or by parol, and no
specific sum agreed on as rent.
2. When the tenant has been let into possession upon a supposed
sale of the lands, which, from the act of the defendant, has not
been consummated.
3. When the tenant remains on the land by the sufferance of the
owner ; and where, after a demise, the tenant having had thirty
days previous notice, holds over without the consent of his land
lord, he shall pay to such landlord double the value of the custom
ary rent of the property so withheld. (2)
§ 2957 (2608). Damages, to time of the verdict. —Damages in
actions, for the possession or use and occupation of land, must be
computed to the time of the verdict.
§ 2958 (2609). Rent accrued after judgment, recovered on motion. —
The plaintiff in action for realty may have judgment against the
defendant for the rent of the premises which accrues after judg
ment, and before delivery of possession, by motion in the circuit
court where the judgment was rendered, ten days notice thereof
in writing being given, unless the judgment is stayed by appeal,
and bond given to supersede the judgment ; in which case the
motion may be made after the affirmance thereof.
§ 2959 (2610). Casual or nominal ejector not named in the proceed
ings, and no lease or demise to be stated. —Actions to recover the pos
session of land may be brought in the nature of an action of
ejectment, without any statement of any lease or demise to the
plaintiff, or ouster by a casual or nominal ejector ; and in such
cases, the law now in force in relation to the action of ejectment,
except so far as relates to the fictitious proceedings therein, or
except so far as the same is changed by this Code, is applicable
thereto. (1)
§ 2960 (2611). Statement of the plaintiff's claim, and description of
land, with defendant's unlawful entry, is all thai is required. —It is
sufficient for the plaintiff to allege in his complaint, that he was
possessed of the premises sued for, describing the same by its
designation at the land office ; or when that can not be done, by
metes and bounds, or other appropriate designation; and that
after his right accrued, the defendant entered thereupon and unlaw
fully withholds and detains the same.
§ 2961 (2612). Defendant may demand abstract of plaintiff's title,
and must tender abstract of his own on plaintiff's demand. —In all
actions for realty the defendant may, by notice in writing to the
plaintiff or his attorney, not less than ten days before the trial of
the cause, demand an abstract in writing of the title or titles on
which he will rely for a recovery, and the plaintiff must be con
fined to the proof of such title or titles; and when such abstract
is demanded by the defendant, he must tender, if demanded by
the plaintiff or his attorney, five days before the trial, an abstract
of the title or titles on which he will rely for defense, and on the
trial shall be confined to such title or titles.
§ 2962 (2613). Plea of not guilty as in action of ejectment. —The
defendant may plead that he is not guilty of unlawfully withhold
ing the premises claimed by the plaintiff, and upon such plea may
give the same matter in evidence as upon the plea of not guilty in
the action of ejectment.
§ 2963 (2614). Plea of not guilty admits possession ; disclaimer as
to ejctent.Sach plea is an admission by the defendant that he is
in the possession of the premises sued for, unless he states dis
tinctly upon the record tire extent of his possession, in which case
it is an admission of possession to such extent only. (2)
§ 2964 (2615). When there are several defendants, damages may I*assessed,
severally. —Where there are more defendants than one, the
jury may assess damages arising from the detention of the land,
and injury thereto, in severalty, against each defendant for dis
tinct damages.
§ 2965 (2616). Tenant claiming under another only liable, for rent in
arrear. —A tenant in possession, and asserting his right thereto
under a lease or license from another, is not liable beyond the rent
in arrear at the time of suit brought, and that which may accrue
during the continuance of his possession. (1)
§ 2966 (2617). Persons having color of title bona fide liable only for
a year's rent. —Persons holding possession under color of title, in
good faith, are not responsible for damages or rent for more than
one year before the commencement of the suit. (2)
§ 2967 (2618). Verdict for plaintiff to specify whether far whole or
part. —If the verdict is for the plaintiff, it must specify whether it
is for the whole or a part only of the premises, describing such part,
and judgment accordingly.
§ 2968 (2619). Judgment by default admits title, but possession to lie
proved to recover costs.-—A judgment by default against a defendant
is an admission of title in the plaintiff; but to recover costs against
the defendant, the plaintiff must prove possession of the premises,
or some part thereof, at the commencement of the suit.
§ 2969 (2620). Two verdicts l>ar any other suit. —Two judgments
in favor of the defendant in an action of ejectment, or in the
nature of an action of ejectment between the same parties, in
which the same title is put in issue, is a bar to any action for the
recovery of the land or any part thereof, between the same parties
or their privies, founded on the same title.
§ 2970 (2621). Action of ejectment. —For the recovery of land or
the possession thereof, the plaintiff has his election to proceed
by the action of ejectment as established at common law, or by
writ in the nature of an action of ejectment as herein before pro
vided.^)
CHAPTER 6.
OF DEFAMATION.
§ 2971 (2622). Charge of unchasteness actionable. —Any words,
written, spoken or printed, of any female, married or unmarried,
falsely imputing to her a want of chastity, are actionable, without
proof of special damages. (4)
§ 2972 (2623). Betraction of charge to be received in mitigation of
damages.—The defendant in an action of libel or slander, may
prove under the general issue, in mitigation of damages, that the
charge was made by mistake, or through inadvertence, and that
he has retracted the charge and offered amends before suit, by
publishing an apology in a newspaper, where the charge had been
thus promulgated ; or verbally in the presence of witnesses, where
the accusation was verbal or written, and had offered to certify the
same in writing. (5) (
§ 2973 (2621). On retraction and tender of a sum, no costs recover
able unless the verdict be larger. —If the defendant, after or before
suit brought, make the recantation and amends recited in the pre
ceding section, and also tender to the plaintiff a compensation in
money, and bring the same into court, the plaintiff can recover no
costs, if the jury believe and find the tender was sufficient.
§ 2974 (2625). Receipt of the money is a release except as to cost?
incurred. —The receipt of the money tendered, if before suit
brought, is a bar to the action ; if after suit, releases the defend
ant from all damages and costs, except the costs which may have
accrued before the tender and receipt of the money.
§ 2975 (2626). Language to be construed by its ordinary import. —
Every accusation of false swearing presumptively imports a charge
of perjury ; and every accusation importing the commission of a
crime punishable by indictment, must be held presumptively to
mean what the language used ordinarily imports.
§ 2976 (2627). Truth of charges against public men may be proved.
In prosecutions for publications investigating the conduct of public
men, when the matter published is proper for public information,
the truth of the charge may be given in evidence.
§ 2977 (2628). Truth of the words, or the circumstances under ichich
spoken, dtc, evidence under the general issue. —In all actions of slan
der, verbal or written, the truth of the words spoken or written,
or the circumstances under which they were spoken or written,
may be given in evidence under the general issue, in mitigation of
the damages.
CHAPTER 7.
OF PLEADINGS.
Article I . —Geneml rales.
2. —Of the complaint.
3. —Of the plea.
4. — Of the replication and subsequent pleading.
5. —Of demurrer.
6. —Schedule of forms ol pleading in civil proceedings.
AETICLE L
GENERAL RULES.
§ 2978 (2629). Pleadings to be short ; no objection taken for want of
form. —All pleadings must be as brief as is consistent with per
spicuity, and the presentation of the facts or matter to be put in
issue in an intelligible form ; no objection can be allowed for defect
of form, if facts are so presented that a material issue in law or
fact can be taken by the adverse party thereon. (1)
§ 2979 (2630). Pleadings struck out for prolixity on motion.—If
any pleading is unnecessarily prolix, irrelevant, or frivolous, it
may be stricken out at the cost of the party so pleading, on motion
of the adverse party , and any pleading which conforms substan
tially to the schedule of forms attached to this part, is sufficient.
§ 2980 (2631). Character of complaint for defamation. —No collo
quium nor innuendo is necessary in actions for defamation ; it is
sufficient to state in the complaint that defendant falsely and mali
ciously charged the plaintiff with perjury, larceny, or other crime,
as the case may be, in substance as follows, setting it out.
§ 2981 (2632). Consideration of a sealed instrument may be inquired
into. —The defendant may by plea impeach or inquire into the con
sideration of a sealed instrument, in the same manner as if it had
not been sealed. (1)
§ 2982 (2633). Assignment of breaches on a penal bond. —In actions
upon any penal bonds or other writing for the non-performance of
any covenant or agreement contained therein, the plaintiff may
assign such breaches as he ' may deem proper, and verdict and
judgment may be rendered for such of the breaches as he may
prove ; and if judgment be rendered for the plaintiff on demurrer,
or by default, a writ of inquiry of damages must be awarded.
§ 2983 (2634). Neiv actions on same contract, when new causes arise.
Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or
transaction, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of
action arises therefrom.
§ 2984 (2635). Profert of bond, (fee, dispensed tvith ; notice may be
given to produce it, or items of account. —No profert of a sealed
mstrument is required in pleading, but at any time previous to the
trial, the defendant may nave inspection of the bond, or other
instrument sued on, upon notice to the attorney of the party ; or
when an account is the foundation of the suit, a list of the items
composing it. (2)
ARTICLE II.
OF THE COMPLAINT.
§ 2985 (2636). Complaint to accompany the summons, and to be
signed by the plaintiff" or his attorney. —The complaint, which must
in all cases accompany the summons, is in lieu of a declaration,
and must be signed by the plaintiff or his attorney.
§ 2986 (2637). All actions on contracts may be united in one suit. —
All actions on contracts, express or implied, for the payment of
money, whether under seal or not, may be united in the same
action. (3)
§ 2987 (2638). Plea to state tke facts relied on as a defense ; no objec
tion to be made to the form. —The pleav must consist of a succinct
statement of the facts relied on, in bar or abatement of the suit,
and no objection can be taken thereto, if the facts are so stated
that a material issue can be taken thereon. (1)
§ 2988 (2639). Extent of plea of "not guilty" and of the general issue,
and token special pleas required. —In all actions for defamation,
or for injuries to the person, or to real or personal property, the
plea of " not guilty " puts in issue all the material allegations of
the complaint ; and in all suits where the defendant relies on a
denial of the cause of action as set forth by the plaintiff, he may
plead the general issue, and in all other cases, the defendant must
briefly plead specially the matter of defense, and may by leave of
the court plead more pleas than one.
§ 2989 (2640). All pleas in abatement sworn to; exceptions. —All
pleas in abatement, (unless it be of matter of record,) pleas which
deny the execution by the defendant, his agent, attorney or part
ner, of any instrument in writing the foundation of the suit, or the
assignment of the same, or which set forth any instrument in
writing, whether under seal or not, which is alleged to be lost or
destroyed, and pleas since the last continuance, must be verified
by affidavit.
§ 2990 (2641). Character of plea, how deternuned.. —The fact
whether a plea is in bar or abatement, is ascertained by the sub
ject matter and prayer of the plea.
§ 2991 (2642). Sets-qf allozved in all cases of liquidated or unliqui
dated, demands not sounding in damages. —Mutual .debts, liquidated
or unliquidated demands not sounding in damages merely, subsist
ing between the parties at the time of suit brought, may be set-oft",
one against the other, by the defendant or his personal represent
ative, whether the legal title be in the defendant or not ; and such
set-off, if found for the defendant, extinguishes either in whole or
in part, as the case may be, the plaintiff 's demand ; but the wages
or hire of any head of a family in this state, not having property
liable to levy and sale under execution, can not be defeated nor
abated by any set-off of a money demand, acquired by the person
contracting to pay such wages by assignment or transfer, unless
the parties otherwise agree in writing. (2)
§ 2992 (2643). Judgment for defendant for excess of set-off and
costs. — If the debt or demand so offered to be set-off, exceed the
amount of the plaintiff's demand, the amount of such excess being
found by the jury, judgment must be rendered against the plain
tiff for costs, and in favor of the defendant for such excess.
§ 2993 (2644). Judgments in the same court may lie set-off on motion.
Judgments in the same court may be set-off against each other, by
the court on motion.
§ 2994 (2645). Surety sued alone may set-off a debt due the priiicipal.
A. co-maker or surety, when sued alone, may, with the consent of
his co-maker or principal, avail himself by way of set-off, of a debt
or liquidated demand, due from the plaintiff at the commencement
of the suit, to such co-maker or principal.
§ 2995 (2646). Set-off not allowed to commercial, paper, negotiated
be/ore due. —The foregoing provisions relating to sets-off, do not
apply to bills of exchange nor notes payable in bank, or at a private
banking house, which have been in good faith negotiated before
maturity.
§ 2996 (2647). Set-off accruing after plaintiff's cause of action,
although barred by the statute of limitations. —When the defendant
pleads a set-off to the plaintiff's demand, to which the plaintiff
replies the statute of limitations, the defendant, notwithstanding
such replication, is entitled to have the benefit of his debt, as a
set-off, where such set-off was a legal subsisting claim at the time
the right of action accrued to the plaintiff on the claim in suit. (1 )
§ 2997 (2648). Tender to be made in court. —A plea of tender of
money, or of a thing in action, must be accompanied by a
delivery of the money, or such thing in action, to the clerk of the
court. (2)
§ 2998 (2649). //' tender can not be made from bulk, (fee, a readi
ness to deliver to be averred. —If the tender be of ponderous arti
cles, or other personal property, the plea must aver a readiness
to deliver them to the plaintiff, and judgment for the defendant
upon the plea vests the title to the thing tendered in the plaintiff,
subject to any claim the defendant may have for his trouble in
keeping it.
§ 2999 (2650). Indorsement of the date and fling to be placed on all
pleas, and rejected for want of it. —All pleas must be indorsed by
the clerk when filed, with the true date ; and for want of such
indorsement may be rejected by the court, on motion, unless suffi-
§ 3000 (2651). Plea since last continuance, does not waive any former
plea to the merits. —A plea since the last continuance is not a waiver
of other pleas to the merits previously pleaded.
ARTICLE IV.
OF THE REPLICATION AND SUBSEQUENT PLEADINGS.
§ 3001 (2652). General replication. —The general replication is,
"the plaintiff joins issue on said plea."
§ 3002 (2653). Special, replication. —A special replication, like the
plea, is a brief statement in plain intelligible language, of the facts
relied on as an answer to the plea.
§ 3003 (2654). More than one replication allowed by the court. —
By leave of the court, for causes shown, the plaintiff may file more
than one replication.
§ 3004 (2655). Rules of this chapter apply to all subsequent )&-cuIings.
—The rules of this chapter in relation to pleas and repli ca
tions, apply to all subsequent pleadings.
ARTICLE V.
OF DEMURRERS.
§ 3005 (2656). Demurrer to mailer of sulwtance, and the ground la
be distinctly stated. —No demurrer in pleading can be allowed, but
to matter of substance which the party demurring specifies ; and
no objection can be taken or allowed which is not distinctly stated
in the demurrer. (1)
§ 3006 (2657). Amendments allowed before or after judgment on
demurrer.—Either before or after judgment on demurrer, the court
must permit an amendment of the pleadings ; and such amend
ment must cause no delay in the trial of the cause, unless injustice
will thereby be done. (2)
§ 3007 (2658). Plea over, after judgment does not waive errors.—
The party against whom a judgment on demurrer is rendered,
may plead over as a matter of right, without waiving his privilege
of assigning the judgment on demurrer, as error in an appellate
court, unless he has subsequently had the benefit secured by tbe
demurrer, upon the trial of other equivalent issues. (3)
§ 3008 (2659). Court imposes terms for frivolous demurrer. —If, in
the opinion of the court, a demurrer is interposed without cause,
terms may be imposed, not exceeding the costs of the action or a
continuance of the cause.
ARTICLE VI.
SCHEDULE OF FORMS OF PLEADING IN CIVIL PROCEEDINGS. (4)
COMPLAINTS.
§ 3009. 
No. 1. Indorsee against acceptor of bill of exchange.
A B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, due on a bill of exchange, which was
C. D., defendant. ) drawn by one E. F., on the day of ,
for dollars, upon the defendant, and accepted by him, paya
ble to one G. H., on the day of , which bill before matu-
ritv, was indorsed to the plaintiff, and with interest is still due
and unpaid.
L J., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 2. Indorsee against indorser.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. V dollars, on a bill of exchange, drawn by E. F.,
C. D., defendant. J on the day of , upon G. H., for the
payment of dollars, on the day of , to the defend
ant, by whom the said bill was indorsed to the plaintiff, and the
said bill not being paid at maturity (or not being accepted, as the
case may be,) was duly protested, of which the defendant had due
notice. The said bill, with damages, and interest due thereon, is
still unpaid.
L. M., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 3. Indorsee against drawer.
A. B., plaintiff, \ The plaintiff claims of the defendant ■
vs. > dollars, due on a bill of exchange, drawn by
C. D., defendant. ) him on the day of , on E. F., for the
payment of dollars to G. H., on the day of , by
whom the said bill was indorsed to the plaintiff, and the said bill
not being paid at maturity, (or not being accepted, as the case
may be,) was duly protested, of which the defendant had due
notice. The said bill, with the damages and interest due thereon,
is still unpaid.
J. J., att'y for pl'ff
Note. —If the bill sued on was a foreign bill of exchange, the
fact should be stated, and the place on which it was drawn.
No. 4. On promissory note by payee, against maker.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, due by promissory note made by him
C. D., defendant. ) on the day of , and payable the
day of , with interest thereon.
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 5. On bill single or bond without penalty by obligee
AGAINST OBLIGOR.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant ■
vs. >■ dollars, due by bond, executed by him on the
C. D., defendant, ) day of , payable on the day of
, with interest due thereon. E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 6. By assignee, against assignor, on assigned note or bond
WITHOUT PENALTY.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant the
vs. > sum of dollars, as the assignee of a note
C. D., defendant, ) (or bond, as the case may be,) executed on the
day , by one E. F., payable to the defendant, (or as the
case may be) on the day of , and assigned to the plain
tiff, upon which suit has been brought according to law to charge
the maker, judgment obtained thereon, execution issued according
to law, and returned " no property found," which note, with the
interest thereon, is still unpaid. G. H., att'y for pl'ff.
Note. —If there is a sufficient excuse for not suing the maker,
the fact should be concisely stated.
No. 7. On an account or verbal contract.
A. B., plaintiff, 1 The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, due from him by account, on the
C. D., defendant, ) day of ; (or for money loaned by the
plaintiff to the defendant on the day of ; or on account
stated between the plaintiff and defendant, on the day of
; or for merchandise, goods and chattels, sold by the plaintiff
to the defendant, on the day of ; or for money paid by
the plaintiff, for the defendant, on the day of , at his re
quest; or for work and labor done for the defendant, by the plain
tiff, on the day of , at his request ; ) which several sums
of money, (or sum of money,) with the interest thereon, are now
due. E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 8. On an account or verbal contract by a transferee.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. V dollars, due by account, for money loaned by
C. D., defendant. ) one E. F., to the defendant, on the clay
of ; (or on an account stated between the defendant and one
E. F., on the day of ; or for merchandise, goods and
chattels sold by one E. F., to the defendant, or for money paid
by one E. F., for the defendant, or for work and labor done by
one E. F., for the defendant, on the day of , at his request;)
which sum (or sums of money, as the case may be,) with the inter
est, is now due, and is the property of the plaintiff.
G. H., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 9. For the recovery of chattels in specie.
A B., plaintiff, \ The plaintiff claims of the defendant the
vs. > following personal property, viz.: Ac., (describ-
C. D., defendant. ) ing it), with the value of the hire or use
thereof, during the detention, viz : from the day of .
E. F., att'y for pl'ff. (1)
No. 10. On an independent covenant or agreement.
A. B. plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. V dollars, damages for the breach of a covenant,
C. D., defendant. ) (or agreement, as the case may be,) entered
into by him on the day of ,by which he promised, (here
set out the contract or agreement, and the breach complained of.)
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
Note. —If a demand is necessary to entitle the plaintiff to his
action, it must be averred.
No. 11. ON A DEPENDENT COVENANT OK AGREEMENT.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, for the breach of a covenant (or
C. D., defendant. ) agreement, as the case may be,) entered into
by him on the day of , in substance as follows : (here
insert a copy or according to its legal effect,) yet although the
plaintiff has complied with all its provisions on his part, the
defendant has failed to comply with the following provisions
thereof, viz : (here insert the matter complained of.)
E. R, att'y for pl'ff.
No. 12. On bonds with condition.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. V dollars, for the breach of the condition of a
C. D. defendant. ) bond (or agreement) made by the defendant
on the day of , payable to the plaintiff, in the sum of
dollars, with condition, (here state the condition concisely.)
And the plaintiff says the condition of the said bond has been
broken by the defendant in this (here state concisely the breach
or breaches complained of, first, second, Ac,) to the damage of
the plaintiff, as above stated. E. F., att'y for pi If.
No. 1 3. Against a common carrier.
A. B. plaintiff, \ The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. >• dollars, as damages for the failure to deliver
C. D., defendant. J certain goods, viz : (here set them out,) received
by him as a common carrier, to be delivered to the plaintiff at
for a reward, which he failed to do.
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
Note. —If the injury complained of is the failure to deliver the
goods by the time stipulated, or within a reasonable time, or for
damage to the goods, it should be so stated.
No. 14. Deceit in sale of chattels.
A. B. plaintiff, } The plaintiff claims of the defendant dol-
vs. j- lars, as damages for a deceit in the sale of a
C. D., defendant. ) (here name the chattel), which the defendant,
at the time of the sale, knew to be unsound.
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 15. Action on a warranty.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, as damages for a breach of warranty
C. D., defendant. ) in the sale of a (here name the property), by
him to the plaintiff, on the day of - , which the defendant
warranted, (here insert the substance of the warranty), when in
fact (here state the breach of the warranty according to the facts.)
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 16. On a policy of insurance.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, the value of certain goods, which the
C. D., defendant. ) defendant, on the day of , insured
against loss or injury, against perils of the seas, and other perils
in said policy mentionetl, from the port of New York to the port
of Mobde, on board the ship Neptune, which goods were wholly
lost by the shipwreck of the said vessel, on her voyage, of which
the defendant has had notice. E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 17. For the conversion of chattels.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. V dollars, as damages for the conversion by him,
C. D., defendant. J on the day of , of the following chat
tels, (describing them), the property of the plaintiff.
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 18. For assault and battery.
A. B., plaintiff, \ The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, as damages for an assault and battery
C. D., defendant. ) committed by the defendant on the plaintiff,
viz : on the day of . ' E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 19. For false imprisonment.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, as damages for maliciously, and withC.
D., defendant. ' out probable cause therefor, arresting and im
prisoning, (or, if the case be so, causing the defendant to be
arrested and imprisoned,) on a charge of larceny, (or other felony,
as the case may be,) for days, viz : on the day of .
E. F., att'y for pl'ff. (1.)
No. 19.« For malicious prosecution.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. y dollars, as damages for maliciously, and with-
C. D., defendant. ) out probable cause therefor, causing the
Slaintiff to be arrested and Imprisoned for the space of ten
ays,' viz : from the day of to the day of
, which arrest and imprisonment were by virtue of a warrant
issued by A. B., a justice of the peace, on the day of ,
charging the plaintiff with the offense of larceny (or other process,
as the case may be) ; and plaintiff avers that before the com
mencement of this action, the said charge was judicially investiga
ted and the plaintiff discharged, and that the said prosecution
has been determined and ended.*
No. 20. Verbal slander.
A. B., plaintiff, 1 The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. y dollars, as damages for falsely and maliciously
C. D., defendant. J charging the plaintiff with perjury, (larceny,
or other crime, as the case may be,) by speaking of and concern
ing him, in the presence of divers persons, in substance as follows,
(here set out the defamatory language,) viz : on the day
of .
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 21. Libel.
A. B., plaintiff, j The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, damages for falsely and maliciously
C. D., defendant. ) publishing of and concerning him, in a news
paper published, Arc, called, &c, (or book or writing, as the case
may be,) the following false and defamatory matter, with intent to
defame the plaintiff, viz : (here set out the language charged as
libellous,) on the day of . E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 22. Fon trespass in taking goods.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, as damages for wrongfully taking the
C. D., defendant. ) following goods and chattels, the property of
the plaintiff, viz : (here state the goods, <fcc.)
E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 23. For the recovery of land, or possession thereof ; com
plaint IN THE NATURE OF AN ACTION FOR EJECTMENT.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff sues to recover the following
vs. > tract of land, (describing it, or the possession,
C. D., defendant. ) as the case may be,) of which he was pos
sessed before the commencement of this suit, and after such pos
session accrued, the defendant entered thereupon, and unlawfully
withholds and detains the same, together with dollars, for
the detention thereof. E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 24. For rent, on demise.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. V dollars, the rent of a tract of land, viz: (de-
C. D., defendant. ) scribing the land,) demised by the plaintiff to
the defendant, on the day of , said rent commencing on
the day of , and ending on the day of .
E. F., att'y for pl'ff
No. 25. For use and occupation of land.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. > dollars, for the use and occupation by him of
C. D., defendant. ) the following tract of land, belonging to the
plaintiff, viz : (here describe it), from the day of , to the
day of . E. F., att'y for pl'ff.
No. 26. For trespass to land.
A. B., plaintiff, 1 The plaintiff claims of the defendant
vs. j- dollars, as damages for a trespass by the
C. D., defendant. ) defendant on the following tract of land, belong
ing (or in the posession of) the plaintiff, (describing it), and for
cutting the timber, treading down the grass, <fec, on the dav
of . E. F., att'y for pl'ff. (1)
§ 3010.
PLEAS.
NO. 27. NON EST FACTUM.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The defendant, for answer to the complaint,
vs. > saith that the note (or bond, as the case may
C. D., defendant. ) be,) upon which the action is founded, was not
executed by him, or by any one authorized to bind him in the
premises ; and he makes •oath that this plea is true. (If filed by
an executor or administrator, that he believes it to be true.)
E. F., att'y for deft.
No. 28. Not guilty.
A B., plaintiff, ) The defendant, for answer to the complaint,
vs. > saith he is not guilty of the matters alleged
C. D., defendant. ) therein.
E. F., att'y for deft.
No. 29. Payment.
A B., plaintiff, ) The defendant, for answer to the said com-
vs. > plaint, saith that he has paid the debt or
C. D., defendant. ) demand, for the recovery of which this suit is
brought, before the action was commenced.
E. F., att'y for deft.
No. 30. Infancy.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The defendant, for answer to the said comvs.
> plaint, saith that at the time of the execution
C. D., defendant. ) of the note, the foundation of the suit (or at
the time of the creation of the debt, or making of the contract, as
the case may be,) he was a minor, under the age of twenty-one
years.
E. F, att'y for deft
»
No. 31. Statute oe limitations.
A. B., plaintiff, } The defendant, for answer to said complaint,
vs. > saith that the ( note, bond or contract, as the
C. D., defendant ) case may be,) is barred by the statute of limi
tations of years.
E. F., att'y for deft.
No. 32. Usury.
A B., plaintiff, \ The defendant, for answer to said complaint,
vs. V saith that the said (note, bond or contract, as.
C. D., defendant. ) the case may be,) upon which the action is
founded, is usurious and void for the interest due thereon.
E. F., att'y for deft.
Note. —If the usurious interest has been included with the prin
cipal, the fact should be stated, and the amount.
No. 33. Set-off.
A. B., plaintiff, j The defendant, as a defense to the action of
vs. V the plaintiff, says that at the time the said sumC.
D., defendant. ) mons was sued out, the plaintiff was indebted
to him in the sum of dollars, by note (bond, liquidated or
unliquidated demand, as the case may be, and describing it by its
date, amount, and when and to whom payable), which he hereby
offers to set off against the demand of the plaintiff, and he claims
judgment for the residue, (if the set-off exceeds the plaintiffs
demand.)
E. F., att'y for deft.
No. 34. Tender.
A. B., plaintiff, ) The defendant, for answer to said complaint,
vs. Ways that he tendered to the plaintiff the
C. D., defendant. ) amount due to him, to-wit : —— dollars, before
the action was commenced ; and now brings the money into court ;
(if of ponderous articles or other personal property) that he has
always been ready and willing to perform his contract with the
plaintiff, and offered to do so before the action was commenced.
CHAPTER 8.
OF THE TRIAL AND ITS INCIDENTS.
E. F., att'y tot deft.
§ 3011 (2660). Canes tried at first term, if summons is executed
twenty days previously.—All actions, when the summons is executed
twenty days previous to the return term thereof, stand for trial at
the first term ; also, all proceedings for summary judgments and
trials of right of property. * (1)
§ 3012 (2662). Time for defendant's pleading token the term is more
than a toeek. —When the term of the court is more than one week,
the defendant must, in all cases that stand for trial, plead or
demur to the complaint within the first three days of the term,
and the replication must be filed within three days thereafter,
unless the time be enlarged by the court, t (2)
§ 3013 (2664). Time for defendant's pleading when the term of- the
court is only a toeek. —When the term of the court is but one week,
the plea or demurrer must, in cases that stand for trial, be filed
within the first two days of the term, and the pleadings made up
within the two succeeding days, unless the time be enlarged by
the court. * (1)
§ 3014 (2663.) Other pleadings filed when ordered by the court. —
Other pleadings may be filed within such time as the court directs.
§ 3015 (2665). When term is over a week, causes set for particular
days. —The trial causes must be set for particular days where the
term of the court is more than one week ; to which day the wit
nesses must be subpoenaed, and no cause can be called for trial
before the day for which it is set, but by consent.
§ 3016 (2666). Challenge of four jurors. —Each party has the
right to challenge four of the jury peremptorily.
§ 3017 (2667). Jurors ; how drawn, sworn, dec. —Jurors for the
trial of civil causes are drawn, summoned, empanneled and sworn
as directed by the provisions of chapter 7, title 3, part 5.
§ 3018 (2668). Struckjury ; when allowed, and how selected,. —In all
civil causes sounding in damages merely, or where the amount in
controversy exceeds one hundred dollars, either party may demand
a struck jury, and must, thereupon, be furnished by the sheriff
with a list of twenty-four jurors, in attendance upon the court,
from which a jury must be obtained by the parties, or their attor
neys, striking alternately one from the list until twelve are stricken
off, the party demanding the jury commencing ; and the jury thus
obtained must not be challenged for any cause. (2)
§ 3019 (2669). Two counsel only to argue, on one side. —But two
counsel can argue on a side, except by leave of the court.
§ 3020 (2670). Nonsuits; when to Ih>, taken; two equivalent to a
verdict. —Non-suits must be taken before the jury retires, and two
non-suits not set aside at the term at which they are suffered, or
reversed on error, are equivalent to a verdict against the party
suffering them.
§ 3021 (2671). Two i\ew trials granted in a cause. —No more than
two new trials on the same side can be granted in any cause.
§ 3022 (2672). On loss of pleadings a copy may be filed. —If an
original pleading be lost or withheld by any person, the court may
order a copy to be filed in the place of the original. (3)
§ 3023 (2673). Jury take out written evidence. —All instruments of
evidence, and depositions read to the jury, may be taken out by
them on their retirement.
§ 3024 (2674). Court may order consolidation of suits. —Whenever
two or more actions are pending at the same time, between the
same parties, in the same court, and which might have been
joined, the court may order them to be consolidated.
§ 3025 (2675). Suits ; how dismissed in vacation.—The plaintiff
may dismiss his suit in vacation by causing an entry to be made
by the clerk on the docket" of the dismissal of the suit. When
the summons has been executed, notice must be given to the defend
ant of the intended dismissal.
§ 3026 (2676). When the state, a county or city is iriteresfed, the cit
izens are competent jurors and witnesses. —In actions for the recov
ery of penalties, where a part thereof may enure to the state, a
county or corporate town or city, any citizen of the county, state,
town or city is a competent juror or witness.
§ 3027 (2677). Notice, in toriting to the attorney is nature to his client.
Written notice to the attorney of record is as effectual as notice to
the party to be affected by it, and may be executed by the sheriff,
whose return of service is evidence of the fact.
§ 3028 (2678). Charge of the court to the jury.—The court may
state to the jury the law of the case, and may also state the evi
dence where the same is disputed, but shall not charge upon the
effect of the testimony, unless required to do so by one of the par
ties. (1)
§ 3029. When issue of fact in civil case tried ivithotd jury.—« An
issue of fact in a civil case, in anv court of common law jurisdic-
tion, may be tried and determined by the court, without the inter
vention of a jury, whenever the parties, or their attorneys of
record, file a stipulation in writing with the clerk of the court,
waiving a jury ; and in such case the finding of the court upon the
facts shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury.
§ 3030. Court must make special finding of facts, if requested; if
not, finding to be general or special. —b When trial by jury is waived,
as provided by the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the
court, upon the request of either party, to make a special finding
of the facts at issue between the parties, which shall be reduced
to writing and entered upon the minutes of the court, and there
upon to render judgment between the parties as the law of the
case may require. When such special finding is not so required
of the court, a general or special finding may be made at the dis
cretion of the court.
§ 3031. Exceptions in such cases ; review in appellate court.-—cThe*1
rulings in the admission or rejection of evidence, and in other
matters in the trial of the cause, may be excepted to by either
party, and presented for review by the appellate court by a bill of
exceptions, as provided by law ; and when the finding of the infe
rior court is special, the review by the appellate court may also
extend to an examination and determination of the sufficiency of
the facts found by the inferior court to support the judgment. (2)
§ 3032 (2770). Calculation of interest, &c, and damages on a bill on
judgment by default. —In all actions founded on any instrument of
writing, ascertaining the plaintiff's demand, if judgment by default,
nil dicit, or on demurrer be rendered for the plaintiff, such judg
ment may be entered up by the clerk, under the direction of the
court, without the intervention of a jury ; and the clerk must com
pute the interest ; and in case of a bill of exchange, the damages,
if any be due thereon. (3)
§ 3033 (2771.) Judgment- on penal bond only for amount dw. —In
all actions which are brought on any penal bond, for the payment
of money, whenever the plaintiff recovers, judgment must be
entered for no more than principal and interest due on the bond.
§ 3034 (2779). Interpreters. —Interpreters may be sworn, truly
to interpret, when necessary, and must be paid as witnesses in the
cause.
AETICLE I.
OF GENERAL RULES.
§ 3035 * (2681). Effect of written contract as evidence ; proof of con
sideration impeached by plea. —Every written contract, the founda
tion of the suit, purporting to be executed by the party sought to
be charged, his partner, agent, or attorney in fact, is evidence of
the existence of the debt, or that the party undertook to perform
the duty for which it was given, and that it was made on sufficient
consideration; but may be impeached by plea; and when so
impeached, the burden of proof is on the defendant. (1)
§ 3036 (2682). Execution of notes, dtc., purporting to lie signed, only
impeached by plea under oath. —All written instruments, the foun
dation of the suit, purporting to be signed by the defendant, his
partner, agent or attorney in fact, must be received in evidence,
without proof of the execution, unless the execution thereof is
denied by plea, verified by affidavit ; and every assignment of such
instrument, on which suit is brought in the name of the assignee,
must be deemed genuine, unless impeached in like manner, when
in either case the burthen of proof is cast on the plaintiff. (2)
§ 3037 (2683). Execution or assignm nt of notes, die, not proved
unless denied on oath. —It is not necessary to prove the execution or
assignment of any instrument offered in evidence under the plea of
set-off, or other plea in bar, unless the plaintiff put the execution
or assignment thereof in issue, by a replication, verified by affi
davit.
§ 3038. (2684). Partnership not required to be proved unless denied
on with. — When suit is brought by a firm, or in the name of a
partnership, the plaintiff must not be required to prove the exist
ence erf the firm, or the individuals composing it, unless the same
is denied by plea, verified by affidavit.
§ 3039 (2685). Releases, receipts, &c., to have effect intended,
whether under seal or not. —All receipts, releases, and discharges in
writing, whether of a debt of record, or a contract under seal, or
otherwise, must have effect according to the intention of the
parties to the same.
§ 3040 (2686). Composition of debts for a less sum sustained without
release or new consideration. —All settlements in writing, made in
good faith for the composition of debts, must be taken as evidence,
and held to operate according to the intention of the parties,
though no release under seal is given, and no new consideration
has passed. (1)
§ 3041 (2687). Officer may justify under process regular on its
face, dec. —Whenever it appears that the process is regular on its
face, and is issued by the competent authority, a sheriff or other
ministerial officer is justified in the execution of the same, what
ever may be the defect in the proceeding on which it was issued.
§ 3042 (2688). Mode of proving rate of interest in other states.
The secretary of state must cause to be printed in the pamphlet
acts of each session of the legislature, the rate of interest of each
of the states and territories of the United States, which must be
received as presumptive evidence of the rate of interest aforesaid.*
§ 3043 (2691). Certificates of registers of land office, dec, vest title,
and received in evidence. —All certificates issued pursuant -to any
act of congress, by any. board of commissioners, register of a land
office, or by any one authorized by law to issue such certificate,
upon any warrant or order of survey, or for any donation or pre
emption claim, vest the legal title in the holder, or his assignee,
and must be received as evidence of such title ; and all transcripts
of any official book, official entry, or any other document pertain
ing to any land office in this state, certified by the register of such
land office, must be received as prima facie evidence of the facts
contained in such transcripts so certified, in all the courts of this
state. (2)
§ 3044 (2692). Deeds made and signed in land office received in evi
dence, upon certificate of register. —Any deed or written instrument
for the conveyance or sale of land purchased or entered at any
land office of the United States in this state, made or signed in or
upon any book or record of such office, may be proved by a copy
thereof, certified by the register of such land office, under his
hand, to be a correct copy, and such copy shall be received in all
courts and proceedings under the laws of this state, and may be
recorded in the office of the probate court of the county in which
the land may be ; and the transcript of such record in the office of
the probate court may be certified and used in the same manner
and in the same cases as transcripts of such records of original
deeds may be. (3)
§ 3045 (2693). Statutes of other states or the United States, how
proved. —Transcripts of acts of congress, or of the statutes of any
state or territory of the United States, certified by the secretary
of state of this state, as being deposited in his office ; and public or
private statutes, or the proceedings of any legislative body, purport
ing on the face of the book to be printed by authority of the gov
ernment, state, or territory, are evidence without further proof. (4)
§ 3046 (2694). Certificate of head of a bureau or department suffi
cient authentication.—The certificate of the head of any bureau or
department of the general government is a sufficient authentica
tion of any paper or document appertaining to or belonging to
his office.
§ 3047 (2695). Copies of official bonds, and other instruments
required by lata to be kept by any sworn officer, are evidence. —Copies
of official bonds, or other instruments or papers required to be
kept by any officer of this state, and transcripts from the books
and proceedings required to be kept by any sworn officer of the
state, are presumptive evidence in any civil cause, and hav.e the
same effect as if the original were produced and proved, upon the
certificate of the custodian thereof that it is a true copy of the
original', but the court may, on motion, require the production of
the original, if practicable, when necessary to promote the ends of
justice. (1)
§ 3048 (2696). Books, maps, and notes of surveyor general, public
archives, and certified copies, are evidence. —The books, maps, and
field notes of the late surveyor general of the United States for
the State of Alabama, deposited in the office of the secretary of
state, are public archives of the state, and the secretary of state,
upon the application of any person, must furnish certified copies
of the same, which copies, so certified, must be received in evi
dence in any of the courts of the state.
§ 3049 (2697). Transcripts of certain books, certified by proper
custodian, to be received in evidence. —All transcripts of Dooks
required by law to be kept in the office of the secretary of state,
or the office of the auditor, properly certified as correct by the
proper custodian of such books, must be received as evidence in
the courts of this state ; and it is no objection to such transcript
that the book from which it may be taken is a copy of office books
belonging to the government of the United States.
§ 3050. Certified copy of copy of field notes by judge of probate
admissible, in evidence. —a Copies of the copies of the field notes of
the original government surveys of lands furnished by the secre
tary of state of this state, to the judge of probate, shall, when cer
tified by such judge, in due form of law, be admissible in evidence
in any court of this state.
§ 3051 (2698). Private acts of this or another state given in evidence.
All private acts of the legislature of this or any other state, may
be given in evidence without being specially pleaded.
§ 3052 (2699). Patents received in evidence without proof. —Patents
issued by the United States, or any state of the United States,
must be received in evidence without further proof. (2)
§ 3053 (2700). Entry in his books by a physician, evidence of service
unless denied on oath ; value of service to be proved. —The original
entries in the books of a physician are evidence for him, in all
actions brought for the recovery of his medical services, that the
service was rendered, unless the defendant in open court deny
upon oath the truth of such entries ; but he is required to prove
the value of such services. Where the denial is by a legal repre
sentative of the party, it is sufficient for him to swear that he
believes it to be untrue. (3)
§ 3054. Entries and writings try deceased executor, administrator,
quardian or trustee. —b Entries and writings heretofore or hereafter
~
1. Transcript of constable's bond from records of probate court —43 Ala. 217.
made by a deceased executor, administrator, guardian, or other
trustee, shall be admissible in evidence, in the same manner and
under the same rules, as if such entries or writings had been made
or executed by a deceased clerk of such executor, guardian,
administrator, or other trustee.
§ 3055 (2701). Prices current evidence of the value of articles at the
date, dec. —Prices current and commercial lists printed at any com
mercial mart, are presumptive evidence of the value of any article
of merchandise specified therein, at that place, at the date thereof,
and of the rate of exchange between that and other places ; also
of the rates of insurance, freights, and the times of the arrival
and departure of ships and other vessels.
§ 3056 (2702). Effect o f registers of births, marriages and deaths.
Registers of marriages, births, and deaths, kept in pursuance of
law, or by any ecclesiastical rule of any religious church or
society, may be certified by the custodian thereof, and are pre
sumptive evidence of the facts certified, as well as of the law or
rule in virtue of which such registry was made, and his authority
to certify the same.
§ 3057 (2703). Evidence to he in open court on oath. —All testimony,
except as otherwise directed, must be given in open court on the
oath or affirmation of the witness.
§ 3058 (2704). Competency as affected by being a party, or having an
interest. —c In suits and proceedings before any court or officer,
other than criminal cases, there must be no exclusion of any witness
because he is a party, or interested in the issue tried, except
that neither party shall be allowed to testify against the other, as
to any transaction with, or statement by, any deceased person
whose estate is interested in the result of such suit, or when such
deceased person, at the time of such statement or transaction,
acted in any representative or fiduciary relation whatsoever to the
party against whom such testimony is sought to be introduced. (1)
§ 3059 (2715). Bepresentative of borroiver a competent witness to
prove usury by his belief. —When the borrower is dead, and usury
is relied on as a defense, the representative of the borrower, hav
ing given ten days notice to the plaintiff, or his attorney, of his
intention to do so, is a competent witness to prove the usury, by
swearing that he believes the contract to be usurious, if the
plaintiff was the lender, unless the plaintiff denies on oath in
open court the truth of the facts proposed to be sworn to by the
defendant.
ARTICLE H.
OF THE MODE OF PROCURING TESTIMONY. BY SUBPCENA.
§ 3060 (2705). Subpoena issues when muse is on trial d<x-ket. — At
the request of either party, his agent or attorney, to any suit which
is then pending, or where the complaint has been executed more
than twenty days before the return day thereof, the clerk of the
court, where the suit is pending, must issue subpcenas for wit
nesses, specifying therein the time and place for their appearance,
the title of the suit, and the party at whose instance they are
summoned, and commanding them to appear in conformity there
with, and give testimony.
§ 3061 (2706). No subpoena can issue for witness living one hnndrtd
miles from court without affidavit, &c. —No subpoena can issue for
a witness, residing more than one hundred miles from the place of
trial, computing by the usual traveled route, unless the party sum
moning him make affidavit that the personal attendance of the
witness is necessary to a proper decision of the cause, and that
his deposition would be insufficient for that purpose ; which must
be indorsed by the clerk upon the subpoena.
§ 3062 (2707).) How executed, and by whom. —The subpoena must
be directed to "any sheriff of the State of Alabama," and may be
executed upon the witness, either personally or by leaving a copy
at his place of residence, unless the subpoena is issued during term
time, when it must be executed by personal service.
§ 3063 (2708). Subpoenas issued at each term, till case is disposed of.
In civil cases, when the cause is not decided at the first term, wit
nesses must be summoned by the clerk, by the issue of a subpoena
to each term, until the cause is determined, unless otherwise
directed by the parties.
§ 3064 (2709). Penalty for default by witness.-—Any witness who,
after being summoned, fails to attend, pursuant to the mandate of
the subpoena, and remain until his testimony is given, or he is dis
charged by the court or the party summoning him, forfeits one
hundred dollars for the use of the party summoning him.
§ 3065 (2710). Proceedings to recover penalty. —A conditional
judgment must, on motion of such party, be rendered against such
witness, and a notice issued to him that such judgment will be
made absolute, unless he appear at the next court and render a
good excuse for his default ; and on being personally served with
a copy of such notice, ten days before the next or any succeeding
term, if he fail to appear and render a satisfactory excuse for his
default; such judgment may be made absolute, or reduced, as the
court may direct.
§ 3066 (2711). Witness imprisoned for refusal to testify. —Any
witness refusing to testify, unless privileged by law from testifying
in the cause, must be committed to the jail of the county, there
to remain without bail until he consent to testify.
§ 3067 (2712.) Witness not discharged without bond to appear and
testify. —No witness so imprisoned must be discharged at the
adjournment of the court, or after, until he give bond and security
in an amount to be prescribed by the judge of such court, to be
approved by the judge of probate, payable to the state, and con
ditioned to appear at the next term, and give evidence in the
cause.*
§ 3068 (2714). Witnesses' excuse made in court, by affidavit or oral
examination. —Witnesses failing for sufficient cause to attend court,
may make their excuse by affidavit, or viva voce, in open court,
which the court must hear at any time, unless engaged m the trial
of a cause ; and if the excuse is sufficient, release the party from
the fine imposed, without payment of costs, t
ARTICLE III.
OF THE PROCURING TESTIMONY BY DEPOSITION.
§ 3069 (2716). Cases in which testimony may lie taken by deposition.
The evidence of witnesses may be taken by deposition, in civil
cases, by either party—
1. Where the witness is a female.
2. Where the witness, from age, infirmity, or sickness, is unable
to attend court.
3. Where the witness resides more than one hundred miles from
the place of trial, computing by the route usually traveled, or
resides out of, or is absent from the state.
4. Where the witness is about to leave the state, and will prob
ably not return until after the trial.
5. Where the claim or defense, or a material part thereof, de
pends exclusively on the evidence of the witness.
6. Where the witness is governor of the state, treasurer, auditor,
chancellor, judge, clerk, register in chancery, or sheriff of a court
of record ; or president, director, or other officer of a bank incor
porated in this state ; postmaster, or any other officer of the
United States ; or practicing physician or lawyer ; or a person
constantly employed on any steamboat or other water-craft, or
about the engine or other machinery of any railroad, plank-road
or manufactory ; or is a superintendent, secretary, treasurer, mas
ter of road repairs, or conductor of any railroad ; or is a telegraph
operator ; or a teacher of a public or private school, actually en
gaged in teaching ; or a minister of the gospel in charge of any
diocese, parish, church, district or circuit. (1)
§ 3070 (2717). Steps taken tie/ore issue of commission. —The party
desiring to take such deposition, or his agent or attorney, must
make affidavit before a justice of the peace of the state, or clerk
of the court, setting forth some one or more of the above causes
for taking such deposition, and that the witness is material, which
must be filed in the cause, and thereupon the clerk must issue a
commission to one or more persons to take such deposition, and
prescribe the notice to be given to the opposite party, or his attor
ney, of the time and place of taking it. If the party on whom the
notice is to be served resides out of the county, and has no attor-
ney of record, it is sufficient to file the same with the papers in
the cause, the length of time prescribed ; but when the testimony
is desired under the third subdivision of the preceding section,
the testimony must be taken by interrogatories as prescribed in
the next section.
§ 3071 (2718). Interrogatories may be. filed, of which notice must lie
given. —The party, after making affidavit, may file with the clerk
interrogatories to be propounded to the witness, of which, and of
the residence of the witness and of the commissioner to be
appointed to take such deposition, he must give the opposite party,
or his attorney, notice in writing, who has ten days thereafter to
file cross interrogatories, to which the partv filing the interroga
tories may file rebutting interrogatories. After the expiration of
the ten days a commission, accompanied by a copy of the inter
rogatories, cross and rebutting, if filed, must be issued by the clerk,
to take the deposition, which may be taken at such time and place
as the commissioner shall appoint ; on failure to give the notice
herein required, of the residence of the witness and the commis
sioner, unless the same is waived by the adverse party, the depo
sition of such witness must be suppressed, at the cost of the party
taking the same. (1)
§ 3072 (2719). Notice when party resides out of the county. —If the
party to whom notice is to be given under the provisions of the
preceding section, resides out of or is absent from, and has no
attorney of record within the county, notice may be given by filing
the interrogatories in the office of the clerk for ten days.
§ 3073 (2720). Duty of the commissioner in executing the commis
sion. —It is the duty of the commissioner to reduce the answers of
the witness to writing, or cause it to be done by the witness him
self, or some impartial person, as near as may be in the language
of the witness, having first sworn him to speak the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth ; and the deposition, when com
plete, must be by him enveloped, together with the commission and
any document which may have been deposed to, sealed and directed
to the clerk of the court where the cause is pending, with the title
of the cause indorsed thereon. (2)
§ 3074 o(2721). Certificate of commissioner, evidence of identity of
°. \ » '. • J i i ' o . , m/ f
witness, and of time and place, Ac, hoiv returned. —The certificate
of the commissioner of the manner, time and place of taking the
deposition, and that he has personal knowledge of, or has had
proof made before him of the personal identity of the witness, and
that he is not of counsel nor of Tun to any of the parties to the cause
nor in any manner interested in the result thereof, shall be pre
sumptive evidence of the facts stated by him, and the package may
be sent by mail or by private conveyance to the clerk. (2)
§ 3075 (2722). Penalty for neglect to attend before the commission
er ; proceedings to recover it. —Any witness whose testimony is thus
required, and who fails on due notice to appear before the com
missioner and give evidence, forfeits to the party aggrieved the
sum of one hundred
dered by the court where the cause is pending, five days notice
in writing having been given him that such motion will be made ;
and is also liable at the the suit of the party aggrieved to an
action for damages ; but such witness may make his excuse as in
other cases.
§ 3076 (2723).' Commissioner issues sulrpamas for witnesses, and
failure proved by his certificate.—The commissioner has power to
issue subpoenas for witnesses, which may be served by the sheriff
or any constable ; and the certificate of the commissioner that he
failed to appear, together with the return of the officer, is proof of
the fact.
§ 3077 (2724). Dejmitions thus taken read in evidence ; presumed to
be as when sent by the commissioner. —Any deposition thus taken
may be read in evidence, so far as the same is pertinent to the
issue and legal evidence ; and if the package bears no marks of
violence or evidence of mutilation, must be presumed to be as it
came from the hands of the commissioner, until the contrary is
shown.
§ 3078 (2725). Depositions, except of females, taken de bene esse. —
When the deposition of a witness is taken for any other cause than
being a female, the deposition can not be used if it appear at the
trial that the cause for which it was taken does not exist, unless
such witness is dead, insane, or resides more than one hundred
miles from the place of trial.
§ 3079 (2726). When the personal attendance of witnesses examined
upon interrogatories may be compelled. —When the deposition of any
witness residing in the county in which any civil cause may be
pending, shall have been taken under the provisions of this article, the court in which the cause may be pending, or the
clerk of such court, if the application is made in vacation, on
the application of either party in the cause, supported by the
affidavit of such party, his agent or attorney, that he believes
the personal attendance of the witness on the trial of the cause
is necessary, may make an order requiring such witness to attend
the trial of such cause in person ; and a copy of such order, with
a subpoena, must be served upon such witness, and on proof of
such service, the deposition of such witness must be suppressed
on the trial.
§ 3080 (2727). When testimony may be retaken. —Any party against
whom the deposition of a witness has been taken, with or without
interrogatories, in any cause at common law, may retake the depo
sition of such witness, either with or without interrogatories, in the
manner and under the rules for taking the depositions of witnesses
in other cases—
1. When no cross examination of such witness has been had.
2. When the cross examination has been imperfectly or insuffi
ciently made, from any cause other than willful neglect of the party
seeking to retake such deposition ; and upon a satisfactory show
ing by such party, his agent or attorney, upon oath in writing,
filed in open court, or with the clerk in vacation, of sufficient excuse
for not having perfected the cross examination before, and that a
further cross examination is necessary to secure justice upon the
trial of such cause. Any deposition taken under the provisions
of this section, shall operate in all respects as a cross examination
of such witness ; and the party taking the deposition of such wit
ness originally may propound rebutting interrogatories, as in case
of original examination.
§ 3081 (2728). Objections to the whole deposition to he taken before ■
trial. —All objections to the admissibility of the entire deposition in
evidence, must be made before entering on the trial, and not after,
unless the matter is not disclosed in the deposition, and appears
after the commencement of the trial. (1)
§ 3082 (2729). Interrogatories to intnesses in foreign sirils. —The
provisions of this article to compel witnesses to a'hswer interroga
tories, and for failure to answer, are applicable to parties litigant
in the courts of such states as have granted similar provisions to
citizens of this state, and proceedings therefor may be had in the
circuit court of the county in which the witness resides. The cer
tificate of the person issuing the commission that the state in which
such suit may be pending has a statute to compel witnesses to
testify in foreign suits, is prima facie evidence of that fact ; but no
witness shall be required to give testimony under such commission,
unless the party desiring such testimony, his agent or attorney,
shall first deposit with the commissioner, for the witness, the
amount allowed by law for mileage and per diem to witnesses
attending to give evidence under commission from the courts of
this state, which deposit maybe evidenced by the certificate of the
commissioners or one of them.
§ 3083 (2730). Fees of witnesses before commissioner taxed in bill of
costs. —"Witnesses who attend and testify, with or without a sub
poena, are, on the certificate of the commissioner of the distance
traveled and number of days attendance, &c., entitled to the same
compensation as other witnesses, and the commissioner to twenty
cents for every hundred words ; all of which must be taxed in the
bill of costs, upon the certificate of the commissioner.
ARTICLE IV.
EXAMINATION OF PARTIES BY INTERROGATORIES.
§ 3084 (2731). Interrogatories fled to adverse party on affidavit of
materiality. —Either party to any civil suit, desiring the testimony
of his adversary, may file with the clerk interrogatories to be pro
pounded to him, with an affidavit that the answers thereto will be
material testimony for him in the cause. (2)
§ 3085 (2732). interrogatories served on him, or if a non-residtmt,
commission to issue to examine him. —If the party whose testimony
is required resides out of the state, the clerk must issue a com
mission to take his testimony, to which a copy of the interroga
tories must be appended ; if he resides within the state, the party
desiring his testimony must serve him with a copy of the inter
rogatories, which may be executed by the sheriff.
§ 308 (5 (2733). Answers duly sworn to are evidence. —The answers
to the interrogatories, duly sworn to before the clerk or any jus
tice of the peace, are evidence in the cause, when offered by the
party taking them.
§ 3087 (2734). Impertinent questions need not be, answered. —If the
interrogatories are not pertinent to the issue, or matter in dispute
between the parties, there shall be no obligation to answer them ;
and if answered, the answers may be suppressed by the court at
the trial."
§ 3088 (2735). Proceedings on failure to answer, or to answer fully.
If answers to the interrogatories are not filed within sixty days
after service of a copy of the interrogatories, or when the answers
are not full or are evasive, the court may either attach the party
and cause him to answer fully in open court, or continue the cause
until full answers are made, or direct a non-suit or judgment hy
default to be entered. (1)
§ 3089 (2736). The ansioer may be contradicted.—A resort to this
mode of obtaining evidence does not preclude the party calling
for it from adducing other proor of the same facts, or from con
tradicting it.
§ 3090 (2737). All pertinent questions not involving a prosecution
must Ite answered. — Under the provisions of this article, the party
is bound to answer all pertinent interrogatories, unless by the
answer he subjects himself to a criminal prosecution.
ARTICLE V.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.
§ 3091 (2738). Testimony may be perpetuated. —The testimony of
a witness may be taken conditionally, and perpetuated, as provided
in this article.
§ 3092 (2739). Affidavit filed specifyiruj grounds. —The applicant
must make affidavit before a circuit or probate judge, or register
in chancery, stating—
1. That he is a party, or expects to be a party to a suit, either
at law or in equity, in a court of this state.
2. That the testimony of a witness, whose name and place of
residence are stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of
such suit, and generally the facts expected to be proved by the
witness.
3. If such suit be not actually commenced, the name of the
party who is expected to be adverse to the party in such suit, and
his residence, and that he is of full age;
§ 3093 (2740). Order for examination, and notice to adverse party.
Such judge or register must thereupon make an order allowing the
examination of the witness, and if the adverse party, or the party
expected to be adverse to the application, resides in this state, a
copy of such application, and notice of the time and place of the
examination, must be given to such adverse or expected adverse
party, at least ten days before such examination.
§ 3094 (2741). If a non-resident, notice by publication. — If such
adverse party, or expected adverse party, is a non-resident, notice
of such application must be given by publication in such paper as
may be directed by the judge or register, a once a week for three a
successive weeks, and a newspaper containing such publication psent
by mail to the residence of such adverse party, directed to
him, once a week for the three weeks of publication.
§ 3095 (2742). Contents of notice. —The notice as published must
contain a copy of the apphcation, and notice of the time and
place of taking the examination, which must not be less than three
months from the time of the first publication.
§ 3096 (2743). Applicant pays for publication, —The applicant must
pay the expenses of the publication.
§ 3097 (2744). Examination of the witness.—Upon the application
and notice being returned executed by the sheriff, if such adverse
or expected adverse party is a resident of the state, or upon proof
of the notice required by" the fourth section of this article, if a
non-resident, such judge or register must take the deposition of
the witness at the time and place appointed, and the examination,
if necessary, may be continued from day to day until completed.
§ 3098 (2745). Exam ination reduced to writing, certified and filed in
office with the other papas. —Every question answered, or declara
tion of the witness, must be taken down, the deposition, when
completed, carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, certi
fied by the judge or register, and immediately thereafter filed in
the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which
it was taken, with the order for the examination of such witness,
the affidavit on which the same was granted, and the application
and notice, with the return of service indorsed thereon by the
sheriff, or the affidavit proving the publication, and transmission
of the papers containing the same, to such adverse party.
§ 3099 (2746). Bet urn and affidavit evidence of facts stated.-—The
return of the sheriff, or the affidavit so filed, is presumptive evi
dence of the facts therein stated, and the clerk must record all the
papers so returned to him.
§ 3100 (2747). Depositions taken evidence in any subsequent trial, if
the ivitness Ik, dead or insane. —If a trial be had between the persons
in the affidavit described as parties actual or expectant, or their
successors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the
witness at the time of such trial, the deposition, or a certified copythereof,
may be given in evidence by either party.
§ 3101 (2748). Effect of such depositions as evidence. —The deposi
tion so read in evidence has the same effect as the oral testimony
or the deposition of such witness, and no other ; and every objec
tion to the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to him,
or of any answer made by him, may be made m the same manner
as if he was orally examined on the trial, or as if his deposition
had been taken in the case.
§ 3102 (2749.) Fees of the judge ofprobate, register and sheriff'. —The
judge of probate and register are entitled, for copy of application,
and taking questions, recording the same, and answers, to twenty-
five cents for each hundred words ; for the other duties, one dollar
on each application, to be paid by the applicant. The sheriff, for
serving and returning the application, one dollar.
ARTICLE VI.
DEMURRER TO EVIDENCE.
§ 3103 (2750). Demurrers to evidence, when allowed.— In all actions
upon contracts, when the testimony on both sides is written, either
party may demur thereto ; when the testimony on either side is
parol, the opposite party, having offered no parol testimony, may
also demur thereto ; and the other party must be required by the
court to join in the demurrer.(l)
§ 3104 (2751). Effect of a demurrer to evidence.—The effect of a
demurrer to evidence is an admission by the party demurring of
the truth of the evidence demurred to, and of every inference or
conclusion which a jury could legally deduce therefrom; and
devolves on the court the determination of the issue of fact between
the parties, as well as the law.(l)
§ 3105 (2752). Testimony to l>e loritten out, and becomes a part of
the record. —Upon a demurrer to evidence being tendered, the court
must reduce the testimony to writing, or cause it to be done ;
which, being signed by the judge, constitutes part of the record.(l)
§ 3106 (2753). If judgment be for plaintiff, the jury must assess the
damages.—If the court determine the issue for the plaintiff, a jury
must be immediately empanueled to ascertain the damages, if unli
quidated ; or the jury, if one has been empanueled, may be required
to assess the damages conditionally, previous to their being dis
charged^!)
CHAPTER 10.
BILLS OF EXCEPTION.
§ 3107 (2754). Bill of exceptions taken during trial. —Either of the
parties in any civil case, during the trial of the cause, may reserve,
by bill of exceptions, any charge, opinion, or decision of the court,
touching the cause of action, and which would not otherwise
appear of record. (2)
§ 3108 (2755). Bill to state the point excepted to, and if correct, must
be signed, dtc —The bill must be tendered by the party supposing
himself aggrieved, stating the point, charge, opinion, or decision,
wherein the court is supposed to err, with such a statement of the
facts as is necessary to make it intelligible ; and if correctly stated,
it is the duty of the presiding judge to sign the same, which thereby
becomes a part of the record.(2)
§ 3109 (2756). Charges asked must be in writing, and given or
refused as asked, and indorsed by the judge as part of the record. —
Charges moved for by either party must be in writing, and must
be given or refused, in the terms in which they are written ; and
it is the duty of the judge to write "given," or "refused," as the
case may be, on the document, and sign his name thereto ; which
thereby becomes a part of the record, and may be taken by the
jury with them on their retirement. (1)
§ 3110 (2757). When charge of judge must be in writing. —In all
civil and criminal cases, the judge must charge the jury in writing,
if the charge is required to be so given by either party, and notice
of such requisition is given after the testimony is closed, and
before the argument to the jury is commenced. (1)
§ 3111 (2758). Refusal to sign biU, high misdemeanor; evidence
received by sv/pr> me court as to refusal of judge to sign a correct bill of
exceptions. —If the judge fail or refuse to sign a bill of exceptions,
the point or decision and the facts being truly stated, he is guilty
of a high misdemeanor in office, and the supreme court must
receive such evidence of the facts as may be deemed by it satis
factory, and proceed to hear the cause, as if the bill had been
signed by the court.
§ 3112 (2759.) Plaintiff suffering non-suit may take a bill of excep
tions. —When, from any decision of the court on the trial of a cause,
it may become necessary for the plaintiff to suffer a non-suit, the
facts, point, or decision, may be reserved for the decision of the
supreme court, by bill of exceptions, as in other cases. (2)
§ 3113 (2760). Bill of exceptions to Ik signed iu term time ; excep
tions. —No bill of exceptions can be signed after the adjournment
of the court during which the exception was taken, unless by con
sent or agreement of counsel in writing, except in such cases as is
otherwise provided.* (3)
CHAPTER 11.
OF THE REMOVAL OF THE TRIAL.
§ 3114 (2761). Venue may lie changed once on motion of either
'party. —Either of the parties to a civil suit may move the court to
change the venue, at any time before final trial, and the court is
authorized to direct such change to the nearest county free from
exception, as to either of the parties, to be determined by affida
vits ; the party applying for such change making affidavit, that he
cannot have a fair and impartial trial, for reasons and causes
therein set forth, in the county where the suit is pending. The
same party can change the venue but once ; and the presiding
judge may require the applicant to give bond and security for
costs whenever in his judgment it will best secure the ends of
justice to all parties concerned. c
§ 3115 (2762). Depositions of witnesses in the comity may l>e taken
on cham/e of venue. —When there has been a change of venue, the
party opposed to such change may, in civil cases, take the depo
sition of all witnesses residing in the county from which the venue
has been changed, under the same rules and regulations as now
provided by law for taking depositions in other cases.
§ 3116 (2763). Subpamas command attendance at place of tried. —
It is the duty of the clerk of the court where the cause was insti
tuted, or is pending, unless otherwise directed, to issue subpoenas
to all witnesses, to attend the place to which the venue is changed.
§ 3117 (2764). Trial removed to new county, if defendant resides in
it. —In like manner, where new counties are formed out of old
counties, the original papers of all unfinished business in the
county where the defendant resided, with a transcript of all orders
made in the cause, must be transmitted to the new county as soon
as it is organized.
§ 3118 (2766). Clerk's duty on change of venue in transmission of
]mpers, dec.-—When a change of venue is directed, the clerk of the
court must make a transcript of all the minutes, orders, and pro
ceedings in the cause, with his certificate, and the seal of his
court annexed, that it is a true copy ; which, together with all the
original papers, he shall envelope and securely seal, with his name
written across the seals, together with his certificate on the back
thereof, that the enclosed papers, numbered from 1 to —, include
all the original papers in ihe cause, (naming it ;) which attestation
and certificate must be received as true, until the contrary is
shown. This package he may deliver himself, or send by a mes
senger ; and if not mutilated or defaced, must be presumed to be
as it came from the hands of the clerk. (1)
§ 3119 (2767). Pay of messenger having the papers. —The clerk or
messenger is entitled to five cents per mile, and tolls and ferri
ages, going and returning, which must be paid in advance by the
party applying for the change of venue. If paid by the opposing
party, to be taxed in the bill of costs against his adversary.
CHAPTER 12.
PROCEEDINGS WHERE SUIT IS BROUGHT, OR VERDICT IS RENDERED, FOR A
LESS AMOUNT THAN THAT OF WHICH THE COURT HAS JURISDICTION.
§ 3120 (2768). Suit dismissed if plaintiff sues for or recovers a less
sum than limit of the court's jurisdiction ; exceptions. —If suit be
brought on any moneyed demand, for a less amount than that of
which the court has jurisdiction, the suit must be dismissed; or, if
suit be brought for such amount, and a less sum be recovered,
unless the amount is reduced below that of which the court has
jurisdiction, by a set-off successfully made by the defendant, the
judgment must be set aside and the suit dismissed, unless he, or
some one for him, make affidavit, which must be filed in the cause,
that the amount sued for is actually due, and that a recovery for
the true amount was prevented by failure of proof, the interposi
tion of the statute of limitations, or some other sufficient cause,
to be judged of by the court ; and in that event, he must have
judgment for the reduced sum. * (1)
CHAPTER 13.
APPEALS FROM JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, AND CAUSES REMOVED BY CER
TIORARI.
§ 3121 (2772). Appeals and cases by certiorari, when tried. —Appeals
and certioraris from judgments of justices of the peace must be
tried at the first term after the appeal or certiorari, unless good
cause be shown for a continuance. And all such cases must
be tried according to equity and justice, without regard to any
defect in the summons or other process before the justice. (2)
§ 3122 (2773). Iffor less sum than twenty dollars, tried without a
jury. —When the sum claimed does not exceed twenty dollars, the
cause must be tried by the court, without the intervention of a
jury. When it exceeds twenty dollars, upon an issue to be made
up under the direction of the court and tried by a jury.
§ 3123 (2774). Damages, if appeal taken for delay. —If it appear
that the appeal or certiorari was taken for delay merely, fifteen
per cent, damages may be assessed. (3)
§ 3124 (2775). Costs in such cases. —If the defendant appeals, or
obtains a writ of certiorari, and the judgment of the circuit court is
for less than the judgment of the justice, the court may tax either
party with the costs, or both parties with any portion thereof. If
the plaintiff appeals, and does not recover more than the amount
for which the justice rendered judgment, he must be taxed with
the costs, t
§ 3125 (2776). On affirmance, judgment, rendered also against sure
ties. —When the judgment is affirmed, on appeal or certiorari,
judgment must be rendered by the court against the surety, as
well as the principal, which must include the costs of the inferior
and appellate court.
§ 3126 (2777). Appeals, (fee, not dismissed for defect in Ixmd, if
party is willing to amend it. —No appeal nor certiorari must be dis
missed for any defect in the appeal bond, or bond given to obtain
the certiorari, if the party is willing to execute a sufficient bond
or undertaking.
§ 3127 (2778). Not tried at the first term unless on notice of five
days. —No appeal nor certiorari shall be tried at the first term,
unless it appear that five days notice in writing has been given to
the opposite party, his agent or attorney, but in such case must
be continued untd the next term.
CHAPTER 14.
COSTS.
Article 1. —Taxation, and retaxution of costs.
2. —Security for coste.
AETICLE I.
TAXATION, AND RETAXATION OF COSTS.
§ 3128 (2779). Costs given to successful party. —The successful
party in all civil actions is entitled to full costs, for which judg
ment must be rendered, unless in cases otherwise directed by law ;
and this provision is applicable in all cases in which the state is a
party plaintiff in civil actions, as in cases of individual suitors.* (1)
§ 3129 (2780). In actions for torts, no more costs than damages
recovered, if verdict is for less than twenty dollars ; exception. —In all
actions to recover damages for torts, the plaintiff recovers no more
costs than damages, where such damages do not exceed twenty
dollars, unless the presiding judge certifies that greater damages
should have been awarded ; and on failure to certify, judgment
must be rendered against the plaintiff for such residue.
§ 3130 (2781). Defendant proving usury recovers costs. —If it be
made to appear that usurious interest has been intentionally taken
or reserved, the defendant recovers full costs. (2)
§ 3131 (2782). Costs of set-off, if sustained, to be recovered by
defendant. —In all actions where a set-off is pleaded and contro
verted, the defendant recovers his costs sustained in establishing
the set-off, though judgment be rendered for the plaintiff for a
residue. (3)
§ 3132 (2783). Fees of witness for milecuje. and attendance. —Wit
nesses are allowed one dollar and fifty cents per day in civil cases ;
also, five cents per mile for each mile to and from their residence,
by the usual traveled route, and all necessary ferriages, fees of
turnpikes and toll bridges, whether attending under subpoena or
at the request of the party. (4)
§ 3133 (2784). Certificates given witnesses of mileage and attendance.
After the trial, continuance of the cause, or discharge of the wit
ness, the clerk must, on his application, and upon his oath, give
him a certificate, setting forth the cause in which he was a witness,
the party by whom he was summoned, the number of days he
attendee! as a witness, and the sum to which he is entitled for his
attendance, travel, ferriage, &c, which he must also enter, either
upon the subpoena docket or book to be kept for that purpose.
§ 3134 (2785). Attendance to be proved in Jive days after adjownment.—The
witness must prove his attendance within five days
after the adjournment of the court at which the witness attended.
§ 3135 (2786). Only to charge one party. —A witness shall charge
for his attendance, but on one side of the same cause.
§ 3136 (2787). Costs against beneficial plaintiff.— When judgment
is rendered against the plaintiff in any suit brought in the name
of a nominal plaintiff for the use of another, judgment for costs
must be rendered against the beneficiary or his personal repre
sentatives. (1).
§ 3137 (2788). Costs of transcript of other court taxed in the bill. —
When the suit is founded on the record of another court, the costs
of the transcript, on proof to the court, must be taxed in the bill
of costs.
§ 3138 (2789). Fees for certificates, dc, taxed in the WW.—When
either party introduces, on the trial, any execution, bond or other
matter of evidence, certified by any officer or person whose certifi
cate makes the copy thereof evidence, the fees allowed by law to
such officer or person, for the transcript thereof and certificate,
must be allowed as costs.
§ 3139 (2790). Costs mi a plea " since last continuance," —When the
party filing a plea "puis darrien continuance " succeeds thereon, but
fails on the plea to the merits, previously filed, he must be taxed
with the costs which accrued previous to the filing the last plea. *
§ 3140 (2792). Witness fees taxed and collected, paid to the clerk for
the witnesses. — Upon the final disposition of any civil cause, the
amount proved by the witnesses, as herein before provided, must
be taxed in the bill of costs, against the rightful party, setting
forth the name of each witness and the amount allowed him,
which must be collected by the sheriff for the use of such wit
nesses, and be paid to the clerk issuing the execution, unless the
certificate of such clerk, with the receipt of the witness thereon,
is produced to the sheriff.
§ 3141 (2793). //' witness, on presenting his certificate, is refused
payment, he is excused from attending again in the cause. —The certifi
cate granted as aforesaid entitles the witness to demand of the
party summoning him the amount therein stated, and is presump
tive evidence that such amount is due, in any proceeding instituted
for its recovery ; and if in any civil cause, on demand thereof of
the party summoning him, or his agent, or in the case of his being
a non-resident, of his attorney, the same is not paid, the witness
is not obliged to appear again as a witness in the same cause until
his fees are paid.
§ 3142 (2794). On abatement by death of defendant, dc, plaintiff
pays the costs. —When a plaintiff brings a suit, which he suffers to
abate by the death of the defendant, or other cause, judgment for
costs shall be rendered against such plain tiff; or where the suit
abates by the death of the plaintiff, and his representative fails
to revive the same, judgment for costs may be rendered against
such representative ; judgments in both cases must be in the name
of the officers of the court, and when against representatives, are
paid as other claims against such estate. * (1)
§ 3143 (2796). Defendant, as to whom plaintiff' /nils, recovers costs.
When a plaintiff fails to recover against all of the defendants, the
defendants against whom he fails to recover are entitled to have
their aliquot proportion of the whole costs taxed against the plain
tiff.
§ 3144 (2797). Only two icitncsses charged for to prove one fact :
exception, —Not more than two witnesses shall be taxed in any bill
of costs, who were called to prove any one matter of fact, or, hav
ing been subpoenaed, were not examined, unless the court, upon a
motion to retax the costs, should, in its discretion, consider that
the circumstances of the case warranted the examining or sum
moning of more than two witnesses for the proof of a particular fact ;
or unless such witnesses were summoned or examined to assail or
defend the reputation of a witness for veracity, or to assail or to
establish the character of a party, when character is put in issue.
§ 3145 (2798). Motion to refuse costs when more than two witnesses
are summoned, made at trial term. —If more than two witnesses are
examined in proof of any particular fact, a motion must be made,
at the term at which the cause is tried, for instructions to the
clerk as to the taxation of costs, and can not be made afterwards.
§ 3146 (2799). Motion to retax the costs for excess. —If the taxa
tion of costs be excessive, by charging the costs of witnesses who
were not examined, or by charging costs to an improper party, or
taxing costs contrary to law, the party aggrieved may move the court
for a retaxation, setting forth the particulars in which the clerk
has erred.
§ 3147 (2800). On filing written exceptions to items of cost bill,clerk
to order sheriff not to collect such items until the further order of the
court. —If execution has issued in any such case, the party com
plaining thereof, or his attorney, may file a written application
with the clerk for a retaxation of the costs, setting forth in what
the alleged error consists, and the clerk must issue an order to the
sheriff, directing him to abstain from the collection of the dis
puted items of costs until the further order of the court, to which
a motion must be made, at the ensuing term, for a retaxation
thereof.
§ 3148 (2801). Execution not to issue against totonships, but to be
certified by the clerk to the superintendent of education. —If any town
ship shall fail to recover in any suit brought by it, the clerk of the
court or justice of the peace shall certify the costs to the super
intendent of education, who shall pay the same out of the funds
of such township, if any it have.
ARTICLE H.
SECURITY FOR COSTS.
§ 3149 (2802). In suits by non-residents, security for costs required
before issue of summons ; costs taxed to attorney. —All actions com
menced by or for the use of a non-jesident of this state, must be
dismissed, on motion, by the court, unless security for the costs
be indorsed on the complaint, or lodged with the clerk, previous
to the issue of the summons ; and the costs which have accrued
must be taxed against the attorney directing the summons to issue ;
but in case of attachments, such security may be given to and
approved by the officer issuing the attachment, or endorsed with
his approval upon the writ of attachment. (1)
§ 3150 (2803). If plaintiff removes, security required. —If suit be
commenced by or for the use of a resident who afterwards removes
from the state, the defendant, by motion to the court in term time,
or by notice to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, in vacation,
may require security for the costs ; and if such security be not
given on or before the next term of the court, the suit must be
dismissed.
§ 3151 (2804). Corporations must give security for costs. —Corpora
tions (except townships of this state), before commencing suits,
must give security for the costs, which must be lodged with the
clerk, and on failure to do so, the suit, on motion of the defendant,
must be dismissed. (2)
§ 3152 (2805). On judgment for defendant-, execution against secu
rity, on motion. —If judgment be rendered for the defendant, judg
ment must, on motion, be rendered against the security for the
costs, as well as against the plaintiff.
§ 3153 (2806). On suits without security, clerk and attorney are
both liable to defendant for costs. —If such suit be commenced with
out security being given for the costs, the attorney at law direct
ing the issue of the summons, and the clerk issuing it, are liable to
the defendant, on motion, for the costs of the suit.
CHAPTER 15.
AMENDMENTS.
§ 3154 (2807). Amendments of errors within three years, if enough
is found of record to show the error, drc. —The judges of the circuit
courts may, at any time within three years after the rendition of
final judgment, upon the application of either party, amend any
clerical error, mistake in the calculation of interest, or other mis
take of the clerk, where there is sufficient matter apparent on the
record or entries of the court to amend by. No cause can be
reversed for such error or defect by the supreme court, unless
the court of original jurisdiction refuses to make the amend
ment. (1)
§ 3155, (2808). Summons, complaint, pleading, dkc, not vitiated by
toant of form. —No summons, complaint, plea, return, process,
judgment, nor other proceeding, can be arrested, quashed, nor re
versed, for any defect or want of form, in any of the courts of this
state ; but the courts must proceed and give judgment according
to the right of the cause and matter in law, without regard to
any defect or want of form in the summons, complaint, or other
pleading.
§ 3156 (2809). Amendments of form allowed at any time; parties
added or struck out, t(~c, —The courts respectively must, whilst the
cause is in progress, amend all and every such imperfection and
defect of form, on motion of the party, without costs and without
delay, unless injustice will thereby be done to the opposite party ;
and must permit the amendment of the complaint by striking out
or adding new parties plain tiff, or by striking out or adding new
parties defendant, upon such terms and conditions as the justice
of the case may require. (2)
§ 3157 (2810). Mistakes of manes, sums, dales, dkc in any summons,
dec., cured by judgment, if correct in any part of the record. —Any
mistake in the christian or surname of either party, sum of money,
quantity of merchandise, day, month or year, in the summons,
complaint, or other pleading, (the same being right in any part of
the record or proceedings,) must, after judgment, be considered as
having been amended whilst the cause was in progress.
§ 3158 (2811). Judgment not set aside for cause not previously
shown, if complaint contain a cause of action. —No judgment can be
arrested, annulled, or set aside, for any matter not previously
objected to, if the complaint contain a subst.'intial cause of
action. (1)
CHAPTER 10.
FOR THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS AFTER JUDGMENT, PRETENTION OF ABUSE
OF PROCESS, FOR REHEARINGS IN CERTAIN CASES, NEW TRIALS, ENTRY
OF SATISFACTION, AND NOTICE THEREOF.
§ 3159 (2812). Poioer of circuit court, after judgment, ,to correct
errors and prevent abuse of process, dec. —The circuit court has power,
after final judgment—
1. To correct any error in fact in the judgment or process,
apparent upon the whole record.
2. To secure parties or privies in their rights against any oppres
sion or abuse of execution, or upon any release, discharge, or pay
ment after judgment.
§ 3160 (2813). Discharge found after trial entitles party to a neic
trial within two gears. —When a party had a release or discharge
in writing of any claim upon which judgment has been rendered
against him, which was lost or mislaid at the trial, and which such
party was unable to prove by secondary evidence, but has since
been found, the circuit court may cause the action to be retried at
any time after the discovery of the release or discharge, within two
years after judgment. (2)
§ 3161 (2814). Rehearing applied for in four months, if defense teas
prevented by surprise, &c. —Where a party has been prevented
from making his defense by surprise, accident, mistake, or fraud,
without fault on his part, he may, in like manner, apply for a
rehearing, at any time within four months from the rendition of
the judgment. (2)
§ 3162 (2815). Contents of petition for rehearing ; to ivhom made :
notice and manner of controverting. —In the cases specified in the
two preceding sections, the proceeding is by petition to a judge of
the circuit court, stating the matter complained of, with a prayer
for the appropriate relief. The facts stated in the petition must
be sworn to, unless they appear from a transcript of the record,
submitted with the petition ; and the petitioner shall give the
adverse party, or his attorney, ten days notice of the judge
before whom, and the time when and place where the application
will be made, and also cause a copy of the petition to be served
on such adverse party, ten days before such application is made ;
and the adverse party may controvert the petition by affidavit in
wTiting.
§ 3163 (2816). Supersedeas ordered by the judge. —The judge to
whom the application is made must, if satisfied that the applicant
is entitled to the relief sought, make the necessary order for a
supersedeas to issue, or in restraint of the issue or collection of
the execution, and the judge shall have power to impose such
terms as he may think proper for granting an order for the super
sedeas.
§ 3164 (2817). Applicant io give bond before issue of the super
sedeas. —The supersedeas must not issue, nor the execution be sus
pended, unless the applicant, or some one for him, give bond in
double the amount of the judgment or execution, or in double the
amount superseded or restrained, payable to the plaintiff in the
judgment or his personal representatives, with sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the clerk and conditioned to pay such judgment
or execution with interest, and all damages and costs awarded on
the trial of the proceeding against him. (1)
§ 3165 (2818). Petition tried at first term ; on denial of the petition
on oath supersedeas dismissed. —The facts alleged in the petition
must be tried, or the cause reheard, at the first term after the
granting of the order, unless for cause the same is continued.
When the cause is not tried or reheard at such first term, the court
may, on the denial on oath by the adverse party of the facts alleged
in the petition, make an interlocutory order dismissing the super
sedeas, or dissolving the restraining order.
§ 3166 (2819). Refunding bond required before execution issues. —In
the case provided for by the preceding section, no execution can
issue, unless such party, his agent or attorney, execute a refunding
bond in double the amount of the judgment or execution, payable
to the adverse party, with sufficient security, to be approved by the
clerk, and conditioned that if the final determination of the cause
is against him, he will refund the amount collected and interest.
§ 3167 (2820). Damaxjes when petition isfinally decided. —If, on the
final hearing of the cause, it is decided against the complainant,
and it appears that the application was not founded on a just or
meritorious cause, the court may award damages not exceeding ten
per cent, on the amount superseded or restrained.
§ 3168 (2821). Bonds taken under this chapter have the force of
judgments. —The bonds given under this chapter have the force
and effect of judgments, and executions may issue against any or
all the obligors, either for the amount superseded or restrained,
damages and costs, or the amount collected of the petitioner
after the execution of the refunding bond, and interest on such
amount. (2)
§ 3169 (2822). Court may decide in term time the validity of an
execution. —The provisions of this chapter must not be construed
to prevent the circuit court from deciding, on an application made
in term time, on the validity of any writ of execution.
§ 3170 (2823). Questions of fact, tried by a jury. —The court may
direct the trial of all questions of fact by a jury, upon an issue
made up under its direction.
§ 3171 (2824). Chapter applicable to plaintiffs. —The provisions
contained in the foregoing sections of this chapter are extended to
plaintiffs and those for whose benefit suits are brought, who must
comply with such provisions, so far as applicable to them, before
they are entitled to the relief extended under the same.*
§ 3172 (2828). Motion to enter satisfaction a,nd set aside such entry :
notice, how given. —When any party to a judgment or decree here
tofore rendered, or that may hereafter be rendered by any court
in this state, shall have removed from or reside out of this state,
and the opposite party desires to make any motion to enter satis
faction of such judgment or decree, or set aside any entry- of satis
faction, such motion must not be tried until affidavit of such re
moval or non-residence is filed, and publication of such motion is
made, « once a week for three successive weeks, in a newspaper pub-
lished in the county where such motion is made, and in case there
is no newspaper in the county, publication must be made by post
ing on the court house door of the county, notice of such intended
motion for six weeks; and when publication has been made as afore
said, and affidavit filed, such motion may be tried at any regular
term of the court thereafter, t (1)
CHAPTER 17.
OF THE REVIVAL OF JUDGMENT.
§ 3173 (2829). //' execution is issued, in a year, others may issue for
ten. —When execution has been issued on a judgment within a year
after its rendition, and has not been returned satisfied, another
execution may be issued at any time within ten years after the test
of the last, without a revival of the judgment.
§ 3174 (2830). Scire facias and other proceedings when execution
did not issue. —No execution shall issue on a judgment or decree of
the circuit, chancery or probate court, on which an execution has
not been sued out within one year after its rendition, until the
same has been revived, by scire, facias, if the defendant is a resi
dent of the state, calling on him to show cause why the plaintiff
should not have execution on his judgment or decree ; and when
the defendant is a non-resident, by the following proceedings : The
plaintiff must make affidavit of such non-residence, and that such
judgment or decree is unsatisfied, and cause publication to be made,
once a week for three successive weeks, in some newspaper published
in the county, calling on the defendant to show cause why the plain
tiff should not have execution on his judgment or decree, and a copv
of the paper containing such publication must be forwarded by mail
to the defendant, if his post-office be known. But if ten years
have elapsed from the rendition of the judgment, without the issue
of the execution, or if ten years have elapsed since the date of the
last execution issued, the judgment must be presumed to be satis
fied, and the burthen of proving that it is not satisfied is cast on
tbe plaintiff.*(l)
§ 3175 (2833). Scire facias barred in twenty years. —No scire facias
shall issue to revive a judgment, after the iapse of twenty years
from its rendition.
§ 3176 (2834). Execution issue* in favor of representative of deceased,
plaintiff. —When a plaintiff dies after the rendition of a judgment
in his favor, and such judgment is unsatisfied, execution thereon
may issue in favor of the personal representative of such deceased
person without a revival of the same ; and in all cases in which
judgment may be rendered in favor of any executor, administrator,
guardian or trustee, who shall die, resign, or be removed, execution
may issue on such judgment in favor of the succeeding executor,
administrator, guardian or trustee, without a revival thereof, any
law to the contrarv notwithstanding.
§ 3177 (2835). lievival of judgment after plaintiffs death.—When
any plaintiff in a judgment dies, the same may be revived in favor
of his representatives, upon ten days notice to the defendant in
such judgment ; and this may be done in vacation, and if objec
tion is made to the revival, then an appeal may be taken to the
next term of the court, upon the defendant giving bond in twice
the amount for which judgment was rendered.
§ 3178 (2836). Revival in name of assignee. —Where any plaintiff
has, during his life, transferred or assigned any judgment, and has,
since such transfer or assignment, died, his transferee or assignee
may have such judgment revived in his own name, as provided for
in the preceding section.
CHAPTER 18.
OF EXECUTION AND FORTHCOMING BONDS.
Article 1. —Form of, by whom and when issued.
2. — Of the levy, Hale and return.
3. —Of the property subject to execution.
4. — Of the lien of executions.
5. — Forthcoming bonds and execution thereon.
ARTICLE L
FORM OF, BY WHOM AND WHEN ISSUED.
§ 3179 (2837). Forms of executions to enforce judgments, either for
debt, damages, or for recovery of sjiecific property. —For the sat
isfaction of judgments, the party in whose favor the judgment is
rendered, whether for debt, damages, or costs, may, within a year
thereafter, have a writ of fieri facias against the lands and goods
of the party against whom the judgment is rendered. When the
judgment is for specific property or the alternate value, or for the
possession of lands, appropriate writs of execution, as hereafter
described, may issue for the satisfaction thereof, which must con
form substantially to the forms hereby prescribed.
[FORM OF 'FIERI FACIAS.]
The State of Alabama, /
county. f To any sheriff of the state :
You are hereby commanded, that of the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of A. B., you cause to be made the sum of
dollars, which C. D. recovered of him on the day of ,
18 , by the judgment of our circuit court, held for the county
of , besides costs of suit; and have the same to render to the
said C. D., and make return of this writ, and the execution thereof
according to law.
Witness my hand, this day of .
E. F., Clerk.
[ WRIT OF POSSESSION AND FIERI FACIAS. ]
The State of Alabama, )
county. \ To anv sheriff of the state :
You are hereby commanded to deliver to A. B. possession of
the lands and tenements which the said A. B. recovered of C. D.
by the judgment of our circuit court, held for the county of ,
on the day of ——, viz : (describe the land recovered). You
are further directed, of the goods and chattels, lands and tene
ments of the said C. D., you cause to be made the sum of
dollars, damages, adjudged to the said A. B., and also the further
sum of dollars, costs of suit ; and make return of this writ
and the execution thereof, according to law.
Witness my hand, <fec. E. F., Clerk.
| WRIT FOR SEIZURE AND DELIVERY OF SPECIFIC PROPERTY UNDER JUDG
MENT IN DETINUE. J
The State of Alabama, )
county. j To any sheriff of the state :
You are hereby commanded to seize and deliver to A. B. the
following personal property, to-wit: ; which the said A. B.,
on the day of , by judgment of our circuit court,
held for the county of , recovered of C. D., if the same ean
be had ; if not, you are hereby directed, that of the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements of said C. t)., you cause to be made
the sum of dollars, the alternate value of the personal
property, viz: (here set out tlif> assessed value of each item of
personal property), also the further sum of dollars, for the
detention of the said property by the said C. D., besides
dollars, costs of suit ; and make return of this writ and the execu
tion thereof, according to law.
Witness my hand, <fcc. E. F., Clerk.
§ 8180 (2838). Execution* to innue as sixm after court adjourns u.s
practicable. —The clerk must issue executions on all judgments in
favor of the successful parties, as soon after the adjournment of
court as practicable, within the time prescribed by this Code
unless otherwise directed. The writ must be signed by the clerk,
and tested on the day it is issued. (1)
§ 3181 (2839). Time in which executions must he issued. —When the
court continues in session but one week, the clerk must issue
executions within ten days thereafter; when it continues two
weeks, within fifteen days thereafter ; and when it continues three
or more weeks, within twenty days [after the adjournment of the
court.
§ 3182 (2840). Bill of costs to be endorsed.—At the foot or on some
part of the execution, the clerk must state the several items com
posing the bill of costs, in intelligible words and figures.
§ 3183 (2841). Execution issued before adjournment on affidavit ;
new trial, dec, not -prevented thereby.—Upon the rendition of judg
ment, execution may be issued by leave of the court, before the
adjournment thereof, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney showing
sufficient cause therefor, by affidavit; but the defendant is not
prevented thereby from moving for a new trial or in arrest of judg
ment, or deprived of any right he would otherwise have had.
§ 3184 (2842). On affidavit after adjournment, execution 'to issue
immediately. —After the adjournment of the court, and before the
expiration of the time limited by section 3181 (2839), the clerk
must, on affidavit being made and filed in his office, that the
defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of, or remove his prop
erty, and that thereby the plaintiff will probably lose his debt,
issue. execution against the property of the defendant.
§ 3185 (2843). More than one writ of execution may issue id plain
tiff's cost. —More than one writ of execution may be issued, at the
costs of the plaintiff, though the first be not returned. When a
fieri facias is returned not satisfied, or satisfied only in part, an
alias fieri facias may be issued.
§ 3186 (2844). Executions, when directed to coroner.—In the cases
provided for by chapter 3, title 10, part 1, the execution must be
directed to, and executed by the coroner, or special coroner, as
the case may be.
§ 3187 (2845). Credits on the judgment to lie indorsed on the alias
execution. —When a judgment has been satisfied in part, and an
alias execution issued, the clerk must indorse thereon the amount
which had been previously made, with the time of its payment or
collection by the sheriff.
§ 3188 (2846). //' defendant insolvent, execution against the plaintiff
for his costs. —When execution against the defendant is returned
" no property found," execution may issue against the plaintiff, in
the name of the clerk of the court, for all the costs created by him
in obtaining his judgment.*
ARTICLE II.
OF THE LEVY, 8ALE AND EETUBN, VENDITIONI EXPONAS, AND CONVEYANCE
OF LANDS BY SHERIFF, REGISTER, OR COMMISSIONER.
§ 3189 (2851). Time of receipt of execution to be indorsed, and order
of receipt if more than one. —The sheriff, or other officer receiving
an execution, must indorse thereon the day, month and year of its
receipt. When more than one execution against the same
defendant comes to his hands on the same day, if not received at
the same time, he must indorse the order in which they are
received.
§ 3190 (2852). To be executed irilli diligence, and returned, dec —
He must execute the writ with diligence, and, if practicable, per
form the mandate thereof, and make return of his acts to the
clerk, three days before the first day of the return term of the
writ. (1)
§ 3191 (2853). Return term of executions. —The return term of the
writ is the term next after its date, unless issued less than fifteen
days before court ; in which case it is the term next thereafter.
§ 3192 (2854). Reason for not executing stated in return. —If the
writ be not executed, or only executed in part, the reason why it
is not executed, or only executed in part, must be stated in the
return.
§ 3193 (2855). Sheriff of another county may make returns by mail,
d'c. : not to send money by mail. —The return of an execution or
other process, by a sheriff of a county other than that from which
the process issued, may be made through the public mail ; and the
certificate of the postmaster that it was placed in his office in time
by the usual course of the mail to reach the court house of the
county where the return has to be made, by the return day of the
writ, shall be presumptive evidence for the sheriff of the fact.
The sheriff is not authorized to send money by the mail without
the consent of the plaintiff in execution.
§ 3191 (2856). When line stock is levied on.— When live stock is
levied on, and remains in the hands of the officer, for sale, he
must provide sustenance for it. It is his duty to hire out or
employ the horses or other stock, if practicable, for their support ;
and if unable to do so, must be allowed by the court a reasonable
compensation for their support, which he may retain from the
proceeds of the sale.
§ 3195 (2857). Description of property to be indorsed on the execu
tion ; notice of levy on land to Iw given the owner. —Where a levy is
made of real or personal property, a full description thereof, with
the date of the levy, must be indorsed upon, or appended to the
execution. Where the levy is of real estate, personal notice
thereof must be given to the defendant, or a notice thereof in
writing left at his residence, if resident in the county ; if not, then
by putting up a written notice at the court house door ; and the
manner of giving notice must be stated in the return.
§ 319 (5 (2858). Indemnifying hand, when required. —When a reason
able doubt exists, whether property levied on belongs to the
defendant, or whether property alleged to be his is subject to levy
and sale, the sheriff may require of the plaintiff, liis agent or
attorney, a bond of indemnity; and if it be not given witnin ten
days thereafter, he may restore the property to the defendant, if
levied upon, or decline to levy if one has nQt been made ; but may
be required to levy and sell at any time thereafter, on being
indemnified.
§ 3197 (2859). //' the party having first lien refuses to indemnify,
others may do so for their benefit. —If a party having the prior lien,
refuse to give such indemnity on demand of the sheriff, the person
having the next lien in order may give such bond, and have the
property sold for his benefit.
§ 3198 (2860). Time, and place of selling property levied on. —
a Lands, when levied on by execution from courts of record, must be
. sold on the first Monday in the month at the court house of the
county ; other property may be sold on any day, except Sunday,
either at the court house, the residence of the defendant, the place
where levied on, or the neighborhood thereof, as may be most
expedient. The sale may be continued from day to day, if ren
dered necessary by the inclemency of the weather, or from ina
bility to conclude the sale in one day.
§ 3199 (2661). Notice of sale of property levied on under execution.
In sales of personal property, notice must be given by advertise
ment at the court house door for ten days, and also by publication
in a newspaper, if one is published in the county, once a week for
three successive weeks, previous to such sale ; and in sales of real
property, the publication in such newspaper must be once a
week for three successive weeks, and by advertisement for thirty
days at the court house door, previous to the sale.*
§ 3200 (2862). Property of principal first levied on. —"When execu
tion issues against two or more persons, any of whom were sure
ties on the contract before judgment, the sheriff must levy on the
property of the principal first, if any can be found in the county,
on the application of such surety ; and may require of the surety
affidavit of the fact of suretyship, which he must file with the
execution.
§ 3201 (2863). Amount collected to be indorsed, and receipt given to
defendant. —When money is collected on an execution, the officer
collecting it must indorse thereon, or append thereto, the amount
collected^ specifying the judgment, interest thereon, and costs,
with his own commissions, and sign his name thereto. He must
also, if required, receipt in like manner to the defendant.
§ 3202 (2864). Other property substituted for that levied on. —The
debtor has the right, on the day of sale, to substitute other prop
erty of equal value, not covered by any hen, in lieu of that levied
upon ; which fact, and a description of the property substituted,
must be indorsed on or appended to the execution, and the substi
tuted property be sold in lieu of that levied upon.
§ 3203 (2865). Notice of collection to 1>e given the plaintiff' or his
attorney. —When the money, or any part thereof, has been made
on an execution, the officer must give the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, personal notice thereof, within ten days thereafter, if
resident in the county. If not resident in the county, and he
knows the residence of them, or either of them, such notice may
be sent by mail through the post office.
§ 3204 (2866). Excess of sales paid to defendant, or money collected
before notice of injunction. —When, at an execution sale, the amount
of the sale exceeds the judgment, interest, and costs, the excess
must be paid to the debtor, or his legal representatives. Or when
money is paid, or collected on an execution, the whole, or any part
of which is enjoined in chancery, the same must, on demand, be
refunded to the debtor, or his legal representatives, if it has not
been paid over to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, without
notice of the injunction.
§ 3205 (2867). The description of land sold under execution, with
the price for which it sold, must lie indorsed on the writ. —When land
is sold under execution, a description of the land, and the price
obtained for it, must be indorsed on or appended to the writ by
the officer making such sale.
§ 3206 (2868). Writ for sale of goods remaininq in sheriffs hands
unsold ; form of such writ. —When goods levied on remain in the
hands of the officer unsold, it is his duty to make return of the
fact, and thereupon the clerk must issue a writ for the sale thereof,
in substance as follows :
The State of Alabama, )
county. j To the sheriff of said county :
You are hereby commanded to sell those goods and chattels of
A. B., which you have taken pursuant to our command, and which,
according to your return, remain in your hands unsold, to satisfy
C. D. the sum of dollars recovered by him of the said A. B.,
by the judgment of our circuit court held for the county of ,
on the — day of , and - - dollars, costs of suit ; and make
return of this writ and the. execution thereof, according to law.
Witness my hand, Arc. E. F., Clerk.
§ 3207 (2869). tVhen sheriff's must make conveyance of lands srid
by tlveir predecessors. —When any sheriff, authorized by law to sell
real estate, makes such sale, and dies or vacates his office before
making a conveyance to the purchaser thereof, the court from
which the writ issued, upon proof of the sale and of the payment
of the purchase money, may order the successor in office of the
sheriff' making such sale to make a conveyance of such lands to
the purchaser ; and such conveyance shall relate back to the date
of such sale. If the purchaser be the plaintiff in the judgment
proof that he has credited, or tile fact that he does credit on the
record, the defendant with the amount of the purchase monev, less
the necessary expenses and costs, is equivalent to proof of pay
ment of the purchase money. (1)
§ 3208 (2870). Sheriffs, registers and commissioners make deeds to
land. —When real estate, or any interest therein, has been sold by
any sheriff, register in chancery, or commissioner appointed by
any decree of the chancery or probate court to make sale of reiil
estate, or any interest therein, such sheriff, register, or commis
sioner, upon compliance by the purchaser with the terms of sale,
and the payment or the tender of the fees for executing the deed
therefor, must execute a deed for such real estate or interest
therein sold, and deliver the same to the purchaser within five
days after such sale ; and failing to do so on demand, after such
time, is guilty of a misdemeanor; but a prosecution does not
affect the right of the purchaser to sue such sheriff, register, or
commissioner, for damages for such default, or for specific per
formance as to making such deed.*
ARTICLE III.
OF THE PROPERTY SUBJECT TO EXECUTION.
§ 3209 (2871). Property subject to levy and sale under execution. —
Executions may be levied —
1. On real property to which the defendant has a legal title, or
a perfect equity, having paid the purchase money, or in which he
has a vested legal interest, in possession, reversion, or remainder,
whether he has the entire estate, or is entitled to it in common
with others.
2. On personal property of the defendant, (except things in
action,) whether he has the absolute title thereto or the right only
to the possession thereof for his own life, the life of another, or
any shorter period. But this does not apply to a possession
acquired by a bona fide hiring of chattels.
3. On an equity of redemption in either land or personal prop
erty. When any interest less than the absolute title is sold, the
purchaser is subrogated to all the rights of the defendant, and
subject to all his disabilities. (1)
ARTICLE IV.
THE LIEN OF EXECUTIONS.
§ 3210 (2872). Fieri facias lien only urithin the county, dec ; how
continued. —A writ of fieri facias is a hen only within the county in
which it is received by the officer, on the lands and personal prop
erty of the defendant, subject to levy and sale, from the time only
that the writ is received by the sheriff; which lien continues as
long as the writ is regularly issued and delivered to the sheriff
without the lapse of an entire term. (2)
§ 3211 (2873). Order of liens of different executions. —The liens
of executions as between different judgment creditors, and
between judgment creditors and purchasers from the defend
ant for valuable consideration, are declared to be : that if an
entire term elapse between the. return of an execution and the
suing out of an alias, the hen created by the delivery of the first
execution to the sheriff is lost ; but if an alias be sued out before
the lapse of an entire term, and delivered to the sheriff before the
sale of property under a junior execution, the lien created by the
delivery of the first execution must be preferred.
§ 3212 (2874). Lien destroyed Iru supersedeas or injunction. —The
execution of a bond for an appeal by which the judgment is sus
pended, or the execution of a bond by the defendant, upon the
proper officer, granting an injunction, supersedeas, or restraining
order, destroys the lien created by the delivery of a fieri facias to
the sheriff.
§ 3213 (2875). Execution levied after defendant's death. —A writ of
fieri facias, issued and received by the sheriff during the life of the
defendant, may be levied after his decease, or an alias issued and
levied, if there has not been the lapse of an entire term, so as to
destroy the lien originally created. * (3)
ARTICLE V.
FORTHCOMING BONDS, AND EXECUTION THEREON.
§ 3214 (2887). Property restored if forthcoming hand is given. —
When personal property is levied on by the sheriff, if the defend
ant execute bond, payable to the plaintiff, in double the amount oi
the execution, with sufficient surety, conditioned to deliver the
property levied on to the proper officer by twelve o'clock, noon, of
the day, and at the place appointed for the sale thereof, the sheriff
must restore the property to the defendant.
§ 3215 (2888). Clerk issues execution on forfeiture of the bond. —If
the property is not delivered according to the condition of the
bond, the sheriff must return^t forfeited within five days there
after to the clerk's office out of which the execution issued, indors
ing thereon a forfeiture of the bond ; and it is then the duty of the
clerk, without delay, to issue execution on the forfeited 4 bond,
against all the obligors therein, for the judgment and costs, upon
which no security of any kind can be taken, which he ,mnst
indorse upon the writ.
§ 3216 (2889). Certain persons denied the right to give forthcom ing
lands. —The two preceding sections do not apply to executions
issued on judgments against sheriffs, coroners or other officers of
court against whom judgment is obtained for failing to pay over
money collected or paid to them in official capacity ; and the clerk
must indorse on all such executions, "no security of any kind to
be taken."
§ 3217 (2890). If the property is destroyed without fault, the value
may be tendered. —When property is restored to the defendant on
the execution of a forthcoming bond, and the same dies or is
destroyed before the day for the delivery thereof, without fault on
his part, the obligors in the bond may tender the value to the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, and if such tender is refused, the
obligors in such bond may, on petition to the judge of the circuit
court, supersede the same. (1) *
CHAPTER 19.
GARNISHMENT ON JUDGMENT AND SUMMONS.
§ 3218 (2892). When garnishment issues on judgments. —A judg
ment creditor, his agent or attorney, may obtain process of gar
nishment, against any person supposed to be indebted to the
defendant, in any cause where execution could issue on the judg-
ment, by making affidavit before the clerk of the court in which
the judgment was rendered, that such person is supposed to be
indebted to, or have effects of, the defendant in his possession, or
under his control, and that he believes process of garnishment
against such person is necessary to obtain satisfaction of such
judgment; and thereupon the .clerk must issue the process, return
able forthwith, if in term time, or to the next term of the court, if
in vacation ; and such proceedings shall thereon be had as upon
garnishments in original attachments. (1)
§ 3219 (2892). When garnishr)ie7iftissues m siimmom and complaint.
And a creditor, his agent or attorney, may . obtain garnishment
against any person supposed to be indebted to the defendant in
any cause, when a summons or summons and complaint have
issued, by making affidavit before the justice of the peace or clerk
of the court to which the summons is returnable, or before any
other officer authorized to administer oaths, that such person is
supposed to be indebted to, or have effects of the defendant in his
possession, or under his control, and he believes process of gar
nishment against such person is necessary to obtain satisfaction
of such claim ; and also making affidavit to the amount due from
the defendant to such creditor, and giving bond as in attachment
cases; and thereupon the justice of the peace, or clerk of the
court, must issue the process of garnishment, returnable at the
same time the summons or summons and complaint are return
able. (1)
§ 3220 (2893). Garnishments to stockholders of corporation on
return of "no property " against it. —If a judgment creditor of an
existing corporation, whose execution has been returned " no prop
erty found,' his agent or attorney, make affidavit before the clerk
or any officer in this state authorized to administer an oath, that
a certain person is supposed to be indebted to the corporation, as
stockholder of the corporation or otherwise, he is entitled to pro
cess of garnishment, returnable forthwith, if in term time, or to
the next term, if in vacation ; and such proceedings must there
upon be had as in cases of original attachment.
§ 3221 (2894). Proceedings ar/ainst garnisJiees, &c. —The provis
ions of articles five and six, chapter one, title two, of this part,
are applicable to the preceding sections of this chapter. *
§ 3222 (2897). Garnishment of private corporations. —The provis
ions of this chapter apply to private corporations, but no person
may answer in behalf of such corporation any garnishment pro
cess, unless he shall make affidavit that he is the duly authorized
agent of such corporation to make such answer.
CHAPTER 20.
OF LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
Article 1.— Of the time iu which suits must be brought.
2.— General rules.
ARTICLE I.
OF THE TIME WITHIN WHICH SUITS MUST BE BROUGHT.
§ 3223 (2898). Statute of limitations.—Civil suits must be com
menced after the cause of action has accrued, within the periods
prescribed in this chapter, and not afterwards. (1)
§ 3224 (2899). Actions to be brought in twenty years. —Within
twenty years—
1. Actions at the suit of the State of Alabama against a citizen
thereof, for the recovery of real or personal property.
2. Actions upon a judgment or decree of any court of the State
of Alabama, of the United States, or of any state or territory of
the United States.
§ 3225 (2900). Actions to be brought in ten years. —Within ten
years—
1. Actions founded upon any contract, or writing under seal. (2)
2. Actions for the recovery of lands, tenements or heredita-
ments, or the possession thereof; abut this shall not Apply to
actions brought by the trustees of any township for the recovery
of sixteenth section or other school lands belonging to the town
ship. (3)
3. Motions and other actions against sheriffs, coroners, consta
bles and other public officers, for nonfeasance, misfeasance or mal
feasance in office.
§ 3226 (2901). Actions to fte brought in six years. —Within six
years :
1. aa Actions for any trespass to person or liberty, such as false
imprisonment, or assault and battery.
2. Actions for a trespass to real or personal property. (4)
3. Actions for the detention or conversion of personal property.
4. Actions founded on a promise in writing not under seat
5. Actions for the recovery of money, upon a loan, upon a stated
or liquidated account, or for arrears of rent, due upon a parol
demise. (5)
6. Actions for the use and occupation of land.
7. Motions, and other actions against the sureties of any sheriff,
coroner, constable, or any public officer ; or actions against the
sureties of executors, administrators, or guardians, for any misfeas
ance or malfeasance whatever of their principal ; the time to be
computed from the act done or omitted by their principal, which
fixes the liability of the surety. (1)
8. Motions, and other actions against attorneys at law, for fail
ing to pay over money of their clients, or for neglect or omission
of duty.
9. Any action, founded upon any judgment of a justice of the
peace of this state.
10. Any action arising from simple contract, or specialty, not
herein specifically enumerated.
§ 3227 (2902). Actions to be brought in five years. —Within five
years :
1. All actions founded on equities of redemption, where lands
have been sold under a decree of the court of chancery, existing in
any person, not a party to the proceedings, who claims under the
mortgagor or grantor, in the deed of trust.
§ 3228 (2903). Actions to be brought in four years. —Within four
years :
1. All actions or motions against any surety to any writ of error,
appeal, replevin, or forthcoming bond, executed in any cause, in
any of the courts of the United States, or in any other state or
country except the State of Alabama.
§ 3229 (2904). Actions to be brought inthree years. —Within three
years :
1. Actions to recover money due by open or unliquidated account,
the time to be computed from the date of the last item of the
account, or from the time when, by contract or usage, the account
is due. (2)
§ 3230. Actions to be brought within two years. —b Actions under section. 2641 for wrongful acts or omissions causing death of intes-
tafe or testator.
§3231 (2905). Actions to be brought in one year. —Within one
year:
1. Actions for malicious prosecutions.
2. Actions for criminal conversation, for the seduction of a
female, or breach of marriage promise.
3. Actions qui tarn, or for a penalty given by statute to the
party aggrieved, unless the statute imposing it prescribes a differ
ent limitation.
4. Actions of libel or slander.
5. Actions against steamboats, and other water-craft, com
menced by attachment.
6. Civil actions, for any injury to the person, or rights of
another, not arising from contract, and not herein specifically
enumerated. (3)
7. c Actions under section 2899 by father or mother, against cor-c
poration or private association for wrongful act of officer or agent,
causing death of minor child.*
ARTICLE H.
GENERAL RULES.
§ 3232 (2906). Entry presumed token the right exists. —When a
right of entry on lands accrues, the entry must be considered as
having been made, and the cause of action as having then ac
crued.
§ 3233 (2907). Right of entry not tolled by a descent cast.—The right
of entry is not tolled by a descent cast.
§ 3234 (2908). Time of absence from the state deducted, from the time
since action accrued. —When any person is absent from the state
during the period within which a suit might have been brought
against him, such period or periods of time must not be computed
as a portion of the time necessary to create a bar under this chapter.
§ 3235 (2909). If suit is brought and judgment recovered, and then
reversed, suit may again l>e brought toithin a year. —If suit be brought
in any of the said actions, before the time limited has expired, and
judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, and such judgment be
arrested, or reversed on appeal, the plaintiff, or his legal repre
sentatives, may commence suit again within one year from the
reversal or arrest of such judgment, though the period limited may
in the meantime have expired ; and in like manner, if more than
one judgment be reversed, or arrested, an action may be recom
menced within one year.
§ 3236 (2910). Three years allowed infants, &c., to bring suits after
removal of disability ; restriction. —If any one entitled to bring any
of the actions enumerated in this chapter, or to make an entry on
land, or defense founded on the title to real property, be, at the
time such right accrues, within the age of twenty-one years, a
married woman, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, for
any term less than for life, he or she has three years after the term
ination of such disability to bring suit, make entry or defense.
But no disability will extend the period of limitation, so as to allow
such action to be commenced, entry or defense made, after the lapse
of twenty years from the time of the cause of action, or right
accrued, nor must this exception extend to a married woman, in
respect to her separate estate. (1)
§ 3237 (2911). If the laws of another state bar a suit for a cause of
action accruing there, it is also Imrred here. — When the statute of
limitations of another state or foreign country has created a bar
to an action upon a contract or act done in such state or country,
whilst the party sought to be charged thereby was a resident of
such state or country, the bar thus created is effectual in this
state, against any suit brought thereon, in the same manner it
would have been in the state or country where the act was done or
contract made.
§ 3238 (2912). Not to extend to current accounts beticeen merchants.
The limitations herein provided do not apply to such actions as
concern the trade of merchandise between merchants and mer
chants, their agents and factors, while the accounts' between them
are current.
§ 3239 (2913). Last item of an account is the date from which time
is reckoned. —When there are mutual accounts between persons
who are not merchants, the time must be computed from the date
of the last item, unless the account be liquidated, and a balance
struck.
§ 3240 (2914). Partial payment or promise in ivriting and signed,
is necessary to avoid the bar. —No act, promise nor acknowledgment
is sufficient to remove the bar to a suit created by the provisions
of this chapter, or is evidence of a new or continuing contract,
except a partial payment made upon the contract, by the party
sought to be charged, before the bar is complete, or an uncondi
tional promise in writing, signed by the party to be charged
thereby. (1)
§ 3241 (2915). When a right is to be matured by demand, be/ore
suit brought, time is computed from the act, and not from the demand.
When a right exists, but a demand is necessary to entitle the party
to an action against any officer, agent, or attorney, the limitation
commences from the commission or omission of the act giving the
right of action, and not from the date of the demand.
§ 3242 (2916). In actions on account of fraud, the time is computed
from discovery. —In actions seeking relief on the ground of fraud,
where the statute has created a bar, the cause of action must not
be considered as having accrued until the discovery by the ag
grieved party of the facts constituting the fraud, after which he
must have one year within which to prosecute his suit.
§ 3243 (2917). Summons is a commencement of suit. —The suing
out of a summons is the commencement of a suit, whether it be
executed or not, if the suit be continued by an alias, or recom
menced at the next term of the court.
§ 3244 (2918). Time between death and grant of letters of adminis
tration not computed as to six montlis. —The time between the death
of a person and the grant of letters testamentary or of adminis
tration, not exceeding six months, is not to be taken as any part
of the time limited for the commencement of actions by or against
his executors or administrators. (2)
§ 3245 (2919). Nor the six montlis during which executors, (fee, are
exempt from suit. —The six months which an executor or adminis
trator is exempt from suit after the grant of letters, is not to be
taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of
an action against him.
§ 3246 (2920). Time of accrual of action for liability of a deputy
or agent. —When an injury arises from the act or omission of a
deputy or agent, the time for the limitation of an action by the
principal against such deputy or agent does not commence to run
until the liability of the principal for the act or omission of such
deputy or agent is ascertained, by suit of the aggrieved party
against the principal.
§ 3247 (2921). Time of injunction not computed.—When the com
mencement of an action is stayed by injunction or statutory pro
hibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction or statute
prohibition, is not computed as part of the time.
§ 3248 (2922). If the act once begins to run, it is not susjiended. —
A disability which did not exist when the cause of action accrued,
does not suspend the operation of the limitation, unless the con
trary is expressly provided.
§ 3249 (2923). All disabilities to cease before time begins. —"When
two or more disabilities coexist at the time the cause of the action
accrued, the limitation does not attach until all are removed.
§ 3250 (2924). War suspends the act as to citizen of hostile nation.
When the United States is at war with a foreign country, and
either party to a contract is a subject or citizen thereof, the time
of the continuance of the war is not computed as part of the time
limited for the commencement of the suit.
§ 3251 (2925). Limitation as to notes put in circulation as money. —
a The provisions of this chapter do not apply to actions to enforce
pavment. Qf biUS) notes, or other evidences of debt issued or put
in circulation as money ; but when such issue or circulation is made
by any bank or corporation under authority of law in this state, and
such bank or corporation has ceased, or shall cease to do business,
or has been or shall be put in liquidation by judgment or decree
of any court, or otherwise, then the bills, notes, or other evidences
of debt issued or put in circulation as money by said bank or cor
poration, must be presented for payment within two years after
publication of the notice herein required, or the same shall be
barred of payment out of the assets of such bank or corporation.
This section applies as well to banks and corporations which are
now in course of liquidation, as to such as may hereafter be placed
in liquidation. But before this limitation shall begin to run, the
agent, assignee or commissioner, or other person charged with
winding up the affairs of such bank or corporation, must give
notice to the holders of the issue of such bank or corporation, to
present the same for payment, by advertisement in some newspa
per published in the city or town where such bank or corporation
was located, for the space of thirty days.*
CHAPTER 1.
ATTACHMENTS AT LAW.
Article 1. —Of the issue of attachments.
2 . —In what manner and on what property executed.
3. —Of attachments for advancements to make crops.
4. — Of the replevy and claim of property.
5. —Proceedings against garnishees
6. — Collateral issues.
7 . —Ancillary attachments .
8. —Judicial attachments.
9. —Pleading in attachment; trial, judgment and execution.
10.— Attachments against water craft
AKTICLE I.
OF THE ISSUE OF ATTACHMENTS.
§ 3252 (2927). Far what debts and damage* issued. —Attachments
may issue—
1. To enforce the collection of a debt, whether it be due or not,
at the time the attachment is taken out.(l)
2. For any moneyed demand, the amount of which can be cer
tainly ascertained.
3. To recover damages for a breach of contract, when the dam
ages are not certain or liquidated. (2)
4. When the action sounds in damages merely.
§ 3253 (2928). Cases -in which attachments issue. —And in the fol
lowing cases :
1. When the defendant resides out of the state.
2. When the defendant absconds.
3. When the defendant secretes himself so that the ordinary
process of law can not be served on him.
4. When the defendant is about to remove out of the state.
5. When the defendant is about to remove his property out of
the state, so that the plaintiff will probably lose his debt, or have
to sue for it in another state. (3)
6. When the defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of his
property. (4)
7. When the defendant has fraudulently disposed of his prop
erty.
8. When the defendant has moneys, property, or effects, liable
to satisfy his debts, which he fraudulently withholds.
§ 3254 (2929). By what officers issued for any certain money
demand. —In the first and second cases mentioned in the first section of this article, it may be issued by any judge of the circuit
court, returnable to any county in the state, or by the clerk of the
circuit court, judge of the probate court, or any justice of the
peace, within their respective counties. In the third and fourth
cases, by a judge of the circuit or probate court, or chancellor
only, returnable to any county. (5)
§ 3255 (2930). Oath as to the debt and cause of attachment to be
made. —The officer, before issuing the attachment in the first two
cases mentioned in the last section, must require the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, to make oath of the amount of the debt or
demand, and that it is justly due ; also, that one of the causes
enumerated in the second section of this article exists, and that
the attachment is not sued out for the purpose of vexing or harass
ing the defendant ; which must also be reduced to writing, and
subscribed by the party.
§ 3256 (2931). Bond and security also required. —He must further
require the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, to execute a bond in
double the amount claimed to be due, with sufficient surety, pay
able to the defendant, with condition that the plaintiff will prose
cute the attachment to effect, and pay the defendant all such
damages as he may sustain from the wrongful or vexatious suing
out of such attachment.
§ 3257 (2932). Judge or chancellor to require sworn statements of
facts on abdication for attachments for damages.—When an attach
ment is applied for in the cases provided for in the third and
fourth subdivisions of the first section of this article, the judge
or chancellor, before issuing it, must require the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, in addition to the affidavit and bond required
in other cases, to make affidavit in writing of the special facts
and circumstances, so as to enable him to determine the amount
for which a levy must be made ; which sum may, at the discretion
of the court, be reduced at the return term of the attachment, on
affidavit of the defendant, and the levy released to the amount of
such reduction.. (1)
§ 3258 (2933). Attachment by a non-resident against another. —A
non-resident of this state may sue out an attachment against a
non-resident for an existing debt, or ascertained liability ; but the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, is required, in addition to the
oath necessary in other cases, to swear that, according to the best
of his knowledge, information and belief, the defendant has not
sufficient property within the state of his residence, wherefrom to
satisfy the debt ; and must also give bond as in other cases, with
surety, resident in this state.
§ 3259 (2934). Notice, to a non-resident defendant in attachment. —
When an attachment is sued out against a non-resident of the
state, the court, at the return term of the writ, must direct the
clerk to cause a notice of the attachment, and levy on the
defendant's property, to be advertised a once a week for three sue-
cessive weeks, in some newspaper, a copy of which must be sent
by mail to the defendant, if his residence is known, or can be
ascertained, unless he appears and defends.* (2)
§ 3260. Notice of levy when defendant resident of state. —& Notice
of the levy of the attachment shall be given in writing by the
sheriff, or other officer who makes such levy, to the defendant in
person, or notice thereof in writing left at his residence, if resi
dent in the county ; and if not resident in the county, but a resi
dent of the state, then by putting up a written notice at the court
house door, and by sending a copy of the same by mail, addressed
to the defendant at the post office nearest his residence, t (2)
§ 3261 (2936). Corporations may sue out attachments. —Corpora
tions, either foreign or domestic, are entitled to process of attach
ment for the recovery of the debts, or ascertained demands due
them ; the president, cashier of the corporation, or an agent, or
attorney thereof, making the affidavit and executing bond as in
other cases.
§ 3262 (2937). How security for costs by non-resident or corporation
may be given. —When an attachment is sued out in favor of a non
resident or a corporation, security for the costs of the suit may be
taken and approved by the officer issuing the same, or may be
indorsed with his approval on the attachment.
§ 3263 (2938). Attachment against foreign corporations. —Process
of attachment may issue against foreign corporations, having
property in this state, for the recovery of debts, or to recover
damages for a breach of contract when the damages are not
certain or liquidated, or in cases where the action sounds in dam
ages merely, in the same manner and subject to the same rules as
in case of natural persons residing without this state.
§ 3264 (2939). Form of attachment ; no objection taken for want of
form —The form of attachment must be in substance as follows ;
but no objection shall be taken for any defect inform, if the essen
tial matters are set forth :
The State of Alabama, ) To any sheriff of the State of Alabama :
county, f Whereas A. R, (or C. D., as the agent or
attorney of A. B., as the case may be,) hath complained on oath
to me, E. F., judge of the circuit court of said state, (or justice of
the peace, or judge of the probate court, or clerk of the circuit
court of said county, or as the case may be,) that G. H. is (or will
be, as the case may be,) justly indebted to the plaintiff in the sum
of dollars, and the plaintiff having made affidavit and given
bond as required by law, in such cases, you are hereby commanded
to attach so much of the estate of G. H. as will be of value to
satisfy the said debt and costs, according to the complaint ; and
such estate, unless replevied, so to secure that the same may be
liable to further proceedings thereon, to be had at the next term
of the circuit court for the county of , to be held at the
court house thereof ; when and where you must make known how
you have executed this writ.
Witness my hand this, &c E. F., Clerk.
§ 3265 (2940). Bond and affidavit returnable with the attachment.
The bond and affidavit must be returned by the officer issuing the
attachment, to the court to which the attachment is returnable.
§ 3266 (2941). When attachments may be issued, and executed on
Sunday. —Attachment process may issue and be executed on Sun
day for the collection of debts, if the plaintiff make oath as is
required for the issue of bail process on Sunday, and give the
bond required in this chapter. {
§ 3267 (2942). Applicable to private corporations.—The provisions
of this chapter are applicable to all private corporations, and all
affidavits or answers required to be made under its provisions may
be made by the president, cashier, secretary, or any other duly
authorized agent of such corporation ; and such corporations may
do and be dealt with under its provisions in the same manner as
if they were natural persons.
and if practicable, take the property in his possession, unless
replevied, as hereinafter described. (1)
§ 3269 (2944). Garnishee cited to appear and answer on oath. —
Such person is called the garnishee, and must be cited by the
officer to appear at the return term of the writ, and answer upon
oath whether he was indebted to the defendant at the time of the
levy of the attachment, or at the time of making his answer, and
whether he will not be indebted in future to him by a contract
then existing ; and whether he has not in his possession, or under
his control, personal property, or things in action, belonging to
the defendant ; a copy of which citation he must return executed,
together with the attachment and levy.* (2)
§ 3270 (2945). Levied on joint estate or interest in partnership. —
An attachment may be levied on the joint or separate estate of
joint obligors, promissors, or partners, whether resident or non
resident.
§ 3271 (2946). Executors and administrators. —Executors and
administrators may be garnisheed for a debt due by the testator,
or intestate, to the defendant, and may commence a suit by attach
ment in their representative character.
§ 3272 (2947). Garnisheedfor amounts due legatees, distributees, <$c.
Executors and administrators may be garnisheed for debts due
the legatees, or distributees ; but no judgment can be rendered
against them until a settlement of the estate, unless they assent
to the legacy, or admit assets to pay the amount claimed, or some
portion thereof, out of the distributive share of the debtor.
§ 3273 (2948). Money in the hands of sheriffs, attorneys, cite, and
in case of officers of court, is paid into court. —Money in the hands
of an attorney at law, sheriff, or other officer, may be attached ;
and in the case of officers of the court, must be paid into court,
to abide the result, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 3274 (2949). Judgments against executors, <tc, not to be rendered
for eighteen months. —No judgment can be rendered against an
executor or administrator upon his answer in attachment, or gar
nishment, until the lapse of eighteen months after grant of letters.
§ 3275 (2950). Attachment of money, dtc, in a trustee's hands. —
Money or effects of the defendant in the hands of a trustee, may
be attached and held subject to the validity of the instrument
creating the trust ; or the excess remaining in the trustee's hands,
after the execution of the trust, if valid ; but if the deed be held
void, the trustee, if not guilty of actual fraud, may retain for a
debt due himself, and must be protected so far as he has acted in
good faith under the trust, before the levy of the attachment. (3)
§ 3276 (2951). Debts in suit may be attached. —A debt in suit, in
any of the courts of this state, may be attached ; and if the suit
is not depending in the same court where the attachment is
brought, the court, after judgment, on proof by the garnishee of
the pending attachment, must stay execution, until notified by the
clerk of the court in which the attachment is instituted, that final
judgment has been rendered ; in which case, it must make the
appropriate order, according as the judgment is rendered for the
plaintiff or defendant.
§ 3277 (2952). Attachments may be executed in any county. —The
attachment may be executed in any county of the state by the
sheriff of the county in which the property is found, or in which
any person may be found indebted to the defendant, or having
property or thmgs in action of the defendant in his possession, or
under his control. The sheriff must take and hold the propertyattached,
unless replevied, subject to the order of the court in
which the attachment is pending.
§ 3278 (2954). Branch and alias writs. —Branch writs of attach
ment may issue to any county of the state, directed to any sheriff
of the state of Alabama, to be executed as in the preceding sec
tion.*
§ 3279 (2953). When attachments may be levied by a constable. —
When process of attachment is issued by a justice of the peace, if
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make oath that there is danger
of losing the debt, unless the process is executed by a constable,
and the amount of the debt does not exceed the amount of the
constable's bond, such justice may have such process executed by
the constable of the beat in which the process issued, and the
return of the service may be made to the court in which the writ
is returnable, by such justice or constable, who shall be subject to
all the liabilities provided by law, for failing to discharge any duty
in relation to such service or return.
§ 3280 (2955). Lien of an attachment from time of levy or service
of garnishment. —The levy of an attachment creates a hen in favor
of the plaintiff, upon the estate of the defendant so levied on,
from the levy ; and upon the money or effects in the possession of
the garnishee, from the service of garnishment. (1)
§ 3281 (2956). Perishable property sold by order of court. —If the
property levied on be perishable, it must be sold by order of the
court, on motion of either party, and the proceeds of the sale
retained by the sheriff to await the decision of the cause, unless
the court otherwise direct.
§ 3282 (2957). In case of necessity, sold by sheriff1 before return
term. —If the property levied on be of so perishing a nature that
it will deteriorate greatly in value, or be destroyed before the
meeting of the court, or if the charge of keeping it be very great,
it is the duty of the sheriff, if not replevied, to sell it at public
auction, returning the facts and the money to the court. (2)
§ 3283 (3539Z-). Plaintiff in attachment, try order of court, receives
proceeds of sale upon executing refunding bond. —In attachment suits,
m which a sale of the property seized is made under the attach
ment, if the proceeds thereof are in the hands of the sheriff or
other officer of the court to which the attachment is returnable,
and if no adverse claim is filed within thirty days after the insti
tution of such suits, or no denial on oath by the defendant of the
debt sued upon is filed within thirty days after the issue of the
attachment, the judge of the court from which such attachment
issues, or to which it is returnable, or the magistrate to whom it
is returnable, must, either in term time or vacation, on plaintiffs
motion, on proof of notice of such motion having been served for
ten days on the defendant or his attorney, if either is resident in
the county where the suit is pending, or, if the defendant is a non
resident, on proof of notice, by publication, a once a week for
three successive weeks,* in some newspaper published in such
county, order so much of the proceeds of such sale to be paid to
the plaintiff, or his attorney, after reserving costs, as maybe suf
ficient to satisfy the claim of the plaintiff; but plaintiff must,
before receiving such money, enter into bond, with surety or sure
ties, to be approved by the judge or magistrate, conditioned that
if, upon the trial of the cause, he should fail in his action, he or
his sureties shall, within thirty days thereafter, pay into the court,
for the use of the defendant, the amount that may have been
received by such plaintiff, with interest and costs thereon ; and
upon default thereof execution may issue instanter.
§ 3284 (2958). Amount so received by sheriff recovered on one day's
notice. — The sheriff and his sureties, or either of them, maybe
proceeded against by motion, on one day's notice, at the instance
of the plaintiff, or of the defendant, if the plaintiff fail in the
action, lor any money received for the sale of perishable property;
and judgment rendered against him for the amount, and five per
cent, a month from the time of the demand. .
§ 3285 (2959). Indemnifying bond, when demanded Iry the sheriff.—
When a doubt exists as to the title of the defendant to personal
Sroperty, which the sheriff is required to levy upon, ne may
emand indemnity from the plaintiff.t
ARTICLE m.
ATTACHMENTS FOR ADVANCES TO MAKE CHOPS.
§ 3286 (1858). Lien for advances to make crops. —Whenever advan
ces in horses, mules, oxen, or necessary" provisions, farming tools
and implements, or money to purchase the same, shall be made
by any person to any other person in this state, and such advance
shall be obtained by the latter, to enable him to make a crop,
and it shall be declared in a written note or obligation for the
same, given by the person to whom such advance is made, that
the same was obtained by him bona fide, for the purpose of
making a crop, and that without such advance it would not be
in the power of such person to procure the necessary team, pro
visions and farming implements, to make a crop, the advance so
made, or the amount thereof, shall be a lien on such crop, and
the stock bought or furnished with the money so advanced ; and
such lien shall have preference of all other liens, except that for
the rent of the land on which such crop may be made, and that for
advances by the landlord to make the crop4 (1)
§ 3287 (1859). Lien must be recorded. —Any person taking a lien
on the crop for advances as set forth in the preceding section,
must have the same recorded in the office of the judge of probate
of the county in which the person to whom the advance is made
resides, within sixty days from the making of the same ; and if he
fail to have the same recorded, the lien shall be considered lost
and forfeited.
§3288 (1860). Remedy. —Any person having a lien on the crop
and stock of another for advances to assist in making the crop,
shall have the same rights and remedies to enforce such lien as
landlords have in this state for the collection of rents.
ARTICLE IV.
OP REPLEVY AND CLAIM OF PROPERTY.
§ 3289 (2964). Replevy of property levied on ; replevy bond.—The
defendant in attachment, or in his absence a stranger, may replevy
the goods or chattels attached, by executing bond with surety,
payable to the plaintiff, in double the amount of the demand, with
condition that if the defendant fail in the action, he or his sureties
will return the specific property attached within thirty days after
judgment, which bond must be returned with the other papers of
the cause. (1)
§ 3290 (2965). Claims to property levied on, and trial of the right
of property. —If property attached be claimed by a person not a
party to the suit, and affidavit and bond be executed as required
by law in cases of trial of right of property when levied on by a
writ of fieri facias, the property must be delivered to the claim
ant, and the affidavit and bond be returned by the sheriff with
the attachment, upon which the same proceedings must be had
as in other trials of right of property, except that the sheriff
must return the original attachment to the proper county. The
affidavit herein required may be administered by the officer levying
the process.
§ 3291 (2966). Forfeiture of claim on replevy l>ond, and execution
thereon. —When property replevied, or which has been delivered
to a claimant, is not delivered within thirty days after judg
ment against such claimant and against the defendant in attach
ment, it is the duty of the sheriff to return the bond forfeited,
and execution must issue thereon against the principal and sure
ties in such bond, for the amount of the judgment and costs.
§ 3292 (2967). //' the property is lost, or destroyed, the value received
in discharge. —If any of the property so replevied should die or be
destroyed without fault or negligence on the part of the person in
possession, the case is governed by the provisions of section 3217
(2890). (2)
ARTICLE V.
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST GARNISHEES.
§ 3293 (2968). Garnishee, hotu and rclten examined. —The garnishee
must answer upon oath according to the terms of the citation,
within the first three days of the return term of the attachment,
and may, if required by the plaintiff, be examined orally in the
presence of the court. (1)
§ 3294 (2969). Judgment mi ansioer of indebtedness ; if not yet due,
execution suspended. —If he answer and admit indebtedness to the
defendant, judgment thereon must be rendered against him, after
judgment against the defendant in attachment, for the amount so
admitted, if less than the amount of the judgment against such
defendant ; if more, or equal thereto, then for the amount thereof.
If the debt be not then payable, execution must be suspended
until its maturity. (1)
§ 3295 (2970). Defendant's property condemned on ansioer admitting
its possession. —If he admit the possession of chattels of the
defendant, judgment of condemnation must be rendered, that they
be delivered up on demand, after the rendition of judgment on
the attachment in favor of the plaintiff, or so much as may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, and the sheriff must make sale
thereof. (1)
§ 3296 (2971). On refused to deliver, execution for the amount of
the judgment — If he fail to deliver them to the sheriff on demand,
he must make return thereof to the clerk, who must thereupon
issue a writ of fieri facia* against him in favor of the plaintiff, for
the amount of the judgment and costs.
§ 3297 (2972). Relief when failure to deliver is without fault.—It
the failure to deliver property, as provided in the preceding section,
is without fault or negligence on the part of the garnishee, he
may obtain relief by supersedeas, according to the provisions of section 3217 (2890).
§ 3298 (2973). Penalty for failure to ansiver. —If the garnishee
fail to appear and answer, a conditional judgment must be rendered
against him for the amount of the plaintiff s claim, as ascertained
by his judgment, to be made absolute if he does not appear within
the first three days of the next term and answer ; a notice of the
judgment must be issued to him by the clerk, to be served on him
as other process by the sheriff ; if he fail to appear at the next
term, after notice executed, or if two notices be returned not found
by the sheriff of the county in which the garnishment was executed,
the judgment must be made absolute. (2)
ARTICLE VI.
COLLATERAL ISSUES.
§ 3299 (2974). Issue made to contest garnishee's answer, on denied
of its truth on oath.—The plaintiff, his agent or attorney, may con-
trovert the answer of the garnishee by making oath, at the term
the answer is made, that he believes it to be untrue ; whereupon
an issue must be made up under the direction of the court, in
which the plaintiff must allege in what respect the answer is untrue,
and, if required by either party, a jury must be empanneled to try
the facts.
§ 3300 (2975). Defendant may insist that garnishee owes more than
he admits, and the question is then tried. —The defendant, upon the
coming in of the answer, may allege that the garnishee is indebted
to him in a larger sum than he has admitted, or that he hokls
propertv of the defendant not admitted by him in his answer,
which being reduced to writing, setting forth particularly in what
respect the answer is deficient, and sworn to, thereupon an issue
must be made up under the direction of the court to try the fact
by a jury, if required by either party ; but this controversy does
not prevent the plaintiff from taking judgment for the sum admitted
to be due by the garnishee, or for a condemnation of the property
admitted to be in his hands.
§ 3301 (2976). Judgment when the answer is not sustained. —If this
issue be found against the garnishee, judgment must be rendered
against him for the amount of money or property in his hands not
admitted by him, which must be in favor of the plaintiff, if neces
sary to satisfy his claim or judgment against the defendant, or in
favor of the defendant, if the judgment has been satisfied.
§ 3302 (2977). Garnishee may suggest that another claims the <lebf,
rf?c, and the claimant t!wn made a party.—When the garnishee, by
his answer, or at any time before final judgment against him,
alleges that he has been notified that another person claims title
to, or an interest in the debt or property which by his answer he
has admitted to be due, or to be in his possession, the court
must suspend proceedings against the garnishee, and cause a
notice to issue to such person, to appear at the next term of the
court and contest with the plaintiff the right to the money or prop
erty. (1)
§ 3303 (2978). Proceedings to try such claims. —If he appear, he
must be required to propound his claim in the disputed property
or debt, in writing, and make oath thereto, upon which the plain
tiff must take issue in law or in fact, and the issue in fact must
be tried by a jury, if required by either party. If the issue be
found for the plaintiff, judgment must be rendered against the gar
nishee on his answer ; if for the contestant, the garnishee must be
discharged. (1)
§ 3304 (2979). When contestant is a non-resident. —If the contest
ant be a non-resident, the contest must be stayed six months,
and the same proceedings had as in the case of a non-resident
defendant.
§ 3305 (2980). If resident contestant lw. not found, judgment against
the garnishee. —If two notices to the resident contestant be returned
" not found," judgment must be rendered against the garnishee on
his answer.
§ 3306 (2981). Such issues do not change the jurisdiction. —The
interposition of these collateral issues does not affect the jurisdic
tion of the court obtained by levy of the attachment.
§ 3307 (2982). Bills of exceptions in such cases. —Upon the trial
of these collateral issues, either party may reserve any question
by bill of exceptions, for revision, and judgment for costs must be
rendered against the unsuccessful party.
§ 3308 (2983). Appeals. —An appeal lies to the supreme court at
the instance of the plaintiff, the defendant, the garnishee, the con
testant or claimant.
§ 3309 (2984). Garnishee recovers his costs on a discharge. —When
the answer of the garnishee is not controverted, or if controverted
is found for him, he is allowed the pay of a juror during his attend
ance, for which execution may issue. If there be no effects, then
from the plaintiff, for which he may have judgment and execution.
§ 3310 (2985). Proceedings on death of garnishee or contestant. —
If the garnishee die after he has been summoned as garnishee,
and pending the litigation, the proceedings may be revived against
his legal representatives ; so if the contestant die, after notice to
appear and contest with the plaintiff the right to the money or
property in the hands of the garnishee, the suit may be revived
in the name of his legal representatives.
§ 3311 (2986). Jvdgment-in attachment suspended until trial of the
collateral issues. —No judgment can be rendered against the defend
ant in attachment, where a claim has been interposed to try the
right of property, where the answer of the garnishee is contested,
or a contest has arisen about the title or interest in the money or
goods attached, until these questions are settled ; unless other
property or effects of the defendant be attached, about which no
contest has arisen.
§ 3312 (2987). Property condemned restored, if plaintiff fads in
suit. —If the plaintiff do not obtain judgment against the defend
ant in attachment, all property condemned, where a claim had
been interposed, must be restored to the claimant at the costs of
the plaintiff.
§ 3313 (2988). Alias writs of attachment and garnishment. —Alias
writs of attachment, or new writs of garnishment, may be issued
by the clerk, without a renewal of the bond or affidavit, in cases
wnere no property has been found, or not sufficient to satisfy the
debt, or when, pending the suit, the plaintiff wishes to garnishee
other persons.
§ 3314 (2989). Attachment abated, if issued without bond or affidavit.
Attachments issued without affidavit and bond, as herem pre
scribed, may be abated on plea of the defendant, filed within the
first three days of the return term.(l)
§ 3315 (2990). Attachment law liberally construed for plaintiff, and
no abatement for ivant of bond, dkc, if plaintiff" will make it, —The
attachment law must be liberally construed, to advance the mani
fest intent of the law, and the plaintiff, before or during the trial,
must be permitted to amend any defect of form, in the affidavit,
bond, or attachment ; and no attachment must be dismissed for
any defect in, or want oi bond, if the plaintiff, his agent or attor
ney, is willing to give or substitute a sufficient bond.(l)
§ 3316 (2991). Judgment condemning debt or property conclusive
between defendant and garnishee ; defendant may appeal. —The judg
ment of the circuit court, condemning the debt or property in the
hands of the garnishee, to the satisfactiou of the plaintiffs demand,
is conclusive as between the garnishee and the defendant, to the
extent of such judgment, unless the defendant prosecute an appeal
from such judgment, which he may do in his own name ; and if
such judgment is superseded by bond, and the garnishee notified
of the fact, he is not permitted to discharge such judgment pend
ing the appeal.
§ 3317 (2992). G rounds of issue not traversable, but suit may be
brougld for improperly suing it out. —The defendant must not deny
or put in issue the cause for which the attachment issued, but
may, at any time within three years of the suing out of the attach
ment, before or after the suit is determined, commence suit on
the attachment bond, and may recover such damages as he has
actually sustained, if the attachment was wrongfully sued out. (1)
§ 3318 (2993). Vindictive damages for malicious attachment*. —If
sued out maliciously, as well as wrongfully, the jury may, in addi
tion, give vindictive damages. (1)
ARTICLE VII.
ANCILLARY ATTACHMENTS.
§ 3319 (2994). Attachments in suits already commenced. —When a
summons has been issued, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, may
at any time before judgment, make affidavit before the clerk of the
court in which the suit is pending, and give bond with security as
in cases of original attachment, and thereupon the clerk must issue
an attachment returnable as in other cases.
§ 3320 (2995). Same mode of proceeding as in other attachments. —
The suit must proceed thereafter, in all respects, as if it had been
commenced originally by attachment.
ARTICLE VIII.
JUDICIAL ATTACHMENTS.
§ 3321 (2996). Attachment when resident defendant evade* service of
summons. —When a summons has been returned " not found," as
to all or any of the defendants, residents of the county, if the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make affidavit that the defendant
has evaded the service of the process, the court must direct an
attachment to issue returnable to the next term of the court, and
the cause must in all respects proceed as against such defendant,
as if originally commenced by attachment.
§ 3322 (2997). Proceedings in such case. —The plaintiff may, not
withstanding such judicial attachment, proceed to judgment against
any of the defendants on whom process was served ; but a judg
ment and satisfaction of the debt or claim, abates the attachment
at the costs of the plaintiff.
ARTICLE IX.
OF THE PLEADINGS IN ATTACHMENT, TRIAL, JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.
§ 3323 (2998). Complaint to be. filed loilMn first, three days of the
term, and tried at trial, term. —The plaintiff must, within the first
three days of the return term of the attachment, file his complaint
as in suits commenced by summons, and the cause stands for trial
a at the first term after the issue of the attachment, if the levy is
made and notice thereof given twenty days before the commencement
of the term of the court to which such attachment is return
able ; but if the attachment is issued upon a demand not due
when it is issued, the case shall not stand for trial until such
demand is due. (1)
§ 3324 (2999). Complaint not filed until maturity of the debt.—II
the debt is not due, the plaintiff is not required to file his com
plaint until the maturity of the debt. (1)
§ 3325 (3000). Proceedings on appearance of defendant, or judg
ment by default. —If the defendant appear and plead, the cause
proceeds as in suits commenced in the ordinary mode. If he
make no defense, the plaintiff may, at the trial term, take judg
ment final, by nihil dicit or default, or execute a writ of inquiry of
damages, as may be necessary.
§ 3326 (3001). Execution for -part of judgment not paid by property
attached. —When the property attached and in the hands of the
garnishee, is not sufficient to satisfy the judgment of the plaintiff
against the defendant, the clerk must issue execution for the resi
due, which may be levied on any property of the defendant.
ARTICLE X.
ATTACHMENTS AGAINST STEAMBOATS, &G.
§ 3327 (3002). Lien far injuries caused to vessels, dc, by other ves
sels, from negligence, racing, <xc. —If any steamboat, vessel, or watercraft
of any description, from the negligence or want of skill of
the master, pilot, engineer, or other officer, or whilst racing with
another boat or vessel, runs into, runs foul of, destroys, or injures,
any other boat, vessel, barge, flatboat, or other water craft, by
means whereof the property of any person on board of such boat
or other water craft is injured or destroyed, the person so injured
has a lien upon the boat or vessel causing the injury, to the
amount of the loss, which may be enforced as hereinafter pro
vided.
§ 3328 (3003). Affidavit of facts, and bond, before issue of writ. —
The person so injured, his agent or attorney, must make affidavit
of the loss sustained, and the cause thereof, stating the name of
the boat or vessel, before any judge of the circuit court, or judge
of probate, clerk of the circuit court, or justice of the peace, and
also execute a bond with surety, payable to the owners of the boat
or vessel, by name, if known, if not, payable to the " owners," in
double the amount of the value of the property injured or des
troyed, with condition to prosecute the attachment to effect, and
to pay the owners all such costs and damages as may be sustained
by the wrongful or vexatious suing out such attachment.
§ 3329 (3004). (hi filing the affidavit and bond, the officer issues the
writ. —Upon the execution of such bond and affidavit, the judge,
clerk, or justice must issue an attachment, which may be made
returnable to any circuit court in the state, directing any sheriff
of the State of Alabama to seize and retain the boat, or other
water craft, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, until discharged by
due course of law.
§ 3330 (3005). Boat seized and held to satisfy the judgment. —After
such seizure, the sheriff must retain the boat or vessel in his pos
session, together with the tackle, apparel, &c, to answer the judg
ment which may be rendered, and make return thereof, together
with the affidavit, bond, and attachment, to the court to which the
process is returnable.
§ 3331 (3006). Replevy of boat, &c—The boat or vessel seized
may be released from custody, by the master or owner of the boat
or vessel, or other person, entering into bond with surety, to be
approved by the sheriff, in double the amount of the alleged injury,
payable to the plaintiff, with condition to satisfy the judgment
which may be rendered on the attachment.
§ 3332 (3007). Replevy of Imd. —Or the master, owner, or some
person for him, may enter into bond with surety, in double the
estimated value of the boat, tackle, apparel, &c, payable to the
plaintiff, with condition to pay the plaintiff the value of the vessel,
or boat, her tackle, apparel, &c, at the time of the seizure, or so
much thereof as will satisfy the judgment and costs ; and for the
purpose of ascertaining the value of the boat, or vessel, her tackle,
apparel, Ac, the sheriff may appoint three disinterested persons,
to make appraisement thereof.
§ 3333 (3008). Payment into court of the value of the l>oat discharge.i
the bond. —The obligors in the bond last mentioned may pay into
court the appraised value of the boat or vessel, and such payment
is a discharge of the bond.
§ 3334 (3009). Mode of trial when bond is filed, and when none. —If
either of the above bonds be executed, the obligors therein are
the defendants in the attachment. If no bond be executed, to
release the boat or vessel, the affidavit must be received as evi
dence of the facts therein stated, and judgment be rendered ex
parte, for the demand of the plaintiff, which may be at the first
term after the seizure, if the attachment was executed thirty days
previous to the judgment.
§ 3335 (3010). On proof of injury, defendant must prove diligence.
In any trial under this article, proof that the loss was caused by
the boat or vessel attached running foul of, or running into, the
boat or water craft in which the plaintiff's property was, is pre
sumptive evidence that the injury was caused by the negligence
or want of skill of the officers of such boat ; and the burden of
proof is then cast on the owners of such boat, of proving that
the collision was accidental, and without the fault or the officers
thereof.
§ 3336 (3011). If bond not executed in sixty days, boat sold, <tc —
If no bond be executed, for the release of the boat from seizure,
within sixty days thereafter, the sheriff must sell the same for
cash, giving thirty days notice of the time and place of sale, and
make return thereof to the court in which the attachment is pend
ing.
§ 3337 (3012). Priority of debts, ichen there are several attachments.
When there are more attachments than one, if the proceeds of the
sale are not sufficient to discharge all the judgments, it must be
divided among them ratably, or according to priority. An appeal
from such disposition of the fund must be prosecuted within six
months thereafter.
§ 3338 (3013). After judgment, execution may issue on the bond fihd.
The bonds required by this article to release the boat from seizure,
must be filed m the clerk's office, and, after judgment in favor of
the plaintiff, have the force and effect of judgments, upon which
execution may issue for the amount of such judgment and costs.
§ 3339 (3014). Any other remedy may be pursued. —The provisions
of this article must not be construed so as to prevent a resort to
any other legal remedy.
§ 3340 (3015). Provisions of this article applicable to any boat, ves
sel, barge, flat boat, or other water craft. —The provisions of this article are applicable to any boat, barge, vessel, flatboat or other
water craft.
CHAPTER 2.
TRIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.
§ 3341 (3016). Property levied on restored to claimant, upon affida
vit of right of property, and bond given. —"When an execution is
levied on personal property claimed by any person not a party to
the writ, he is entitled to try the right to such property, before a
sale thereof, by making affidavit that he has a just claim to the
property levied on, and also executing a bond, a with sufficient a
surety, payable to the plaintiff, in double the value of the property p
so levied upon and claimed, the value thereof to be determined by
the sheriff, with condition to have the property forthcoming for
the satisfaction of the judgment, if it be found liable therefor ;
and also for the payment of such costs and damages as may be
recovered for putting the claim in for delay ; thereupon the prop
erty levied on must be delivered to the possession of the claimant.*
§ 3342 (3017). On return of such claim by the sheriff, issue is
joined between plaintiff and claimant. —The sheriff must return the
affidavit and bond to the next term of the court from which the
execution issued, when an issue must be made between the plain
tiff in execution and the claimant, in which the former must be
required to allege that the property levied on is the property
of the defendant in execution, and liable to its satisfaction. t
§ 3343 (3018). Burthen of proof on the plaintiff ; damages for
(May. —Upon the trial of the issue, the burthen of proof is upon
the plaintiff in execution ; and if the jury subject the property to
the payment of the execution, they must, as far as practicable,
assess the value at the time of trial of each article separately. If
it be shown that the claim was interposed for delay, they must
also assess such damages as the plaintiff may be entitled to, not
less than ten per centum on the execution.
§ 3344 (3019). Onfailure to deliver the property, if condemned, exe
cution issues oh the bond. —If judgment be rendered against the
claimant, and he fail to deliver the property to the sheriff within
thirty days thereafter, to satisfy the execution of the plaintiff, the
sheriff must indorse the bond forfeited ; and the clerk must there
upon issue an execution against all the obligors therein for the
amount of the judgment of the plaintiff, if that is less than the value
of the property as assessed by the jury, or for the amount of such
assessed value, if less than the amount of the judgment ; also for
the damages, if any were assessed, and the costs of the trial of
the right of property.
§ 3345 (3020). Proceedings when property levied on under execution
from another county is claimed. —When the levy is made in a differ
ent county from that in which the judgment is rendered, if a claim
is interposed to the property, it is the duty of the sheriff to return
the original execution to the office of the clerk from which it
issued, with his return thereon of the interposition of a claim ;
and make time copies of the bond and affidavit, which he must
return with the execution. He must also make a true copy of the
execution, and the returns thereon, which, with the affidavit and
bond, he must return to the oflice of the clerk of his own county,
where the trial of the right of property is to be had. The copies
thus required to be made, certified by the sheriff to be true copies
of the original, must be received in lieu of, and have the same
effect in all respects as the originals.
§ 3346 (3021). Proceedings on forfeiture of bond in such cases.—If
the property is found liable to the plaintiff's execution, and is not
delivered up within thirty days by the claimant to the sheriff of
the county where the trial of the right of property was had, he
must indorse the bond forfeited, and thereupon the clerk must
issue execution as in other cases of trial of right of property,
except that he must make the execution for the collection of the
judgment, and the damages awarded on the trial of the right of
property, (if any,) returnable to the office of the clerk of the court
whence the original execution issued, of which, and the time of its
receipt by the sheriff, he must give the clerk thereof written
notice, which is presumptive proof of the fact against the sheriff,
and must also issue a separate execution for the costs of his own
court.
§ 3347 (3022). Plaintiff may levy on other property. —The inter
position of a claim, and trial of the right of property, does not
revent the plaintiff from levying on. other property of the
efendant in execution.
§ 3348 (3023). Claim bond releases actions against the sheriff. —A
claim interposed for the trial of the right of property, is a release
by the claimant, in favor of the sheriff, from all damages for seizing
such property.
§ 3349 (3024). Mortgagee of personal property may claim it, but
plainti ff may pay off the debt. —When personal property, mortgaged
to another, is levied on by execution, the mortgagee or his
assignee may try the right of property as herein provided ; but
the plaintiff in execution may discharge the mortgage debt, and
then it shall be the duty of the sheriff to proceed and sell, as well
for the payment of the mortgage, which must be first satisfied, as
for the satisfaction of the execution. (1)
§ 3350. When, claim may lm interposal in statutory detinue. —
b When a suit is brought for the recovery of personal property in *
specie, under the provisions of section 2942 (2593), and the
defendant shall neglect for five days to give bond as required
therein, if the property seized is claimed by a person not a party
to the suit, and affidavit and bond be executed as required by
law in cases of trial of right of property when levied on by writ
of fieri /arias, the property must be delivered to the claimant, and
the affidavit and bond be returned by the sheriff with the sum
mons, upon which the same proceedings must be had as in other
trials of right of property.
CHAPTER 3.
SUMMARY JUDGMENTS.*
Article 1. — General rules.
2. —Proceedings against sheriffs, coroners, and other executive officers.
3. —In favor of sheriffs, &c.
4. —Against clerks of the circuit and supreme courts, registers, and prosecu
ting officers.
5. —Against judges of probate, tax collectors, tax assessors, treasurers, and
other persons receiving money for county.
0. —Against defaulters of pnblic school money.
7. —Against attorneys.
AETICLE I.
GENERAL RULES.
§ 3351 (3025). On notice of motion, judgment rendered, summarily
against certain officers. —Judgment may be rendered summarily
against the persons and for the defaults hereinafter stated, upon
notice in writing by the party aggrieved, that a motion will be
made for judgment, succinctly stating in such notice the cause for
which such motion will be made, and the term of the court, and
county.
§ 3352 (3026). Made by the in jured party against the de faulter and
his sureties, and judgment against those having notice. —The motion
may be made by the party aggrieved, or his legal representative,
against the person in default, and his sureties upon his official
bond, and judgment must be rendered against such of the parties,
whether principal or surety, as may have received notice of the
intended motion. (1)
§ 3353 (3027). Entry on the motion docket, is notice to an officer of
court, and his sureties. —A motion entered on the motion docket, in
term time, is sufficient notice to all officers of the court and their
sureties. (2)
§ 3354 (3028). Court to try the case, unless a jury is demand**?,
and the case is tried immediately. —Unless in cases otherwise
directed by this chapter, the court must hear and determine the
motion, and render judgment upon the evidence, without a jury,
unless an issue is tendered, and a jury trial demanded, when a
jury must be immediately empanneled to try the facts, unless good
cause be shown for a continuance. (3)
§ 3355 (3029). In what court the motion should be made. —The sum
mary remedies here given must be enforced in the manner follow
ing, except in cases otherwise specially provided in this chapter :
When the motion is against a sheriff, coroner, clerk, or other officer
of court, or their sureties, the motion must be made in the circuit
court of the county in which such officer was acting officially at
the time of the default, or in the court to which the process was
returnable, when the default consists in the failure to execute or
return (4) process, or to pay over money collected thereon. In all
other cases not specially provided for, the motion must be made
in the circuit court of the county in which the person moved
against resides; if he has no permanent residence, then in any
county where he may be found.*
ARTICLE II
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST SHERIFFS, CORONERS, AND OTHER EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS.
§ 3356 (3031). Judgment on three days notice to sheriff or officer,
who received or executed the writ. —Judgment must be rendered for
the plaintiff on three days notice, in the following cases, against
the sheriff, coroner, or other officer receiving or executing the
writ. (5)
§ 3357 (3032). Penalty for failing to return an execution, or pay
over money collected on one. —For failing to return an execution,
twenty per centum on the judgment. For failing to pay over
money collected upon an execution, on demand of the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, judgment for the amount so collected, and
five per centum per month damages from the time such demand
was made. (5)
§ 3358 (3033). For failure to make the money on an execution. —For
failing to make the money on an execution, which by due diligence
could have been made, judgment for the amount of the execution,
interest, and ten per centum damages. (1)
§ 3359 (3034). For false and fraudulent return. —For fraudulently
making a false return, judgment for the amount of the execution,
interest, and ten per centum damages thereon.
§ 3360 (3035). For failure to give notice of the collection of money.
For fading to notify the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, of the col
lection of money by execution, five per centum per month, on the
amount collected, from the time when the notice should have been
given, not to exceed twenty-five dollars a month.
§ 3361 (3036). For failure to indorse on an execution the true date
of its delivery. —For failing to indorse on an execution the true
date of its delivery to him, judgment for ten per centum on the
amount of the execution. The officer is also responsible for any
injury or loss which may arise from such omission.
§ 3362 (3037). For failure to execute mesne process. —For failure
to execute a summons, attachment, or other mesne process which
by due diligence could have been executed, judgment for a sum
not less than fifty nor more than five hundred dollars, to be ascer
tained by a jury. This remedy not to preclude the party injured
from a resort to other legal modes of redress. (2)
§ 3363 (3038). Judgment rendered in favor of defendant in execu
tion, on three days notice, in the following cases. —Judgment must in
like manner be rendered in favor of the defendant in execution,
against the sheriff or coroner, on three days notice:—
§ 3364 (3039). For failure to pay over excess received oil sales.
For failure to pay over on demand any excess of money which
may remain upon a sale by execution, after the satisfaction thereof
and the costs, judgment for the amount of such excess, and five
per centum per month after demand.
§ 3365 (3040). For failure to return execution wholly or partially
satisfied. —For failing to return an execution wholly or partially
satisfied, twenty-five per centum on the amount paid.
§ 3366 (3041). For failure to refund money ichen its collection has
been enjoined. —For failing to pay over on demand money paid or
collected on an execution, the whole or any part of which is
enjoined in chancery, judgment for the amount so enjoined, and
five per centum per month on the amount from the time of the
demand.*
§ 3367 (3042). In favor of clerk of supreme court, on three days
notice. —Judgment must in like manner be rendered in favor of the
clerk of the supreme court, against the sheriff or coroner, on three
days notice:—
§ 3368 (3043). Grounds of such judgments. —For failure to return
an execution from the supreme court, for making a false return
thereon, for failing to make the money when by due diligence it
could have been made, or failing on demand to pay over money
collected on an execution, judgment for the penalties herein pre
scribed for the same defaults on executions issued from the circuit
court.
§ 3369 (3044). Copy of the execution and certificate of clerk are evi
dence, but sheriff may deny the receipt or aver the return of an execu
tion on oath. —On the trial of the motion a copy of the execution
made and certified by the clerk, with the return thereon, if any was
made, or a statement that no return was made, if such be the fact,
together with his certificate that the execution was received by
the sheriff, or sent to him by mail, is evidence of the facts so certi
fied, without producing a transcript of the record from the pro
ceedings of the supreme court; and also presumptive evidence
that the writ was received by the sheriff, unless he states under
oath, in writing, that he never received the writ, or returned it
according to law.
§ 3370 (946). Liability of coroner for neglect of duty. —For the
failure to perform any duty, or the improper or neglectful per
formance of such duty, or for any wrongful act, committed under
color of office, by the coroner, or the special coroner, while dis
charging the duties of sheriff, such coroner and his sureties, and
such special coroner, are liable to the same penalties, forfeitures
and judgments, given by law against sheriffs in the like cases, to
and upon the same proceedings and remedies, as are given by law
against sheriffs and their sureties,
§ 3371. Accepting or receiving substitute for juror. —a Any officer
accepts or receives a substitute for any person drawn as a
juror, or whom he is directed to summon as a juror, or who sei~ves
any other person than the one drawn as a juror, or whom he is
directed to summon, must be fined in the sum of fifty dollars, to
be recovered on motion, by the solicitor in the name of the state,
in the circuit court of the county where the offence is committed,
on five days notice ; one -half of which shall be for the use of the
county, and the other half for the use of the solicitor. *
§ 3372 (406). Penalty for failure to make returns to secretary of
Klate or speaker of the house. —If any returning officer required to
make returns of any election to the secretary of state, or the
speaker of the house of representatives, fails to make such
return within the time prescribed, he forfeits to the state five hun
dred dollars, recoverable by motion to be made by the solicitor of
the proper circuit, in the name of the state, in the circuit court of
the county of such returning officer, upon three days' notice of
such motion ; and the certificate of the secretary of state, or of
the speaker of the house of representatives, as the case may be,
setting forth that such return has not been received, is presurup tive
evidence of the failure of such officer to make such return.
§ 3373 (407). Notice to be given solicitor offailure. —Whenever the
return of any officer, required to be made to the secretary of
state, or the speaker of the house of representatives, is not
received within the time prescribed, such secretary of state, or
speaker of the house, must give notice thereof to the solicitor of
the proper circuit, and furnish him with the certificate specified in
the preceding section.
ARTICLE ILL
IN FAVOR OF SHERIFF OR CORONER.
§ 3374 (3045). Summary judgments in favor of sheriff or coroner,
on three days notice. —Judgment must, in like manner, be rendered
summarily in favor of the sheriff, or coroner, on three days notice
of the pendency of the suit—
1. Against the obligors on bonds given to indemnify the officer
for levying an execution or attachment, or for making sale of prop
erty so levied on or attached, after judgment against the officer
for making such levy or sale ; judgment for the same amount ren
dered against such officer.
2. Against the deputy of the sheriff, and his sureties, for the
amount of any judgment which may be rendered against the sheriff
or coroner for the default of such deputy.
§ 3375 (813). Against probate judge for failing to pay over fees of
sheriff. —Against probate judge for failing to pay over to the sheriff,
on demand, any fees received by him for such sheriff for the ser
vice of citations, notices or other process in relation to estates of
deceased persons or minors, he is liable to all the penalties
now imposed by law upon other officers entrusted with the col
lection of moneys.
AETICLE IV.
AGAINST CLERKS OF CIRCUIT AND SUPREME COURT, REGISTERS IN CHAN
CERY, AND SOLICITORS.
$ 3376 (3046). Judgment against circuit clerk and his sureties, and
against register in chancery and his sureties, on three days' notice. —
a Judgment must, in like- manner, be rendered summarily against
the clerk of the circuit court and his sureties, and against the
register in chancery and his sureties, on three days' notice. (1)
§ 3377 (3047). For failing to eider officer's return on an execution.
In favor of the plaintiff in execution, for failing to enter on the
execution docket the return made upon an execution by the proper
officer, within three days after the return is made, judgment for
twenty per centum on the amount of the execution, and interest
thereon.
§ 3378 (3048). For failing to pay over money received opt daily. —
For failing, on demand, to pay over money received by him on any
judgment, or paid into court on a plea of tender, or other plea, or
by rule of court, judgment for the sum so received by him, with
five per centum per month on the amount, after demand.
§ 3379 (3049). For failing to give, notice of the, collection of money.
The provisions of section 3203 (2865) apply to clerks of the cir
cuit court, and for failing to notify the plaintiff, his agent or attor
ney, of the collection of money upon judgments, such clerks are
liable to judgment for five per cent, per month on the amount col
lected, from the time when the notice should have been given, not
to exceed twenty-five dollars a month.
§ 3380 (3050). For failure to issue executions. —For failing to issue
execution as prescribed by sections 3181 (2839) and 3184 (2842),
within the time prescribed by law after the adjournment of the
court, or at any time subsequent, on request of the party inter
ested, his agent or attorney, or for failure to issue execution within
five days on all bonds returned forfeited, and upon which execu
tion may rightfully issue, and upon judgments remanded from the
supreme court, judgment for twenty per centum on the amount of
the judgment.
§ 3381 (3051). For failure to pay money deposited in court under section 290(1 (2540 ). —In favor of the party entitled thereto, for
failing, on demand, to pay over money received by him under sec
tion 2906 (2540), judgment for the amount so paid, and five per
centum damages thereon for each month after demand made.
§ 3382 (3052). For failure to pay over to the county treasurer funds
collected for the county. —In favor of the county treasurer, for failing
to pay over to the county treasurer, on demand, all fines or for
feitures, or other moneys, belonging to the county treasurj', judg
ment for the amount thereof, and five per cent, per month on the
amount from the time of the demand.
§ 3383 (3053). Far failure to return statement of fines for live
county. —For failing to return to the county treasurer, within ten
days after the adjournment of court, the statement required by the
provisions of section 671 (916), of all fines, forfeitures and penal
ties belonging to the county assessed during the previous term,
judgment for fifty dollars, for the use of the county.
§ 3384 (3054). In favor of auditor, on ten days' notice. —In favor of
the auditor of public accounts, on ten days' notice to the circuit
court held at the seat of government, or that of the county in
which the clerk, or any surety proceeded against, resides : —
§ 3385 (3055). For failure to affix stamps. —For failing to affix the
stamps required by the revenue laws of this state, fifty dollars for
each offense, one-half to go to the informer ; and the solicitor's
fee shall be fifteen dollars.
§ 3386 (3056). For failure to issue ejcecidion for forfeiture to the
stale. —For failure to issue executions for forfeitures belonging to
the treasury of the state, as required by the provisions of section
3181 (2839), judgment for the suin of two hundred dollars.
§ 3387 (3057). For fines received and not paid over. —For all fines,
penalties or forfeitures belonging to the state treasury, received
by the clerk and not paid into the treasury within one month after
their receipt, judgment for the amount so received, ahd ten per
cent, damages thereon. *
§ 3388 (770). For failure to senxl copy of indictment to yovcrnor and
loarden of penitentiary. —Any clerk neglecting the duty imposed by section 675 (769) must, upon motion of the solicitor in the circuit
court of the county of such clerk, be fined not less than one hun
dred nor more than five hundred dollars, at the discretion of the
court.
§ 3389. For failure to send up transcript in criminal cu.se. —6 The
solicitor, or prosecuting attorney in each county, upon being noti
fied that the clerk of the court has neglected to send to the clerk
of the supreme court a full transcript of the record of any crim
inal case appealed to the supreme court, within the time required
by law, shall enter a motion against such defaulting clerk and his
sureties, setting out the title of the case, the offense of which the
accused was convicted, the day on which the sentence was pro
nounced, the day on which the court adjourned, and the default
of the cierk ; which motion shall be heard at the next term of the
court in which the case was tried ; but the clerk shall have at least
ten days' notice of such motion.
§ 3390. Certificate of clerk of the supreme court evidence. —cThe
certificate of the clerk of the supreme court, that the transcript
of the record of any criminal case was not received by him m
twenty-five days after the final adjournment of the court in which
the case was tried, shall be prima facie evidence of the default of
the clerk.
§ 3391. Fine entered against clerk and his sureties. —dOn the con-<
viction of any such clerk of a court, a fine of not less than twen-
ty-five dollars shall be entered against such defaulting clerk and
his sureties, for the use of the county, in each case.
§ 3392 (739). For failure to keep reverse indexes by register. —The
solicitors in the several chancery districts must inquire whether
the duty required of registers in chancery by section 646 (738)
has been performed, and must, in every case of failure, move, in
the circuit court of the proper county, against such register, and
shall, upon three days notice of such motion, recover judgment,
in favor of the state, against such register for one hundred dollars,
unless good cause to the contrary be shown ; and such recovery
may be had from term to term as long as the register shall remain
in default.
ARTICLE V.
AGAINST JUDGES OF PBOBATE, TAX COLLECTORS, ASSESSORS, AND COUNTY
TREASURERS, AND OTHER PERSONS RECEIVING MONEY FOR COUNTY.
§ 3393. Summary judgments in favor of state against probate judge,
tax assessor, tax collector, and county treasurer.—a Summary ju^gments
must be rendered in favor of the state against the default-
ers hereinafter named, and their sureties, in any court of the
county of their residence having jurisdiction, on ten days notice :
1. Against any tax assessor for failing to comply with the
requirements of sections 395 and 396, not more than five hundred
dollars, and may be imprisoned in the county jail for not longer
than three months.
2. For making up a false or fraudulent assessment, for each
offense, not more than five hundred dollars, and may be impris
oned in the county jail for not longer than three months.
3. For willful neglect or failure to perform the duty required of
him in section 388, for not more than two hundred dollars.
4. Against any county treasurer for failing to pay over the
excess of purchase money, as provided in the revenue law, to the
former owner of any property sold for taxes, for not less than two
hundred dollars.
5. Against any probate judge for fading to make out and for
ward abstracts, or reports, or returns, according to the require
ments of the revenue law, for not more than five hundred dollars.
6. For issuing license to retail or wholesale liquor dealers, con
trary to the provisions of law, for each offense not less than one
hundred dollars.
7. Against any tax collector for failing to comply with section
408 and sections 440, 441 and 442, for not more than two hundred
dollars.
8. Against any tax collector for knowingly collecting more tax
from any person than authorized by law or justified by the assess
ment, for each offense not more than five hundred dollars.
9. For failing to make the statement provided by section 421
within the time required, for each week he so fails not more than
five hundred dollars.
10. For not paying over surpluB of sale as provided in section
422, not more than one hundred dollars.
11. For violation of section 423, not more than two hundred
dollars.
12. Against any tax collector or probate judge for paying into
the treasury of the state or county funds of less value, than those
collected, not less than five hundred dollars.
§ 3394. Tax collector, assessor, and judge of -probate, for/cits fudf
Iris pay under revenue law for violation of it ; recovery on motion. —
/, Any assessor, collector, or judge of probate, who fails, knowingly,
to discharge his duties as required in the revenue law, shall forfeit
one-half of his pay under the revenue law, for the use of the
county, which sum may be recovered by motion in the circuit court
of the county on ten days notice, and it shall be the duty of the
solicitor to make the motion, but any other person may make it.
§ 3395 (930). When treasurer refuses to pay alloived claims, dV. —
If any county treasurer fails, on demand, to pay an allowed claim
against the county, when there are funds in the treasuiy to pay
the same, judgment may he obtained against him and his sureties,
or any or either of them, having five days notice, by motion in the
name of the party to whom the claim is payable, his legal repre
sentatives or assigns, for the amount of the claim, with interest
from the demand, ten per cent, damages, and costs.
§ 3396 (920). Proceedings against defaulters to county. —If any tax
collector, judge of probate, sheriff, clerk, or other officer or per
son, fails to pay to the county treasurer within the time pre
scribed by law, or in case no time is fixed by law, on demand of
such treasurer, any money he has collected or received for the
county, judgment may be recovered against such person, or such
officer and hi« sureties, or any or either of them having ten days
notice, by motion in the circuit court, in the name of the county
of such treasurer, for the amount so collected or received, with
interest from the time fixed for the payment, or from the demand
when no time is fixed, ten per cent, damages and costs.*
ARTICLE VI.
DEFAULTERS OF PUBLIC SCHOOL MONEYS.
§ 3397. Tax collectors, county treasurers, and ex-county superintendents
and their sureties. —a Summary judgments must be rendered,
on motjOI1) after ten days notice, in favor of the county superin
tendent of education for the use of his county, against the default
ers hereinafter named and the sureties on their official bonds, or
any one of them, in the circuit court, or other courts having juris
diction, of the county in which the defendants or any of them
reside, in the following cases :
1. Against a tax collector and his sureties, for the failure of
such collector to pay over according to law the school money dne
his county, as shown by the auditor's warrant on him, or so much
thereof as he may have collected, or for the failure of such col
lector to pay over, according to law, all the poll tax collected by
him ; said judgment to be for the amount for which the collector
is in default, interest from time of default, and twenty per centum
damages thereon and court costs.
2. Against a county treasurer and his sureties, for failing to pay
over, according to law, all school moneys now in his hands, or
which may hereafter come into his hands ; such judgment to be
for amount due by such treasurer, interest thereon from time of
default, and twenty per cent, damages thereon and court costs.
3. Against any county superintendent of education who has
resigned, removed from his county, or been legally removed from
office, or whose term of office has expired, and the sureties on the
official bond of such superintendent, or any of them, such judg
ment to be for the amount of school money belonging to his county,
and which has not been legally disbursed by him, or paid over to
his successor in office, and in favor of such successor, if there is
one, for the amount due by such superintendent, interest from
time of default, and twenty per cent, damages, besides court costs ;
and in all cases in which there is no successor, then such judg
ment must be rendered in favor of the superintendent of education,
on his motion, for the use of the county in which such defaulting
officer resided, and the money, when recovered by the superin
tendent of education, must be turned over to the county superin
tendent when appointed and qualified.
§ 3398. Attorneys employed, and their compensation. — b The county b
superintendents of education in each county may employ attorneys
to prosecute actions under the provisions of this article against the
defaulters and their sureties ; but in no case shall any attorney
receive more than ten per cent, of the amount which may be col
lected on any^ judgment obtained by him, or of the amount which
may be otherwise recovered by him.
§ 3399. Notice, its contents, and, try whom served. —c The notice „
hereinbefore prescribed, upon which the action may be com
menced, must be served by any sheriff of this state, and such
notice must succinctly state the cause for which the motion will
be made, and the court and term at which the motion will be
made.
§ 3400. Transcripts evidence. —d In all actions commenced and <
prosecuted under the provisions of this article, a transcript from
the books and records in the office of the superintendent of educa
tion,' or of the auditor, certified under the hands of those officers
respectively, shall be prima facie evidence of the facts shown by
•them.
§ 3401. Mode and time of trial. —e If the notice herein required e
has been given, the motion shall stand for trial at the first term,
and the court must hear and determine the motion, and render
judgment upon the evidence without a jury, unless a jury trial be
demanded, when a jury must be immediately empanneled to try
the facts, unless good cause be shown for continuance.
ARTICLE VII.
AGAINST A1TORNEYS AT LAW.
§ 3402 (3062). Summary judgment for money collected and not paid
over ; proceedings in such oases. —Judgment may, in like maimer, be
rendered against any attorney at law in this state, who fails to
pay over money collected by him in that capacity, on demand
made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or attorney, for the
amount due, interest thereon, and damages at the rate of five per
cent, per month, after such demand, on the aggregate amount, in
the circuit court of the county in which such attorney resides, or,
if he has no known place of residence in this state, in the circuit
court of any county, on three days notice ; but such attorney may,
if a doubt exists as to the right of the person making the demand,
or if there be a dispute as to his compensation, pay the money into
court, the first court after receiving notice of such motion, if notice
of the same is given before court ; or into the court at which the
notice is given, if given during court, and have such questions
there decided, without being liablo to interest or damages.
§ 3403 (3063). Plaintiff' to sliow his title, and attorney's compensa,
tion settled, try the court. —The court may require the party claiming
the money to establish his right thereto, and in determining the
question of compensation, may examine both parties, and f^ive
costs in discretion.
§ 3404 (3064). Personal notice to (>e given the attorney. —In the cases
provided for in the two preceding sections, personal notice is
necessary.
CHAPTER 4.
PROCEEDINGS BY SURETIES.
i
§ 3405 (3065). Surety on replevin l>ond may demand indemnity.
When the principal in any replevin bond is wasting the replevied
property, or is removing, or about to remove himself or property,
out of the state, the surety or sureties to the replevy bond mav
demand of the principal adequate indemnity against loss, by col
lateral security.
§ 3406 (3066). Affidavit made of refusal to give indemnity. —If
such security be not given within five days after demand made,
the surety may make affidavit thereof before the clerk of the cir
cuit court in which such bond is filed, setting forth the demand of
the principal for collateral security, for some one or more of the
causes mentioned in the preceding section, and that the principal
has failed to give such security.
§ 3407 (3067). Writ of seizure then issues. —Thereupon the clerk
must issue a writ directed to the sheriff, commanding him to seize
the replevied property, and hold the same until the decision of the
cause in which it was replevied, or until the principal execute bond
with sufficient surety, in the same penalty as the replevin bond,
payable to the surety, with condition to have the property forth-
coming to abide the decision in the principal cause, or to pay and
satisfy the judgment rendered therein.
§ 3408 (3068). If bond is given, it is filed with the original bond. —
If the bond is given, it must be filed with the original replevy
bond, and execution may issue thereon upon a breach of the
original replevy bond, in favor either of the plaintiff or of the
surety.
§ 3409 (3069). Proceedings on writ of seizure, when tlie property is
jjerishal/Ie. —If bond is not given, and the property is seized, and is
of a wasting or perishable nature, or when the expense of keeping
it would materially affect its value, it must be sold by the sheriff
in the same manner as property levied on by execution, and return
thereof made as upon a writ of fieri facias.
§ 3410 (3070). Judgments rendered for sureties a(/ainst their princi
pals and each other, on motion with th ree days notice. —Sureties, whether
bound on the contract or instrument with the principal debtor as
joint, or joint and several obligors or promisors, or as accom
modation drawers, acceptors, or indorsers of a bill of exchange,
or in any other manner, are entitled to a summary judgment against
their principal, and between each other, by motion in the circuit
court, on three days notice thereof, in the cases and in the manner
following: (1)
§ 3411 (3071). For the surety against the principal debtor. —Against
the principal debtor—
1. When a judgment has been obtained against the surety,
which he has satisfied, either wholly or in part, for the amount
paid and interest.
2. When a surety or sureties are sued without their principal,
upon notice given to the principal of the pending suit, if judg
ment is obtained against the surety, judgment for the same
amount must be rendered against the principal in favor of the
surety.
3. A surety to a debt payable in bank, which by its charter is
entitled to a summary remedy against its debtors, may, upon the
payment by him of the debt to the bank, be entitled to the same
remedy against his principal, in the circuit court of the county in
which the principal resides, or if he be a non-resident, or has no
fixed residence, then in the circuit court of any county in the state.
The certificate of the president or cashier of the bank, of the
payment of the debt by the surety, is evidence of the fact of pay
ment.
§ 3412 (3072). Judgments between sureties. —Between sureties—
1. A surety who has paid the debt of his principal may recover
of each of his co-sureties their aliquot proportion of the debt.
If any of the co-sureties are insolvent, the proportion of such
insolvent must be excluded from the estimate, and judgment be
rendered against the remaining solvent sureties, for their propor
tion of the debt, as if such insolvent was no£ a co-surety.
2. When suit is pending against one or more sureties, either in
connection with or without their principal, if the principal is insol
vent or dead, the surety so sued may, on notice of the pending
suit, recover judgment against such of the co-sureties as are not
sued in that action for their aliquot proportion of the debt,
excluding from the estimate the proportion of such of the
sureties as are insolvent, as if such insolvent had not been a
surety. (1)
§ 3413 (3073). Surety not to confess judgment, if jrrinoipxil wilt
defendant! indemnify him. —No surety when sued can confess judg
ment or suffer judgment to pass by default, if the principal debtor,
on being notified of the pending suit, is willing to defend the suit
at his own cost, and gives good and sufficient collateral security
to the surety, to be approved by the court.
§ 3414 (3074). Surety may require the creditor to sue the principal
or other sureties, or discharged by failure. —A surety upon any con
tract for the payment of money, or for the payment or delivery- of
personal property, may require the creditor, or any one having the
beneficial interest in the contract, by notice in writing, to bring
suit thereon against the principal debtor, or against any co-surety
to such contract; and if suit be not brought thereon pursuant to
such notice, to the first court to which suit can be brought after
the receipt of such notice, and prosecuted with diligence accord
ing to the ordinary course of law, the sm-ety giving such notice is
discharged from all liability as surety, or his aliquot proportion of
the debt, as the case may be. One surety may give the notice in
behalf of his co-sureties. (2)
§ 3415 (3075). This does not apply to bond with collateral condi
tions, or administrators' or guardians bonds. —The remedy secured
by the preceding section, does not apply to bonds or other con
tracts with collateral conditions, or to the bonds of executors,
administrators, guardians or public officers.
§ 3416 (3076). These rules apply generally to executors and admin
istrators of sureties. —All the provisions of this chapter enure to the
benefit of the executors or administrators of the creditor or suretv,
and in favor of sureties and co-sureties, against the executors or
administrators of the principal or of a surety.
§ 3417 (3077). Court to which the motion should be made. —In cases
not otherwise provided for in this chapter, the motions hereby
given must be made in the circuit court of the county in which
the parties, or any one of them resides, against whom the motion
is made. If they are non-residents, or have no fixed residence in
the state, then in the circuit court of any county in the state. (3j
§ 3418 (3078). On payment by surety plaintiff' to assign judgment.
Whenever a judgment is obtained by a creditor on a demand to
which there are one or more sureties, the sureties may pay such
demand, and the plaintiff in the judgment, his agent or attorney
of record, when the payment is made, must assign such judgment
to the surety or sureties paying the money, who may collect the
same, with interest and costs, in the name of the plaintiff for their
use, and may assert in law or equity any lien or right against the
principal debtor which the plaintiff could assert, if the debt had
not been paid ; but in every such case the assignee or transferee
of the judgment is bound to accept and receive payment of it in
the same kind of currency which he may have paid for it.
CHAPTER 5.
TO VACATE CHARTERS OF CORPORATIONS, AND FOR USURPATION OR FOR
FEITURE OF OFFICES.
§ 3419 (3079). Proceedings to vacate charters, (except municipal
charters,) instituted either by the state or an individual. —An action
may be brought in the name of the state on the information of any
person, for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling the
existence of any corporation, other than municipal, whenever such
corporation—
1. Offends against any of the acts creating, altering or renewing
such corporation.
2. Violates the provisions of any law, by which such corpora
tion forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers.
3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by fail
ure to exercise its powers.
4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act which amounts to
a surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises.
5. Whenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not conferred
on it by law.
§ 3420 (3080). Solicitor directed to commence proceedings in certain
cases ; but any (Me may sue on giving security for costs. —The judge of
the circuit, in which such corporation is located, whenever he has
reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can be proved,
and it is necessary for the public good, must direct the solicitor of
such circuit to bring such action ; or such action may be brought
on the information of any person, giving security for the costs of
the action, to be approved by the clerk of the court in which the
same is brought.
§ 3421 (3081). Such suits brought in the county of its principal
business. —Such actions must be brought in the county in which
such corporation has its principal office, or if it has no principal
office, in any county in which it does business.
§ 3422 (3082). Action in the name of the state, for usurping an office
or franchise, &c. —Ari action may be brought iu the name of the
state against the party offending, in the following cases : (1)
1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds
or exercises any public office, civil or military, or any franchise
within this state, or any office in a corporation created by the
authority of this state.
2. When any public officer, civil or military, has done or suf
fered an act, by which, by law, he forfeits his office.
3. When any association or number of persons act within this
state as a corporation, without being duly incorporated. (2)
§ 3423 (3083). Judge of the circuit may direct such a suit, or any
one giving security for costs may begin it. —A judge of the circuit
court may direct such action to be brought, whenever he believes
these acts can be proved, and it is necessary for the public good ;
or it may be brought on the information of any person giving
security for the costs of the action, to be approved by the clerk of
the court in which such action is brought. (2)
§ 3424 (3084). Brought in the circuit court of the county where the
acta are committt d. —Such actions must be brought in the circuit
court of the county in which the act or acts are done or suffered.
§ 3425 (3085). Informant joined as plaintiff. —Whenever an action
is brought under the provisions of this chapter, on the informa
tion of any person, the name of such person must be joined as
plaintiff with the state.
§ 3426 (3086). On death of informant, any one may continue the
action, on giving security for costs. —Should such person die, pend
ing such action, it may be continued in the name of the surviving
informant, or in the name of any person, who on application is
substituted in his place, having first given security for the costs.
§ 3427 (3087). Action abates by death of all the informants. —On
the death of all the informants, if no person is substituted in their
place, the action abates.
§ 3428 (3088). Contents of the complaint in such suit.—The com
plaint, in any action brought under the provisions of this chapter,
must concisely and clearly set forth the act or omission com
plained of.
§ 3429 (3089). Names of the true officers stated in actions for
usurpation. —Whenever such action is brought against a person for
usurping an office, in addition to the statement set forth in the
eomplaint, the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office,
with a statement of his right thereto, may be added.
§ 3430 (3090). Judgment on defendant's rigid, or in favor of party
said to he entitled. —In every such case, judgment may be rendered
upon the right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the
party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of the
defendant, as justice requires.
§ 3431 (3091). If judgment is in favor of party said, to l>e the true
officer, he may demand the office. —If the judgment is rendered upon
the right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same is
in favor of such person, he is entitled, after taking the oath of
office and executing such official bond as may be required, to take
upon himself the execution of the office ; and it is his duty, imme
diately thereafter, to demand of the defendant all the books,
papers, and property in his custody, or within his power, belong
ing to the office ; and on refusal or neglect to deliver over the
same, he may be proceeded against as is prescribed by the provis
ions of article sixth, chapter first, title fifth, in part first of this
Code.
§ 3432 (3092). Validity of contested elections not tried in this man
ner. —The validity of any election, which may be contested under
this Code, cannot be tried under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 3433 (3093). Judgment of exclusion from the office or franchise.
When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation,
against whom such action has been brought, is adjudged guiltv of
usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully holding, or exercising
any office, or franchise, judgment must be rendered, that such
defendant be excluded from the office or franchise, and that the
plaintiff recover costs against such defendant.
§ 3434 (3094). On judgment of forfeiture, the corporation w dis
solved. —If it be adjudged that a corporation against which an
action has been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has, by neglect,
abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, privileges and
franchises, judgment must be rendered that the corporation be
excluded from such corporate rights, privileges or franchises, and
be dissolved ; and judgment for costs must be rendered against
the persons claiming to be such corporation, and the directors or
managers thereof, as established by the testimony.
§ 3435 (3095). Costs against the informant or state. —If such action
is at the suit of the state alone, and judgment is for the defend
ant, or the defendants are insolvent, the witnesses are paid as in
other state cases ; but if a person is joined with the state as
informant, judgment must be rendered against him for the costs,
if rendered for the defendant.
§ 3436 (3096). Casts on abatement.—On the abatement of the
action, judgment is rendered against the sureties of the inform
ant for the costs.
§ 3437 (3097). Execution against the informant and sureties for
costs. —In all cases under this chapter, in which judgment is ren
dered against the informant for costs, execution may issue there
for against his sureties.
§ 3438 (3098). Either party may appeal in ten days. —The inform
ant, or defendant, may appeal to the supreme court within ten days
after judgment, on application to the clerk, and giving security
for the costs of the appeal; the names of such sureties to be
certified with the recorcf, to the supreme court ; and if the appeal
is not sustained, judgment for costs may be rendered against such
sureties.
§ 3439 (3099). //' the state sues, judgment for the defendant final. —
If the action is brought by the state alone, the judgment in favor
of the defendant is final.*
CHAPTER 6.
LIENS OF MECHANICS, EMPLOYES, AND MATERIAL MEN, FOR ANY BUILD
ING, ERECTION, OR IMPROVEMENT UPON LAND, OR FOR REPAIRING
THE SAME.
§ 3440. Lien declared. —a Every mechanic, or other person, who
shall do or perform any work or labor upon, or furnish any mate-
rial, fixtures, engine, boiler, or machinery for any building, erec
tion, or improvement upon land, or for repairing the same, under
or by virtue of any contract with the owner or proprietor thereof,
or his agent, trustee, contractor, or sub-contractor, upon comply
ing with the provisions of this chapter, shall have for his work or
labor done, or materials, fixtures, engine, boiler, or machinery fur
nished, a lien to the extent and in the manner by this chapter pro
vided, upon such building, erection or improvements, and upon the
land belonging to such owner or proprietor on which the same are
situated, to the extent of one acre ; or if such building, erection,
or improvement be upon any lot of land in any town, city, or vil
lage, then such lien shall be upon such building, erection, or
improvement, and the lot or land upon which the same are situ
ated, and upon any balance due by the owner or proprietor to the
contractor, to secure the payment for such work or labor done, or
materials, fixtures, engine, boiler, or machinery furnished as afore
said, as is herein provided. (1)
§ 3441. Extent of lien. —b The entire land to the extent aforesaid,
upon which any such building, erection, or other improvement is
situated, including as well that part of the land which is not cov
ered with such building, erection, or other improvement, as that
part thereof which is covered with the same, shall be subject to
all liens created by this chapter, in favor of the contractor, to the
extent, and only to the extent, of all the right, title and interest
owned therein by the owner or proprietor of such building, erec
tion, or other improvement, for whose immediate use or benefit
the labor was done or things were furnished ; and also in favor of
all the employes of such contractor and persons furnishing mate
rials, to the amount of any unpaid balance due the contractor by
the owner or proprietor.
§ 3442. Lien has preference. —cThe lien for the work or things
aforesaid shall attach and be preferred to all other incumbrances
which may be attached to, or upon such buildings, erections, or
other improvements, or the ground, or either of them, subsequent
to the commencement of such buildings or improvements ; and
such lien shall attach to the buildings, erections, or improvements
only for which they were furnished or the work was done, in prefer
ence to any prior lien, incumbrance, or mortgage upon the land
upon which such buildings, erections, improvements, or machinery
has been erected or put; and any person enforcing such lien,
where there is a prior mortgage or lien upon the land, may have
such building, erection, or improvement sold under execution as
provided in this chapter, and the purchaser may remove the same
within a reasonable time thereafter.
§ 3443. Lien when buildings erected on leased lands. —d Every build
ing or other improvement erected, or materials furnished, accord
ing to the provisions of this chapter, on leased or rented lands or
lots, shall be held for the debt or liability contracted for or on ac
count of the same, and also the leasehold term for such lot and land
on which the same is erected ; and in case the lessee has forfeited
his lease, the purchaser of the building and leasehold term, or so
much thereof as remains unexpired, under the provisions of this chapter, shall be held to be the assignee of such leasehold term,
and as such shall be entitled to pay up to the lessor all arrears of
rent or other money, interest and costs due under the lease, unless
the lessor has regained possession of the leasehold land, or
obtained judgment for the possession, thereof, on account of the
non-comphance by the lessee with the terms of the lease, prior to
the commencement of the improvements thereon, in which case
the purchaser of the improvements under this chapter shall have
the right only to remove the improvements within sixty days after
he has the same, and the owner of the ground shall receive the
rent due him, payable out of the proceeds of the sale, according
to the terms of the lease, down to the time of removing the
building.
§ 3444. The verified statement to l>e filed, and time of Jiling with
judge of probate ; lien of employe only for balance due contractor. —
e.It is the duty of every original contractor, within six months, and
every journeyman and day laborer, within thirty days, and of ever}*
other person seeking to obtain the benefit of the provisions of this chapter, within four months after the indebtedness has accrued,
to file with the judge of probate of. the county in which the prop
erty is situated, upon which a hen is sought to be established, a
just and true account of the demand due him, after all just cred
its have been given, which is to be a hen upon such building or
other improvements, or upon the unpaid balance in the owner's or
proprietor's hands, and a true description of the property, or so
near as to identify the same, upon which the lien is intended to
apply, or on which the work was done or materials furnished, with
the name of the owner or contractor, or both, if known to the
person filing the lien, which statement shall, in all cases, be veri
fied by the oath of the claimant, or some other person having
knowledge of the facts ; which statement of account and descrip
tion, when so filed, shall be a lien upon the building or other
improvements, with all the rights and privileges under this chap
ter, from and after such filing ; but if the claim so filed belongs to
a laborer, sub-contractor, or material man, then the lien shall be
only to the extent of the unpaid balance in the hands of the owner
or proprietor at and after the notice of the same is given as here
inafter provided.
§ 3445. Duty of probate judge as to account, and description filed
in his office.—fit is the duty of the judge of the probate court to/
indorse upon every account the date of -its filing, and make an
abstract thereof, in a book by him to be kept for that purpose, and
properly indorsed and indexed, containing the date of its filing,
the name of the person seeking to enforce the lien, the amount
claimed, the name of the person against whose property the lien is
claimed, and the description of the property charged with the
same ; for all of which the probate judge shall receive as full com
pensation the sum of one dollar from the person filing the account,
or seeking to enforce the lien, which shall be taxed and collected
as other costs in case there should be an action brought thereon.
§ 3446. Pleadings and practice as in other civil cases. —g The pleadings,
practice, process, and other proceedings, in cases arising
under this chapter, and to enforce the same, shall be the same as
in ordinary civil actions and proceedings in other cases, except as
hereinafter otherwise provided. The complaint, among other
things, shall allege the facts necessary for securing a lien under this chapter, and a description of the property charged therewith.
§ 3447. Persons made parties. —hJn all suits under this chapter,
the parties to the contract shall, and all other persons interested in
the matter in controversy and in the property charged with the
lien, may be made parties, but such as are not made parties shall
not be bound by any such proceedings.
§ 3448. When executors, administrators, heirs and devisees made
parties; guardian joined with ward; if no guardian, me ad litem ap
pointed', and minor Itound as adult. —iln case of the death of any of
the parties specified in the preceding section, whether before or
after suit brought, the executor or administrator of such deceased
party shall be made plaintiff or defendant, as the case may require,
and it shall not be necessary to make the heirs or devisees of such
deceased person parties to the suit ; but if there is no executor nor
administrator of such deceased person, and it is not desired to
have a personal representative appointed, then the heirs or devisees
of such deceased party may be made parties to such suit, and if
any of the heirs or devisees are minors, their guardians shall be
made parties with them ; but if such minors shall have no guard
ians, the court in which such suit is pending shall appoint guard
ians ad litem for them, in the same manner and under the same
rules and regulations as guardians ad litem are appointed in pro
ceedings for partition of real estate, as now provided by law ; and
the judgment and proceedings of such court, in any such suit,
shall be as binding on such minors as if they were over the age
of twenty-one years.
§ 3449. Judgment for employe not to exceed amount due. contractor,
who may b<> cited and his answer contested. —:/The court shall ascer^
a fajr trial, in the usual way, and as in other cases, the
amount of the indebtedness for which the lien is prosecuted, and
may render judgment therefor in a sum not exceeding the amount
claimed in the demand filed with the lien, together with interest
and costs, and may ascertain the amount due by the owner or pro
prietor to the contractor, when necessary, by citing such owner to
answer, on oath, how much is due, which answer may be contro
verted as answers in garnishee cases, and trials had and judg
ments rendered in like manner,
§ 3450. Judgment by default as in ordinary suits. —A* Judgment by
default shall be rendered against every defendant who, after being
summoned or notified according to law, shall not appear and plead
or answer within the time allowed in ordinary civil suits,
§ 3451. Form ofjudgment on publication. —/When the debtor has
not been served with summons according to law, and has not
appeared, but has been lawfully notified by publication, the judg
ment, if for the plaintiff in such case, shall be that he recover the
amount of the indebtedness found to be due, and costs of suit, to
be levied out of the property charged with a lien therefor, which
property shall be correctly described in the judgment ; but in the
case of a material man's or employe's lien, no judgment shall be
entered against the property, unless there be first found some
thing due from the owner or proprietor to the contractor, and then
only not exceeding the amount so due.
§ 3452. Form of judgment on personal service. —wWhen the
debtor has been served with summons according to law, or
appears to the action without such service, the judgment, if for
the plaintiff, shall be against such debtor, as in ordinary cases,
with the addition that if no sufficient property of the debtor can
be found to satisfy such judgment and costs of suit, then the res
idue thereof be levied as provided in the preceding section,
§ 3453. Execution special fi. fa.; advertisement, sale and conveyance,
as in other cases. —«Tne execution to be issued under this chapter
shall be a special fieri facias, and shall be in conformity with the
judgment, and such writ shall be returnable as ordinary execu
tions; and the advertisement, sale and conveyances under the
same shall be made in all respects, as near as may be, as under
ordinary executions,
§ 3454. Lien lost if action not commenced within ninety days. —o All
actions under this chapter shall be commenced within ninety days
after filing the lien, and prosecuted, without unneccessary delay,
to final judgment ; and no hen shall continue to exist, by virtue of
this chapter, for more than ninety days after the lien shall be
filed, unless within that time an action shall be instituted thereon
as herein before prescribed.
§ 3455. Payment to be acknowledged on record in probate office-. —
p Whenever any debt, which is a lien upon any building or other
improvement, shall be paid and satisfied, the creditor shall
acknowledge such satisfaction upon the record, or the margin
thereof, in the office of the judge of probate where such lien is
filed, and for which acknowledgment the probate judge shall be
allowed a fee of twenty-five cents.
§3456. Liability for refusing to enter satisfaction. —rylf any cred-^
itor refuses to enter satisfaction within ten days after payment, as
aforesaid, he shall be liable to any person injured, to the amount
of such injury, and costs of suit.
§ 3457. Notice to be given before fling lien when claimant not orig
inal contractor ; unpaid balance : extent of lien in such cane. —r Every r
person, except the original contractor, who may wish to avail him
self of the benefits of the provisions of this chapter, shall give
ten days' notice before the filing of the lien, as herein required, to
the owner or his agent, or to either of them, that he holds a claim
against such building or improvement, setting forth the amount
and from whom it is due, and for what. Such notice shall subject
any unpaid balance in the hands of the owner or proprietor to the
payment of such claim, and shall be a lien on the building or
improvement to that extent, with all the rights and privileges
which the original contractor has or may have under this chapter,
to the extent of such unpaid balance and no more.
§ 3458. Contractor must furnish owner tirith list of employes and
material men when required. —sThe original contractor snail, when*1
so required, furnish to the owner of such building or improvement
a complete list of all the material men, laborers and employes who
have furnished any material or thing, or have done any labor, or
performed any service for such contractor, or who may be under
any contract or engagement to furnish such material or perform
labor on such building or improvement, together with the terms
or price at which any material is to be furnished, or labor per
formed, and the terms of payment for same ; and in case such con
tractor fail or refuse to furnish such list and give such information
when required, such contractor so failing to comply with the pro
visions of this section shall forfeit thereby any right to secure a
lien under this chapter, as against such owner in such cases ; and
in case such original contractor fail to pay any material man, sub
contractor, laborer or employe, in accordance with any special
contract therefor made with the owner, he shall likewise forfeit
his right to a hen under this chapter.
§ 3459. Contractor must defend when action try employe or material
man ; owner may ivithhold o»' recover payment to amount of claim and
casts: —t In all cases where a lien shall be filed, under the provisions
of this chapter, by any person other than a contractor, it
shall be the duty of the contractor to defend any action brought
thereupon at his own expense ; and during the pending of such
action, or after notice of intention to file a lien, the owner may
withhold from the contractor the amount of money for which such
lien shall be filed, with the full cost and expense of same ; and in
case of judgment against the owner or his property, upon such
lien, he shall be entitled to deduct from any amount due by him
to the contractor, the amount of such judgment and costs, and, if
he shall have settled with the contractor in full, shall be entitled
to recover back from the contractor any amount so paid by the
owner, ror which the contractor was originally the party liable,
with interest and costs.
§ 3460. Meaning of "owner or proprietor;" married, women
included. —?<Every person, including all cestuis que trust, for whose
immediate use, enjoyment or benefit any building, erection or
improvement shall be made, shall be included by the words
"owner or proprietor" thereof, under this chapter, not excepting
married women as to their separate property.
§ 3461. //' filed and suit In ought, all liens on name footing, except
Hen of original contractor. —vThe liens for work and labor done, or
things furnished, as specified in this chapter, other than the lien
specified in the original contract, shall be upon an equal footing,
without regard to the date of filing the account or lien ; and in
all cases where a sale shall be ordered, and the property sold
which may be described in any account or lien, the proceeds aris
ing from such sale, and from the sum that may be collected from
the owner or proprietor, when not sufficient to discharge in full
all the liens against the same, except the original contractor's lien,
without reference to the date of filing the account or lien, shall be
paid pro rata on the respective liens, excluding the original con
tractor's hen ; but such account or lien must have been filed and
suit brought, as provided by this chapter, and such contractor's
lien shall be next paid after that of the material men and
employes. *
CHAPTER 7.
LIENS IN FAVOU OF WOOD-WORKMEN AND BLACKSMITHS.
§ 3462. Lien of Uwkmnith , and of wood-workman, frr work and.
material. —(/Blacksmiths and wood-workmen, who contribute their
labor and material, or labor or material only, to the production of
any vehicle or implement, or article of any kind, shall have a lien
thereon in the hand of the party for whom such vehicle or imple
ment, or article, was made or sold, and purchaser with notice, for
the value of the labor and material, or the labor or material, con
tributed to the production or manufacture of the same.
§ 3463. Of joining parties as plaintiffs; application of ]>roceeds of
judgment. —bThe two parties may join in the same process or
action for what is due them respectively ; or, after notice given to
the other, and his refusal to join in the action or process, either
may proceed alone ; and when the parties unite in one proceeding,
the justice of the peace or the jury by whom such case is tried,
shall, in case the value of the article shall not be sufficient to sat
isfy both demands, declare the pro rata share of each part of the
proceeds, which, after deducting cost and expense of trial, shall
be paid over as in other cases ; but in case either party refuses to
join in the proceedings or suit, if the other party institutes suit
within ten days after his notification to the other party of his
intention to do so, he shall be entitled to full satisfaction of his
claim in preference to that of the other ; and when a party pro
ceeds alone, after notice, the fact of such notice and refusal to
join shall be alleged in the complaint, and notice thereof %hall be
served upon the party so alleged to have refused concurrently
with the service of the process upon the defendant or his prop
erty; and such party may, on application at the trial, or at any
time previous thereto, cause himself to be made a party thereto,
and the case shall proceed as if originally commenced as a joint
action ; but if the party does not appear at the trial, or has not
presented an application to be joined in the action, the case shall
proceed in the name, and for the benefit, of the party instituting
the suit.
§ 8464. Attachment ; what the affidavit shall set forth; lien must t>e
enforced in six months. —(-Parties shall be entitled to process of
attachment, to enforce their rights, to be issued by the same
officers, and under the same conditions, as required by law
in other cases of attachments ; and the affidavit shall set forth —
1. That the party for whom such article was made has transferred
the article. 2. That the price of the same is due and unpaid.
Such lien shall be enforced within six months from the time when
the account became due.
CHAPTER 8.
LIENS ON SHIPS, STEAMBOATS, AND OTHER WATER CRAFT.
§ 3465. Lieu declared. —a A lien is hereby created on all ships,
steamboats, and other water crafts, whether the same be registered,
enrolled, licensed, or not, that may be built, repaired, fitted, fur
nished, supplied or victualed within this state, for work done or
materials supplied by any person within this state, for or con
cerning the building, repairing, fitting, furnishing, supplying or
victualling such ships, steamboats or other water crafts ; and for
the wages of the masters, laborers, stevedores and ship keepers
of such vessels, steamboats or other water crafts, in preference to
other debts due and owing from the owners thereof, which said
lien may be asserted in any court of competent jurisdiction. (1)
§ 3466. Lien lost if action not brought in six months. —6The lien
hereby created shall expire after the lapse of six months from and
after the maturity of the claim or debt, unless within the said six
months judicial proceedings shall have been commenced to assert
such lien.
CHAPTER 9.
LTENS IN FAVOR OF LANDLORDS, AND OF LABORERS UNDER CONTRACTS TO
DIVIDE CROPS ; REMEDIES FOR THEIR ENFORCEMENT.*
§ 3467. The landlord's lien, for what and upon what it exists. —uAaF
landlord has a hen on the crop grown on rented land for rent for
the current year, and for advances made in money or other thing
of value, whether made directly by him or at his instance and
request by any other person, or for whidh he has assumed the
legal responsibility at or before the time at which such advances
were made, for the sustenance or well being of the tenant or his
family, for preparing the ground for cultivation, or for cultivating,
fathering, saving, handling, or preparing the crop for market, and
e shall have a lien also upon each and every article advanced,
and upon all property purchased with money so advanced or
obtained by barter in exchange for any articles advanced ; for the
aggregate price or value of all such property or articles so
advanced. (1)
§ 3468. If not otherwise stipulated, due tuvnty-Jifth day of Devem-
her. —1> Unless otherwise stipulated, the rent and the price or value
of the articles advanced, shall be due on the twenty -fifth day of
December of the year in which the crop is grown.
§ 3469. If lien not satisfied and tenancy continues, Hen continues
upon articles advanced, and attaches to succeeding crop, and has forte
and effect of written instrument duly recorded. —('Whenever the
tenant fails to discharge his indebtedness for rent and advances,
and continues his tenancy under the same landlord, the balance
so due for rent and advances shall be held as so much advanced
by the landlord towards making \he crop of the succeeding year,
for which a lien shall attach upon the crop, and continue upon the articles advanced, and the several liens upon the crop or crops
and articles advanced and property purchased by money advanced
or obtained by barter in exchange for articles advanced, shall have
the same force and effect as if created by a written instrument,
duly recorded.
§ 3470. Landlord may assign his claim, and assignee will takelandlord's
rights and remedies. —(iThe claim of the landlord for rent and
advances and property obtained, with values advanced, may be
assigned by the landlord, and the assignee shall be invested with
all the rights of the landlord, and be entitled to all his remedies
to enforce them.
§ 3471. Landlord or assignee may have sejxirate actions for rent and
advances, or one action for both. —eThe landlord or his assignee
may have separate actions for the sum due him as rent, and for
that due him for advances, or he may combine both causes of
action in one suit.
§ 3472. Landlord or assignee may have attachment ; by wltom
; in what case". —/The landlord or his assignee may have
process of attachment for the recovery of the sum due him as
rent, and for that due him for advances, to be issued by any of the
officers named in section 3254 (2929) : (2)
1. When any one of the several claims for which a lien is herein
created, is due, and the tenant refuses or fails, after demand made,
to pay it.
2. And in the following cases, whether the claim is due or not,
at the time the attachment is sued out :
(1). When any party interested in the claim, or his agent or
attorney, has good cause to believe that the tenant is about to
remove from the premises, or otherwise dispose of the crop with
out paying the amount which will be due for rent and advances.
(2) . When he has removed from the premises, or otherwise dis
posed of any part of the crop, without paying the amount which
will be due for rent and advances, without the consent of the
landlord, or of his assignee, when the claim has been assigned.
(3). "When he has disposed of, or the landlord or his assignee has
good cause to believe he is about to dispose of any of the articles
advanced, or obtained by purchase with money advanced, or by
barter in exchange for any article advanced, in fraud of the rights
of the party applying for the attachment.
§ 3473. Of t/ie affidavit and bond ; issue of the attachment, and upon
what levied.—g Affidavit being made of one of these facts by the
landlord or his assignee, or the agent or attornev of either, stating
the amount that is or will be due for rent and advances, or either
rent or advances, or the value of the part of the crop or other
thing agreed to be received and paid as rent, and bond being given,
conditioned as in other cases of attachment, process of attach
ment may issue as in other cases, and the attachment may be
levied upon the crop or the proceeds thereof, and upon the articles
advanced, or property purchased with money advanced or obtained
by barter in exchange for articles advanced.
§ 3474 When one person furnishes land, and tJie other team and
labor, and the crop is to be divided, the relation of landlord and tenant
exists, and the portion of crop treated as rent. —/tin cases in which
one party furnishes the land, the other party furnishes the labor
and team to cultivate it, with stipulations, express or implied, to
divide the crop between them in certain proportions, the relation
of landlord and tenant, with all its incidents and to all intents
and purposes, shall be held to exist between them, and the portion
of the crop assigned by the terms of the contract to the party
furnishing the land, shall be held and treated as the rent of the
land.
§ 3475. In cases like the preceding the contract of hire exists ; the
laborer has a lien, and may enforce it by attachment; but the levy
on the crop must not exceed ivhal is necessary to satisfy the demand.
iln cases in which one party furnishes the land and tenants
(teams) to cultivate it, and the other party furnishes the labor,
with stipulations, express or implied, to divide the crop between
them in certain proportions, the contract of hire shall be held to
exist, and the laborer shall have a lien upon the crop produced by
his labor for the portion of the crop or value thereof assigned to
him by the terms of the contract ; which Hen shall have the same
force and effect as the Men of the landlord for rent, and may be
enforced by attachment under the same conditions and in the same
cases as provided by law for the benefit of the landlord, but no
more of the crop shall be levied on than may be necessary to
satisfy the demand.*
§ 3476. Where there is a sub-tenant, crop of tenant in chief must
first be exhausted ; balance levied on crop of sub-tenan t ; when and
hoiv levy on sub-tenant's crop vacated.—/In cases in which a party
cultivates land under any person, himself the tenant of another,
the superior landlord, in proceeding to enforce his demand for such
claims as are secured by the hens created in this chapter,
or his assignee, when the claim has been assigned, shall first
exhaust the crop of the tenant in chief before levying the attach
ment or other process upon the crop of the under-tenant; but if
the superior tenant makes no crop, or the amount thereof is not
sufficient to satisfy the demand, then a levy may be made on the
crop of the under tenant sufficient to discharge the balance of the
demand ; aud any levy made in violation of this provision may be
vacated on motion at the first term thereafter of the court.
§ 3477. How sub-tenant may require attachment against crop of
t'-'nant chie f '; effect of failure to attach in such case. —k The sub-
tenant may notify the superior landlord of the existence of any
one of the several grounds or facts which by law justify the suing
out by the landlord of an attachment against the crop of the
superior tenant, and if such notice be given after affidavit made
by the sub-tenant before any justice of the peace or notary public
having jurisdiction of justice of the peace, setting forth the causes
or facts which would justify the issuance of such attachment, and
the same shall have been served by any constable or person
specially authorized by the magistrate to make such service, and
the landlord refuses or fails, within a reasonable time, to proceed
against the crop of the tenant in chief, he shall lose his right to
proceed against the crop of the sub-tenant for any deficiency in
the crop of the tenant in chief, to satisfy his claim, in so far as that
deficiency resulted from such refusal or failure to proceed.
§ 3478. Provisions as to Imdlord and tenant apjilt/ to tenant
in chief and sab-tenant. —I All the provisions of this chapter
shall apply as between parties occupying the relation of tenant
in chief and sub-tenant.
CHAPTER 10.
LIBN OF TENANT IN COMMON ON CROP.
§ 3479. Lien of tenant in common on crop of the other. —a Persons
who farm on shares, or who raise crops by joint contributions in
such manner as to make them tenants in common in such crops,
or their assignees, shall each have a lien upon the interest of the
other in such crops for any balance due for provisions, supplies,
teams, materials, labor, sendees, and money, or either, furnished
to aid in the cultivating and gathering such crops, under contract,
or furnished when the interest of such crops require it, in case of
a failure of either to contribute the amount and means as agreed
upon by the parties.
§3480. Lien may be enforced by attachment; grounds of attach;
other remedy not affected. —b The lien provided for in the
preceding section, may be enforced by process of attachment,
upon the grounds and in the manner provided for the enforcement
of the landlord's lien for rent ; but this section shall not prevent
the enforcement of such lien in any other mode.
CHAPTER 11.
LIENS IN FAVOR OF AGRICULTURAL SUPERINTENDENTS AND LABORERS,
AND RADL ROAD EMPLOYES.
§3481. L ien in favor of vauTot id employes. —a A. lien is crested
in favor of laborers and employes of each railroad company operated
in the State of Alabama, except the officers of said com
panies, for all debts due to them for work and labor done and per
formed by them for such railroad company ; and such lien shall
extend to all the property, rights, effects and credits of every
description of such railroad company situated in this state.
§ 3482. Lien in favor of agricultural employes.—bA lien is also
created in favor of agricultural laborers and superintendents o
plantations upon the crops grown during the current year, in and
about which they are employed, for the hire and wages due them
for labor and services rendered by them in and about the cultiva
tion of the crops under any contract for such labor and services
during the current year ; which hen shall be subordinate to the
landlord's lien for rent, and to the lien for supplies furnished to
make the crops as now provided by law.*
§ 3483. No more than 8 ufficiency of crop m ust be attache*!. —c Whenever
it becomes necessary for an agricultural laborer or superin
tendent of a plantation to resort to his suit at law to enforce the
collection of a debt due him for his hire or wages, and the attach
ment, either original or ancillary, shall have been sued out and
levied upon the crops raised and cultivated in whole or in part by
such laborer or superintendent of a plantation, the sheriff or other
officer, in making the levy of such attachment, shall not attach a
greater portion of the crop than is sufficient to satisfy the claim
of such laborer or superintendent of a plantation, together with
the costs of the suit.
§ 3484. Lien tvaived in six months, unless proceedings begun to
enforce it. —d The lien created shall be held to be waived and aban-
doned at the expiration of six months after the work shall have
been completed, unless proceedings are within that time com
menced to enforce the same, as herein after set forth.
§ 3485. Liens enforced, by attachment. —eFor the enforcement of
the liens declared in this chapter, the party aggrieved shall be
be entitled to process of attachment, to be issued by any of the
officers of the law now authorized to issue writs of attachment,
and to be returnable before any court having jurisdiction of the
same ; but before any such writ of attachment shall issue, the
party suing out the same, or his agent, shall make affidavit before
an officer authorized to administer oaths, of the amount due, and
that the same remains unpaid ; and, further, that such attachment
is not sued out for the purpose of vexing or harassing the defend
ant, and describing therein the property upon which the lien is
claimed.
§ 3486. Attachment may issue whether debt due or not.—fin every /
case provided for by the second section of this chapter, the laborer
or superintendent, as the case may be, shall have his writ of attach
ment, whether the demand is due or not, upon making oath before
the officer aforesaid that such demand is or will be due ; and fur-
ther, that the defendant, without the consent, contract, or agree
ment of the plaintiff, is about to remove the crop from the prem
ises without paying such demand, or that the defendant has
removed such crop or some portion thereof without the consent
of, and contrary to his contract with the plaintiff.
§ 3487. Bond retjuired l)e/on' attachment issues.^g Before any
attachment provided for by this chapter shall issue, the officer
before whom it is applied for must require the plaintiff or his
agent to execute bond, with surety, in accordance with section
3256(2931).
§ 3488. Triable at first term, if notice given; ivhat notice required.
/<In all cases provided for by this chapter, triable in courts of
record, every such case shall be tried at the first term thereof,
provided written notice shall have been served upon the defendant
twenty days before the first day of such term, or, in case of non
resident defendants, that four weeks notice by publication shall
have been given of the pendency of such proceeding ; and that in
all cases before justices of the peace, or notaries public, such cases
'shall be tried at the first term, provided written notice shall have
been served upon the defendant for five days before the first day
of such term, or, in the case of non-resident defendants, that four
weeks notice by publication, ////, once a week for three successive
'weeks in a newspaper published in the county, shall have been
given of the pendency of such proceedings.
§ 3489. By whom notice given. —i The publication herein provided
for maY De ma(je by the clerk of the court in which such proceed
ings may be commenced, without first having obtained any order
of the court therefor; or in cases before justices of the peace, or
notaries public, by such officers.
§ 3490. Property or proceeds sutyect to garnishment. —:/AH the
property upon which a lien is created under the provisions of this chapter, or the proceeds thereof in the hands of third parties,
shall be subject to garnishment for the enforcement and satisfac
tion of the lien herein created, such process of garnishment to be
governed by the laws now in force, so far as the same are appli
cable.
§ 3491. Other remedies not affected. —k Nothing in this chapter
shall be so construed as to prevent any person having a lien there
under from commencing his suit therefor in any of the courts of
this state having jurisdiction.
§ 3492. Crop not io be removed wniU rent and advances paid.—I No
part of any crop levied upon by any officer under the provisions
of this chapter, shall be removed from the premises on which it
was raised, until all claims for rent of land or advances for the
current year are satisfied.
§ 3493. IVhen prior lien of third party to be satisfied. —m Any offi
cer collecting any of the debts provided for in this chapter, under
a judgment, attachment, or order of sale, shall first pay and sat
isfy the debt or claim of any third party having a prior hen upon
the property, if such claim has been ordered to be paid by the
court before which the same is tried.
CHAPTER 12.
LIENS of livery stable keepers.
§ 3494. Lien on. stock kept and fed.. —a Keepers, owners, or proprietors
of livery stables have a iien on all stock kept and fed by
them, and have power to retain such stock, or so much thereof as
may be necessary to secure the keepers, owners, or proprietors
in the payment of charges due for keeping and feeding such
stock.
§ 3495. Notice, and sale to satisfy Hen. —b If the charges when due
are not paid within ten days from demand thereof, the keepers,
owners, or proprietors are authorized, after giving thirty days
notice, c once a week for three successive weeks, in a newspaper
published in the county in which such stables are located, or, if
there be no such paper, by posting the notice for thirty days in
three conspicuous places in the county, to sell the stock, and out
of the proceeds of such sale pay the charges and expenses inci
dent thereto ; and the balance, if any, to be paid to the owner of
such stock.*
CHAPTER 13.
LTENS IN FAVOR OF OWNERS OF STALLIONS AND JACKS.
§ 3496. Lien declared. —a Owners of stallions and jacks, who
keep them for profit and charge a price for the season thereof,
have a lien on any mare or jenny to which said stallion or jack is
put, and also upon the colt, for the stipulated prioe therefor.t
CHAPTER 14.
PARTITION OF PROPERTY HELD BY JOINT OWNERS.
Abticle 1. —Partition of property generally.
2. —Partition of crops.
AETICLE I.
PARTITION OF PROPERTY GENERALLY.
§ 3497 (3105). Partition of property among persons having joint or
common tenancy. —Any property, real, personal or mixed, held by
joint owners or tenants in common, may be divided among them
on the application of the persons entitled thereto, or any one of
them, in writing, to the judge of probate of the county rn which
the property is. Such application may be made by the executor or
administrator of a deceased person in interest, or by the guardian
of a minor or person of unsound mind.(l)
§ 3498 (3106). Contents of the application for partition. —The appli
cant must set forth the names of all the persons interested in the
property, and their residence, the property sought to be divided
or partitioned, the interest of each person in the same, the num
ber of shares into which it is to be divided, and, if the applica
tion be for partition of land, a full and accurate description of such
land. (1)
§ 3499. Lands in one trad lying in different counties may lye intituled
same petition. —a Whenever any part of property held by joint
owners or tenants in common shall consist of a tract of land lying
partly in one county and partly in another, or other counties, the
application for the division thereof may be made to the judge of
probate of either of such counties, and such division shall be
made at the court house of the county of such judge.
§ 3500. Certificate of division furnished by probate judge : its ttm-
tents ; notice, when recorded. —b The probate judge, upon "division
being made, must furnish to each party interested, upon applica
tion thereof being made and the costs thereof being paid, a cer
tificate, under the seal of his office, of the lots or parcels allotted
such party upon such division, and of the book and page in and
upon which the proceedings are recorded in his office. The record
of such certificate in the proper office of any county in which any
part of such property lies or is, shall operate as a notice of its
contents.
§ 3501 (3107). Notice of day of hearing required, and guardian ad
litem appointed. —Upon the filing of such petition, the judge of
probate must appoint a day for hearing the same, not less than
thirty days from its filing ; and all parties in interest must have at
least ten days notice of the time and place set for hearing the
application, and in cases where infants or persons of unsound
mind are parties, guardians ad litem must be appointed to repre
sent them. If any of the parties in interest are non-residents,
they may be made parties in the same manner and to the same
extent, as is done when property in the hands of an executor or
administrator is to be divided or distributed. (2)
§ 3502 (3108). If evidence is satisfactory, commissioners appointed
to make partition. —If upon the hearing of the application, the
judge of probate is satisfied, from the proof, that the property
described in the petition is held and owned jointly or in common,
he must decree the same to be divided or partitioned among those
entitled thereto, according to their respective interests therein ;
and to effect such division or partition, he must appoint suitable
commissioners, not more than five, any three of whom may act ;
but if the application be for partition of lands, and any of the
parties interested are minors, the judge, before granting any appli-
cation, must be satisfied by evidence taken as in chancery cases,
that it is to the interest of such minors that the partition be made.
§ 3503 (3109). Oath of commissioners and duties as to division. —
The commissioners must be sworn faithfully to execute the trust
reposed in them, and to make the distribution or partition fairly
and impartially, if the same can be made ; and the division or
partition shall be conducted in all respects as nearly as may be,
consistently with the provisions of this chapter, as is done when
property in the hands of an executor or administrator is to be
distributed or divided ; and in case of application for partition of
lands, the commissioners must, after examination of the land and
survey thereof, if necessary, proceed without delay to make divis
ion thereof inio the necessary number of shares, having regard to
the quality of the soil and other advantages, so as to make the
different shares as nearly equal in value as practicable ; making a
plat and map thereof, showing the subdivisions and boundaries of
the lots, and numbering them progressively, and are authorized
to employ a surveyor, chain bearers, &c, if necessary.
§ 3504 (3110). Publication of the time of making the division.—In
case of partition of land, they must cause publication to be made
not less than three successive weeks in a newspaper published in
the county, if there be one, if not, in the one nearest thereto, that
they will, on a day designated, attend at the court house of the
county to make division.
§ 3505 (3111). Partition made by lot, and. result returned. —On the
day designated the commissioners must, in the presence of the
judge of probate, determine by lot to whom each of the several
parcels belongs, and make a statement in writing of the result, set
ting forth to whom the several parcels or lots were allotted,
together with all the facts relating to the division and allotment,
which must be signed by them, and attested by the probate judge.
§ 3506 (3112). Papers filed and, registered as conveyances. —The
petition, commission, statement of the commissioners, map and.
plat, and all orders made by the probate judge, must be filed in
his office, and registered in the book kept by him for the registry
of conveyances of land, which is presumptive evidence of the
truth of any fact therein stated.
§ 3507 (3113). Division so made vests a title in each ; set aside in
chancery for fraud. —The division so made vests a title in fee sim
ple in the persons to whom the several shares are allotted, in as
full and ample a manner as if each had conveyed to the others ;
but if any fraud or undue influence be employed by any of the
parties to obtain an unfair division or allotment, such division
may be annulled on application to the chancellor, by bill in chan
cery, within five years after the allotment.
§ 3508 (3114). Lien a/jainst one attaches only to his share. —When
there is a lien on an undivided interest of any of the parties, such
lien, if a partition is made, is thenceforth a charge only on the
share assigned to such party ; but such share must first be charged
with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in prefer
ence to such lien.
§ 3509 (3115). Neio commissioners appointed if necessary. —If any
of the commissioners die, resign, or neglect or refuse to act, at
any time before the final allotment, others may be substituted in
their stead by the judge of the probate court, and have power to
complete such division and allotment.
§ 3510 (3116). Fees of commissioners. —The commissioners are
entitled to two dollars per day for each day whilst engaged in
such division and allotment, and all expenses they may be at in
causing survey to be made, making map, plat, &c*
§ 3511 (3117). If costs not paid within thirty days, 'xecution against
each part owner for his proportion. —The judge of probate must
ascertain the costs and expenses attending the division, and make
a record thereof, stating distinctly each item of costs and expense ;
and if the same is not paid within thirty days after the allotment,
he may issue execution against each of the persons to whom the
land was allotted, for their aliquot proportion thereof, which must
be directed to the sheriff, to be levied as other executions, and
may be levied on the land so allotted.
§ 3512 (3118). No allotment made, if adverse claim is set tip. —No division or allotment can be made under this chapter, where an
adverse claim or title is asserted by any one, or brought to the
knowledge of the commissioners, or judge of probate.
§ 3513 (3119). Other remedies may be used, &c. —The power
hereby conferred does not prevent a resort to any other legal
mode of obtaining partition of lands.
§ 3514 (3120). bale of property for distribution among joint tenants,
&c. —Judges of the probate court may decree and order a sale of
all property, whether real, personal or mixed, held by joint own
ers or tenants in common, when the same cannot be equitably par
titioned or divided between such joint owners or tenants in com
mon, notwithstanding they, or any number of them, are infants, or
persons of unsound mind. (1)
§ 3515 (3121). Application, therefor, and day of hearing set Inj judge.
Upon the petition or application in writing of any of the parties
in the preceding section mentioned, their guardians or other law
ful representatives, setting forth that such property cannot be
equitably partitioned or divided without a sale of the same, the judge
of probate must, upon the filing of such petition, appoint a day
for the hearing of the same, not less than thirty days from its
filing.
§ 3516 (3122). Notice to be given of the day of hearing, and guard
ians ad litem apjurinted for minors, &c.—All parties must have at
least ten days notice of the time and place set for the hearing of
such application ; and in cases where infants or persons of unsound
mind are parties, guardians ad litem must be appointed by such
court. If any of the parties in interest are non-residents, they
may be made parties in the same manner and to the same extent
as is done in cases where property in the hand* of an executor or
administrator is to be divided or distributed.
§ 3517 (3123). Evidence, how taken, and what must be proved.—
Before granting any application under the three preceding sec
tions, the judge of probate must be satisfied by evidence, taken as
in chancery cases, that an equitable partition or division cannot
be made ; and when the application is by the guardian of any one
or more of the infants or persons of unsound mind, the judge of
probate must not only be satisfied that such property cannot be
equitably divided, but that it would be to the interest of such
infants or persons of unsound mind to sell the same for the pur
pose of partition and division.
§ 3518 (3124). Decree, appointment of commissioners, and conduct
of sale. —Upon the hearing of such application, if the judge of
probate shall be satisfied from the proof, that the property thus
held and owned in common cannot be equitably partitioned and
divided among all the parties in interest, he must decree the same
to be sold, and make and issue all such orders as may be neces
sary to effect the sale thereof, appoint suitable commissioners, not
more than five, any three of whom may act ; and the sale shall be
conducted, the purchase money collected, conveyance of title
made, and all proceedings subsequent to the sale conducted in
every respect as is done when property in the hands of an execu
tor or administrator is to be distributed. (1)
§ 3519 (3125). Commissioners to pay over money received from sale,
and judge to distribute. —The commissioners acting under the pro
visions of this chapter may discharge themselves from all liability
for money received by them for property sold under this chapter,
by paying over the same into the hands of the judge of probate,
having deducted therefrom the costs and expenses attending the
sale, including the same commissions as executors or administra
tors receive for collecting and disbursing, and such net proceeds
must be distributed by such probate judge to the persons respect
ively entitled.
§ 3520 (3126). Provisions applicable to personal representative of
deceased tenant, &c. —Should any of the parties interested in prop
erty, whether the same be real or personal, held in common, die,
then the provisions of this chapter shall fully apply to his execu
tor or administrator.*
ARTICLE EL
PARTITION OF CROPS.
§ 3521. Joint owners of crops may partition on application to probafe
judye. —a Matured crops of corn, cotton, or other produce,
raised and made by persons in such manner as to make them p
tenants in common or joint owners therein, whether gathered or
ungathered, may be divided among those entitled thereto, on the
application of either or any of such persons, in writing, to the judge
of probate of the county in which such crops are, or any portion
thereof is. Such application may be made by the executor pr admin
istrator of a deceased person, or by the guardian of a minor or per
son of unsound mind interested in such crops.
§ 3522. Contents of application. —b Such application must set forth
the names, ages and place of the residence of all the persons inter
ested in the crops, the location, value and description of the crops,
the number of shares into which they are sought to be divided,
the interest of each person therein, who is in actual possession
thereof, and must be sworn to by the petitioner, his agent or
attorney.
§ 3523. Day set, and parties notified; guardian ad litem for minor
or person of unsound mind. —cUpon the filing of such application,
the judge must appoint a day for the hearing of the same within
fifteen days thereafter, if the parties are residents of this state ;
within thirty days if the parties are non-residents of this State.
He must issue notice thereof to all the resident parties, which must
be served on them at least five days before the day of triaL If
any of the parties are non-residents, notice of the contents of the
application, together with the day appointed for the hearing
thereof, shall be given by the judge d once a week for three conse-
cutive weeks in some newspaper published in the county ; if none
therein, then in some newspaper published in an adjoining county,
a copy of which in either case shall be by him mailed, directed to
such, non-resident parties at their postoflices, if the same are
known or can be ascertained by reasonable effort. If any of the
parties are infants or persons of unsound mind, guardians ad litem
must be appointed to represent them, unless they have regular
guardians who will represent them on the trial.*
§ 3524. Sheriff may be ordered to take possession of crop. —e If at
j.jie tjme 0f niing such application or afterwards any party inter
ested in the crops make oath in writing before the probate judge
that he has cause to believe that the crops, or any portion thereof,
will be removed, sold, used up or destroyed by some of the parties
interested, before they can be divided as herein provided, the judge
shall order the sheriff to take possession of such crops and the
same safely keep until final disposition thereof by the court, unless
the party or parties, or some Of them interested therein, give bond,
with good security to be approved by the sheriff, in double the
value of the shares of those complaining, conditioned for the
delivery of such crops to the sheriff within five days after judg
ment, or, in case of default, to pay to those entitled the value of
their interest in the crops, together with all costs and damages
for the detention thereof, if the crops shall not be delivered
according to the terms of the bond, any of the parties interested
therein may jointly or severally sue on the bond in the name of
the sheriff for his use for the amount of his interest in the crops.
§ 3525. Decree of partition on hearing.—/ On the day appointed
to hear the application, or on any day to which it may be con
tinued, the judge shall hear the evidence and determine whether
the parties, or any of them, are tenants in common or joint owners
in such crops, what interest or share each has therein, what liens
if any, by law or contract, exist on the crops in favor of either or
any of the parties, and whether it is most practicable and best to
divide the crop in specie or sell the same for division, and render
a decree* establishing and enforcing the same accordingly.
§ 3526. Sheriff' makes sale and pays over proceeds to probate judge.
g If the judge shall order the crops sold, the sheriff shall adver
tise and sell the same in the same manner as he is now required
to sell property under execution from the circuit court, and make
return thereof, together with the proceeds of the sale, forthwith,
to the judge of probate, who shall pay over the same to those
entitled thereto. The sheriff shall sell the crops at the place
designated in the decree.
§ 3527. If decree for division, sheriff to summon three household
ers ; report to judge of probate ; if partition can not Ik made, sale to
be had. —/( In case the crops are ordered to be divided, the sheriff
shall summon three disinterested, intelligent householders of the
county, not related to either of the parties, who shall make parti
tion among the several parties according to the decree, and shall
make return of their action in writing and under oath to the judge
of probate within ten days after their appointment. The oath
shall set forth that they made the partition fairly and impartially
to the best of their knowledge and ability, and it must be taken
before the judge of probate. If the commissioners thus selected
find it impracticable to make division of the crops in specie, or
that it is necessary to sell a portion thereof to make or equalize division, they shall at once make report thereof to the judge of
probate, who shall command the .sheriff to sell the same, as herein
above provided.
§ 3528. Report of commissioners may be contested. —i Any of the<n
parties may file objections to the report of the commissioners
making partition, in ten days after the same is returned into the
probate court, and the judge shall appoint a day to hear the same,
and give notice thereof to the parties interested, not exceeding
ten days, and on the evidence adduced on the trial thereof he
shall confirm or set aside the report, as the equity and justice of
the case demands. If the report is set aside, new commissioners
shall be summoned to make partition, as herein required of those
originally appointed.
§ 3529. Shares delivered on consent ; otherwise must await confirma
tion of report.—j On the written consent of all the parties in inter-^
est, the sheriff shall immediately, on partition being made, deliver
to each party his share of the crops ; otherwise he shall hold the
same until confirmation of the report, when he shall deliver the
crops to those entitled thereto, unless a supersedeas bond on appeal
be given.
§ 3530. Right of appeal; supersedeas of decree on bond, —k Anti
appeal at the instance of either party, if taken within ten days,
lies from the proceeding on the application for partition, or from
the proceeding on the confirmation or rejection of the report of the
commissioners, after the same has been finally disposed of, to the
circuit or supreme court, under regulations in cases of appeals
from the probate to the circuit court or supreme court now existing.
The appellants may supersede the decree pending appeal therefrom,
by giving bond with good security, to be approved by the sheriff,
payable to the appellees, in double the value of the interest of the
appellees, conditioned to have the crops forthcoming, to abide the
judgment of the appellate and probate court, and in case of default
to pay all costs and damages arising therefrom.
§ 3531. Jury trial may be had. —I Either party may, on demand
before the trial begins, have a jury on the hearing of the applica
tion. The judge shall order the sheriff to summon a jury of twelve
men, or any less number by agreement of the parties, and there
after the mode of swearing, empanneling, challenging and supply
ing the places of the jurors shall be the same as that in the circuit
court, as far as practicable, and the jury shall decide the facts
under the charge of the judge.
§ 3532. Casts and fees, and hoiv taxed.—wiThe probate judge may
tax the costs against the unsuccessful party litigating, or against
the crops, which may be sold in amount sufficient to satisfy the
same, if the same be not paid ; but each share is only made to
bear its proportionate share of the costs according to its amount.
If the crops involved are worth less than one hundred dollars, the
judge, sheriff, jurors, commissioners, and witnesses shall only be
allowed one-half the fees for similar services in other cases ; if
over one hundred dollars, the usual charges lor such services in
other cases.
§ 3533. Papers fled, but not recorded unless parties request, —n All
the papers connected with the proceedings for partition shall be
filed, but not recorded, in the probate court, unless one or more
of the parties request it, in which case such party or parties shall
pay the costs thereof. These papers, or the record thereof, shall
be evidence of title between the parties to their respective shares
of the crops.
§ 3534. Liens of third parties, how adjusted. —o When there is a
|jen on joint property or any undivided share thereof, held by
a person other than one of the tenants in common, such other
person shall be made a party to the application for partition, and
his lien protected and enforced, and it division is made in specie,
such Hens shall thenceforth rest on the interest alone of the person
creating or owning the same, and if division is made by sale the
lien shall be satisfied out of the proceeds of the share upon which
it existed ; but such share must be made to contribute its share of
the costs.
§ 3535. Provisions apply to assignees; and do not prevent resort to
remedies. —p The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
assignee of any joint owner or tenant in common ; and the reme
dies given in this chapter shall not prevent a resort to any other
remedy allowed by law.
CHAPTER 15.
ARBITRATION.
§ 3536 (3148). Order of reference to arbitration made on motion of
parties to a suit. —It is the duty of all'courts to encourage the set
tlement of controversies pending before them, by a reference
thereof to arbitrators chosen by the parties or their attorneys ;
and, on motion of the parties, must make such order and continue
the cause for award; but such continuance must not extend
beyond one term, unless for good cause shown, or by consent. (1)
§ 3537 (3149). Award made under a submission, without ortfer of
the court, to be entered as a judgment. —When no suit is pending, the
parties to any controversy may refer the determination thereof to
the decision of arbitrators, to be chosen by themselves ; and the
award made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, must be
entered up as the judgment of the proper court, if the award is
not performed. (1)
§ 3538 (3150). Submission to l>e in writing, dec. ; its contents, — The
parties must concisely state in writing, signed by them, the matter
in dispute between them, and that they desire to leave the deter
mination thereof to certain persons, naming them, as arbitrators ;
which must be delivered to the arbitrators, or one of them,
together with a list of the witnesses either party may desire to
examine. (1)
§ 3539 (3151). Proceedings before arbitrators and making the
award. —Thereupon it is the duty of the arbitrators to appoint a
time and place for hearing the parties and making their award,
of which they must give the parties three days notice ; and if no
cause is shown for a continuance, proceed to hear and determine
the matters referred to them, and make their award in writing,
which must be signed by them, and a copy thereof be delivered to
each of the parties, their agents or attorneys.
§ 3540 (3152). Arbitrator not acting, his place supplied, and majority
may make an award.-—If any of the arbitrators fail to attend at
the time and place designated, and the parties appear, they may
substitute others in their place. If the parties can not agree,
the arbitrators present may themselves appoint others in their
stead, of which they must make a memorandum on the submis
sion. A majority of the arbitrators chosen by the parties may
make an award.
§ 3541 (3153). //" award is not performed, returned to the circuit
derk, anil has the force of a judgment ; if for less than fifty dollars,
to a justice. —If the award is not performed in ten days after notice,
and delivery of a copy thereof, the successful party may return
the submission and the award to the clerk of the circuit court of
the county in which the award is made, if for the payment of more
than fifty dollars, for the delivery of specific property, or to do or
omit to do any particular act ; if for fifty dollars, or less, then to
a justice of the peace of the county ; and such award has the force
and effect of a judgment at law, upon which execution may issue
as in other cases.
§ 3542 (3154). Performance enforced by attachment. —If the award
be for the delivery of property, or to do or omit to do any par
ticular act, on notice, and motion to the . court, performance may
be enforced by attachment, or other appropriate writ.
§ 3543 (3155). Oath of the arbitrators. —Before making their
award, the arbitrators must be sworn impartially to determine the
matters submitted to them, according to the evidence and the man
ifest justice and equity of the case, to the best of their judgment,
without favor or affection ; which oath they may administer to
each other.
§ 3544 (B156). They subpima witnesses and issue commissions. —
The arbitrators, or either of them, have power to subpoena wit
nesses, at the request of either of the parties, and to administer
all oaths which may be necessary in the progrsss of the cause,
and must, on the application of either party, issue commissions
to take the deposition of any witness residing out of the county,
which must be taken in the same manner as depositions in the
circuit court, except that no oath of the materiality of the witness,
or of the cause for taking the deposition, is required. *
§ 3545 (3158). Subpoenas executed by sheriff' or constable. —Sub
poenas for witnesses may be executed either by the sheriff, by any
constable of the county, or by the parties themselves.
§ 3546 (3159). Fine of defaulting witness. —Witnesses duly sum
moned, who fail to attend without sufficient excuse, may be fined
ten dollars, for the use of the county; for the collection of which
the arbitrators must issue execution. Such defaulting witnesses
are also liable to the party summoning them, for any injury sus
tained by the loss of their testimony, to be recovered before any
court having jurisdictioni
§ 3547 (3160). Award final unless set aside for fraud ; appeal lies,
a An award made substantially in compliance with the provisions
.
of this chapter, is conclusive between parties thereto, arid, their
privies, as to the matter submitted, and cannot be enquired into,
nor impeached for want of form or irregularity, if the award deter
mines the matter or controversy submitted ; and such award is
final unless the arbitrators are guilty of fraud, partiality, or cor
ruption in making it ; but either of the parties, within five davs
after receiving notice of the award, may file in the office of the
clerk, register or judge of the court in which the cause is pending,
a notice of appeal to the supreme court, and may tender to the
arbitrators a bill of exceptions, setting forth all the evidence in
the cause, which, with the conclusions of law of the arbitrators
and their award thereon, shall be certified by them, and
returned with the papers of the cause to the court in which the
cause is pending, and, either in term time or vacation, the clerk,
register or judge of the court, may enter it up as the judgment or
decree of the court, and it shall stand as the judgment and decree
of the court, unless set aside for some of the causes hereinabove
specified ; and from the judgment, or decree so entered up, or
from the judgment setting aside the award, an appeal shall lie as
in other cases. (1)
§ 3548 (3161). Arbitrations as at common laiv. — Nothing in this chapter contained prevents any person or persons from settling
any matters of controversy, by a reference to arbitration at com
mon law. (2)
§ 3549 (3162). Pay of arbitrators, icitnesses, dv. —The arbitrators
are, if demanded by them, entitled each to two dollars per dav,
whilst actually engaged in the arbitration ; the witnesses, to one
dollar per day ; and the sheriff and constable, to the customary
fees for executing subpoenas ; which must be paid jointly lay the
parties, unless the arbitrators otherwise determine.
§ 3550 (3163). Witness fees and other charges paid in atlvance, but
successful party recovers them cts costs. —Any witness may refuse to
testify until his fees are paid by the party summoning him ; and
the arbitrators may refuse to deliver copies of the award until all
charges are paid. If paid by a party not liable therefor, he may
recover the same by action before any court having jurisdiction
thereof ; and the receipt of the arbitrators is presumptive evidence
of the fact of payment, and of the liability of the party therefor.*
CHAPTER 16.
INJURIES TO TREES AND WATER CRAFT.
§ 3551 (3202a). Damages for destruction, injury or removal of
trees.—Any person who cuts down, deadens, girdles or destroys, or
takes away, if already cut down or fallen, any cypress, pecan, oak,
pine, cedar, poplar, walnut, hickory, or wild cherry tree, or sap
ling of that kind, on land not his own, wilfully and knowingly,
without the consent of the owner of the land, must pay to the
owner of such tree or sapling ten dollars for every such tree or
sapling, and for every other tree or sapling, not hereinbefore
described, so cut down, deadened, girdled, destroyed, or taken
away by any person, he must pay to such owner the sum of five
dollars.*
§ 3552 (3202/;). Destruction or injury of fruit or ornamental trees,
&c. —Any person who cuts down, digs up, girdles, destroys or
mutilates any fruit tree, or ornamental tree, shrub, bush, or plant,
which is enclosed on premises not his own, wilfully and knowingly,
without the consent of the owner, must pay to such owner fifteen
dollars for every such tree, shrub, bush or plant.
§ 553 (3202c). Injuries to water craft.—Any person who, with
out leave of the owner thereof, sinks, takes away or destroys any
canoe, or other boat or water craft, must pay to the owner double
the value thereof, if destroyed ; or if taken away or loosed, and
not returned in as good condition as when taken away or loosed ;
or if loosed, sunk or taken away, and returned not in as good con
dition as when taken away or loosed, such person must pay to the
owner the sum of twenty-five dollars and the expense of putting
it into such condition.
§ 3554 (3202a'). Limitation of action, where tried, &c. —Every
action for the specific penalties given by this chapter may be
brought in any court of competent jurisdiction, and must be
brought within one year from the time the injury was committed,
and not after ; and neither a suit brought nor penalty incurred
under the provisions of, this chapter is a bar to any action for
further damages, nor to any criminal proceeding for any offense
included in the acts for which such penalties are herein imposed,
or connected therewith.
CHAPTER 17.
AD QUOD DAMNUM.
Article 1. —Erection of dams for mills and factories.
2 —Taking private property for rail road* and other public uses.
AETICLE L
i
ERECTION OF DAMS FOR MILLS AND FACTORIES.
§ 3555 (2481). Dams; who may erect them.—a Any person may
erect a dam for a water grist-mill, saw-mill, gin or factory, which
grinds, saws, gins or manufactures for the public, across any water
course, not being a navigable stream, if he is the owner in tee sim
ple on each side, or on one side and of part of the bed of the
stream, at the place where he proposes to erect such dam, by pro
ceeding as in this chapter is hereinafter provided. (1)
§ 3556 (2482). When, he owns each -side, he ap}dies to judge of pro
late of the county. —If he is the owner on each side, he must make
application to the judge of probate of the county in which he pro
poses to erect the mill.
§ 3557 (2483). If he owns only one side, he must apply to judge of
probate of county on opposite side. —If he is the owner of the land
on one side only, he must make application to the judge of pro
bate of the county in which the lands on the opposite side on
which he would abut his dam he.
§ 3558 (2484). Contents of application when owner bf both sides. —
If he owns .the lands on each side, the application must contain a
description of the lands by sectional divisions or subdivisions,
township and range ; the name of the water course ; on which
side he intends to erect his mill ; the height of the dam, and the
kind of mill he proposes to erect. (1)
§ 3559 (2485). Contents when owning one side only. —If he owns
the land on one side only, he must, in addition to the requisitions
of the preceding section, set forth the name of the owner of the
land on which he proposes to abut ; if he is a minor, lunatic, or
of full age, and his residence.
§ 3560 (2486). Writ of ad quod damnum directed to the sheriff'.—
The judge of probate, on the filing of the petition, must issue a
writ to tlie sheriff, requiring him to summon seven disinterested
freeholders of the county to meet at the place where the dam is to
be erected, on a day to be specified in the writ, not less than fif
teen nor more than thirty days after filing the application, and
then and there to inquire touching the matters contained there
in. (1)
§ 3561 (2487). Notice to the owner of the laud. —Notice must be
given to the owner of the land on the opposite side of the stream,
by serving him, his tenant, or agent, with a copy of the writ or
application, if to be found in the county ; if not, by posting up a
copy, ten days before the day specified in the writ "for such meet
ing, in a conspicuous place on the land.
§ 3562 (2488). Notice when the owner is a minor, <£c.—If such
owner is a minor or lunatic, such service must be upon his guard
ian, and if he has no guardian, the judge must appoint one to pro
tect his interest.
§ 3563 (2489). Notice if the owner in a non-resident. —If such owner
•is a non-resident, notice must be given by publication in the paper
nearest to such land b once a w eek for three successive weeks.*
§ 3564 (2490). Mode of executing the writ; charge to the jury. —
The sheriff must attend with a copy of the application, and the
jury, on the day appointed ; and after such jury is sworn by the
sheriff to discharge their duties fairly and to the best of their
ability, must be charged by him—
1. To examine the land above and below belonging to others,
which may probably be overflowed or injured, and ascertain and
assess the damages resulting from the erection of such dam, to the
several owners of such lands.
2. If the residence of such owner, or the out houses, enclosures,
gardens, or orchards thereto immediately belonging, will be over
flowed.
3. If the health of the neighborhood will probably be endan
gered.
4. If any other mill or water works will be overflowed. (1)
§ 3565 (2491). Jury also assess the value of one acre of land on the
opposite side. —If the applicant is not the owner on each side, the
jury must also be charged to ascertain and assess the value of one
acre of land on the opposite side of the water-course, to include
the place where the applicant would abut his dam, and to locate
and circumscribe the same by metes and bounds, having a due
regard to the interests of all parties.
§ 3566 (2492). Inquest to l>e in writing, and signed and returned. —
The inquest of the jury must be reduced to writing, signed by a
majority and delivered to the sheriff, and by him returned in five
days thereafter to the office of the judge of probate.
§ 3567 (2493). Parties summoned to show cause, against the inquest.
On the return of the inquest, the judge of probate must summon
the owner of the acre of land, if the same is assessed by the jury,
and also the several owners of the land found by the inquest to be
liable to damages, to appear before such judge on a day named in
such summons, and show cause why the applicant should not have
permission to erect his dam.
§ 3568 (2494). Notice to l>e given by personal service; exception. —
Ten days notice must be given to the several owners to show cause
against such application by personal service, if to be found in the
county ; if not, by posting up a copy at a conspicuous place on the
several tracts of land, ten days before the day.
§ 3569 (2495). Causes for rejection of the application : otherwise
gran ted. —If on the day appointed to show cause, or any other day
to which the matter may be continued, it appear to such judge
from the inquest, or from any other evidence, that the residence
of any owner, or the out houses, enclosures, garden or orchard,
immediately belonging thereto, will probably be overflowed, or
that the health of the neighborhood will probably be endangered, or
any other mill or water works probably overflowed, the judge must
not grant the application ; but if such results are not likely to
ensue, the application must be granted.
§ 3570 (2496). Failure to pay assessment revokes fin- grant in thnt
months. —If the application is granted, the applicant must, within
three months thereafter, pay to the several owners, or to the judge
of probate for the use thereof, the sums severally assessed; and a
failure to make such payment within the time, operates as a revo
cation of the grant.
§ 3571 (2497). On payment of the assessment a conditionalfee vests.
On making the payments in the preceding section, the applicant
is vested with a qualified estate in fee, to the acre of land located
and circumscribed, to become absolute on the following condi
tions :
1. That the dam, or mill, be commenced within one, and finished
in three years from the date of the grant.
2. That whenever the dam, or mill, is destroyed or materially
impaired, the same must be repaired or rebuilt wdthin three years
thereafter ; but if the owner of such dam is an infant or lunatic, be
is allowed the same length of time after the removal of such disa
bility, to commence, finish, repair or rebuild.
§ 3572 (2498). The land reverts to the ownrr on breat h of the con
dition. —On the failure to comply with the conditions provided in
the preceding section, the land reverts to its former, owner, or his
heirs.
§ 3573 (2499). Proceedings when a canal through another's hnid U
necessary. —When such lands join other lands, and it is necessary
for the erection of the mill to dig a ditch or canal through suet
other lands, the application must be made to the judge of probate
of the county in -which the lands, through which the ditch or canal
is proposed to be dug, he ; and the writ obtained, inquest held
on the same, notice, the inquest returned, owners of such other
lands summoned to show cause, application granted or refused,
and damages paid, the same as in other cases provided for by this chapter.
§ 3574 (2500). Mode of obtaining authority to raise the dam higher.
An owner or proprietor of any dam erected under this chapter,
may raise the same on application to the judge of probate, anil
the same proceedings be had as on the first application.
§ 3575 (2501). Failure to comply with conditions in section 3-5 7 J
(2497) avoids the grant. —If any person to whom permission to
erect a dam under this article has been granted, his grantees, or
heirs, fail to build, rebuild, or repair the same, together with the
mill, or other machinery, according to the provisions of section
3571 (2497), the grant is void.
§ 3576 (2502). Who may contest such application. —In all applica
tions under this chapter, any person making affidavit that he is
interested against the same, and giving security for the costs, if he
fail to defeat such application, must, at any time before such appli
cation is granted, be permitted to make himself a party, and to
contest the same.
§ 3577 (2503). Liability for raising a dam without authority.—to?
person who builds, or raises any dam, or other obstruction, across
any water courses, except under the provisions of this chapter,
and thereby works any injury to any7 other person, by overnonini.'
his land, or in any other way, is liable for double damages for such
injury, and may, if the same is a nuisance to the neighborhood,
be prosecuted therefor.*
§ 3578 (2507). Deputy ■sheriff' may act. —The duties imposed on
the sheriff under this chapter, may be performed by deputy.
§ 3579 (2508). Provisions as to toll. —All mills established in pur
suance of this chapter are subject to the provisions of chapter 10, title 13, part 1, of this Code.*
ARTICLE II.
TAKING private property fob rail roads and other public uses.
§ 3580. Petition to probate court ; contents; right of entry and sur
vey of lands. —a Whenever any corporation, or person, of this state,
or any telegraph company incorporated by another state, and pro-
posing, under the laws of this state, to extend its lines into or
through the same, shall be entitled to acquire or take any land or
interest therein, or to have a way, privilege, easement or right of
use over or upon such land, or a franchise or easement belonging
to another person or corporation, or to take therefrom earth or
water appurtenant to such land, and shall not agree with the owner,
or person or corporation authorized to sell or control the same,
for the purchase thereof, application therefor may be made by
petition to the probate court, particularly describing the parcel or
parcels of land, or franchise, or easement, over which the way,
privilege, easement, or right of use is claimed, which petition must
be filed in the probate court of the county in which the lands are
situated, or of some county into or through which the right of
franchise or easement in such lands extends, if the claim be over
or upon a franchise or easement ; and the petition must set forth
all the use, easement, privilege or other right claimed therein ; and
the agents and employes of the petitioner may previously enter
peaceably upon, and survey and lay off the land claimed.
§ 3581. Proceeding in rem; must conform to admiralty practice;
filing petition gives jurisdiction. —bThe probate court of every county
in this state shall be at all times open for the filing of such peti-
tions, and the proceedings thereupon; and upon the filing of any
such petition, shall have and take jurisdiction of the subject mat
ter thereof. The proceedings in the cause shall be in rem in respect
to such parcel or parcels of, land, and shall conform as nearly as
may be, except as herein otherwise provided, to the proceedings
in rem in the admiralty courts, and be conducted according to the
rules of such courts so far as applicable.
§ 3582. Notice required ; on proof of, court has authority to pro
ceed.—r-Upon the filing of such petition, the judge of the court
shall cause a monition, or notice from him, of the filing of the
petition, and of the purport in general terms thereof, to be posted
by the sheriff, or some other person by the judge appointed, in
some conspicuous place upon such parcel or parcels of land, ten
days before the inquest and assessment herein after provided for
shall be made, upon proof of which posting by the return of the
sheriff, or oath of the person appointed, the authority of the court
shall.be complete to proceed in the cause.
§ 3583. Judge required to give notice; contents thereof ; sworn aver
ment required in petition. —dlt is the duty of the judge, upon the
filing of the petition, to cause a notice thereof in general terms
from him to be served upon the owner of the land, or to be left at
his place of residence, if such owner is named in the petition and
resides in the county ; and the petitioner shall, in his petition, set
forth the name and place of residence of such owner, if known ;
and if not known to petitioner, averment thereof shall be made in
the petition, and sworn to by petitioner or his agent.
§ 3584. Publication when owner or residence unknown, or outttiile of
county. —elf any such owner, or his place of residence, is not known
t0 petitioner or his agent, or such owner resides out of the county,
notice, as in the last section preceding, shall be published once a,
week for three successive weeks, in some newspaper, if any, printed
and published so often in the county, or if none be so printed and
published therein, then in some newspaper of one of the cities or
towns of Alabama which shall be nearest the land.*
§ 3585. Any number of parcels of land in same county and vicinity
included in same petition ; separate, petitions may lie consolidated. —
/ Application as aforesaid may be made in respect to any number
of parcels of land, in the same county and vicinity, whether of
the same or different owners, if the same use or right be claimed
in all of them ; and like proceedings shall be had, in respect to
each of said parcels, and their owners respectively, in one cause ;
or separate petitions, of the same petitioner, in respect to different
parcels of land, of the same or of different owners, when applica
tion is for the same object, and the same use thereof, may be con
solidated, and proceeded upon as one cause.
§ 3586. Of the jury ; hoiv damages and compensation assessed. —
g On the filing of the petition, the judge must issue a writ, com
manding the sheriff to cause to come before him, at a time therein
mentioned, within fifteen days, if the owners are all known, and
reside in the county, and within forty days, if not, at the place of
holding the same, eighteen good and lawful men, who shall be
free holders of the county, from whom, or from whom and tales
men, if need be, a jury of twelve good and lawful men shall be
empanneled and sworn ; who, under the direction of the judge,
shall well inquire, and true assessment make, of the damages and
compensation, which the owner or owners of said parcel or par
cels of land respectively shall be entitled to have for the appro
priation thereof to the use of petitioner, as prayed for ; and the
assessment of compensation, for any right of way, shall be made
irrespective of any benefit from any improvement proposed by the
petitioner.
§ 3587. Owner may intervene; but no delay in assessment by reason
of controvei'sy about title. —A The owner of any such parcel of land
may intervene in the cause for his interest therein, and evidence
may be offered, on either side ; but no delay in the assessment, to
be made by the jury, shall be caused by any controversy or evi
dence in respect to the title or ownership of the land, or of any
part thereof.
§ 3588. Of discontinuances; adjournment ; filling up jury, or
empanncling anotlier. —tlf at the time for the assessment, the cause
is ready in respect to some of the parcels of land, and not as to
others, the court may allow a discontinuance as to the latter, or
any of them, or may adjourn the proceedings as to them, to
another day, and proceed with the assessment in respect to the
former ; and the judge may require the same jury to appear and
proceed in the assessments, on the day to which any adjournment
is made, and may then cause any vacancy in the jury to be filled
from talesmen, or cause another jury to be empanneled forthwith.
§ 3589. Of the verdicts, and their entry ; the compensation, and its
payment ; final record. —,/The verdict, or verdicts, if more than one^M
be rendered, in the same cause, shall be immediately entered in
proper form, upon the minutes of the court to be kept for such
causes, and the amount thereof for each parcel shall constitute
the compensation to be paid therefor, as hereinafter directed,
before the appropriation thereof shall be made by the petitioner.
A full record of the petition, proceedings, verdict, and other things,
done in any such cause, shall be made and kept in a book of the
court for such records.
§ 3590. Speeding the cause; discontinuance as to one parcel does not
affect others. —A- It is the duty of the court to speed the cause, upon
any such petition. And if the jury cannot agree upon a verdict,
in respect to any one or more of the parcels of land, the court
shall, without postponing the cause, except by necessary adjourn
ment from day to day, have entry made of any verdict or verdicts,
which the jury may render, and cause another jury to be imme
diately empanneled to proceed in the other assessments to be
made ; and shall so continue to do, until the assessments for all of
such parcels are made. But the petitioner may discontinue the
proceedings as to any of the parcels, without doing so as to the
others.
§ 3591. Jury, when taken to view land. —?Upon motion of either
side, and by a request of a majority of the jury, the court may
authorize the sheriff to take the jury in his charge, to the parcels
of land under consideration, or any of them, to view the same,
and to bring them back to the court, where their verdict shall be
rendered.
§ 3592. How jury may assess parcels of different owners. —mlf it
be not known and shall not be made to appear, in the course of
the proceedings to assess, what portion of any parcel of land,
embraced in the petition, belongs to one owner, and what part or
parts thereof belong to another, or others, or if there be doubt as
to this, or it be otherwise more convenient, the jury may assess
damages and compensation for the whole at so much per acre, or
at so much per acre for a part, and another or other sums per
acre for another part or parts, designating the same, so that the
petitioner may get the use of the land, and the owners thereof
respectively get their just shares when ascertained, of the damages
and compensation assessed.
§ 3593. New trials and appeals. —n A new trial may be granted by
the court, upon good cause shown on either side, in respect to all
of the land petitioned for, or in respect to some and not as to
other parcels thereof, if applied for within ten days after the
assessment, but not afterwards. No more than two new trials
shall be granted in respect to the same parcel. An appeal, to
correct errors of law only, may be had, if applied for within three
months after the assessment, to either the circuit court of the same
county, or the supreme court ; and in respect to any one or more
of the parcels of land, without taking up the cause in respect to
the others, in which case, only the petitioner and owner, or owners
of the parcels involved in the appeal, shall be made parties
thereto ; but no appeal shall, during the pendency of it, prevent or
hinder the petitioner from occupying the land involved therein,
and proceeding to work thereon ; but the petitioner, before doing
so, shall pay into the court, for the person or persons entitled
thereto, the amount of damages and compensation by the jurytherefor
assessed.
§ 3594. Payment of amount assessed to judge of probate ; his receipts
therefor ; liability of himself and sureties. —oThe amounts assessed
£or any pju-cei Qf iand mav De paid to the owner thereof, or person
entitled on his behalf to receive the same, or may be paid in court
to the judge, who shall give to petitioners a separate receipt for
the money paid for each parcel of land, and shall, with his sureties
on his official bond, be responsible for the payment over of the
money.
§ 3595. Rules of evidence, same as in other cases ; notices when owner
is infant or qf unsound mind : land of decedent. —p The law and rules
of evidence in such causes, except as herein otherwise provided,
shall be the same as those relating to causes in the circuit courts
of the State. If an owner of any parcel of land be a minor, or non
compos mentis, notices and other process when necessary, shall be
served on the guardian, if known and resident in the county, or if
the land be under administration by an executor or administrator
of an estate, the service shall be on him, if known, and a resident
in the county. The sheriff may act by deputy, or the coroner may
act as in other cases provided by law, and this article shall be
liberally construed, as a remedial statute.
§ 3596. Penalty for default of sheriff, juror, witness, or other person.
q For any default of the sheriff, coroner, or juror, witness, or other
person, the penalty prescribed by law for like default in other
cases, shall be enforced.
§ 3597. Fees and costs; security for costs required when petition
—rThe fees of the judge of probate in such cases shall be for
each separate notice issued by him, seventy-live cents ; for each
writ for the summoning of jurors, seventy-five cents ; for the first
day in which he may be occupied in the trial of the cause, tbree
dollars ; for every subsequent day, of not less than three hours
each, in which he may be thus occupied, a like charge may be
made of three dollars ; for each receipt he shall give for moneys
assessed, twenty-five cents ; for all other services rendered by hiiu,
or the sheriff, or otlier officers, the same fees shall be allowed as
are allowed by law for like services in other causes. And the
costs of any proceedings under this article shall be taxed to the
petitioner, to be paid after verdict rendered; but petitioner shall
not be required to pay the fees of more than two witnesses for the
parties intervening, for any one parcel of land, unless the court
shall otherwise order. If, before the writ to summon a jury shall
be issued, petitioner has tendered to the owner of any land, or
materials therefrom, or to the person authorized to sell the same,
a sum of money equal to the amount which the jury shall assess
therefor, then the costs of the subsequent proceedings in respect
thereto, shall be paid by such owner ; and petitioner shall be
required to give security for costs at the time of filing the petition.
§ 3598. Proceedings may also be had in circuit court ; payment to
clerk, and liability of self and sureties. —sThe same proceedings
herein authorized to be had in the probate court, may be had in
the circuit court of the proper county, on petition to such court,
filed either during the term of the court, or before, with the clerk
thereof, who shall issue and cause to be posted and served as
aforesaid the monition and notices aforesaid, and all other process
proper to have the cause ready for trial before a jury of the court
(luring such term, or at the next ensuing term thereof. But the
payment of the moneys assessed in the circuit court may be made
to the clerk thereof, who shall give receipts therefor, as aforesaid,
and be responsible with the sureties on his bond for the payment
over of such moneys.
§ 3599. Fees of clerk ; final record. —<Such clerk shall be entitled (
to the same fees for the services he is required to perform as areP
allowed to the probate judge therefor, and shall make and keep
complete records of the causes, upon the petitions as aforesaid.
§ 3600. Special term may be held by circuit judge ; order and notice.
«And the judge of the circuit court of any county may appoint «
and hold a special term thereof, for the determination of such
causes, upon an order made by him thirty days before, on the min
utes of the court, either in term time or vacation, a copy of which
order shall be posted at or near the court house door.
CHAPTER 18.
MANDAMUS.
§ 3601. Practice in mandam us cases. —a The truth or sufficiency a
of the facts or matters set forth in the answer or. return in man- p
damns cases, may be controverted and put in issue, and either of
the parties to the cause shall have the right to demur to any
pleading in the cause, or reply as many matters as may be deemed
necessary to the full and complete assertion of all his lawful and
just rights in the cause, in the same manner and to the same
extent as in any other civil action ; and the provisions of this section shall apply to proceedings now pending, as well as to those
hereafter instituted.
TITLE III.
PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
Chapter 1.- Powers auil duties of justices of the peace and constables.
2. —Special proceedings before justices of the peace.
CHAPTER 1.
POWERS AND DUTIES OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE AND CONSTABLES.
§ 3602 (3203). Time and place of trials by justices. —a Justices of
the peace must designate certain days, at least once a month, and^8
appoint a particular place within their precincts for the trial of
civil causes, but may, in cases of emergency, make their process
returnable at any other time or place ; and at such time and place
all civil actions cognizable before them, whether commenced by
summons and complaint, or by attachment, and proceedings for
summary judgments, must be tried.
§ 3603 (3204). Actions lie/ore them brought by the party really inter
ested. —All actions brought before justices of the peace, founded
on any contract, express or implied, must be brought in the name
of the party really interested therein, whether he have the legal title or not ; and all actions for the recovery of specific property,
or for the recovery of damages merely, in the name of the
aggrieved party.
§ 3604 (3205). Suits commenced by summons, and cause of action
indorsed thereon ; form of summons. —Civil suits before a justice of
the peace must be commenced by a summons, to be issued by
him, with the cause of action indorsed thereon, in substance as
follows :
The State of Alabama, )
county, j To any constable of the county of :
Summon A. B. to appear before me on the day of
next, at (designating the place), to answer the complaint of C. D.,
and there make return of this summons.
Issued the day of .
E. F., justice of the peace.
§3605 (3206). Summons executed three days before return day. —
The summons must be executed three days before the return day
thereof, by personal service on the defendant.
§3606 (3207). Suit brought in precinct of defendant's residence, or
where cause of action arose. —Unless in cases otherwise provided for
in this title, no person can be sued out of the precinct of his per
manent residence, or of that in which the debt was created, or
cause of action arose ; and if suit be brought contrary to the
provisions of this section, it must, on motion, be dismissed by
the justice.
§3607 (3208). If several defendants, suit brought in either precinct.
Where there are several defendants, the summons may be made
returnable into any precinct where any one of them resides.
§ 3608 (3209 ). //" there is no justice, in the precinct, or if justice is
incompetent, suit brought in the next precinct.—If there is no justice
within the precinct of the defendant's residence, or if the justice is
from any cause incompetent to sit upon the trial, the summons
must be issued and the cause tried by the justice of any adjoining
precinct competent to try the cause.
§ 3609. When defendants reside in different counties, branch #ummons
issues. —6 Whenever any joint or joint and several causes of
action exist within the jurisdiction of justices of the peace in this
state, and the defendants reside or may be found in different coun
ties, one or more summons may be issued by any justice of the
peace in the county in which any one or more of the defendants
reside, and be executed in the county or counties in which the
other defendants reside or may be found, which must be returned
and filed with the justice of the peace issuing the same, and con
stitute but one suit, in the same manner as if but one summons
had issued against all the defendants ; and it is the duty of the
justice of the peace, on issuing such branch summons, to endorse
thereon that it is a branch of the original suit, and that all the
summons constitute but one suit and are for one and the same
cause of action.*
§ 3610 (3212). Depositions of witnesses in suits before justices. —The
depositions of females, aged, sick, and infirm persons, and non
residents of the county, living ten miles from the place of trial,
may be taken on application to the justice, in the same manner
depositions are taken in the circuit courts ; in all other cases, wit
nesses must be examined orally before the justice.
§ 3611 (3218). Subpcenas. —The justice, on the application of
either party, must issue subpoenas for witnesses, stating therein
the name of the parties, by whom the witness is summoned, and
the time and place of trial ; which must be executed by the consta
ble, in the same manner as the summons.
§ 3612 (3214). Served in another county, if icitlrin ten miles. —
Where the witness is not a resident of the county, but resides
within ten miles of the place of trial, computing the distance by
the usual traveled route, the subpoena may be served either by a
constable of the county in which it was issued, or by one in which
the witness resides ; but in the latter case, a justice of such county
must certify that he is an acting constable thereof.
§ 3613 (3215). Conditional fine of defaulting witness ; excuses. —If
any witness duly summoned fails to attend, a conditional fine of
ten dollars may be entered against him by the justice ; which must
be made absolute if the witness, upon notice issued by the justice,
and served three days previous to the trial, fails to make a suffi
cient excuse, either in person, by some one who knows the facts
constituting the excuse, or by affidavit before some justice of the
peace, and presented at the time designated for the trial thereof.
§ 3614 (3216). Execution, if fine made absolute, and fine paid into
county treasury. —If the fine is made absolute, execution must issue
therefor, and the proceeds, when collected, must be paid to the
county treasurer. The witness may also be compelled, by attach
ment, to appear and give evidence ; and is also liable to the party
summoning him, for any injury caused by the want of his testi
mony.
§ 3615 (3217). Witnesses' fees. —Witnesses are entitled to fifty
cents per day, while in attendance on the trial, to be taxed in the
bill of costs.
§ 3616 (3218). When the sum in dispute is less than twenty dollars,
either party is a competent witness ; either may require the other to
testify • penalty for refusal. — Where the matter in controversy, or
damages claimed by the complaint, do not exceed twenty dol
lars, either party may be a witness in his own behalf.t And in
any case, either party may be compelled to testify at the instance
of his adversary ; and if he declines to do so, judgment must be
rendered against him.
§ 3617 (3219). Rules of evidence same as in other suits. —The rules
in relation to the competency of witnesses, are the same on trials
before justices, as on trials in the circuit court, except so far as
the same are altered by the provisions of this title. ^
§ 3618 (3221). Judgments in actions for specific property. —In
actions for the recovery of specific property, the justice must
ascertain the value thereof, and render judgment for the specific
property, if to be had ; if not, then for its value ; and execution
must issue accordingly.
§ 3619 (3222). Appeal to jury on giving bond. —Any person dissat
isfied with the judgment of the justice, may within five days there
after appeal to a jury, on giving bond with good and sufficient
security, in double the amount of the judgment and costs, condi
tioned for the payment of the eventual condemnation money ; and
such justice, his successors in office, or any other justices of the
peace in the county, may issue subpoenas for all witnesses that the
parties in such appeal may desire.
§ 3620 (3223). Appeal, how tried, and effect of it. —Such appeals
must be tried before any one or more justices of the peace in the
precinct in which the cause originated, by five jurors, to be drawn,
sworn, and empanneled, as hereinafter directed ; whose verdict
shall be final and conclusive between the parties, unless removed
by certiorari or appeal to the next term of the circuit court of the
county, and such jury must be empanneled, sworn, and the trial
conducted, and the evidence admitted in the same manner as in
the circuit courts ; such justice must enter up judgment on his
docket in accordance with the verdict of such jury, and issue exe
cution thereon as in other cases before justices of the peace.
§ 3621 (3224). Mode of drawing juries. —The mode of drawing
juries under the preceding section must be as follows : The justices
of the peace in each precinct must once in two years make a list
of all persons liable to serve on juries in the circuit courts, who
reside in such precinct, and must write the name of each person
so liable, on a separate piece of paper, which must be deposited
in a box, marked number one, and must draw therefrom, not less
than five, nor more than seven of the names so deposited, from
time to time, as may be necessary to try the causes pending in
their courts, which names must be entered in the justice's docket,
and deposited in a box marked number two ; and after all the
names are drawn from number one, they must commence drawing
from number two, and so on alternately.
§ 3622 (3225). Penalty on jurors for failure to attend ; deficiency,
how supplied. — The justices, or justice of each precinct, may draw
a jurv at any time within five days after judgment is rendered,
should an appeal be demanded within such period, and any person
so drawn, and summoned by a constable, three days before court,
neglecting to attend, shall be subject to the same fines and forfeit
ures, and be proceeded against in the same manner, as witnesses
are for failing to attend justices' courts ; and the constable, by
direction of the justice, must fill and complete such jury from the
bystanders, in case of deficiency of jurors ; but there must be at
least three of the original panel on such jury.
§ 3623 (3226). Pay of jurors. —Such jurors shall be entitled to
receive fifty cents each for then: attendance, which must be taxed
in the bill of costs.
§ 3624 (3227). Jurors, how summoned. —The justice must issue a
venire facias for the jury so drawn, returnable to the next regular
term of such court, as provided in the first section of this chapter,
and the constable must, at least three days before court, summon
the jurors so drawn to attend such court.
§ 3625 (3228). Oath of jurors.—The following oath must be
administered to the jury by the justice of the peace, before any
cause is submitted for their consideration : " You, and each of
you, do solemnly swear that you will, well and truly, try all issues
submitted to you by the court during the day, and a true verdict
render, according to the law and the testimony ; so help you
God."
§ 3626 (3229). Jury trials only at regular term : exception.—The
jury trials within the meaning of this chapter must be had on a
regular court day, as provided for in the first section of this chap
ter, unless it becomes necessary to adjourn such court to a stated
time, not beyond ten days, in order to dispose of the causes pend
ing in such court.
§ 3627 (3230). If no appeal, execution issues returnable to the next
regular term. —After the lapse of five days, if an appeal is not
taken, the justice must, unless otherwise directed, issue a writ of
fieri facias for the satisfaction of the judgment, which must be
signed by him, be dated on the day it is issued, and be returnable
to the regular term next after the rendition of the judgment.*
§ 3628 (3231). Form of the execution. —The writ must in substance
be as follows :
State of Alabama, )
county, f To any constable of the county of .
You are hereby commanded, of the goods and chattels of A. B.,
you make the sum of dollars, which C. D. recovered before
me, of him, on the day of - , besides , his costs ; and
make return to me, on the day of next, at , in your
county, how you have executed this writ.
Witness my hand, this day of .
E. F., justice of the peace.
§ 3629 (3232). On affidavit, execution issues immediately. —If the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make oath in writing before the
justice, that the plaintiff is in danger of losing the .fruit of his
judgment by delay, the justice must issue execution thereon imme
diately.
§ 3630 (3233). Set-off in such suits.— The defendant may set off
any claim or demand, founded on a contract, express or implied,
he held against the plaintiff at the time the suit was instituted,
whether the same was liquidated or not, and if his claim is greater
than that of the plaintiff, may have judgment for the residue, if it
does not exceed one hundred dollars.
§ 3631 (3234). //' the set-off exceeds one hundred dollars after
absorbing plaintiff's demand. —If such residue exceeds one hundred
dollars, and the defendant enters on the docket of the justice a
satisfaction of as much of his claim as the amount of plaintiff's
demand, as ascertained by the justice, and tenders the plaintiff a
receipt for the amount thus set off, judgment must be rendered in
favor of the defendant for costs.
§ 3632 (3235). Slay of execution on (jiving security for the debt. —
The defendant may, at any time before execution issued, stay the
issue thereof for thirty days, if the judgment is for less than
twenty dollars, and for sixty days, if over twenty dollars, by exe
cuting in writing an undertaking to the plaintiff in double the
amount of the judgment, with surety to be approved by the jus
tice, to pay the judgment at the expiration of the stay. If not
paid, execution may issue therefor against all the parties to such
undertaking.!
§ 3633 (3237). Justice's judgment is a bar to other actions. —A judg
ment rendered by a justice of the peace on the merits of the case,
is a bar to any other suit for the same cause of action.
§ 3034 (3238). Certified statement of the judgment is evidence qf the
fact. —A statement of the judgment rendered by a justice of the
peace, made and • certified by the justice before whom the cause
was tried, or by his successor in possession of his docket, is pre
sumptive evidence of the fact.
§ 3635 (3239). Completion of unfinished business on vacancy of jus
tice's office. —When a justice of the peace dies, resigns, or removes,
the remainiDg justice of the precinct is authorized to complete the
unfinished business, in the same manner as if it had been com
menced before him. If there be no other justice in the precinct,
then the nearest justice to his place of residence.
§ 3636 (3240). Constable attends on the courts.—It is the duty of
the constable to attend the regular term of the justice's court of
his precinct.
§ 3637 (3241). Properly levied on to be sold within the precinct. —
He must sell all property levied on, at the residence of the defend
ant, or at such other place within the precinct as may be most for
the benefit of the parties, between the hours of eleven in the morn
ing and four in the afternoon.
§ 3638 (3242). Levy on land, if no personal, property is found ;
papers then returned to circuit court. —If the defendant has no per
sonal property known to the constable, or if it is insufficient to
satisfy the execution, he must indorse the fact upon the execution,
and may then levy on land of the defendant, describing it in his
levy, and make return thereof to the justice of the peace, whose
duty it is to transmit all the papers in the cause to the next cir
cuit court.
§ 3639 (3243). Notice qf levy on land. —If the defendant whose
land is levied on is a resident of, and within the county, personal
notice of such levy must be given him ; otherwise, by posting a
notice in a conspicuous place on the land levied on.
§ 3640 (3244). Motion for sale qf land. —If the proceedings before
the justice are regular, and establish a judgment against the defend
ant, issue of execution and levy on land for want of personal prop
erty, and notice thereof, and no sufficient objection is made, the
court must, on motion of the plaintiff, direct a sale of the land
for the satisfaction of the judgment.
§ 3641. Sale qf land when garnishee answers indebtedness for purchase-money.
—cln all cases of garnishment heretofore, or which
mfty hereafter be pending before any justice of the peace, if the
garnishee answers indebtedness to the defendant on account of
the purchase-money of land, and the same is condemned in his
hands to the payment of the plaintiff's judgment against the
defendant, and execution against the garnishee is returned "no
property found," or is not fully satisfied, the plaintiff may move
the circuit court of the county for an order of sale of such land
in the same manner as lands levied on by a constable are sold,
which order and sale shall be granted and conducted in the same
manner ; and it is the duty of the justice of the peace to send up
the papers in the cause to the circuit court for such order on the
same terms and conditions as he sends up papers in cases of levy
on land by constables.
§ 3642 (3245). Proceedings before justices and order qf sale to be
recorded by the. clerk. —The clerk of the circuit court must record
all the proceedings before the justice, together with the return of
the constable, the motion of the plaintiff, and the order of the
court thereon ; and issue a writ directing the sheriff to sell the
land for the satisfaction of the judgment.
§ 643 (3246). Forthcoming bond.—When a levy is made on per
sonal property, the defendant may retain the possession thereof
until the day of sale, by executing a forthcoming bond, payable
to the plaintiff, in double the amount of the judgment, with suffi
cient surety, to be approved by the constable, with condition to
have the property forthcoming at twelve o'clock of the day, and at
the place appointed for the sale.
§ 3644 (3247). On forfeiture of bond, execution to issue ; no stay
allowed on ■such execution. —If the property is not delivered at such
time and place, the constable must return the bond forfeited to
the justice, who must thereupon, without delay, issue execution
thereon for the amount of the judgment and costs, against all the
parties thereto, upon which no further stay of execution must be
taken.
§ 3645 (3248). Return of forfeiture of bond taken on an execution
from another county —If property is levied on by a constable
under an execution from another county, and the property is not
delivered on the day of sale according to the forthcoming bond,
the constable must return the bond " forfeited " to any justice of his
county, together with a copy of the execution, who must proceed
thereon in the same manner as if judgment had been rendered by
him ; and the constable must then return the execution to the jus
tice that issued it, with an indorsement, showing the levy and for
feiture of the bond.
§ 3646 (3249). Defec ts in form of the bond not to alter its legal effect.
Any undertaking entered into by the parties, with the consent of
the justice or constable, as a stay of execution, or forthcoming
bond, and which has the effect to stay execution, or continue the
property levied on in the possession of the defendant, must be
deemed sufficient, though defective in form.
§ 3647 (3250). Execution sent to another county certified by the judge
of probede. —d Where a defendant, against whom a judgment has
been rendered, removes to another county, or has property in
any county other than that in which such judgment was rendered,
the justice may issue execution thereon, directed to any constable
of such county, which execution must be certified by the judge of
probate of the county in which such justice resides, or by a justice
of the county to which it is sent who has knowledge of the hand
writing of the justice issuing it.
§ 3648 (3251). Return of executions. —The execution must be
made returnable before the justice issuing it, at the next regular
term of his court, not less than thirty nor more than sixty days
from the time of its issue, and may be executed by any constable
of the county to which it is sent, and must be by him returned
to the justice by whom issued.*
§ 3649 (3252). Lien of executions. —Executions issued by justices,
are a lien on the property of the defendant on which they are
§ 3650 (3253). Order of payment of executions against the same
defendant. —If more than one execution comes to the hands of the
constable against the same defendant at different times, the first
received by him must be first satisfied. If more than one execu
tion against the same defendant comes to his hands at the same
time, if all can not be satisfied, each must receive a ratable pro
portion ; and it is the duty of the constable to indorse on every
execution received by him, the true date of the receipt thereof.
§ 3651 (3254). Property exempt from levy on such exeeutions.-^-Th'e
same property is exempt from any levy, attachment, or sale by
execution from a justice, and the same property subject to levy
and sale by execution from a justice, as from other courts.
§ 3652 (3255). Indemnify bond required in cases of doubt. —When
a reasonable doubt exists as to the title of the defendant to prop
erty, the constable may refuse to levy, unless indemnified by the
plaintiff. If there are more plaintiffs than one, the one having
the oldest lien has the prior right to give such indemnity, and
upon his refusal, the person having the next oldest lien may give
the indemnity, and have the property sold or attached for bis
benefit.
§ 3653 (3256). Liability of the constable and his sureties. —The con
stable, and sureties on his bond, are responsible for moneys
received by him, in virtue of his office, upon any summons, attach
ment, or execution, issued by a justice, whether the same is received
before or after judgment, or before or after the return day of the
execution.
§ 3654 (3257). Appeals to circuit courts. —Any person may appeal
to the circuit court, from any judgment rendered against him,
before a justice of the peace, under this chapter, within five days
after the rendition thereof; and in all other cases, except as other
wise provided, at any time before the judgment is satisfied. But
no cause must be carried from a justice's court to the circuit court,
by appeal or certiorari, unless the party applying for such certio
rari or appeal first executes a bond or obligation, with sufficient
security, payable to the adverse party, conditioned to pay such
judgment, both as to debts and costs, as may be rendered by tlie
circuit court; and whenever it is made to appear to the circuit
court that such bond is defective, or security insufficient, such
court may require a new bond, or new or additional security,
within such time as the judge may prescribe ; and if not given,
may dismiss such suit, or render judgment, as the circumstances
may require. *
§ 3655 (3258). Papers and statement of the case to lie returned to
the clerk. —When an appeal is taken, the justice must return all
the original papers of the cause, together with a statement, signed
by him, of the case, and the judgment rendered by him, to the
clerk of the circuit court, by the first day of the term.
§ 3656 (3259). Subpoenas to tvitnesses on the appeal trial issued by
justice and served by constable. — He must also issue such subpoenas
as either party may require, for witnesses to attend on the fourth
day of the trial term of such cause, in the circuit court, where the
term of such court, as prescribed by law, is for one week onlv;
and on the tenth day of such trial term, if a longer term than one
week is prescribed by law for the continuance of such court ; and
in such subpoena must state at whose instance such witness is
summoned, which must be executed by the constable, and
returned on or before the second day of the next term,J» the
clerk of the circuit court.
§ 3657 (3260). Notice of the appeal to be, served on the appellee.
The justice must also issue a notice to the appellee, that such
appeal has been taken, which must be executed by personal serv-
ice, five days before the return term of the appeal, and must be
returned by the constable to the clerk of the circuit court, on or
before the second day of the term. (1)
§ 3658 (3261). If execution issues within six months, and is not
returned satisfied, (Alters may issue at any time within three years. —
When an execution has issued within six months after the rendi
tion of judgment, and has not been returned " satisfied," another
execution may be issued thereon at any time within three years
thereafter, without a revival of the judgment.
§ 3659 (3262). //' none ivere issued, notice to the defendant to show
cause why one should not issue. —When execution has not been thus
sued out, no execution can issue until the defendant is notified to
appear, at a time and place designated by the justice, and show
cause why the plaintiff should not have execution of his judg
ment ; but no judgment can be revived after the lapse of five years
from the rendition of judgment, or of the issue of the last execu
tion.
§ 3660 (3263). Effect of the death of either party pending the suit.—
When any of the parties to a suit die during its progress, the suit
abates, unless the cause of action survives; when it may be
revived within six months thereafter, by five days notice to the
legal representative to appear and prosecute or defend the suit,
unless such legal representative voluntarily makes himself a party ;
and upon the death of either party being made known to the jus
tice, he must continue the cause six months.
§ 3661 (3264). No judgment against representatives until eighteen
months after grant of letters.1— No judgment must be rendered by a
justice of the peace against an executor or administrator, as such,
until eighteen months after the grant of letters testamentary, or
of administration.
§ 3652 (3265). Limitations of suits, and rules of proceedings in the
circuit court, applicable to suits before justices. —The provisions for
the regulation of suits in the circuit court, and prescribing the
time within which suits may be brought, so far as the same are
applicable to suits before justices, and not contradicted by any
provisions contained in this title, are hereby declared to be in full
force, as to the rights of parties, and to suits brought before jus
tices, as fully as if here repeated. (2)
CHAPTER 2.
SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
Ahticle 1.— Summary judgments.
2. —Trial of right of property.
3. —Attachments.
i. —Forcible entry and unlawful detainer.
ARTICLE L
SUMMARY JUDGMENTS.
§ 3663 (3266). Summary judgments not exceeding one hundred dol
lars, on motion and Jive days notice. —Judgments not exceeding one
hundred dollars may be rendered, on motion, by justices, in favor
of the party aggrieved, or the other persons herein specified,
against the persons hereinafter named, five days notice thereof in
writing being given, specifying the cause for which such motion
will be made, and the time and place.
§ 3664 (3267). Against justice ; for acting as such after removal,
drc, forty dollars. —Against justices of the peace, for acting in an
official capacity, as such, after their office has been vacated by
removal from the precinct for which they were elected, or from any
other cause, judgment for forty dollars, one-half to the use of the
county, and the residue to any one who will sue for the same.
§ 3665 (3268). For failure to pay over money. —For any money
received or collected by a justice by virtue of his office, after
demand made, judgment may be rendered for the amount so
received or collected, with five per cent, a month thereon.
§ 3666 (3269). Such motions made Ixfore any justice of the county
within six months. —The motions authorized by the two preceding sections may bo made before any justice of the peace of the
county in which such justice resides, within six months after the
demand of the money from the justice, or within six months after
the act done.
§ 3667 (3270). Against constables, for acting after removal f rom
precinct or vacation of office, forty dollars. —Against constables, for
acting as such after removal from the precinct for which they were
elected, or after their term of office has expired, or is vacated from
any cause, judgment for forty dollars, one-half to the use of the
county, and the other half to the use of any person who will sue
for the same.
§ 3668 (3271). Fur failure to make the money on an execution, —For
failing to make the money on an execution which, by due diligence,
might have been made, judgment for the amount of the execution,
and interest, and five per cent, damages on the amount thereof.
§ 3669 (3272). For failure to pay over money collected : demand
and motion made in six months. —For failing to pay over money col
lected or received in virtue of any execution, summons or attach
ment, on demand by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, judgment
for the amount so received, and five per cent, per month on such
amount from the time of the demand made ; but the demand must
be made, and notice for summary judgment given, within six
months after the receipt of the money.
§ 3670 (3273). For failure to execute summons. —For failing to
execute any summons which, by proper diligence, could have been
executed, judgment for a sum not more than ten nor less than five
dollars.
§ 3671 (3274). For failure to levy an attachment. —For failing to
execute process of attachment, which, by due diligence, could
have been executed, whereby the plaintiff has lost his debt, judg
ment for the amount of the debt, and interest.
§ 3672 (3275). Failure to return, or false return of process. —For
neglecting to make return of a summons, execution or other pro
cess, or for making a false return, judgment for a sum not more
than twenty nor less than five dollars.
§ 3673 (3276). In favor of constables on indemnifying bond. —Judg
ment may, in like manner, be rendered iu favor of the constable
against the obligors in any bond or promisors in any undertaking
to indemnify him in levying an attachment or execution ; judgment
for the same amount which is rendered against the constable for
making such levy, on three days notice of the pending motion or
suit against the constable.
§ 3674 (3277). Motions made in county of defendant's residence ;
judgment against the sureties who have notice. —The motions author
ized by this article may be made before any justice of the county
in which the parties moved against reside, and judgments be
obtained against such justice and constable, and such of the sure
ties to their official bond, or either of them, as may be notified
that such motion will be made.
§ 3675 (3278). If amount, damages, interest, dkc, exceed one hun
dred dollars, motion made in circuit court. —When the amount
claimed, by the accruing interest, or by the addition of the dam
ages, exceeds the sum of one hundred dollars, the motion must be
made in the circuit court of the county in which the parties
moved against reside.
ARTICLE H.
TRIAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.
§ 3676 (3279). Property levied on and, claimed by another person,
delivered to him, on making affidavit of claim and fling Itond ; bond
not to exceed twice amount of execution or attachment and costs. —
a When an attachment or execution is levied by a constable on0
personal property claimed by any person not a party to the writ,
he may try the right to such property by making affidavit, which
may be administered by the officer levying the process, that he
has a just title thereto, and executing bond in double the value
of the property so levied upon, payable to the plaintiff, with suffi
cient security, to be approved by the constable, with condition to
have the property forthcoming for the satisfaction of the plaintiff s
judgment, if it be found liable therefor, and for the payment of
such costs and damages as may be recovered for putting in the
claim for delay, and thereupon the property must be restored to
the person from whom it was taken ; but in no instance shall the
penalty of the bond exceed twice the amount of the execution or
attachment, and the costs.
§ 3677 (3280). Proceedings to try the right of property ; jury sum
moned. —The constable must, without delay, return the affidavit
and bond to the justice who issued the process, who must there
upon issue a writ directed to the constable, commanding hirn to
summon seven householders of the precinct as jurors, to appear
at a time and place to be by him designated, within the precinct,
not less than nve nor more than ten days from the issue of the
writ, for the trial of the right of property.
§ 8678 (3281). Deficiency from non-attendance, dec, of jurors, sup
plied from bystanders. — If any of the jury fail to attend, or are
incompetent to serve as jurors, or are challenged for cause, the
deficiency must be supphed from the by-standers.
§ 3679 (3282). Oath of jurors; burthen of proof on plaintiff. —
When the jury is empanneled, the jurors must be sworn well and
truly to inquire into the right of property so levied on or attached,
and a true verdict render, according to the evidence ; and the
burthen of proof that the property is liable to the satisfaction of
the execution, or subject to the attachment, is cast on the plaintiff.
§ 3680 (3283). Assessment of separate valve of each article ; dam
ages, if claim is put in for delay. —If the claim was interposed to
a levy by execution, or if the plaintiff in attachment has obtained
judgment, the jury must, if they find for the plaintiff, ascertain
the value of each article of property separately, as far as pi-acticablo,
and if they are of opinion the claim was put in for delay,
assess the plaintiffs damages, not exceeding fifteen per cent, on
the amount of the plaintiffs demand ; for which, and for the costs
of the claim suit, judgment must be rendered for the plaintiff
against the defendant and his sureties; and shoidd the property
found subject not be delivered to the constable within nve clays
thereafter, execution issues for the assessed value thereof, against
the defendant and his sureties.
§ 3681 (3284). Pay of jurors. —Jurors summoned and empanneled
in trials for the right of property, before justices of the peace,
are entitled to receive for their services the sum of fifty cents in
each case tried by them, to be taxed in the bill of costs against
the unsuccessful party.
ARTICLE in.
ATTACHMENTS.
§ 3682 (3285). Justices have exclusive power to issue attachments not
exceeding one hundred dollars; grounds of attachment. —Justices have
the exclusive power to issue attachments, returnable before them
selves, where the amount claimed does not exceed one hundred
dollars, in the following cases only :
1. To enforce the collection of a debt, whether due or not at the
time the attachment is sued out.
2. To recover damages for the breach of a contract, where the
damages are uncertain or unliquidated.
§ 3683 (3286). Rul s as to attachments in oth-r courts applicable. —
The provisions contained in the first six articles of chapter first, title second of this part, are applicable to attachments issued by
justices, except as otherwise provided in this article.
§ 3684 (3287). Form of the attachment.— The form of the attach
ment must be in substance as follows :
State of Alabama, )
county. f To any constable of said county:
Whereas A. 13. (or C. D., as the authorized agent or attorney of
A. B.,) hath complained on oath to me, E. F., a justice of the
peace for the county aforesaid, that G. H. is (or will be) justly
indebted to him in the sum of dollars, and has made affi
davit, and given bond as required by law : You are hereby com
manded to attach so much of the estate of G. H. as will be of
value sufficient to satisfy the complaint and costs, and such estate,
unless replevied, so to secure that the same may be liable to
further proceedings thereon, to be had before me on the day
of , at , when and where you must make return how you
have executed this writ.
Witness my hand, this — day of .
E. F ,
Justice of the peace.
§ 3685 (3288). Notice of levy on real estate, how given. —When an
attachment from a justice is levied on real estate, notice must be
given as provided for by section 3639 (3243), and the papers, after
judgment against the defendant, must be returned to the clerk of
the circuit court by the justice for an order of sale, as in other
cases of levy on lands by constables.
§ 3686 (3289). Money in tijjicers' hands, or debts in suit in court,
not attached by process returnable before a justice. —Money in the
hands of a sheriff or other executive officer of the court, cannot
be attached by process from a justice of the peace, nor a debt in
any court of record of this state, in any case in which the attach
ment or process is returnable before the justice.
§ 3687 (3290). Sale of property before judgment in certain cases.
Property which is perishable, or such that the expense of keeping
it will materially impair its value, must be sold by order of the
justice, when the debt upon which the attachment is sued out is
not due, when the defendant in attachment is a non-resident, or
when from any cause the judgment or sale is postponed, so that
the property attached will materially deteriorate in value, unless
the property is replevied, and the proceeds of such sale must be
retained in the hands of the justice to abide the judgment.
§ 3688 (3291). Answer in writing on oath, and is evidence on appeal.
The garnishee must answer on oath, in writing, or his statement
be reduced to writing by the justice ; and if an appeal is taken,
the answer made before the justice is evidence against the gar
nishee, in the circuit court. (1)
§ 3689 (3292). Property replevied to be delivered, in ten days after
judgment; execution on bond forfeited. —Property replevied must be
delivered to the constable within ten days after judgment against
the defendant, unless an appeal is prosecuted from the .judgment,
and on failure thereof, the constable must indorse the bond for
feited, upon which execution must issue against the parties thereto.
§ 3690 (3293). Justice tries contests of answers and collateral issues
without a. jury. —When the answer of a garnishee is contested, or
when any collateral issues arise from a contest between a trans
feree or claimant of the debt attached and the plaintiff, the
question must be decided by the justice, without the intervention
of a jury.
§ 3691 (3294). Execution issues after judgment, if the property
does not pay the debt. —When the property attached, or in the hands
of the garnishee, is not sufficient to satisfy the judgment, execu
tion may issue for the residue, and be levied on any other property
of the defendant.
§ 3692 (3295). Appeals from justice's decision, on ■contents of
anstoers or oilier collateral issues ; bonds on such appeals. —The
plaintiff, garnishee, or the contestant, upon any collateral issue,
may appeal to the circuit court from any judgment of the justice,
within the time allowed by law for appeals in section 8654, by
executing an undertaking in writing, with surety, payable to the
adverse party; the garnishee in double the amount rendered
against him, and the plaintiff and contestant in such sum as the
justice may require, with condition as in other cases of appeals
from a justice. (1)
§ 3693 (3296). Attachments not quashed, for defect of /arm of affi
davit, bond, dec, on appeal, if party will amend, and no objectinn
heard which was not made before the justice. —No attachment can be
quashed or dismissed in the circuit court, for any defect of form
in the affidavit, attachment or bond, or for want of a bond, if the
plaintiff is willing and able to execute a sufficient bond ; and no
objection can be made in the appellate court to the regularity of
the proceedings, which was not made before the justice of the
peace.
ARTICLE IV.
FORCIBLE ENTRY AND DETAINER, AND UNLAWFUL DETAINER.
§ 3694 (3297). Cognizable, before a justice of the county. —The for
cible entry upon and detainer, or the unlawful detainer, of lands,
tenements and hereditaments, is cognizable before a justice of the
peace of the county where the offense happens. (2)
§ 3695 (3298). Courts for such trials always open. —Courts having
jurisdiction under this article must be held open at all times, for
the consideration and adjudication of questions arising under this article, and judgments had thereon without delay. (2)
§ 3596 (3299). Forcible entry and, detainer defined. —A forcible
entry and detainer is, where one by force or strong hand, or by
exciting fear or terror, enters upon and detains lands or tenements
in the possession of another ; as by breaking open doors, windows
or any other part of a house, whether any person be within or not;
by threats of violence to the party in possession, or by such words
or actions as have a tendency to excite fear or apprehension of
danger ; by putting out of doors or removing the goods or chat
tels of the party in possession ; or by entering peaceably, and
then, by force or threats, turning or keeping the party out of pos
session. (2)
§ 3697 (3300). Unlawful detainer defined.—An unlawful detainer
is, where one who has lawfully entered into possession of lands or
tenements, after the termination of his possessory interest, refuses,
on demand in writing, to deliver the possession thereof to any oue
lawfully entitled thereto, his agent or attorney. (1)
§ 3698 (3301). Estates of freehold and less than freehold included.—
The two preceding sections extend to and comprehend terms for
years, and all estates, whether freehold or less than freehold. (1)
§ 3699 (3302). On complaint made, notice issued to the defendant ;
form of notice. —Upon complaint being made, the justice of the
{>eace must issue a notice to the party complained of, to the folowing
effect :
The State of Alabama, ) To C. D. : You are hereby commanded
county, j to be and appear before me, at , on
the day of , to answer to and make defense against a
complaint exhibited to me against you, by A. B., for a forcible
entry and detainer, (or for an unlawful detainer, as the case may
itness my hand, this day of .
E. F., justice of the peace. (1)
§ 3700 (3303). Time and mode of serving notice. —The notice must
be served on the defendant at least six days before the return day
of the process, and may be served on him anywhere within the
state. The return of the service thereof by any sheriff or consta
ble of the state is sufficient, or proof of the fact may be made
before the justice. It is sufficient to leave a copy thereof at his
usual place of abode. (2)
§ 3701 (3304). Issue made betioeen the parties : if defendant does
not appear or plead, "not guilty" taken as his plea. —If the parties
appear, an issue must be made between them upon the com
plaint. If the defendant, having been duly cited, does not appear,
or appearing, declines to plead, the cause proceeds as if the
defendant had pleaded not guilty ; or for a good cause, the trial
may be postponed, not more than fifteen days, at the cost of the
applicant.
§ 3702 (3305). //' plaintiff .succeed, tvrit of restitution issued, to l>e
executed by the sheriff : costs. —If the justice determines in favor of
the plaintiff, he must record the decision, and render judgment
with costs, upon which he must issue a writ of execution, com
manding the sheriff to restore the plaintiff to the possession of his
lands and tenements, according to the complaint ; and to levy and
sell a sufficiency of the defendant's goods and chattels, lands and
tenements, to satisfy the costs of the proceeding.
§ 3703 (3306). If plaintiff is cast, he. pays the costs, (tc. —a If the
justice determine in favor of the defendant, judgment must be ren-£
dered in his favor for the costs, upon which an execution may issue
as in other cases ; and in either case, the items composing the bill
of costs must be stated at the foot of the execution.
§ 3704 (3307). Title not in issue.—The estate, or merits of the title, can not be inquired into on the trial of any complaint exhib
ited under this article.
§ 3705 (3308). Quiet possession for three years is a bar to any recov
ery, if the estate of the defendant is not determined. —The uninter
rupted occupation of the premises in controversy by the defendant
for the space of three entire years preceding the exhibition of the
complaint, is, if the estate of the defendant is not determined, a
bar to any proceeding under this article.
§ 370 (5 (3309). Stdmwnas and depositions. —The justice before
whom the complaint is exhibited must issue subpoenas for wit
nesses, at the request of either party, which may be served either
by the sheriff or by a constable. Either party may also take the
testimony of any witness living out of the county of the trial, by
deposition, as in other cases before justices of the peace.
§ 3707 (3310). Pe. 'ally for fail are of officer to execute process under
tins article. —Any sheriff or constable neglecting or refusing to
execute any process placed in his hands by a justice of the peace,
in virtue of the authority conferred by this article, forfeits two
hundred dollars to the party aggrieved, to be recovered by action
in the circuit court.
§ 3708 (3311). Proceedings under this article no bar to other reme
dies. —No proceeding had under this article, or judgment rendered,
bars or prevents the party injured from prosecuting an action
of trespass, or other action, against the aggressor or party
offending.
§ 3709 (3312). Damages for detainer after expiration of lease. —Any
person who, having entered into the possession of lands and tene
ments under a contract of lease, forcibly or unlawfully retains the
possession thereof after the expiration of his term, or refuses to
surrender the same on the written demand of the lessor, his agent,
or attorney, or legal representative, is liable for double the amount
of the annual rent agreed to be paid under such contract, and for
such other special damages as may be thereby sustained by the
party thus unlawfully kept out of possession, to be recovered as
now provided by law in actions of unlawful detainer, or by an
action at law for damages. (1)
§ 3710 (3313). Appeals from the judgment on giving bond, and case
tried anew in circuit court. —Either party aggrieved by the judg
ment rendered in any proceeding instituted under this article,
may prosecute an appeal thereon, within ten days thereafter, to
the circuit court of the proper county, where the cause must be
tried anew, without regard to any defect in the proceedings before
the justice ; the party praying the appeal executing bond, pay- able
to the other party, in the penalty of treble the amount of the
judgment for costs, with approved surety, conditioned to prosecute
the appeal to effect, and pay and satisfy all costs, and the judg
ment which may be rendered by the circuit court. (1)
§ 3711 (3314). Appeal does not suspend the writ of restitution, unTess
de/endant gives bond for rent, (fee. —An appeal does not prevent the
issue of a writ of restitution, unless the defendant, in addition to
the bond described in the preceding section, execute a bond
with surety, payable to the other party, in the penalty of twice
the yearly value of the rent of the premises, with condition to
pay him all such damages as he may sustain by the prosecution
of the appeal ; the value of the yearly rent must be ascertained
by the justice.
§ 3712 (3315). Papers and proceedings returned to circuit court as
in other appeal cases ; judgment in circuit court. —When an appeal is
prosecuted, the justice of the peace must return to the circuit court
the appeal bond, and all the papers and proceedings in the cause,
together with his statement of the cause, as in other appeal cases;
and judgment, if against appellant, must be rendered in the circuit
court against him and the sureties in the appeal bond.
§ 3713 (3316). On affirmance of judgment against defendant, writ
of restitution and judgment for rent. —If the appeal is prosecuted
by the defendant below, and the judgment affirmed by the circuit
court, a writ of restitution must be awarded, and, on motion of the
appellee, judgment must be rendered against the appellant and
his sureties on his bond, for the value of the rent of the premises
pending the appeal, and also the costs.
§ 3714 (3317.) Tried by justice of precinct in which land is ; if in a
city, by the mayor, dec. —The complaints provided for in this article
must be exhibited to, and be tried by a justice of the peace, for
the precinct in which the lands or tenements are situated. If in
a city, or corporate town, before the mayor, intendant, or any jus
tice of the peace thereof. If the office is vacated, or such justice,
mayor, or intendant is disqualified, from any cause, from sitting,
then by the justice of some adjoining precinct.
§ 3715 (3318). Fine of defaulting ivitness. —A witness duly subpoe
naed and failing to attend, or refusing to testify, may be fined by
the justice of the peace, not exceeding one hundred dollars, for
the use of the county, for'which he may issue his execution directed
to the constable.
§ 3716 (3319). Notice to witness before judgment is made absolute. —
The judgment specified in the preceding section must not be
made absolute, until ten days after service of a written notice
on such witness, informing him of the rendition of such judg
ment.
§ 3717 (3320). Fees of witnesses, sheriff's and constables. —To wit
nesses, the same fees as allowed by law in the circuit court ; to the
sheriffs, for serving summons and return, one dollar ; for executing
writ of restitution, two dollars ; for making money on execution,
serving subpoenas, &c, same fees as in cases in the circuit court ;
to the constable, same fees as in other cases.
TITLE IV.
TRUST ESTATES AND TRUSTEES.
Chaftkb 1.—Appointment nnd removal of trustees in circuit court
2. —Appointment resignation, rlenth, and removal of trustees in chancery.
3. - Investing, transferring, and subjecting trust estates.
CHAPTER 1.
APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES IN CIRCUIT COURT.
§ 3718 (3164). Circuit court may remove a trustee ; causes for such
removal. —The circuit court has the power to remove the trustee
of an express trust, created by will or deed, upon the application
of any party interested in the trust property, when such trustee
has violated, or threatened to violate his trust, is insolvent, or has
removed from the state.
§ 3719 (3165). Application filed with the clerk of the county in ichich
the trustee resides. —Such application must be filed with the clerk
of the county in which the trustee resides ; and if a non-resident,
in the county in which the most valuable portion of the trust
property is.
§ 3720 (3166). Its contents: notice to trustee.— It must state the
grounds on which the removal is sought; and the trustee must be
served with a copy of such application ten days before the same
is tried.
§ 3721 (3167). Publication when trustee is non-resident. —If the
trustee is a non-resident, notice must be given, by publication in
such paper as the clerk may direct, for three successive weeks before
the trial.*
§ 3722 (3168). Also, if lie is absent. —If the trustee is a resident,
but absent from the state, the court, on proof thereof, may direct
notice to be given, by publication in some paper for three successive
weeks, and to be left at his last place of residence or business.*
§ 3723 (3169). Tried as other cases in the circuit court.—The appli
cation must be heard on evidence, and the facts determined as in
other cases in the circuit court.
§ 3724 (3170). Court, instead of removing, may require Ixrnd. —The
court may, on the trial, instead of removing the trustee, require of
him such bond as will effectually protect the interest of the par
ties ; which bond must be approved by the judge.
§ 3725 (3171). New trustee appointed, and lx>nd required. —If the
trustee is removed, a new trustee may be appointed, and such bond
required of him as is necessary to protect the interest of the par
ties in the trust property.
§ 3726 (3172). Costs. —Costs, or any portion of the same, may
be given against the applicant, or the other party, in the discre
tion of the court.
CHAPTER 2.
appointment, resignation, death, and removal of trustees in
chancery.
§ 3727 (3447). Trustee of express trust may resign on application
to the register. —When any express trust is created by will or deed,
the trustee may resign on application to the register of the district
where the trust property, or the most valuable portion of the same,
is, or of the district in which the trustee resided when he was
appointed trustee.
§ 3728 (3448). Motive of the application by advertisement. —Notice
of the application must be given in such paper as the register may
direct, for three successive weeks.
§ 3729 (3449). Trustee to account ami settle liefore resignation. —The
trustee must render a full account, and pay over to the parties
entitled to the same, or to the register, all moneys due by him.
§ 3730 (3450). Accounts hot conclusive, payments valid. —No account
so taken is conclusive on any of the parties interested in the
trust ; but the trustee may be required to account up to the time
of granting the application, in the same manner as if no proceed
ings had been had ; except that he is entitled to the benefit of
all payments made by him under the provisions of the preceding section.
§ 3731 (3451). New trustee appointed , bond, if necessary. —The
register, on the granting of such application, may appoint a trus
tee, and, if necessary to protect the parties interested in the trust
property, may require the necessary bond of such trustee.
§ 3732 (3452). On death of truster, register appoints another ; bond
in such cases. —Upon the death of the trustee of such express trust,
the register of the district in which the trust property, or the most
valuable portion of the same is, may, on the application of any
party in interest, appoint a trustee, and may also require of him
a bond, as under the preceding section.
§ 3733 (3453). Notice of the application to ajyjmint. —All the parties
interested in such trust property must have ten days personal
notice of such application, or by publication, a once a week for*
three successive weeks, in such paper as the register may direct.
§ 3734 (3454). Guardians for infants, dec, in such cases. —In any
proceeding to appoint a trustee before the register, he has author
ity, where minors or lunatics are interested, to appoint guardians
for their defense, and to protect their interest.
§ 3735 (3455). Causes of removal of trustee, on petition, dr., to the
chancery court. —Upon the petition or bill of any person interested
in the execution of a trust, the court of chancery may remove any
trustee who has violated or threatened to violate his trust ; who
is insolvent, or whose insolvency there is good reason to appre
hend; who has removed from the state, or who, for any other
cause, is an unsuitable person to execute the trust ; or the court
may require such bonds as will effectually protect the interest of
the parties.
§ 3736 (3456). Netv trustee appointed 1/y the court in such case. —
Such court has authority to appoint a new trustee in the place of
a trustee removed, or may cause the trust to be executed by one
of its own officers.
§ 3737 (3467). Trustee appointed to receive trust property in another
state and remove to this state. —Where there is trust property in
another state, held under deed, will, marriage settlement, or other
wise, and the beneficiary owning the entire interest in such trust
property has removed to this state, and desires that his property
may also be removed to this state, such beneficiary may, if of ago,
or by his next friend, if a minor or married woman, make applica
tion to the register of the chancery court of the district in which
such beneficiary resides, to appoint a trustee to receive such trust
property and remove the same to this state.
§ 3738 (3458). Day of Hearing appointed, and notice given by regis
ter. —The register in chancery must appoint a day for hearing such
application, and notice thereof must be given by advertisement in
some paper published in the district for three successive weeks ;
or, if no paper is published in such district, by posting such notice
at the court house door of the county in which the chancery court
of the district is held, and at three other places in the district,
three weeks before the day appointed for hearing the application ;
and a copy of such notice must be sent to the non-resident trustee
of such trust estate, if there be one, and such non-resident trus
tee's place of residence be known.
§ 3739 (3459). Trustee appointed by register. —Upon the hearing
of such application, if there be no good and sufficient reason to
the contrary, such register must appoint a trustee living in the dis
trict wherein such beneficiary resides, to receive and remove the
trust property to such district.
§ 3740 (3460). Bond of trustee. —Such trustee, before he enters
on the discharge of the duties of such trust, must give bond and
good and sufficient security, payable to the register of such chan
cery court, in double the amount of the supposed value of such
trust estate, conditioned that he will faithfully execute the trust.
§ 3741 (3461). Fees of register, by whom paid ; how refunded. —
The fee of five dollars, to be paid to the* register for his services
rendered under the provisions of the four preceding sections, must
be paid by the party making the application ; and such party may
be reimbursed for this and all other expenses growing out of such
application, from such trust fund, when received by the trustee
appointed by such register.*
CHAPTER 3.
OF INVESTING, TRANSFERRING, AND SUBJECTING TRUST ESTATES.
§ 3742. May invest in interest-bearing state or United States securi—a
Executors, administrators, guardians, or trustees, who have
money in their hands to be invested or lent, may invest the same
in the purchase of interest-bearing bonds, obligations, or securi
ties of the State of Alabama, issued after the fifteenth day of De
cember, 1873, or of interest-bearing notes or bonds of the United
States ; and they shall be credited in then settlements with the
amount actually and bona fide paid for the bonds, obligations, or
securities so purchased, if it shall be made to appear to the court
having jurisdiction over such settlements that such purchases were
made for the amount actually and bona fide paid, and not greater
than the market value of such bonds, obligations, or securities, at
the time of their purchase.
§ 3743. May make investments outside of stale, on certain conditions ;
petition and decree recorded and papers filed. —b The chancery court i
may, in term time or vacation, authorize trustees to make invest- p
ments beyond this state, in cases where the cestuis que. trust, or
beneficiaries, reside without the state, on the following conditions :
1. That a petition must be filed in writing, addressed to the
chancellor, setting forth the reasons why the trustee desires the
authority to make the investment beyond the state, which petition
must be sworn to.
2. The chancellor must set a day for hearing the application,
not less than ten days from the filing thereof, and personal notice
must be given of the filing of the application, and the day
appointed for hearing the same, to all adult persons interested in
the trust estate residing in this state, for at least five days before
the day appointed for hearing the same, and any minor interested
therein must be represented by a guardian ad litem. If any adult
person interested in such estate resides out of this state, then the
chancellor shall prescribe what notice shall be given to him, and
in what manner. If, upon the hearing of the petition, the appli
cant shall produce evidence, oral or written, satisfactory to the
chancellor, that it would be beneficial to the trust estate to author
ize an investment thereof beyond this state, and the chancellor is
satisfied that it would not be detrimental to the interest of minors
interested therein, he is authorized to grant the application ; and
upon granting the application, he must render his decree thereon
in writing, which, with the petition, must be recorded, and all the
papers relating thereto filed in the chancery court of the district
in which the applicant resides.
§ 3744. Chancery may transfer to another -state. —( The chancery "
courts of this state shall have jurisdiction, either in term time orp
vacation, to order the transfer of any trust property from this
state to any other state.
§ 3745. Petition, where filed; its contents; notice required. —
d Whenever any executor, guardian, or any other trustee, may
desire the removal of any trust property, which he represents,
from this state to any other state, he shall file his petition in the
chancery district in which such property is situated, setting forth
a description of the property and the state to which such removal
is desired, alleging that such removal will be to the interest of the
cestui que trust ; ten days notice of which petition, and the time
set for its hearing, must be executed as other chancery process
upon the cestui que trust, if he be a resident of this state, or, if he
be a non-resident, by publication, as in other chancery cases, at
least thirty days before the hearing of such petition.
§ 3746. Decree of removal, when made; entered, on minutes; secu
rity require '. —elf, upon the final hearing of such petition, the
chancellor shall be satisfied, by evidence to be submitted to him,
either by parol testimony or depositions, that it will be to the
interest of the cestui que trust to remove the property, he shall
cause to be entered upon the minutes of such chancery court an
order authorizing the removal of such property, as desired in the
petition ; but before any such order for removal of the trust prop
erty is made, the chancellor must be satisfied, by proof, that suffi-
cient security has been given in the state to which such removal
is desired to protect the rights of all parties interested in the
trust property.
§ 3747. Trust estates made liable for labor and services, and manner
of enforcing such claims. —/ Whenever any person has rendered
labor or service for a trust estate, under a contract with the acting
executor, administrator, or other trustee thereof, which labor and
service were performed for the benefit of such trust estate, and
the benefits of which have been received and enjoyed by the trust
estate, and the executor, administrator or other trustee has died,
become insolvent, or has been removed from office, without pay
ing such claim, the amount thereof shall be a charge upon such
trust estate, as a part of the expenses of administering the same,
and shall be paid out of such trust estate, to be recovered by an
action at law against the legal representative of the trust estate,
whoever he may be at the time of the institution of the action ;
and the judgment rendered in the case shall be against the legal
representative, but to be levied and satisfied out of the trust
property. But this section shall not apply to the case of an exec
utor or administrator in his own wrong, nor shall it revive any
claim barred by the statute of limitations on the 8th day of
April, 1873.
§ 3748 (4425). Chancery court may allow claims against estate of
decedent or trust estate. —The chancery court having taken jurisdic
tion of the administration of the estate of a deceased person,
either testate or intestate, or of an estate held in trust, any per
son owning a claim against such estate for services rendered or
supplies furnished subsequent to the death of the testator or
intestate, or the creation of the trust estate, may present the
same by petition for allowance by such court ; and upon proof of
service or a copy of such petition upon the representative of such
estate twenty days before the making of application for such allow
ance, the court shall, unless good cause be shown for delay, pro
ceed to ascertain the amount which the claimant may be entitled
to have allowed upon the claims set forth in the petition.
§ 3749 (4426). Decree of court. —The court must render a decree
for payment of the claims thus allowed, or so much thereof as
may be ascertained to be due from the estate upon an account
taken and stated under the direction of the court, or agreed upon
between the parties.
§ 3750 (4427). Papers filed.— The petition, answer and other
papers relating to such claim, and to any set-off or other defense
set up by the representative of such estate, must be filed with the
papers of the cause pending for the administration of the estate,
unless withdrawn by leave of the court ; but no final record
thereof must be made, unless directed by the court.
§ 3751 (4428). Transcript valid evidence. —A transcript of the
papers and the orders and decrees of the court, touching the
investigation and allowance of such claims, and of the defense
thereto, and of the process issued under such decrees, and the
return thereof, shall, when properly certified, be admissible in evi
dence in any of the courts of this state as a complete record.
§ 3752 (4429 and 4430). Costs and appeal.—The costs of pro
ceedings under this chapter may be taxed against either party, or
adjudged as the court may decree ; and either party may appeal
from a decree of the court under section 3748 (4425), within thirty
days, upon giving security for costs of appeal.
CHAPTER 1.
CASES OF WHICH CHANCERY COURTS TAKE COGNIZANCE, AND OF THE BILL,
ANSWER, REPLICATION, AND DEMURRER
§ 3753 (3321). Jurisdiction of courts of chancery. —Courts of chan
cery must take cognizance of cases in equity—
1. When the defendants reside in this state.
2. Against non-residents, when the object of the suit concerns
an estate of, lien or charge upon lands, or the disposition thereof,
or any interest in, title to, or incumbrance on, personal property
within this state ; or where the cause of action arose, or the act on
which the suit is predicated was to have been performed in this
state.
3. In such other cases as such courts are by law required to
take jurisdiction of.
§ 3754 (3322). Joint demand may fe prosecuted against one defend
ant.—When the plaintiff has a joint demand, he may proceed
against one or more of the parties thereto, without joining the
others.
§ 3755 (3323). The state may bring suit in chancery. —The state
may sue in chancery, and the suit is governed by the same rules
as suits between individuals. The solicitor of the circuit in which
the suit is pending must attend to the same on the part of the
state, and the governor may employ assistant counsel if he deem
it necessary, and the chancellor may determine the amount of com
pensation ; and if unsuccessful, the state is liable for costs as indi
vidual suitors are. The direction of the executive of the state, in
writing, is sufficient authority to the attorney for bringing such
suit. *
§ 3756 (3324). How persons of unsound mind may sue. —Persons
of unsound mind may sue by next friend, and guardians may be
substituted ; and upon restoration to sanity, the suit may proceed
in their own names, in the same manner as prescribed in sections
2894 (2527) and 2895 (2528).
§ 3757 (3325). Suits commenced by bid, and addressed to chancellor.
The mode of commencing the suit in chancery is by bill, addressed
to the chancellor of the division in which the same is filed.
§ 3758 (3381). Limitation of suits in chancery. —The provisions of chapter 20, title 1, part 3, apply to suits commenced by bill iu
chancery.
§ 3759 (3382). Filing of bills commence.)) tent of suit. — The filing of
the bill is the commencement of the suit, if prosecuted, whether
the defendant is brought into court by personal service or by pub
lication. (1)
§ 3760 (3326). In what districts fled. —alt must be filed in the
district in which the defendants, or a material defendant, resides ;
and if to enjoin proceedings on judgments in other courts, it may
.be filed in the district in which such proceedings are pending, or
judgment rendered ; and in case of non-residents, in the district
where the subject of the suit, or any portion of the same is, when
the cause of action arose, or the act on which the suit is predi
cated was to be performed ; or if real estate be the subject matter
of the suit, then in the county where the same, or a material por
tion thereof, is situated. (1)
§ 3761 (3227). Bill to contain only a statement offacts and a prayer
for relief. —It must contain a clear and orderly statement of the
facts on which the suit is founded, without prolixity or repetition,
and conclude with a prayer for the appropriate, relief, without
averring any combination or confederacy between the defendants,
or others, the insufficiency of the remedy at law, or charging pre
tences by the defendants ; and it is the duty of the courts to dis
countenance prolix statements, and unnecessary and false allega
tion, in all chancery pleadings. (2)
§ 3762 (3228). Complainant may waive oaf li to answer ; its tceight
as evidence. —When a bill is filed for any other purpose than dis
covery only, the plaintiff may waive, in or upon the bill, the
answer being made on the oath of the defendants, or either of
them, and in such case the answer is entitled to no more weightas
evidence than the bill.
§ 3763 (3329). Summons issued and copy served on each defendant.
Upon the filing of the bill, the register must forthwith issue a
summons and copy for each defendant, against whom publication
is not shown to be necessary ; requiring him to appear and plead
to or answer the bill within thirty days after service.
§ 3764 (3330). Sheriff" to serve th" copies on defendants.. —A copy
of such summons must be personally served by the sheriff, if the
defendant is to be found in his county, his return indorsed on the
original, and returned to the register within five days after
service. (3)
§ 3765 (3331). Each defendant may demand a copy of the biU. —
It is not necessary to serve the defendants with a copy of the bill ;
but each defendant is, on application to the register, entitled to
a copy, unless otherwise provided by law, which must be charged
in the bill of costs.*
§ 3766 (3332). Summons executed in another county returned by
mail. —Where the summons is executed in any other county than
the one in which the court from which the same issues is held,
the return may be made bv mail, directed to the register ; the title
of the suit being indorsed on the envelope, and the word " sum
mons " written against the same.
§ 3767 (3333). Mailed vnthin five days. —When the return is by
mail, the summons, directed and indorsed according to the provis
ions of the preceding section, must be deposited in a post office of
the county m which the same is executed, within five days after
the execution.
§ 3768 (3334 1. How parties of unsound mind may be made defend
ants. —When a party to a suit or other proceedings in chancery is
alleged to be of unsound mind, and to have no legal guardian,
such party may be brought into court by service of process per
sonally upon him ; and a guardian ad litem appointed for such
person, as in case of infants over fourteen years of age, who fail
to select or nominate a guardian ad litem.
§ 3769 (3335). Publication as to non-residents, dec. —If any defend
ant is shown to be a non-resident, or if his residence is unknown,
or if being a resident he has been absent from the state more than
six months from the filing of the bill, or conceals himself so that
process cannot be served on him, the register must, on proof
thereof, by affidavit, make out and superintend the execution of
the appropriate order of publication. (1)
§ 3770 (3336). Fee for publication to be deposited wiih the register.
In all cases in which an order of publication is necessary, a suffi
cient amount of money must be deposited with the register to
cover the expense of such publication ; and the bill may be dis
missed on thirty days notice to the plaintiff, or his solicitor, on
failure to make such deposit within tnat time.
§ 3771 (3337). Copy of bill delivered to each defendant, and taxed as
costs. —Any defendant, after service of a summons, or after being
brought into court by publication, may, on application to the reg
ister, obtain a copy of the bill, to be taxed as other costs.
§ 3772 (3338). Security required of non-resident plaintiffs, dec. —
When any plaintiff is a non-resident, security for such costs as
may be decreed against him must be given, to be approved by the
register ; and if not given within thirty days after notice to such
plaintiff, or Jiis solicitor, the bill may be dismissed, and the solici
tor taxed with the costs.
§ 3773 (3339). Orders of publication to conform to rules of court. —
Orders of publication must conform to the rules now in force in
the courts of chancery in this state, and to those which may here
after be made.
§ 3774 (3340). Publico!'ion and'proceedings against' defendants whose
names are unknown. —In cases where it is necessary to make any
persons defendants to a bill, and the names of all, or any of them,
are unknown to the plaintiff, and cannot be ascertained on diligent
inquiry, and he annexes to his bill an affidavit that the names of
such persons are unknown, that he has made diligent inquiry to
ascertain the same, and that their residence, as he believes, is not
in this state, proceedings may be had, and a decree be rendered
against them, without naming them ; and the register must make
publication as in case of non-residents, describing such unknown
parties as near as may be, ' by the character in which tbey are
sued, and with reference to their title or interest in the subjeet
matter. ■
§ 3775 (3341). Defendant to answer in thirty days, or decree %rro
confesso passed. —A defendant may answer at any time after the bill
is filed, and must answer within thirty days after the service of
the summons, or within thirty days after the period specified in
the order of publication to answer, if the publication required by
the order has been perfected, or he must obtain further time ;
otherwise a decree pro confesso may be passed.
§ 3776 (3342). Answer from residents compelled by attachment. —
Answers from resident defendants may be compelled by attach
ment.
§ 3777 (3343). Arrest, under attachment, and discharge on bond
lieiiuj given to answer. —Such attachments are served by the arrest
of the defendant, and bringing him before a chancellor, circuit
judge, or register, who may discharge him on his giving bond and
security, in such sum as may be fixed by such chancellor, circuit
judge, or register, to be approved by the arresting officer, payable
to the register of the court in which the bill is filed, and condi
tioned that he will file a full answer to the bill, within a time to
be prescribed by the officer before whom such defendant is brought ;
which bond must be returned with the attachment, within the
same time after service, and in the same manner, if by mail, as a
summons is required to be returned under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 3778 (3344). Suit on forfeiture of the attachment bond. —Upon
the forfeiture of the bond, the chancellor may direct the same to
be sued, and the whole, or such part of the penalty thereof as he
directs, may be recovered against any or all of the obligors, hav
ing ten days notice, by motion in the circuit court of the county
in which the court issuing the attachment is held ; and on the trial
of such motion, the indorsement by the register of forfeiture is
presumptive evidence of the fact.
§ 3779 (3345). Defendant imprisoned until hefiles an answer or bond.
In case a defendant refuses or neglects to give such bond, he must
be committed to jail by the sheriff, and there kept until he files a
full and sufficient answer with the register.
§ 3780 (3340). Oath to answer ; by ivhom administered. —When
an answer is required to be sworn to, the oath may- be adminis
tered by any jixdge of any court of record, chancellor, judge of
the United States, or either of them ; by a commissioner appointed
by the register, notary public, commissioner of this state, or by
any justice of the peace or register in chancery in this state.
§ 3781 (3347). Defendant may protect himself from ansivering
fully. —A defendant may in his answer protect himself from fur
nishing a full answer to the allegations of the bill.
§ 3782 (3348). Application to am ice r specially granted only on
notice, to adverse party. —Where a party offers to answer speciallv,
and applies for leave to do so, the ground of such application may
be contested, and the application must only be granted upon rea
sonable notice.
§ 3783 (3349). All defenses may be set up in the answer. —A defend
ant may incorporate all matters of defense in his answer, and is
not required to plead specially in any case.
§ 3784 (3350). Ground of demurrer to be set out specially. —A
demurrer to the bill must set forth the ground of demurrer spe
cially, and otherwise must not be heard. (1)
§ 3785 (3351). No replication. —No replication is necessary to an
answer.
§ 378  (3352). //' heard on bill and anstver, answer taken as true so
far as responsive. —When the cause is heard on bill and answer
without testimony, the answer must be taken to be true, so far as
it is responsive to the allegations of the bill, except in those cases
where the complainant has waived the oath of the defendant to
the answer.
§ 3787 (3353). Complainant may dismiss his bill in vacation on
motion. —Any complainant in a suit in chancery may, on applica
tion to the register in vacation, dismiss his suit, giving the defend
ants who have pleaded, answered or demurred, five days notice of
such application ; on such dismissal, the register may issue execu
tion against such complainant for all costs accruing to the time
thereof.
CHAPTER 2.
OF AMENDMENTS, EXCEPTIONS, FILING OF PAPERS, AND SERVING NOTICES ;
MAKING ANSWER A CROSS-BILL, AND REVIVOR OF SUIT BY A DEFEND
ANT. **
§ 3788 (3354). Amendments before answer. —Amendments to bills
before answers, pleas, or demurrers filed, are allowable as of course,
and without notice, and amendments to any summons may be
made before service thereof.
§ 3789 (3355). Amendment obtained after copy of bill is furnished
defendant by paying for the copy. —After a defendant has obtained
a copy of the bili from the register, and before answer, plea, or
demurrer, amendments to the bill may be made without notice,
upon payment of the costs of furnishing a copy of the amendment
to such defendants as have obtained a copy of the bill ; and amend
ments may also be made after demurrer and before argument, on
the same terms.
§ 3790 (3356). Amendment before decree on terms imposed by chan
cellor. —Amendments to bills must be allowed, at any time before
final decree, by striking out or adding new parties, or to meet any
state of evidence which will authorize relief ; and amendments to
answers must be allowed at any time before final decree, so as to
set up any matter of defense ; but such amendments to bills and
answers must be allowed on such terms as the chancellor may
impose, not extending beyond the payment of all the costs ; and if
an amendment be allowed at the hearing to bill or answer, the
party against whom the amendment is allowed shall be entitled to
a continuance as a matter of right, and if the cause is continued,
both parties shall have the right to take additional testimony ;
and if an amendment be allowed in vacation, both parties shall
have the right to take additional testimony without a special
application.
§ 3791 (3357). Register may allow amendment* after answer. —The
register may, on notice to the opposing party, allow amendments
to bills after answer, and amendments to answers, but only on
payment of the costs of the amendment by the party making the
application.
§ 3792 (3358). Answer to amendment fled in thirty days. —In all
cases where an amendment of the bill is made after answer filed,
and an answer thereto is necessary, the defendants are allowed
thirty days after notice of the amendment to answer the same, and
failing so to do, or to obtain farther time, the matter of the amend
ment may be taken as confessed ; but such defendant may, at any
time before the cause is set for hearing, obtain leave to set aside
the order pro confesso on riling a full and sufficient answer to the
matter of amendment, on such terms as may be imposed by the
chancellor or register.
§ 3793 (3359). Objection for want of parties, or joinder of improper
parties, set for separate hearing. —When an objection is made to a
bill for want of parties, or joinder of improper parties, it may be
set for hearing on that objection only ; and if not set for hearing
on that ground, the court, if the objection prevail on the final
hearing, must dismiss the bill.
§ 3794 (3360). Decree token objection for improper parties, or toant
of parties, first taken at the hearing. —If the defendant, at the hear
ing of a cause, take an objection for want of parties, not having
by plea or answer taken the objection, the court may render a
decree saving the rights of parties not before it, or it may grant
leave to amend the bill, on terms not extending beyond the pay
ment of costs.
§ 3795 (3361). Pleadings indorsed with date of fling.— AM bills,
answers, and other papers filed in any cause, must be indorsed by
the register, with the true date on which they were filed
§ 3796 (3362). Notice of motion, &c, served on solicitor. —Notice
in relation to any supplemental bill, amendment, decree, motion,
or other proceeding in the court of chancery, served on the solic
itor of the party, is valid.
§ 3797 (3363). Notice to parties in default, dec.—When parties
are in default, for want of an answer or other cause, the notices
may be entered on the order book of the register, and such entries
for such time as is fixed by the register, are sufficient in cases of
amendments, supplemental bills, and of other orders in the cause.
§ 3798 (3364). Exceptions to answers when made ; notice of hearing
them. —Exceptions to answers must be made within sixty days
after the same are filed, and notice must be given by the register
of the day of hearing the same.
§ 3799 (3365). Defendant may examine the complainant on oath.
If the defendant wishes to examine the complainant touching the
subject matter of the bill, or his defense, he may, after riling his
answer, exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, and call upon
him to answer the same ; and on his failing to answer them within
such time as may be prescribed by the register, his bill must be
dismissed with costs, unless such time is extended.
§ 3800 (3366). Exceptions to such interrogatories. —Exceptions mav
be taken to such interrogatories, and heard before the register at
such time as be may prescribe, on reasonable notice to the defend
ant or his solicitor, subject to an appeal to the chancellor.
§ 3801 (3367). Defendant may Main relief by setting up facts in
his answer. —The defendant may ohtain relief against the com
plainant for any cause connected with or growing out of the sub
ject matter of the bill, by alleging in his answer, and as a part
thereof, the facts upon which such relief is prayed, and require
the complainant to answer the same upon oath.
§ 3802 (3368). This defense in the nature of a cross bid.—The
matter thus put in issue must be considered in the nature of a
cross bill, and be heard at the same time as the original bill.
§ 3803 (3369). Answer to such new matter on oath may be waived
and answer no evidence unless, dec. —The defendant may waive the
answer of the complainant to such new matter being made upon
oath, which waiver must be made in or upon the answer; and in
such case the answer of the complainant to such new matter is
not evidence, unless the defendant use it as such.
§ 3804 (3370). Ansivers to such matters filed as other answers. —
The complainant must file his answer to such new matter under
the rules and regulations provided in this title for the answers of
defendants to original bills.
§ 3805. Revivor of suit by a, defendant interested in prosecution of
it. —a Upon the death of the complainant in any suit new pending,
or which may be hereafter instituted, in any of the chancery courts
of this state, or upon the resignation of the complainant, if he be
an .executor or administrator, if the person standing in right of
the complainant shall fail or neglect to revive the suit for ninety
days thereafter, then the same may be revived at any time within
twelve months thereafter by bill of revivor, or bill of revivor and
supplement, or bill of revivor and cross bill, filed by any defendant
who shall have an interest in the further prosecution of the suit,
to the end that such defendant may have the relief to which he
shall be entitled.
CHAPTER 3.
EVIDENCE IN CHANCERY.
§ 3806 (3371). Testimony taken by interrogatories. —Testimony in
chancery causes must be taken by interrogatories, under the rules
now in force, or such as may hereafter be adopted.
§ 3807 (3372). Rules of evidence as to competency, same as at com
mon law. —The rules of evidence as to the competency of witnesses
in courts of chancery, are the same as those declared by this Code
in courts of law, except so far as the same are altered by any pro
vision of this title.
§ 3808 (3373). Testimony, when taken.—The plaintiff may take
testimony at any time after answer, or after a decree pro confesso,
and the defendant at any time after filing his answer.
§ 3809 (3374). Exhibits proved by a ffidavit before the register. —
Exhibits to bills and answers may be proven by affidavits filed
with the exhibits in the register's office, thirty days before the
hearing.
§ 3810 (3375). When evidence of witness may he retaken. —The
party against whom the deposition of a witness has been taken
may retake the testimony of such witness, under the provisions of section 3080 (2727), and the provisions of that section apply to
such testimony when taken.
§ 3811 (3376). Commissions to take testimony. —All commissions
for the taking of testimony must be directed to one or more com
missioners, to be appointed by the register, and made returnable
with all convenient speed.
§ 3812 (3377). Interrogatories served ten days be/ore issue of com
mission. —No commission to take testimony must issue until the
adverse party or his solicitor, if either of them reside in the
district, has been served with a copy of the interrogatories for ten
days.
§ 3813 (3378). If adverse parly a non-resident, d'c. —If such
adverse party or his solicitor do not reside in the district, this
notice may be given by filing interrogatories in the office of the
register for ten days.
§ 3814 (3379). Rebutting interrogatories filed in Jive days. —After
such notice has been given, if cross interrogatories are filed, the
party has five days to file rebutting interrogatories, but this time
may be extended, on application to the register, without notice.
§ 3815 (3380). Register may act as commissioner, unless objeccted to.
When interrogatories are filed in the chancery court for the pur
pose of taking the deposition of a witness in any cause pending in
such court, and the solicitor filing the same shall appoint the1 reg
ister, in writing indorsed on the interrogatories, as the commis
sioner to take the same, the register may proceed to take the testi
mony of the witness specified in the interrogatories, under the
rules and regulations applying to the taking of such testimony bv
commissioners appointed by such register, unless the opposite
party, within ten days after such interrogatories are filed, hies an
objection in writing, when the appointment of a commissioner
must be made as usual.*
§ 3816 (3383). Attendance of witnesses before commissioners. —The
attendance of a witness may be enforced by commissioners in
chancery causes, in the same mode, and their attendance proved
and certified to the register in all respects the same as in the exe
cution of commissions from courts of law.
§ 3817 (3384). Default of witness.—If the witness fails to attend
before the commissioner, being served with a subpoena so to do
the commissioner must indorse on the subptena that the witness
failed to attend, and return the same to the clerk of the circuit
court of the county, who must enter the case on the docket, and
such proceedings may be had as in the case of defaulting witnesses
in such circuit court ; the indorsement on the subpoena being pre
sumptive evidence of the default of such witness.
CHAPTER 4.
REFERENCES TO THE REGISTER.
§ 3818 (3385). Proceedings before register on a reference.—When
ever a reference is made to the register, the party at whose
instance, or for whose benefit the reference is made, must cause
such matter to be presented to the register within the time limited
for the hearing; and if no time is limited, within three months
after the reference is made ; and if such party omit to do so, the
adverse party may cause proceedings to be had before the register,
at the costs of the party procuring the reference.
§ 3819 (3386). Notice given by register of day for hearing, (itc. —
Upon any such reference, the register must assign a time and
place for proceeding therein, and give reasonable notice to each of
the parties, or their solicitors ; and if either party fail to appear at
the time and place appointed, the register may proceed ex parte,
or in his discretion adjourn the examination to another day,
giving notice to the adverse party or his counsel, of such
adjournment.
§ 3820 (3387). Authority of the register on a reference.—The reg
ister, in all matters referred, must proceed with the least practi
cable delay, and has authority—
1. To examine the parties on oath, as to all the items of refer
ence .not exceeding twenty dollars in amount.
2. To require the production of all books, papers, writings,
vouchers, and documents, in relation to such matters.
3. To examine on oath, viva voce, all witnesses produced by the
parties before him.
4. To hear the depositions of witnesses taken under a commis
sion, as in other chancery cases.
5. To do all other acts, and direct all other inquiries and pro
ceedings in the matters before him, which may be necessary, sub
ject at all times to the revision and control of the chancellor.
§ 3821 (3388). Evidence in cause used before register, &c.—All- affi
davits, depositions, and documents, which have been made or filed
in the cause, may be used on reference before the register.
§ 3822 (3389). Exceptions to register s decisions. —Either party may
reserve, in writing, any question arising on a reference, for the
revision of the chancellor. (1)
CHAPTER 5.
DECREES PRO CONFESSO, AND FINAL DECREES WITHOUT PERSONAL SERVICE.
§ 3823 (3390). Decrees pro confesso on failure to answer, &c,for
thirty days. —Decrees pro confesso may be taken before the register,
on the failure of the defendant to answer or plead to the bill
within thirty days after service of the summons, or thirty days
after the period specified in the order of publication to answer, if
the publication required by the order has been perfected, unless
the time for answering or pleading has been extended ; in which
case, a decree pro confesso may be passed at the expiration of
such time.
§ 3824 (3391). On such decrees allegations of bill taken as admitted :
exceptions. —In all cases in which decrees pro con fesso are lawfully
taken, the allegations of the bill are to be regarded as admitted,
except in the case of infant defendants, lunatics, executors, admin
istrators, and bills for divorce.
§ 3825 (3392). Not to be heard on day of taking decree. —No cause
in which a decree pro confesso is taken, must be heard on the same
day ; but the cause may be set for healing on any subsequent day.
§ 3826 (3393). Defendant may contest a decree on the merits, or
appear on a reference. —A defendant against whom a decree pro
confesso is taken, can appear and contest a decree on the merits of
the bill, or may appear before the register on a reference.
§ 3827 (3394). Decree set aside, <i-c, on making full answer, dbc, by
defendant served with process.— A defendant who has been served
with a summons, may at any time before publication of the testi
mony, on making a proper showing, obtain leave from the chan
cellor or register to set aside such decree, upon filing a full and
sufficient answer, and upon such terms, not extending beyond full
costs, as the chancellor deems proper ; and the defendant may
also plead or demur upon such terms as the chancellor may order.
§ 3828 (3395). By defendant, on publication, on certain terms. —A
defendant brought into court by publication, against whom a
decree pro confesso has been rendered, may also, before publi ca
tion of the testimony, set aside such decree on application to the
chancellor or register, on filing a full and sufficient answer, and
such other terms, not extending beyond the payment of costs to
the time of the application, as may be imposed.
§ 3829 (3396). Chancellor may allow answer after .publication of
testimony. —The permission to file an answer after the publication
of the testimony, rests in the sound discretion of the chancellor.
§ 3830 (3397). Decree against defendant without personal service,
not absolute for eighteen months ; copy of decree sent him. —A decree
made against a defendant, without personal service, who does not
appear, is not absolute for eighteen months from the rendition
thereof ; and in such case, the court must direct a copy of the
decree to be sent to such defendant, or in case of infants, or luna
tics, or married women, unless the suit or matter determined con
cerns their separate estates, to their guardians or husbands, if
their residences can be ascertained.
§ 3831 (3398). Petition to set aside decree and defend on the merits.
Such defendants may file a petition to set aside such decree, and
to defend the suit on the merits, at any time within such eighteen
mouths ; and upon sufficient cause shown, the chancellor has full
ower to open the decree and to hear the cause, as if no decree
ad been rendered.
§ 3832 (3399). Testimony on file, used by either party. —In the case
provided for in the preceding section, either party can use the
testimony of witnesses on file in the cause, who have died or
removed from the state, after the decree was rendered.
§ 3833 (3400). Bights and liabilities of parties without service extend
to representatives. —The rights and liabilities of any plaintiff or
defendant on bills taken pro confesso, without personal service,
extend to the personal representatives of any deceased plaintiff or
defendant ; and with reference to the altered state of the parties,
and any new interest acquired, the chancellor may, on petition,
upon due notice being given and sustained by proof, permit any
party to file such bills and adopt such proceedings as the circum
stances of the case may require, for naving the matter of the
decree duly considered, and the rights of the parties interested
therein duly ascertained and determined.
§ 3834 (3401). Execution of decrees on bills taken pro confesso,
without service, on giving bond to indemnify in case decree is set aside.
It is no objection to the execution of a decree rendered against a
defendant, that it was founded on a bill taken pro con fesso without
personal service; but before the execution of such decree, the
plaintiff, or party interested, must give bond with two sureties,
payable to and approved by the register, in a penalty to be pre
scribed by the chancellor or such register, conditioned to pay the
pecuniary value of the personal property which may be disposed
of, or placed beyond the control of the court or party, by the exe
cution of the decree, and interest thereon from the time such
property is so disposed of or placed beyond such control ; and to
account for the value, rents and profits of any real estate trans
ferred by the operation of such decree ; and further to abide and
perform such decree as the court may render if the decree taken
on the bill pro confesso is set aside ; and the chancellor may, if such
decree is set aside, render a final decree against all the parties to
such bond.
§ 3835 (3402). On service of copy of decree, it is conclusive in six
months, if no j>etitwn is made to set it aside. —Where personal service
of a decree rendered under the provisions of this chapter is
made by serving the defendant with a copy of such decree, the
same is conclusive and binding on him, if the petition to set aside
such decree is not made within six months from such service.
§ 3836 (3403). Not applicable to infants, &c, or to married ivomen,
but in respect of their separate estates. —The provisions of the pre
ceding section do not apply to infants, lunatics, or to married
women, unless the suit or matter determined concerns their
separate estates ; and such persons are allowed twelve months from
the termination of their respective disabilities, to show cause
against such decrees.
CHAPTER 6.
BILLS TO CORRECT ERRORS IN SETTLEMENTS, AND TO ESTABLISH IRREGU
LAR SALES OF LANDS IN PROBATE COURT.
§ 3837 (2274). Bill in chancery to correct settlements ; ivhen to be
fled. —Where any error of law, or fact, has occurred in the settle
ment of any estate of a decedent, to the injury of any party,
without any fault or neglect on his part, such party may correct
such error by bill in chancery, within two years after the final
settlement thereof ; and the evidence filed in the court of probate,
in relation to such settlement, must be received as evidence in the
court of chancery, with such other evidence as may be adduced. (1)
§ 3838 (2275). Infants and lunatic* allowed a longer time. —The
limitations of the preceding section do not extend to infants, or
persons of unsound mind, who are allowed two years after the
termination of their respective disabilities.
§ 3839 (2451). Errors in settlements may be corrected by a &uit in
chancery. —Errors in law or fact in the settlement of accounts of
guardians, maybe corrected in chancery according to the provisions
of the two preceding sections. (1)
§ 3840. Chancery court protects and -perfects irregular titles under
court sales, when regular notice has been given. —a In all cases
where lands of a deceased person, heretofore sold, or that may
hereafter be sold, under proceedings had in any of the probate
courts of this state, and a reasonable value thereof, at the time of
such sale, has been or shall be paid by a Itona fide purchaser to
the representative of the decedent to whom such lands belonged,
and the funds have been appropriated for the benefit of such
estate, the sale shall not be avoided, or become ineffectual, by
reason of any mistakes, omissions or inaccuracies that have or
may hereafter intervene, either in the matter of the description of
the lands or of the parties interested therein, or in any mere irreg
ularity in the mode of effecting such sales ; and in all such cases
the court of chancery of the proper district may grant relief to the
purchaser of such lands, or to his heirs or assigns, by decreeing a
divesture of title out of all persons claiming the lands, as heirs,
devisees or representatives of the deceased, and their heirs and
assigns, and may perpetually enjoin all persons claiming any
interest in the lands as heirs, devisees or representatives of such
decedent, or persons claiming by, from, or under such heir, devisee
or representative of such decedent.
§ 3841. Irregular sales in probate court perfected and protected in
chancery, when notice has been given. —b Where lands of a decedent
have been or may hereafter be sold under proceedings in any pro
bate court of this state, and any mistakes, omissions or inaccura
cies have intervened, whether they occur in the petition made in
the probate court for the sale of the same, or in the description of
the heirs or devisees, or any mere irregularity in the proceedings,
and it shall be made to appear that the right lands were in fact
sold and purchased by a Sonet fide purchaser for a reasonable price
at the time of such sale, which was paid to the proper representa
tive of the estate, the chancery court may, notwithstanding any
mistake, omission or inaccuracy in the matter of description of the
lands, or of the parties interested therein, or any mere irregularity
in the mode of effecting such sales, proceed to perfect the title of
the purchaser, his heirs, devisees or assigns, and this whether a
deed has been made to the purchaser or not ; and the chancerv
court may grant injunctions and all other appropriate remedies to
the purchaser, his heirs or assigns, against all suits at law brought
against them to recover possession of such lands, and may, on the
final hearing, decree such injunction to be perpetual ; but the pro
visions of this and the preceding section shall apply only to those
sales of land where the parties interested have received, or shall
receive, regular notice, as provided by law, of such sales.
CHAPTER 7.
BILLS OF REVIEW, NE EXEAT, EQUITABLE ATTACHMENTS, AND OTHER
WRITS OF SEIZURE.
§ 3842 (3404). Suspension of decree on presenting a bill of review. —
When a decree has been rendered, and a bill of review is pre
sented, the chancellor may direct the proceedings on such decree
to be suspended, until a decree is rendered on such bill of review,
or until the further order of the court ; requiring such bond of the
plaintiff as will effectually protect the interest of the parties inter
ested in the decree rendered ; on which bond the chancellor
may render a final decree for any portion or the whole of the
penalty. (1)
§ 3843 (3405). Apjiication to file such bills, when made. —Applica
tion to file bills of review must be made within three years after
the rendition of the decree, except in cases of infants, or married
women, (unless the matter of the decree relates to their separate
estates,) and lunatics, who may apply within three years after the
termination of their respective disabilities. (1)
§ 3844 (3406). Ne exeat, and equitable attachments issue on equita
ble demands. —Writs of ne exeat, and equitable attachments, may
issue on equitable debts and demands, under the same circum
stances, and courts must observe, in the issue of such writs, the
provisions of courts of law in relation to attachment writs, except
so iar as the same are altered by this Code. (2)
§ 3845 (3407). Chancellors may examine anstvers in such cases in
vacation.—Chancellors may, in vacation, examine all answers in
relation to writs of ne exeat,, and attachments returnable into chan
cery, and other writs of seizure, discharge or reduce any bail taken,
or levy made, on application and reasonable notice to the adverse
party.
§ 3846 (3408). Attachments from chancery on legal demands to sub
ject equitable effects. —Courts of chancery may also issue writs of
attachment on legal demands, founded on any judgment or con
tract, express or implied, in such cases as attachments may issue
from courts of law; which attachments operate only on the effects
of the defendant held by an equitable title, or on demands owing
by other persons to which the defendant against whom the attach
ment issues is in equity entitled, whether due or not.
§ 3847 (3409). Equitable attachments issue before judgment for the
debt, &c —To authorize the issue of equitable attachments, it is
not necessary that the demand of the plaintiff should be reduced
to a judgment, but the court may render a decree for the amount
proved, and execution may issue to enforce the same as from courts
of law.
§ 3848 (3410). Such attachments must specify the property, dec, to
be. subjected. —Equitable attachments must specify the property,
effects or demands ou which they are intended to operate ; arid a
copy of the bill must in such cases be served with the summons.
§ 3849 (3411). Replevy of property, dec,, attached, —Any property
levied on by an equitable attachment, may be replevied by the
defendant, or any one for him, on giving bond and security in
double the value of the property levied on, to be approved by the
sheriff, payable to the plaintiff, and conditioned as replevy bonds
on attachments from courts of law.
§ 3850 (3412). Replevy l>ond to be returned, —When property levied
on by an equitable attachment is replevied, the bond must be
returned with the attachment.
§ 3851 (3413). Lien of such attachments. —Equitable attachments
are a lien upon the property or debts attached, from the service
of the attachment.
§ 3852 (3414). //' property not delivered, execution issues on the
replevy bond. —If a decree is rendered in a case in which an equita
ble attachment has been levied, and the property replevied is not
forthcoming within such time as the court may direct, to be
proven by the affidavit of the party before the register, the
replevin bond in such case has the force of a judgment, and exe
cution may issue thereon for the whole or any portion of the pen
alty, as the court may direct, against any or all of the parties
thereto.
§ 3853 (3415). Writs of ne exeat and attachment ; by whom issued.
Chancellors, circuit judges, and registers of the court in which the
bill is filed, may make all necessary orders for the issuing of
writs of ne exeat and equitable attachments, and for the sale of
personal property levied on, as in like cases from courts of law ;
the money arising from such sale to be paid to the register.
§ 3854. Garnishments may issue, —a In every cause in a court of
chancery, where the suit is for a money demand, and upon every
decree m that court, upon which execution can issue, the writ of
garnishment may be issued bv the register.
§ 3855. A ffidavit and bond, one or both. —/>The register, before
issuing any such writ, shall require the party applying therefor to
make affidavit and give bond, one or both, as the case may be, and
to do all other things required by law to be done, in order to obtain
a writ of garnishment in the circuit court.
§ 3856. Rules of courts of la iv applicable, —c Garnishments from the
court of chancery shall be governed by the law regulating gar
nishments from the circuit court, as far as the same may be appli
cable.
§ 3857 (3416). Writs of seizure .issued in aid of any suit commenced
in chancery. —Writs may also issue from the courts of chancery" on
an original bill, or in aid of a suit pending in such court, by the
order of any chancellor, judge of the circuit court, or register, for
the seizure of personal property where the same is claimed under
an equitable title, or where a decree is sought against the same,
and it is in danger of being wasted, carried beyond the jurisdic
tion of the court, or otherwise disposed of.
§ 3858 (3417.) Affidavit to be mode by the plaintiff:—The plaintiff
in such case must sustain his claim by affidavit, and give bond
with security, payable to the defendant, in double the value of the
property, to be approved by the register, conditioned to pay all
damages the defendant may sustain by tile wrongful or vexatious
suing out of such writ.
§ 3859 (3418). Property restored on giving bond. —The officer exeecuting
such writ must restore the property seized to the defend
ant, on his giving bond in double the value of the same, with
security, to be approved by such officer, payable to the plaintiff,
and conditioned to have such property forthcoming to answer the
decree of the court.
§ 3860 (3419). //' bond is not given in Jive days, the property is
delivered to the plaintiff, on giving his bond. —If the defendant neg
lects for five days after the seizure of such property to give such
bond, the sheriff must deliver the same to the plaintiff, on his
giving bond and security in double the value of such property, to
be approved by the sheriff, payable to the defendant, conditioned,
if unsuccessful in his suit, to return such property within thirty
days after its determination.
§ 3861 (3420). Writs, bonds, &c, to lie returned to the register. —
Such writs, with the proper return thereon, and the bonds taken
under the provisions of either of the last two sections, must be
returned to the register of the court from which the writ issues.
§ 3852 (3421). Decree when plaintiff' sustains his claim. —If the
claim of the plaintiff is sustained, the court may direct that if its
decree in relation to such property is not performed within a spe
cified time, execution may issue on the bond of the defendant for
all, or such portion of its penalty as the court may determine,
under all the circumstances.
§ 3863 (3422). Liability of plaintiff' and his sureties, if he is cast.
If the plaintiff is unsuccessful, and fails to deliver the property to
the defendant within thirty days after the determination of the
suit, he and his sureties are liable to an action, and in case of a
recovery, to damages, not exceeding fifty per centum on the value
of the property.
§ 3864 (3423). Equitable attachment, to issue for benefit of surety in
written contracts. —A writ of attachment may be issued out of the
court of chancery, on the application of any surety, indorser,
accommodation drawer, acceptor, or maker, of any bond, bill, or
note, or other contract in writing, against the principal debtor, to
be levied on the property or effects of the defendant, whether held
by a legal or equitable title, whenever such surety, indorser,
acceptor, maker, or drawer, could sue out an attachment at law, if
he was a creditor of such principal debtor; and the provisions in
reference to attachments at law must be observed in the issue of
such attachments, and such writ of attachment may be granted by
the register in chancery.
§ 3865 (3424). When such attachments may lie dissolved. —When
such attachments are sued out by any indorser, surety, acceptor,
maker, or drawer, of any bond, bill, note, or other contract in
writing, not due and payable, such attachment must be dissolved,
on application to the chancellor, in vacation or term time, or by
the register in vacation, on the principal debtor furnishing the
complainant complete indemnity against his liability, and paying
all costs which may have accrued on such attachment.
§ 3866 (3425). When decree may be rendered infavor of surety. —
No decree must be rendered in favor of the complainant in such
attachment, until he has paid the debt for which he is liable as the
surety, indorser, accommodation maker, drawer, or acceptor, of
the defendant.
CHAPTER 8.
OF INJUNCTIONS, AND THE APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVERS.
§ 3867 (3426). By whom granted. —Injunctions may be granted
returnable into any of the courts of chancery in this state, by the
judges of the supreme and circuit courts, chancellors, and no other
officers.
§ 3868 (3427). Injunction of judgment is a release of errors. —An
injunction obtained by a defendant to a judgment at law, to stav
proceedings thereon, operates as a release of errors as to such
defendant.
§ 3869 (3428). On injunction of judgment, bond and security
required, —No injunction must issue to stay proceedings after
judgment, in a personal action, until the party at whose applica
tion the writ issues gives bond and security in double the amount
of such judgment, payable to and approved by the register, con
ditioned on the dissolution of such injunction, to pay the amount
of the judgment enjoined, with interest, and also such damages
and costs as may be decreed against such party. (1)
§ 3870 (3429). On grant of injunction after recovery of land-*, bond
and security required. —No injunction must issue to stay proceed
ings at law after judgment, in any action for the recovery of lands,
unless the party give bond and security, payable to and approved
by the register, in such sum as the officer granting the application
directs, conditioned for the payment of the damages in such judg
ment if enjoined, and also all damages and costs which the plain
tiff in such judgment sustains, by the suing out such injunction, if
the same is dissolved.
§ 3871 (3430). //( other cases, bond to pay the damages incurred is
required. —In other cases, the party must give bond with security,
in such sum as the officer granting the application directs, payable
to and approved by the register, and conditioned to pay all dam
ages which any person may sustain, by the suing out of such
injunction, if the same is dissolved. (2).
§ 3872 (3431). Application for injunction refused, how renewed, and
when refusal final. —If any application is made to a circuit judge
for an injunction, and refused, no other circuit judge can act on
the application, but the application may be made to a chancellor,
or judge of the supreme court ; if refused by a chancellor, it may
be renewed to a judge of the supreme court, but no other officer;
and if refused by a judge of the supreme court, can not be
renewed.
§ 3873 (3432). Application not made to supreme court judge, unless
refused by another. —No application must be made to a judge of the
supreme court, for an injunction or other equitable process, which
may be granted by any other judge or officer, unless the same has
been made to such other judge or officer, and refused by him.
§ 3874 (3433). Refusal to grant injunction to f>e indorsed on the Ml.
When an application for an injunction is refused, the officer to
whom the same is made must indorse his refusal on the bill, and
sign his name thereto ; and any one erasing such indorsement is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof must be fined
not less than five hundred dollars.
§ 3875 (3434). On dissolution of injunction damages granted J or
delay. —Whenever an injunction to stay proceedings in an action
is dissolved, on a final hearing, the chancellor may decree six per
centum damages on the amount of money for which such judg
ment was enjoined, if of opinion that the injunction was obtained
for delay.
§ 3876 (3435). Effect of bond on dissolution of injunction of a judg
ment ; execution on such bonds. —A bond to enjoin proceedings at
law on a judgment for money, upon the dissolution thereof, in
whole or in part, either upon an interlocutory or final decree, has
the force and effect of a judgment ; and being certified by the reg
ister to the clerk of the court in which the judgment was ren
dered, execution may issue against any or all the obligors thereto,
for the amount of such judgment which has been enjoined, inter
est and the damages decreed.
§ 3877 (3436). Execution for costs. —The register may also issue
execution for costs, if decreed against the party obtaining the
injunction, against any or all the parties to the bond.
§ 3878 (3437). If injunction of a judgment is dissolved pending the
suit, refunding bond required. —Whenever an interlocutory decree is
made dissolving an injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment
at law, the chancellor must require of the defendant a refunding
bond, in double the amount of the sum enjoined, payable to and
to be approved by the register, conditioned to refund the money
and interest he may collect on the judgment, if the same is on the
final hearing of the bill perpetually enjoined ; and the court may
render a final decree on such bond against any or all the parties
thereto.
§ 3879 (3438). Motion to dissolve in vacation. —A defendant may
move to dissolve an injunction in vacation, before the chancellor
of the division in which the bill is filed, either for want of equity
or on the coming in of the answer, to be heard on certified copies
of the bill and answer ; but ten days notice of such application
must be given to the plaintiff or his solicitor.*
§ 3880 (3440). Notice of injunction to stay a judgment served on
the attorney is valid. —Notices of injunctions, or other restraining
process, staying proceedings in suits or on judgments at law,
served upon the attorney of the party on whom such' injunction
or process is to operate, are valid.
§ 3881 (3441). Receivers appointed by chancellor or register.—
Receivers may be appointed by the chancellor in term time or
vacation, and by the register in vacation, upon application in
writing ; and when the application is made in vacation, reasonable
notice of the time of such application, and the person to whom it
will be submitted, must be given, or a good reason shown to the
chancellor or register for the failure to give the same.t
CHAPTER 9.
creditors' bills.
§ 3882 (3442). Creditors' bills to enforce collection of j udynu-nts.—
When an execution for money from any court has been issued
against a defendant, and is not satisfied, the plaintiff, or the per
son for whose benefit such execution is sued out, may file a bill in
chancery against such defendant, to compel the discovery of any
property belonging to him, or held in trust for him ; and to pre
vent the transfer, payment, or delivery thereof to such defendant,
except when the trust has been created by or proceeded from
some other person than the defendant himself ; and the court may
bring any other party before it, and decree such property, or the
interest of the defendant therein, to the satisfaction of the sum
due the plaintiff. (1)
§ 3883 (3443). BUI for discoverij of coUusive Judgments or fraudu
lent conveyance*. —A bill for discovery may be filed, and the defend
ant compelled to answer such bill, when the defendant is charged
with having confessed or suffered a judgment, where no portion,
or a part only of such judgment is due, with the intent to hinder,
delay, or defraud creditors, or with having conveyed his property
with the like intent.
§ 3884 (3444). Answer* to such bills compelled. —A defendant may
be compelled to answer a bill in chancery, charging him with any
fraud affecting the rights or property of others.
§ 3885 (3445). Not evidence on indictment for fraud. —No answer
made to a bill under the provisions of the two preceding sections
can be read in evidence against the defendant, on an indictment
for any fraud charged in the bilL
§ 3886 (3446). Creditor without lien may subject property fra udulently
trans/erred, &c. —A creditor, without a lien, may file a bill in
chancery, to subject to the payment of his debt any propertv
which has been fraudulently transferred, or attempted to be fraucfulently
conveyed by his debtor.* (2)
§ 3887. Bill of discovery on return of no property; any numlter
may join as plaintiff's. —a In every case where execution may have
heeil) or hereafter shall be, issued from any court of record in this
state, upon which there is a return of "no property" by the
proper officer, the plaintiff in such execution, his assignees, execu
tors, or administrators, may file a bill in the chancery court of the
chancery district in which such defendant may reside, or in the
county in which the judgment or decree was rendered, alleging
that execution has been issued and returned as aforesaid, and
that the defendant has property, money, or effects, which are lia
ble to the payment of the debt, and requiring the defendant to
answer, under oath, what property he has, the nature thereof, in
whose hands it is, and where situated ; and any number of par
ties may join as complainants in such bill.
§ 3888. When decree for payment or delivery of property to reqis'er/
necessary orders in term time or vacation, —/'Whenever it shall
appear to the court, from the answer of the defendant, or from
other evidence, that the defendant has money, property or effects,
as aforesaid, either in or out of the state, it shall have power to render
a decree, requiring the defendant to pay or deliver to the register of
the chancery court, within a time to be fix^ed by said decree, such
money, effects or property,- as the court may determine ought to
be paid or delivered, for the payment of such execution; and the
court in term time, or the chancellor in vacation, may make all
necessary orders for the collection and recovery of such effects or
money.
§ 3889. Failure to obey decree contempt of court ; assignments after
Jilivq bill are void. —elf any such defendant shall fail to comply
with the terms of such decree, he shall be guilty of a contempt ;
and the court, or the chancellor in vacation, shall, upon the report
of the register to that effect, have the power to imprison the
defendant in the county jail until he shall obey the decree ; and
all transfers or assignments of any property by the defendant,
after the filing of such bill against nim, shall be void.
CHAPTER 10.
OF ISSUES OUT OF CHANCERY.
\
§ 3890 (3463). Issues of foci tried by a jury, before the chancellor
or before a circuit court. —a Whenever it is necessary for any fact to
be tried by a jury, the court must direct an issue to be made up,
setting forth clearly the true question of fact to be tried, and such
issue must be tried before the chancellor, or may be sent to a cir
cuit court in the district for trial ; but such issue must in all cases
be tried in the county in which said cause is pending, unless for
good cause the venue is changed as required by law in the change
of venue in the trial of common law causes. (1)
§ 3891 (3464). Evidence in such trials ; parties examined. —Such
issue must be tried upon the like evidence as a suit at law,
together with such parts of the bill, answers, depositions, and
other proceedings in the cause, as the court may order ; and the
court may also order the examination of the parties to the suit,
allowing the other party to impeach or contradict such evidence.
§ 3892 (3465). Proceedimjs to summon jury and witnesses before
the chancellor to try such issues, dec —If such issue is to be tried
before the chancellor, he may make the necessary order for a jury
to be summoned, and witnesses to be subpoenaed by the register
of the district in which the trial is to be had ; and render judg
ments conditional, and absolute, as the law directs.
§ 3893 (34(56). Practice in partition'suits. —In all suits for parti
tion of lands or real estate, commenced in any court of chancery
in this state, if the defendant denies by his answer the title of
the complainant, the chancellor need not dismiss the bill or delay
the suit until a trial can be instituted and had at law, but in such
case the issue between the parties as to the title of the complain
ant may, if the chancellor so directs, be tried as other issues out
of chancery, according to the provisions of the three sections of
this Code next preceding. (1)
§ 3894 (3467). Pay of jurors, and how taxed.—La. all cases in
which jurors are summoned to attend upon the chancery courts of
this state, they must be allowed the same compensation as jurors
attending upon the circuit courts, to be taxed and collected as
other costs in the case in which they are called to serve as jurors.
CHAPTER 11.
OF THE CALL OF THE DOCKET ; OF HEARING OF CAUSES ; OF THE RENDI
TION, LIEN, EFFECT, AND ENFORCEMENT OF DECREES, AND COSTS.
•
§ 3895. Call of docket ami hearing of causes.—a Where the court
0£ CUancery sits longer than one week, it shall be the duty of the
chancellor presiding to call the docket of the term before he pro
ceeds with any other business. This call shall not be peremptory,
but when parties are ready for the trial of any cause, the same
may be tried or submitted for decision. Upon the call, or at any
time thereafter, it shall be competent for the chancellor, by agree
ment of the parties, to set causes down for hearing, argument or
trial on such day of the term thereof as may be agreed upon,
without waiting for a second call of the docket.
§ 3896 (3470). Decrees to be in writing, and rendered during the
term ; in difficult casty, decrees may he rendered in vacation. —b The
chancellor must, when practicable, render his decrees in writing,
during the session of the court at which the cause is heard ; he
may, however, in difficult' cases, render a decree in vacation within
six months after the hearing.
§ 3897 (717). Orders and decrees by consent. —Chancellors maymake
orders and render final decrees at any time, by consent of
parties or their counsel.
§ 3898 (3468). Rules as to liens and priority of decrees same as
those applied to judgments. —Executions issued on decrees of a court
of chancery, for payment or recovery of money, are liens upon
real and personal property subject to execution, from their deliv
ery to the officer, in the same manner and to the same extent, and
the rules as to the priority of liens from such court are the same
as in courts of law. . • ■
§ 3899 (3469). Decrees for conveyances, releases, <fec„, operate as
such, and the court, may order them to be executed by a commissioner.
When a decree is made for a conveyance, release, or acquittance,
and the party against whom the decree is made does not execute
the same by the time specified in the decree, such decree oper
ates in all respects as fully ae if the conveyance, release or acquit
tance was made ; or the court may decree, in default of the exe
cution of such conveyance, release or acquittance, the same to be
executed by a commissioner, in the name of the party ; ancl the
conveyance, release or acquittance, when so executed, is as valid
in all respects as if executed by the party.
§ 3900 (3471). Costs at the discretion of the chancellor. —Costs may
be apportioned at the discretion of the chancellor; and in afi
cases where costs are decreed against any party who has given
security for the costs, execution may issue against such security.*
§ 3901 (3473). Decrees, dec, enforced by attachment or sequestra
tion.—Courts of chancery may also enforce their decrees, orders
and rules, by process of attachment against the party or officer in
contempt, or by process of sequestration against his property.
§ 3902 (3474). Decree /or the performance of some act to prescribe
the time, dec. —If a decree is for the execution of a conveyance, the
delivery of deeds, or any other specified act, the decree must in
all such cases prescribe the time within which such act is to be
performed.
§ 3903. Sales to be made by register. —cWhen any property is
ordered to be sold by the decree of any chancery court, for the
satisfaction of any debt secured by any mortgage or deed of trust,
such sale shall in all cases be made by the register of the court
ordering the same.
§ 3904 (3475). Attachment <m affidavit of failure to perform. —
Upon an affidavit being filed with the register by the party enti
tled to have such act done, his agent or solicitor, stating that the
decree of the court has not been performed, the register must issue
an attachment against the delinquent party, upon which he may
be arrested and committed to jail until he performs such act, or
he is discharged by a special order of the chancellor, extending
the time for the performance ; and if such act is not performed
within the time as extended, another attachment may issue on the
affidavit of the party, his agent or solicitor.
§ 3905 (3476). //' attachment not executed, sequestration follows. —
Upon the issue of an attachment, if the delinquent can not be
found, a writ of sequestration may issue against the estate of such
party to compel obedience to the decree.
§ 3906 (3477). Decrees enforced In/ chancery writs or common lata
process. — Courts of chancery are authorized to issue such process,
mesne and final, as has been used in such courts ; and all writs for
the collection of money, to obtain the possession of land or per
sonal property, in use in the common law courts, are to be
adapted to the execution of decrees in the courts of chancery.
§ 3907 (3478). Return day of such process. —Writs from the court
of chancery for the collection of money, or to obtain the posses
sion of lands or personal property, may be made returnable on
the first Monday of a month, to be specified in the writ; all
other process as the chancellor or register may direct, unless the
return is fixed by law. (1)
§ 3908 (3479). Executions to issue cm decrees far foreclosure of
mortgages, dec. —Where bills are filed or are now pending in any
of the chancery courts of this state, for the foreclosure of mort
gages, or the enforcement of vendors' liens upon any specific prop
erty, real or personal, and in all cases where an account is taken
between the parties, and the amount of indebtedness between
them ascertained by the decree of such chancery court, such
decrees shall have the force and effect of judgments, and execu
tions thereon may be issued by the registers, against the goods,
chattels, lands and tenements of the parties against whom such
decrees may have been rendered ; but no execution must issue on
decrees for the foreclosure of mortgages, or the enforcement of
equitable liens, until the property ordered to sale shall have been
sold, and the sale confirmed, and the balance due ascertained by
the decree of such court, when execution must issue for the bal
ance which may be found due.
§ 3909 (3480). Effect of such executions. —All executions issued
under the preceding section shall have the force and effect of exe
cutions issued from the circuit courts, and shall be levied, col
lected and returned in the same manner.
§ 3910. Decree, of partition binding as mutual releases. —rfPartitions
made under and by virtue of proceedings in chancery, shall
be firm and effectual forever ; and the final decree of the court
of chancery, for or upon the petition, shall be binding and con
clusive as absolutely as if mutual releases were executed. .
§ 3911. Decree vests title; right of appeal. —eThe final decree of a
court of chancery upon the petition, snail vest title in the persons
to whom the shares are allotted, in as full and ample a manner as
if each had conveyed to the other ; but the right of appeal, upon
decree for partition, shall exist as in other cases.
§ 3912 (3481). Register or commissioner may take forthcoming bowl.
When the sale of any personal property is directed by a decree of
any chancery court, the register, or other person directed to make
such sale, may take from the defendant a forthcoming bond, in
double the amount of the decree, for the delivery of such prop
erty on the day of sale.
§ 3913 (3482). Effect of forfeiture.—If the property is not deliv
ered, such register, or person directed to make such sale, must
return the bond "forfeited," in which case the bond shall have the
force of a judgment, and execution may issue against all the obli
gors of such bond.
§ 3914 (3483). Sheriff liable far failure to collect money, &e. For
failing to collect money on any execution from the court of chan
cery, the sheriff and his sureties, or any or either of them, are
liable to the same penalties, to be recovered in the same manner
as on failure to collect execution from the law courts ; the motion
to be made by the plaintiff, in the circuit court of the county in
which the court from which the execution issues is held.
§ 3915 (3484). Rules of the supreme court confirmed, and potoer to
make rules ej-tended. —All the rules now in force, which have been
adopted by the supreme court, not contrary to the provisions of
this title, are recognized ; and power is granted to such court to
adopt such other rules to regulate the practice of the court of
chancery, or such modifications of the existing ndes as they may
deem proper, and also to furnish forms of proceeding, to mould
the process of the chancery court, and to prescribe rules of evi
dence in the same, from time to time, as experience may determine,
that the existing rules do not fully meet the ends of public justice!
CHAPTER 1.
OF APPEALS.
Article 1. —Appeals generally.
2. — Specially of appeals from probate court.
ABTICLE I.
APPEALS GENERALLY.
§ 3916 (3485). Appeals allowed to supreme court on all final judg
ments, an matter of right. —From any final judgment or decree of
the chancery, circuit or probate courts, except in such cases as are
otherwise directed by law, an appeal lies to the supreme court, for
the examination thereof, as matter of right, on the application of
either party, or their personal representatives ; and the clerk, reg
ister, or judge of probate, must certify the fact that such appeal
was taken, and the time when, as part of the record, which gives
the supreme court jurisdiction of the case. (1)
§ 3917 (3486). Appeals from certain interlocutory judgments
allowed. —Aji appeal to the supreme court may betaken before the
final determination of the cause, from any judgment overruling a
motion to dismiss or quash an attachment, or sustaining a demur
rer to a plea in abatement to an attachment, or sustaining an
attachment against matters set up in abatement of it, either in the
way of an agreed case, or by plea or otherwise ; but such appeal
shall be taken only after the consent of the opposite party or his
attorney is obtained to its being taken ; and on the trial of such
appeal, there shall not be a reversal, if the supreme court discov
ers that the defect or error, alleged or insisted on, can be removed
or remedied by amendment under existing laws. *
§ 3918. Appeals from certain intalocutory decrees. —a From any «
decree rendered by the chancery court in term time, or by the "
chancellor in vacation, sustaining or overruling a demurrer to a
bill in equity, or sustaining or overruling a plea to such bill, or
sustaining or overruling a motion to. dismiss such bill for want of
equity, an appeal lies to the supreme court, to be taken within
thirty days after the rendition of such decree ; the appeal shall
be heard and determined by the supreme court in preference to
all other cases than criminal cases, and if the decree of the chan
cellor is reversed, the court shall render such decree as should
have been rendered by the chancellor ; but nothing in this section
shall be so construed as to prevent an assignment of errors on
such decrees, on appeals taken after the final determination of
the cause, if appeals are not taken under this section, t
§ 3919. Appeals from abolished courts. —frWhen any court of
record in this state has been, or in the future shall be abolished,
and no provision made whereby appeals from the judgments and
decrees thereof can be taken to the supreme court of the state,
any party to any such judgment or decree shall be allowed to sue
out an appeal from the judgment or decree to the supreme court,
in the same time and in the same manner as if such court had not
been abolished. But the appeal shall be sued out before arid cer
tified by the clerk of that court to which the unfinished business,
the dockets, papers, books, indictments, records, and other mat
ters may be, or may already have been transferred or delivered,
§3920. To what court remanded in such cases. —c Whenever any
appeal now pending, or that may hereafter be taken from anysuch
court, snail be determined, and the judgment or decree of
such court reversed, it shall be remanded to the court to which
the records of such court have been transferred.
§ 3921 (4422). An appeal lies from order appointing receiver. —An
appeal to the supreme court from any order of a chancellor
appointing a receiver may be taken by any defendant in the suit,
in which the order is made, upon his entering into bond, with good
security, in such sum as may be prescribed by the chancellor or
register, payable to the complainant, conditioned that he will pay
the complainant all such costs and damages as such complainant
may sustain by the wrongful taking of the appeal, if such appeal
is not prosecuted to effect ; and such bond may be approved by
the register or chancellor, and when so approved shall operate as
a supersedeas of the order appointing the receiver, until the
supreme court shall decide upon the appeal, and determine
whether or not there shall be a receiver in the case. Every such
appeal must be heard at the term of the supreme court to which
it is taken.
§ 3922 (3439). Appeals may lie taken on orders sustaining or dissolving
injunctions. —d An appeal lies to the supreme court on all
interlocutory orders, in term time or vacation, sustaining or dis
solving injunctions, which must be heard and determined at the
first term after the appeal is taken, or if the supreme court is in
session when such appeal is or has been taken, then the same
shall be heard during such session, at least three days notice of
appeal having been first given to the adverse party.
§ 3923. Appeals front denial of remedial writs by circuit judge. —
e Appeals may be taken to the supreme court from the judgment
Qf judges of the circuit and city courts on application for writs of
certiorari, supersedeas, quo warranto, mandamus, and other rem
edial writs, upon plaintiff or defendant giving security for the cost
of appeal, approved by the judge trying the same, within sixty
days from the day of the judgment ; but such appeal shall not
operate as a supersedeas of the judgment, unless bond with suffi
cient sureties be given by the appellant, payable to the appellee
in such sum as the judge hearing the application shall require,
conditioned to pay all damages thereby sustained.
§ 3924. Application, order, and other papers filed in clerk's office ;
manner qf taking appeal.—/"When any application mentioned in the
foregoing section has been acted upon by any judge of the circuit
or city court, such judge shall cause the application, together with
his order thereon, and the other papers in the cause, to be filed
in the office of the clerk of the circuit or city court of the county
where the application is heard, and such clerk shall prepare the
transcript thereof, and certify the appeal as in other cases.
§ 3925. To ivkat time appeals returnable. —(/Appeals may be taken g
to, and returnable on the fir§t Tuesday of any month during the v
session of the supreme court, on ten days notice, and on the terms
and conditions now prescribed by law.
§ 3926 (3488). Adverse party to have notice of appeal, —The reg
ister, clerk of the circuit court, and judge of probate, must, on
the application of either of the parties, his agent or attorney,
after final judgment or decree in any cause, upon an appeal being
taken, issue a citation, returnable to the day to which the appeal
is taken, to the opposite party, which must be served by the
sheriff on him or his attorney, ten days before the time to which
the appeal is taken.* (1)
§ 3927 (3489). Appeal not to supersede judgment or decree for pay
ment of money, without bond taken and approved. —h Where the judg-
ment or decree is for the payment of money, the appeal does not
supersede the judgment or decree, unless bond be given by the
appellant or some other person, in double the amount of the
judgment, payable to the appellee, with sufficient sureties, and
with condition to prosecute the appeal to effect, and to satisfy
such judgment as the supreme court may render in the prem
ises. (2)
§ 3928 (3490). What officers fix the amount and condition of bond
in other cases. —t If the decree or judgment be for any thing other
than the payment of money, the chancellor, or register, or judge
fixes the bond ; when the decree rendered in chancery is for the
performance of any other act than the payment of money, except
in cases otherwise provided by this Code, or where the judgment
at law is rendered for the recovery or possession of real property,
or any interest therein, or the recovery or possession of any per
sonal property, except in cases otherwise provided by this Code,
the party wishing to supersede the execution of such decree or
judgment, as the case may be, must, in the former case, apply to
the chancellor or register, either in term time or vacation, within
the time allowed by law for such appeal, who must direct the
amount and the condition of the appeal bond ; in the latter case
to the judge of the court wherein such judgment from which an
appeal is desired was rendered, in term time or vacation, within
the time allowed by law for such appeal, who must direct the
amount and the condition of the appeal bond. In all cases of
appeal allowed by this section, the order of the chancellor, regis
ter or judge must be entered on the minute book of the court.
§ 3929 (3491). Liability for taking insufficient security on appeal
bond. —For taking insufficient security the clerk, register, or judge
of probate, is liable to the appellee for the damages thereby sus
tained, unless the surety was generally reputed good for the
amount, when he was received ; but the clerk, register, or judge of
probate is not required to receive any one as surety, who refuses
to answer on oath as to his sufficiency.
§ 3930. How married toomen may appeal.—j When any judgment
of the circuit court, or any decree of the court of chancery, has
been, or may be rendered, subjecting to sale the separate estate
of a married woman, or any part thereof, be the same her statu
tory separate estate, or a separate estate otherwise created, sucli
married woman shall be entitled to an appeal to the supreme
court, to revise such decree, without giving security for the costs
of such appeal, on making affidavit in writing that she is unable
to give such security ; and such appeal, when taken to the next
term of the supreme court, shall operate as a suspension and stav
of all proceedings under such judgment or decree, until sucli
appeal shall have been heard and determined by the supreme
court.
§ 3931 (4420). Appeals to the supreme court amendable. —Whenever
an appeal shall be taken from the judgment, decree, or other pro
ceeding, of any of the courts of this state, to the supreme court
of the state, and there shall be any error, mistake, or other inac
curacy, or imperfection in taking the appeal or in the certificate
thereof, such appeal shall not be dismissed ; but the same may be
amended on motion in the supreme court, in such manner as shall
be necessary to perfect the appeal. (1)
§ 3932 (4421). Appeal Imnds and bonds for c-osts amendable. —No
appeal shall be dismissed by the supreme court, for the want of a
sufficient appeal bond, or bond for the costs of the appeal, if the
appellant will give a sufficient bond, which bond the supreme
court, or any member thereof, is hereby authorized to take and
approve, or it may be taken and certified to the supreme court by
the judge, clerk, or register certifying the appeal. (1)
§ 3933 (3492). Appellant to have a transcript of the record, ami a
certificate of the appeal, citation, <&c.—The register, clerk, and judge
of probate must also, on the application of the appellant or his
attorney, make and deliver to him, in time to be returned to the
next term of the supreme court, a full and complete transcript of
the record and proceedings in the cause, together with his certifi
cate that the appeal was taken, and the time when, and the cita
tion and a copy of the appeal bond if any was given, with his cer
tificate, that it is a complete transcript of all the proceedings in
the cause, and envelope and seal up the whole in a package directed
to the clerk of the supreme court, or deliver it to the attorney
applying for the same. (2)
§ 3934 (3493). Penalty of bond on appeal of claimant in the trial of
the right of property. — When an appeal is sued out by the claimant
on a judgment against him on trial of right of property, and the
party desires to supersede the judgment, the bond must be taken
in double the amount of the plaintiffs judgment, if that with the
interest is less than the valuation by the jury of the property
levied on, and in double the amount of the assessed value, if less
than the judgment of the plaintiff.
§ 3935 (3494). Damages, when such judgment is affirmeil. —When
an appeal is taken by the claimant on the trial of the right of
property, and the judgment superseded, if the appellate court
affirms the judgment of the court below, it must render judgment
of ten per cent, on the assessed value of such property, if less
than the amount of the execution against the defendant ; if such
value exceeds such execution, ten per cent, on the amount thereof
against the obligors in the appeal bond.
§ 3936 (3495). Damages on affirmance of judgment in detinue. —
Upon the affirmance of an appeal on a judgment for the recovery
of chattels in specie, which has been superseded, the court must
render judgment for ten per cent, damages upon the assessed
value of the chattels, and upon the damages on the detention
thereof.
§ 3937 (3496). Liability of the clerk for delay in furnishing tran
script, or for imperfection in the record. —If by reason of negligence,
or delay of the clerk, the transcript be not delivered to the appel
lant or his attorney, in time to be filed, or if the transcript be so
defective that the supreme court cannot proceed thereon, the clerk
forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of two hundred dollars,
and is further liable to him, in an action on the case, for all dam
ages sustained by his neglect or delay.
§ 3938 (3497). Certificate of appexd given ajypeUee. —When an
appeal is taken, the clerk, register, or judge of probate, must, on
the application of the appellee, make and deliver to him a certifi
cate of the judgment or decree upon which the appeal has been
taken, specifying particularly the judgment or decree, the amount
of the same, if for money, the parties thereto, and when rendered,
and that an appeal has been taken thereon, with a statement of
the obligors in the bond to supersede the judgment or decree, if
one has been given.
§ 3939 (3498). Transcript to be fled in the supreme court in three
days after court meets. —The transcript of the record and the cer
tificate must be filed with the clerk of the supreme court, on or
before the third day of the term to which the appeal is taken,
and the cause must be tried at the first term, unless good cause
be shown for a continuance. If the citation has not been exe
cuted on the appellee ten days before the commencement of the
court, the cause will not stand for trial until the next succeeding
term.(l)
§ 3940 (3499). Judgment affirmed on certificate, if record is not fled.
If an appeal is taken, and the transcript of the record is not filed
within the first three days of the court, it is the duty of the court,
on the motion of the appellee, to affirm the judgment or decree
of the court below, upon the production by him of the certifi
cate of the register, clerk, or judge of the probate court, that an
appeal has been taken to the supreme court. For good cause
shown, the court may reinstate the cause during the term, on pay
ment of costs.
§ 3941 (3500). If Inynd is filed, ten per cent, damages on affirmance.
When bond, with security, has been executed on an appeal, and
the judgment thereby suspended, if the supreme court affirms the
judgment of the court below, it must also render judgment against
all or any of the obbgors in the bond, for the amount of the affirmed
judgment, ten per cent, damages thereon, and the costs of the
supreme court. (2)
§ 3942 (3501). Damages in all cases of money judgments. —The pre
ceding section applies to all cases where a judgment or decree is
rendered for money, whether debt or damages.
§ 3943 (3502). Judgment or decree, if reversed, may be renderefl,
or cause remanded Inj the court. —The supreme court may, upon the
reversal of any judgment or decree, remand the same for further
proceedings, or render such judgment or decree as the court
below should have rendered, when the record enables them to
do BO.(l)
§ 3944 (3503). Notice to ap/xllee ivhen non-resident.—When the
appellee is a non-resident, and has no attorney or agent within
the state to receive notice of the appeal, oath in writing being
made of the fact, the supreme court may direct notice to be given
by publication, which is as effectual as actual notice.
§ 3945 (3504). Confession-- of judgment releases errors. —A confes
sion of judgment is in law a release of errors.
§ 3946 (3505). Clerical errors corrected at appellant's cost. —No
cause must be reversed by the supreme court for any miscalcula
tion of interest, or other clerical mistake in entering judgment, but
on motion of, and at the costs of the appellant.
§ 3947 (3506). On death of either party, cause revived as to his
representative. —Upon the death of either party to an appeal being
suggested, if the cause can not proceed without new parties, the
cause may be revived either for or against such party, on the pro
duction of letters testamentary or of administration ; but citation
must issue from the appellate court to all who are thus made
defendants, unless they appear and waive it.
§ 3948 (3507). Appeals on death of either party after judgment.
When either party to a judgment or decree dies after judgment or
decree rendered, and before appeal taken thereon, an appeal may
be prosecuted in the name of, or against the legal representative
of the deceased, on producing satisfactory evidence to the clerk,
judge of probate, or register, of the death of the party, and grant
of letters testamentary or of administration.
§ 3949 (3508). Appeal barred if not taken in two years. —Appeals,
except in such cases as a different time is prescribed, must be
taken within two years from the rendition of the judgment or
decree.
§ 3950 (3509). Security for costs required ivhen appeal bond- not
given. —No appeal can be taken without giving bond to supersede
the execution of the judgment or decree, unless the appellant give
security for the costs of such appeal, to be approved by the clerk,
register, or judge of probate ; the names of such sureties to be
certified with the record to the appellate court, and execution may
issue against such sureties for the costs in such court, and the
costs of the transcript, if decided against the appellant. (2)
§ 3951 (3510). Judgment in supreme court not restricted by former
rulings. —When any cause shall be tried in the supreme court of
this state, which had at any former term thereof been tried and
remanded, such court, in deciding the law of the case, must be
governed by what, in the opinion of such court, is the law at the
time of the delivery of the opinion of the court, without regard
to any former ruling of the law in such case, if there shoidd be a
conflict between the former ruling and the then present opinion
of the court.
§ 3952 (3511). Clerks of inferior courts may issue executions for
costs unpaid. —Clerks of the circuit court, registers in chancery,
judges of probate, and the clerks of all other inferior courts m
this state, when cases have been taken from their respective courts
to the supreme court, by appeal or other lawful mode, and been
there decided, if the costs accruing in such lower courts for
transcripts, or otherwise, be not paid by the parties against whom
they were adjudged in the supreme court, may issue executions
for such costs, returnable into the court in which such costs
accrued.
§ 3953 (3512). No discontinuance, unless motion for it is made by
appellant. —No undecided appeal to the supreme court must be
deemed or treated as discontinued, or as having otherwise lost its
force, unless the appellee shall duly move for a discontinuance,
after legal cause for discontinuance has occurred.*(l)
ARTICLE II.
SPECIALLY OF APPEALS FROM PROBATE COURTS.
§ 3954 (2244). Cases in which appeals may l>e taken to the circuit
or supreme court. —Appeals may be taken from the probate court,
upon decrees made under the provisions of title four, part two, of
this Code, to the supreme or circuit court, in the following cases
only : (2)
1. On any contest as to the validity of a will under chapter 2, title 4, of part 2, in which case the appeal must be taken within
thirty days after the determination of such contest.
2. On application, and claiming the right to execute a will, or
to administer on an estate, when decided against the applicant
on any other ground than the one specified m the third subdivi
sion of section 2340 (1976), in which case the appeal must be taken
within ten days after the determination of the court on the appli
cation.
3. Upon any judgment or order removing an executor or admin
istrator, in which case the appeal must be taken within five days
after such judgment or order.
4. By a legatee or person entitled to distribution, on the deci
sion of the court, in proceedings instituted to compel the payment
of a legacy or distributive share, at any time within six months
after such decision.
5. After a final settlement upon any order, decision or decree,
made on such settlement, or respecting any item or matter thereof,
or on any previous settlement or item or matter thereof, within
six months thereafter.
6. Upon any issue as to the insolvency of an estate, and upon
any issue as to an allowance of any claim against insolvent estates,
in which case the appeal must be taken within thirty days after
the determination of such issue.
7. On an application for a division, or partition of real or per
sonal property, in which case the appeal must be taken within six
months, and the decree may be superseded upon the execution,
within fifteen days, of a supersedeas bond payable to the appellee,
in an amount and upon condition to be prescribed by the probate
judge, such supersedeas to continue for six months from the date
of the decree, or until the appeal is decided.
§ 3955 (2245). Appeal to suprefne court in cases of advancement. —
From all the decrees in controversies as to advancements, an
appeal lies to the supreme court.
§ 3956 (2246). Appeal to .supreme court in other cases. —In addition
to other cases in which appeals from the probate court to the
supreme court are allowed by this Code, appeals may be taken by
either party from any final Judgment, order or decree of the pro
bate court to the supreme court, within twenty days from the time
of rendering the same.
§ 3957 (2247). Appeals to the circuit or supreme court from aff final
decrees. —Any party to a suit or proceeding aggrieved by a final
judgment, decree, or order of the judge of probate in such suit
or proceeding, may appeal to the circuit or supreme court there
from, under the rules regulating appeals from the courts of pro
bate ; and no bill of exceptions shall be required when the error
complained of appears in the proceedings ; and in all cases where
it can be done, the appellate court shall render such judgment as
the judge of probate should have done.
§ 3958 (2248). Appeal to supreme court on change of venue in con
test of idM. —Upon the contest of a will removed from the probate
court of the county in which it was propounded to the probate
court of another county for trial, an appeal lies to the supreme
court, and must be taken within thirty days after the judgment.
§ 3959 (2249). Bill of exceptions in such cases. —In the cases pro
vided for by the preceding sections, a bill of exceptions may be
tendered to the probate judge of the court trying the validity of
a will, specially setting forth the matters objected to, and the evi
dence in relation to the same, with such other matters as will pre
sent the point raised fully and fairly before the appellate court,
which, if correct, must be signed by the judge before the adjourn
ment of court, unless both parties, or their attorneys, consent, in
writing, to further time being given.
§ 3960 (2250). Bill of exceptions in other cases ; trial in appellate
court. —When an appeal is taken under anv of the previous sec
tions of this article, except a contest involving the validity of a
will, the judge of probate must make out a copy of the bill of
exceptions, which must be certified by him, and the appeal must
be tried on such bill of exceptions in the appellate court ; but
when an appeal is taken to the supreme court under the provis
ions of this article, a bill of exceptions shall not be required when
the error complained of appears upon the record. (1)
§ 3961 (2251). If all evidence is set out, appellate court shall
direct what judgment shall lie rendered. —On any matter of evidence
properly triable by the court, if it appear from the bill of excep
tions that all the evidence in relation to the particular item or
matter is set out in such bill, the appellate court may either affirm
the judgment or reverse and direct what judgment shall be ren
dered, and such judgment must be so rendered in the court below.
§ 3962 (2252). Transcripts in contests of urills. —In a contest
respecting the validity of a will, a transcript of the whole record
must be made out, and the appeal is tried on such record.
§ 3963 (2253). Appeals from the circuit court to the supreme court.
An appeal may be taken from the judgment of the circuit court,
on an appeal brought to such court, under the provisions of this chapter, to the supreme court, within thirty days after such judg
ment.
§ 3964 (2254). No appeal from order removing executor or admin
istrator, without l>ond given. —No appeal can be taken from any
order of the probate court removing an executor or administrator,
unless the appellant give bond, with at least two sufficient sure
ties, payable to the judge of probate, and in an amount to be
fixed by him, not less than the amount of his bond as executor or
administrator, conditioned to prosecute the appeal to effect, and
until the same is decided, faithfully to discharge his duties as such
executor or administrator.
§ 3965 (2255). On affirmance, execution against principal and sure
ties on bond. —if such appeal is decided against the appellant, exe
cution for costs may issue against him and the sureties on such
bond ; their names being certified with the record to the appellate
court.
§ 3966 (2256). Bond also security for the estate. —Such bond also
stands as security for the faithful discharge of his duties as such
executor or administrator, from the time the same is approved
until the appeal is finally decided.
§ 3967 (2257). Security for costs to be given in appeals. —In all
other cases in which an appeal is taken under the provisions of
this chapter, the appellant, or some one for him, must give secu
rity for the costs of such appeal, to be approved by the judge of
probate, or the clerk of the circuit court, as the case may be ; and
the names of such sureties must be certified with the record to the
appellate court ; and if the appellant fails to prosecute his appeal,
or the judgment is not reversed, or is rendered against him for a
less amount, execution may issue against him and such sureties for
the costs.
§ 3968 (2258). Who may take appeal for-'minors. —From any final
judgment, order or decree rendered against any minor, an appeal
may be taken by the guardian ad litem, next friend or guardian of
such minor, in the name of the minor; such guardian, or next
friend, giving the bond required for that purpose.
§ 3969 (2259). Costs paid by representative 7>iay be alloioed. as
against estate. —The costs of the appeal, when paid by an executor
or administrator, are within the discretion of the probate judge to
allow as a charge against the estate. *
CHAPTER 1.
LEGAL NOTICES IN NEWSPAPERS.*
§ 3970. Person for whom notice to be given may .select neicspajter :
duty qf officer. —a Where the publication of any notice, sale or
other advertisement is required to be made in a newspaper, it
shall be the privilege of the party in whose behalf, or on whose
Eroceeding, such notice, or sale, or other advertisement, may
ecome necessary, to designate the newspaper in which the same
shall be made, if such newspaper is published in the county in
which the law requires that such notice, sale or other advertisenient
shall appear; ft and it shall be the duty of the judges of
probate, sheriffs, registers in chancery, circuit clerks, and other
officers charged by law with the publication of legal notices, to
publish the same in the newspaper designated in accordance with
this section.
§ 3971. Publication, how madet ; and notice required. —c In all cases
where the publication of any notice is required by law to be made
in this state, it shall be made by publication in some newspaper
published in the county in which the notice is ordered, and if no
newspaper is published in the county, then by written advertise
ment, posted at the court house door, and at three other public
places in the county.
§ 3972. Length of time notice must be given.— d Notices of the sale
of real estate under executions at law, or under decrees of the
chancery court, shall be given by advertisement, as herein before
directed, for thirty days before the sale, and notices of sale of
personal property under executions shall be given by publication
for at least ten days before the sale ; all other notices shall be
published for not less than three successive weeks.
§ 3973. How published in weekly ; how in paper issued oftener. —
elf the publication is made in a newspaper published oftener than
once a week, then the notice 'shall be made by giving at least one
insertion in each successive week before the sale, or in each suc
cessive issue of the newspaper, if it is a weekly newspaper.
§ 3974. Copy of newspaper to be furnished; prima facie evidence. —
/The editor, publisher or manager of any newspaper in this state,
which contains an advertisement required by law, shall send to
the officer ordering such advertisement, or to the person making
the same, if not ordered by an officer, a copy of each issue of the
newspaper containing such advertisement ; and the newspaper con
taining such advertisement shall be prima facie evidence of the
publication of the notice.
§ 3975. Fees for publishing fixed. —g No proprietor nor manager of
any newspaper shall be allowed to charge more than one dollar
per square for the first insertion, nor more than fifty cents per
square for each subsequent insertion of any advertisement which
may be made in accordance with the preceding sections of this chapter.
