CHAPTER 1.
ACTIONS AND PARTIES.
SEC. 2573. (2902). Suit by state. —The state may sue in its own
name, and is entitled to all remedies provided for the enforce
ment of rights between individuals, without giving bond or se
curity, or causing affidavit to be made, though the same may be
required, if the action were between private citizens ; the writ
ten direction of the governor of the state to the attornev of
record is a sufficient authority for bringing the suit.

SEC. 2574. (2903). Suit against county. —Suit must not be brought
against a county until the claim has been presented to the court
of county commissioners, and disallowed or reduced by the
court, and the reduction refused by the claimant.
SEC. 2575. (2917). Suit on official bonds.—For any breach of an
official bond or undertaking of any officer of this state, execu
tor, administrator, or guardian, or of any bond or undertaking
given in an official capacity to the state, or any officer thereof,
the person aggrieved may sue in his own name, assigning the
appropriate breach.

SEC. 2576. (2918). Suit for penalty imposed by law.—When a
penalty is imposed by a statute which does not provide a mode
for the recovery, any citizen may sue for the same on behalf of
himself and the county in which the penalty is incurred.
SEC. 2577. (2892). When husband and wife' joined.— Husbandand wife must be joined, either as plaintiffs or defendants, when
the wife has an interest in the subject-matter of the suit, unless
the suit relates to her separate estate, when she must sue or be
sued alone.

SEC. 2578. (2901). When wife may sue or defend for husband.
When a husband or father has deserted his family, or is confined
in an insane asylum, not having been declared of unsound mind,
or when he is imprisoned for a term of two years or more under
a conviction for crime, the wife or mother may prosecute and
defend in his name any action which he might have prosecuted
or defended, and has the same powers and rights in reference to
such action which he might have had.

SEC. 2579. (2893). Suit by and against infants. —Infants must
sue by next friend, and must be defended by a guardian of the
appointment of the court.

SEC. 2580. (2894). Suit by and against persons of unsound mind.
Persons of unsound mind suing for a personal injury, not having
a guardian appointed in this state, may sue by next friend, ana
if sued, must be defended by a guardian of the appointment of
the court.

SEC. 2582. (2893). Guardian may sue for the use of the ward.
In all suits in which the ward lias an interest, and the recoveryenures to his or her benefit, a guardian may sue in his ownname for the use of the ward ; and if, pending such suit, theward should arrive at full age, or, if a female, should marry, or, ita person of unsound mind, should be restored to sanity, the suitmust proceed in his or her name; or, if the ward should die, hisor her personal representative may be made the sole partyplaintiff, or, if the nature of the case require it, his or her heirsmay be made parties plaintiff.

SEC. 2583. (2795). Guardians of persons of unsound mind sub-
;]ect to suit. —The guardian ot a person of unsound mind may
>e sued on any contract made by the ward, or for any tort com
mitted by him while of sound mind, or for necessaries furnished
him or his family before the appointment of a guardian.
SEC. 2584. (2900). Action for felonious injury. —For any injury,
either to person or property, amounting to a felony, a civil ac
tion may be maintained by the party injured, without a prose
cution of the offender.
SEC. 2585. (2896). Unmarried woman may sue for her seduc
tion. —An unmarried female may prosecute as plaintiff an ac
tion for her own seduction, and may recover such damages as
may be assessed in her favor.
SEC. 2586. (2897). Suit for seduction of daughter by father ormother. — The father, or in case of his death, or desertion of
his family, or of his imprisonment for a term of two years or
more, under a conviction for crime or of his confinement in an
insane asylum, or of his having been declared of unsound mind,
the mother may maintain an action for the seduction of a
daughter, though she be not living with, or in the service of
the plaintiff at the time of the seduction, or afterwards, and
there be no loss of service; but a suit by the daughter is a bar
to an action by the father or mother.
SEC. 2587. (2898). Father may sue for injury to minor child.
A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his family, or
of his imprisonment for a term of two years or more under a
conviction for crime, or of his confinement in an insane asylum,
or if .he has been declared of unsound mind, the mother may
sue for an injury to a minor child, a member of the family.
SEC. 2588. Suits for injuries causing death of minor child,
When the death of a minor child is caused by the wrongful act,
or omission, or negligence of any person or persons, or corpor
ation, his or their servants or agents, the father, or the mother,
in the cases mentioned in the preceding section, or the personal
representative of such minor, may sue and recover such dam
ages as the jury may assess ; but a suit by the father or mother,
in such case, is a bar to a suit by the personal representative.
SEC. 2589. (2641,2642,2043). Action for wrongful act, omission,
or negligence causing death. —A personal representative may
maintain an action, and recover such damages as the jury may
assess, for the wrongful act, omission, or negligence of any per
son or persons, or corporation, his or their servants or agents,
whereby the death of his testator or intestate was caused, if the
testator or intestate could have maintained an action for such
wrongful act, omission, or negligence, if it had not caused death ;
such action shall not abate by the death of the defendant, but
may be revived against his personal representative ; and may
be maintained, though there has not been prosecution, or con
viction, or acquittal of the defendant for such wrongful act, or
omission, or negligence ; and the damages recovered are not
subject to the payment of the debts or liabilities of the testator
or intestate, but must be distributed according to the statute of
distributions. Such action must be brought within two years
from and after the death of the testator or intestate.

SEC. 2590. Liability of master or employer to servant or em
ploye for injuries. —When a personal injury is received by a
servant or employe in the service or business of the master or
employer, the master or employer is liable to answer in damages
to such servant or employe, as if he were a stranger, and not en
gaged in such service or employment, in the cases following:
1. When the injury is caused by reason of any defect in the
condition of the ways, works, machinery, or plant connected
with, or used in the business of the master or employer.
2. When the injury is caused by reason of the negligence of
any person in the service or employment of the master or em
ployer, who has any superintendence intrusted to him, whilst in
the exercise of such superintendence.
3. When such injury is caused by reason of the negligence of
any person in the service or employment of the master or em
ployer, to whose orders or directions the servant or employe, at
the time of the injury, was bound to conform, and did conform,
if such injuries resulted from his having so conformed.
4. When such injury is caused by reason of the act or omis
sion of any person in the service or employment of the master
or employer, done or made in obedience to the rules and regu
lations or by-laws of the master or employer, or in obedience to
particular instructions given by any person delegated with the
authority of the master or employer in that behalf.
5. When such injury is caused by reason of the negligence of
any person in the service or employment of the master or em
ployer, who has the charge or control of any signal, points, lo
comotive, engine, switch, car, or train upon a railway, or of any
part of the track of a railway.
But the master or employer is not liable under this section, if
the servant or employe knew of the defect or negligence caus
ing the injury, and failed in a reasonable time to give informa
tion thereof to the master or employer, or to some person su
perior to himself engaged in the service or employment of the
master or employer, unless he was aware that the master or
employer, or such superior already knew of such defect or neg
ligence; nor is the master or employer liable under subdivision
one, unless the defect therein mentioned arose from, or had not
been discovered or remedied owing to the negligence of the
master or employer, or of some person in the service of the mas
ter or employer, and intrusted by him with the duty of seeing
that the ways, works, machinery, or plant, were in proper con
dition.
SEC. 2591. Personal representative may sue, if injury results
in death. —If such injury results in the death of the servant or
employe, his personal representative is entitled to maintain an
action therefor, and the damages recovered are not subject to
the payment of debts or liabilities, but shall be distributed ac
cording to the statute of distributions.
SEC. 2592. Damages exempt.—Damages recovered by the servant
or employe, of and from the master or employer, are not subject
to the payment of debts, or any legal liabilities incurred by him.
SEC. 2593. Liability of personal representative and sureties.
The personal representative, and the sureties on his bond are
liable to the parties in interest for the due and legal distribu
tion of all damages recovered by such representative under sec
tion 2588, or section 2589, or section 2591, and are subject to all
remedies which may be pursued against such representative and
sureties for the due administration of personal assets.
SEC. 2594. (2890). When beneficial owner must sue. —Actions
on promissory notes, bonds, or other contracts, express or im
plied, for the payment of money, must be prosecuted in the
name of the party really interested, whether he has the legal
title or not, subject to any defense the payor, obligor, or debtoi
may have had against the payee, obligee, or creditor, previous
to notice of assignment or transfer, except that, in actions upon
bills of exchange and promissory notes payable at a bank or
banking house, or at a designated place, and other commercial
instruments, the suit must be instituted in the name of the per
son having the legal title.

SEC. 2595. (2891). Beneficiary sole party on record. —In all cases
where suits are brought in the name of the person having the
leejal right for the use of another, the beneficiary must be con
sidered as the sole party on the record.
SEC. 2596. (2909). Action not abated by death of nominal
plaintiff. —When suit is brought for the use of another, the
death of the nominal plaintiff does not abate the suit, but it
proceeds in the name of the beneficiary ; when the beneficiary
dies, it must be revived in the name of his personal represent
ative, whether the nominal plaintiff' be living or not.
SEC. 2597. (2915). Suits on lost notes, etc.; exception. —Suit may
be brought on a bond, note, bill of exchange, or other mercantile
instrument, which has been lost or destroyed by accident ; and if
affidavit is made by the plaintiff of such loss and destruction, and
the contents thereof, and that the same has not been paid or
otherwise discharged, and accompanies the complaint, it must
be received as presumptive evidence, both of the contents and
loss or destruction of such instrument, unless the defendant by
plea, verified by affidavit, denies the execution of such bond,
note, or bill, or the indorsement, acceptance, or the contents
thereof, in which case proof of such execution, indorsement, ac
ceptance, or contents must be made by the plaintiff; but this section must not be so construed as to authorize a suit for the
recovery of bank notes, or bills issued to circulate as money, and
alleged to be lost or destroyed. When the suit is against an ex
ecutor or administrator, he may controvert the oath of the
plaintiff of the loss, destruction, or contents of the instrument
sued on, by swearing to the best of his knowledge and belief.

SEC. 2598. (2916). Execution not to issue in such case till bond
given. —When suit is brought under the provisions of the pre
ceding section, to recover upon a bill of exchange or other in
strument, which, by the provisions of this Code, is declared sub
ject to the law-merchant, and alleged to have been lost or de
stroyed before the maturity thereof, no execution must issue on
the judgment until the plaintiff* execute bond payable to the de
fendant, with surety, in twice the amount of the recovery, with
condition to pay all such damages as he may sustain by reason
of the judgment and the payment thereof.
SEC. 2599. (2922). When ratable recovery on contract allowed.
When a person contracts for the performance of services by
himself for a stipulated period of time, and is prevented from
full performance of the contract by death, his personal repre
sentative may recover a ratable compensation for the service
actually rendered, notwithstanding the entirety of the contract.

SEC. 2600. (2920}. Actions survive to and against representa
tive. —All actions on contracts, express or implied, all personal
actions, except for injuries to the person or reputation, survive
in favor of and against the personal representatives.


SEC. 2601. (2921). Real actions survive to or against heir or
representative. —Real actions to try the title, 
or for the recov
ery of the possession of lands, and actions for injuries to lands,
survive in favor of heirs, devisees, or personal representatives,
and against heirs, devisees, tenants, or personal representatives,
according to their respective rights ; and the court must direct
the record and judgment to be so framed as to secure their
rights and declare their respective interests.

SEC. 2602. (2914). Action by or against woman not abated by
marriage.—A suit brought by or against an unmarried woman
does not abate on her marriage, but, the marriage being sugfested
upon the record, the suit proceeds in her name acquired
y the marriage, and judgment is rendered accordingly. If
judgment be rendered against her, it may be satisfied out of
her separate estate.
SEC. 2603. (2908). When actions do not abate by death; re
vivor in eighteen months.—No action abates by the death or
other disability of the plaintiff or defendant, if the cause of ac
tion survive or continue ; but the same must, on motion, within
eighteen months thereafter, be revived in the name of or against
the legal representative of the deceased, his successor, or party
in interest ; or the death of such party may be suggested upon
the record, and the action proceed in the name of or against the
survivor.

SEC. 2604. (2905). Joint promises in writing; how construed.
When two or more persons are jointly bound by judgment,
bond, covenant, or promise in writing of any description what
soever, the obligation or promise is in law several as well as
joint, and suit may be instituted thereon against the legal rep
resentatives of such as are dead.

SEC. 2605. (2904). Suits against partnership by firm name, or
against one partner. — Two or more persons associated tof
ether as partners in any business or pursuit, who transact
usiness under a common name, whether it comprise the
names of such persons or not, may be sued by their common
name, and the summons in such case being served on one or
more of the associates, the judgment in the action binds the
joint property of all the associates in the same manner as if all
bad been named defendants, had been sued upon their joint lia
bility, and served with process ; any one of the associates, or
his legal representative, may also be sued for the obligation of
all.
SEC. 2606. (2910). Revivor on death of defendant pending suit.If the cause of action survive, on the death of a defendant, sug
gestion thereof must be made and entered of record, and the
proper representative may come in and voluntarily make him
self a party defendant; but if such representative do not come
in and make himself a party, citation must issue to him, on his
being made known, to appear at the next term and defend, and
after service of such citation, the suit may be revived against
him; but final judgment must not be rendered against a per
sonal representative, if he objects, until after the expiration of
eighteen months from the grant of letters testamentary or of
administration.

SEC. 2607. (2911). Discontinuance entered as to parties not
served, or alias issued. —When any suit is instituted against
two or more persons upon any joint or joint, and several eon-tract, or upon any joint or joint and several cause of action, the
plaintiff may, at his election, sue out an alias summons, or dis
continue as to those on whom the summons is not served, and
proceed to judgment against those on whom it has been executed.

SEC. 2608. (2912, 2913). Death of one of several joint defendants.
The death of one or more defendants jointly sued does not, as
to the defendant dying, abate the suit, if the cause of action
survive, but may be revived against the proper representative of
such defendant, and may proceed against such representative
and the surviving defendant or defendants, jointly or severally,
at the election of* the plaintiff; the judgments therein rendered
must be several, but against a personal representative, if he ob
jects, judgment must not be rendered until after the expiration
of eighteen months from the grant of letters testamentary or of
administration ; the satisfaction of one judgment is, as to the
plaintiff, a satisfaction of all, except as to costs ; but if requested,
the plaintiff must assign, without recourse on him, the judg
ment against a principal debtor to the party from whom satis
faction is received, if such principal debtor was bound to the
indemnity of such party.

SEC. 2609. (2919). Plaintiff suing several; liability for costs.
When a suit is instituted against several defendants, whether
sued as partners or otherwise, the plaintiff may recover against
one or more, but is liable to costs to those against whom he
does not obtain judgment.

SEC. 2610. (2906, 2907). Suggestion of .claim of third party;
when can be made; notice and proceedings.—A defendant
against whom an action is pending upon any contract for the
payment of money may, at any time before issue joined, make
affidavit that a person not a party to the suit, without collusion
with him, claims the money in controversy, and deposit the
money in court, praying an order that such person be required,
on notice, to come in and defend ; and thereupon, if such person
do not voluntarily come in and make himself a party defendant,
the court must, if he reside within the state, order a summons
to issue to him to appear at the next term and make himself a
party defendant, of which service must be made for at least ten
days before the return day ; or if he reside without the state,
order notice to him by publication for three successive weeks,
in some newspaper published in the county, or if there .be no
such paper, in a newspaper nearest to the county ; and after
such notice has been given, the court may make an order thatsuch
person be substituted as a party to the suit in place of the
defendant, and thereupon such person stands in the place of the
defendant, and the latter is discharged from liability to the
plaintiff and substituted defendant for the money sought to be
recovered of him.

SEC. 2611. When defendant in detinue may require adverse
claimant to come in and defend. —The defendant in an action
for the recovery of chattels in specie, not claiming title, may, at
any time before issue joined, make affidavit that a person not a
party to the suit, without collusion with him, claims the chattels,
or a part thereof, and pray an order that such person be required,
on notice, to come in and defend; and thereupon, if such person
do not voluntarily come in and make himself a party defend
ant, the court must, if he resides within the state, order a sum
mons to issue to him to appear at the next term and make him
self a party defendant, of which service must be made for at
least ten days before the return day; or if he resides without
the state, order notice to him, by publication for three success
ive weeks in some newspaper published in the county, or, if
there be no such paper, in a newspaper published nearest to the
county. If such person appears and makes himself a party
defendant, the defendant may be discharged ; and if the defend
ant has retained possession of the chattels, giving bond, the
court may order the chattels to be delivered to such person, on
his giving bond with sufficient surety, to be approved by the
clerk, payable to the plaintiff, in the penalty of the bond of the
defendant, with condition that if he is cast in the suit he will,
within twenty days thereafter, deliver the chattels and pay all
such damages as may be assessed for the detention thereof, and
all costs adjudged against him. If such person refuse or neg
lect for three days after being made a party defendant to give
such bond, the chattels must be delivered to the plaintiff, on
his giving bond with sufficient surety, to be approved by the
clerk, payable to such person, in the penalty of the bond of the
defendant, and with like condition; on the execution and ap
proval of either bond, the bond of the defendant is discharged
and must be canceled. The bonds taken under this section, on
breach of the condition thereof, and on the return of the sheriff,
as in the case of bonds taken from plaintiff or defendant in other
actions for the recovery of chattels in specie, have the force
and effect of judgments, on which execution may issue against
all or any of the obligors. If such person, on notice, does notcome
in and defend, the judgment rendered in the action bars
him from maintaining any action against plaintiff or defendant
for the chattels, or the taking, or conversion, or detention there
of. If the plaintiff fail to give bond as provided in this section,
the chattels must be delivered to the defendant.

CHAPTER 2.
limitation of actions.

Article I.
TIME IN WHICH SUITS MUST BE BROUGHT.
SEC. 2612. (3223). Limitation of actions. —Civil suits must be
commenced, after the cause of action has accrued, within the
periods prescribed in this chapter, and not afterwards.
SEC. 2615. (3226). Limitation of six years. —Within six years,-—1. Actions for any trespass to person or liberty, such as false
imprisonment or assault and battery.
2. Actions for any trespass to real or personal property.
3. Actions for the detention or conversion of personal prop
erty.
4. Actions founded on a promise in writing not under seal.
5. Actions for the recovery of money upon a loan, upon a
stated or liquidated account, or for arrears of rent due upon a
parol demise.
6. Actions for the use and occupation of land.
7. Motions and other actions against the sureties -of any
sheriff, coroner, constant, or tiny public officer, or actions
against the sureties of executors, administrators, or guardians,
for any misfeasance or malfeasance whatever of their principal;
the time to be computed from the act done or omitted by their
principal, which fixes the liability of the surety.
8. Motions and other actions against attorneys at law, for
failure to pay over money of their clients, or for neglect or omis
sion of duty.
9. Actions founded upon judgments obtained before justices
of the peace of this state.
10. Actions upon any simple contract or specialty, not herein
specifically enumerated.
SEC. 2616. (3227). Limitation of five years.—Within five years,
all actions founded on equities of redemption, where lands have
been sold under a decree of the court of chancery, existing in
any person not a party to the proceedings, who claims under
the mortgagor or grantor in the deed of trust.

SEC. 2617. (3228). Limitation of four years.—"Within four years,
all actions or motions against any surety to any writ of error, ap
peal, replevy, or forthcoming bond, executed in any cause in any
of the courts of the United States, or of any other state or coun
try except this state.
SEC. 2618. (3229). Limitation of three years.—Within three years,
actions to recover money due by open or unliquidated account,
the time to be computed from the date of the last item of the ac
count, or from the time when, by contract or usage, the account
is due.

SEC. 2619. (3231). Limitation of one year. —Within one year,—
1. Actions for malicious prosecutions.
2. Actions for criminal conversation, for seduction, or breach
of marriage promise.
3. Actions qui tarn, or for a penalty given by statute to the
party aggrieved, unless the statute imposing it prescribes a dif
ferent limitation.
4. Actions of libel or slander.
5. Actions for damages for wrongful act or omissiou, causing
personal injury to, or death of a minor, under section 2588.
fj. Actions for any injury to the person or rights of another,
not arising from contract, and not herein specifically enumer
ated.
Article II.
GENERAL RULES.
SEC. 2620. (3232). When entry on lands presumed.—When aright of entry on lands accrues, the entry must he considered
as having been made, and the cause of action as having then
accrued.
SEC. 2621. (3233). When right of entry not tolled—The right
of entry is not tolled by a descent cast.
SEC. 2622. (3234). Time of absence from state deducted.—When
any person is absent from the state during the period within
which a suit might have been brought against him, the time of
such absence must not be computed as a portion of the time
necessary to create a bar under this chapter.

SEC. 2623. (3235). On arrest or reversal of judgment, suit
brought within a year.—If any action is brought before the
time limited has expired, and judgment is rendered for the
plaintiff, and such judgment is arrested or reversed on appeal,
the plaintiff or his legal representative may commence suit
again within one year from the reversal or arrest of such judg
ment, though the period limited may in the meantime have ex
pired; and, in like manner, if more than one judgment is ar
rested or reversed, suit may be recommenced within one year.

SEC. 2624. (3236). Additional time allowed infants, etc. —If any
one entitled to bring any of the actions enumerated in this
chapter, or to make an entry on land, or defense founded on
the title to real property, be, at the time such right accrues,
within the age of twenty-one years, or a married woman, or in
sane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge for any term less than
for life, he or she shall have three years after the termination
of such disability to bring suit, or make entry or defense; but
no disability shall extend the period of limitation so as to allow
such action to be commenced, or entry or defense made, after
the lapse of twenty years from the time the cause of action or
right accrued; nor shall this exception extend to a married
woman in respect to her separate estate.

SEC. 2625. (3237). Effect of bar of foreign statute—When thestatute of limitations of another state or foreign country has
created a bar to an action upon a contract made or act done in
such state or country, whilst the party sought to be charged
thereby was a resident of such state or country, the bar thus
created is effectual in this state against any suit brought thereon,
in the same manner it would have been in the state or country
where the act was done or contract made.
SEC. 2626. (3238). Limitations not applicable to current ac
counts between merchants. —The limitations in this chapter
provided do not apply to such actions as concern the trade of
merchandise between merchants and merchants, their agents
and factors, while the accounts between them are current.

SEC. 2627. (3239). How time reckoned on mutual accounts.
"When there are mutual accounts between persons who are not
merchants, the time must be computed from the date of the last
item, unless the account is liquidated, and a balance struck.

SEC. 2628. (3240). What necessary to remove bar. — No act,
promise, or acknowledgment is sufficient to remove the har to
a suit created by the provisions of this chapter, or is evidence
of a new or continuing contract, except a partial payment made
upon the contract by the party sought to be charged before the
bar is complete, or an unconditional promise in writing, signed
by the party to be charged thereby.

SEC. 2629. (3241). How time computed when demand neces
sary to enforcement of a right. —When a right exists, but a
demand is necessary to entitle the party to an action against
any officer, agent, or attorney, the limitation commences from
the commission or omission of the act giving the right of action,
and not from the date of the demand.

SEC. 2630. (3242). In actions seeking relief on ground of fraud.
In actions seeking relief on the ground of fraud, where the
statute has created a bar, the cause of action must not be con
sidered as having accrued until the discovery by the aggrieved
party of the facts constituting the fraud, after which he must
have one year within which to prosecute his suit.

SEC. 2631. (3243). Commencement of suit. —The suing out of a
summons is the commencement of a suit, whether it be exe
cuted or not, if the suit be continued by an alias, or recom
menced at the next term of the court.
SEC. 2632. (3244). What time after death and before grant of
letters not computed. —The time between the death of a per
son and tbe grant of letters testamentary or of administration,
not exceeding six months, is not to be taken as any part of the
time limited for the commencement of actions by or against his
executors or administrators.

SEC. 2633. (3245). Nor six months personal representative ex
empt from suit. —The six months, during which an executor
or administrator is exempt from suit after the grant of letters,
is not to be taken as any part of the time limited for the com
mencement of an action against him.

SEC. 2634. (3246). In action by principal against deputy or
agent for latter's act or omission. —When an injury arises
from the act or omission of a deputy or agent, the time for the
limitation of an action by the principal against such deputy or
agent does not commence to run until the liability of the prin
cipal, for the act or omission of such deputy or agent, is ascer
tained by suit of the party aggrieved against the principal.
SEC. 2635. (3247). Time of injunction or prohibition not com
puted. —When the commencement of an action is stayed by in
junction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance
of the injunction or prohibition is not computed as part of the
time.
SEC. 2636. (3248). When operation of statute not suspended.
A disability which did not exist when the cause of action ac
crued does not suspend the operation of the limitation, unless
the contrary is expressly provided.

SEC. 2637. (3249). All disabilities to cease before time begins.
When two or more disabilities co-exist at the time the cause of
action accrued, the limitation does not attach until all arc re
moved.
SEC. 2638. (3250). When -war suspends statute. — When the
United States is at war with a foreign country, and either
party to a contract is a subject or citizen thereof, the time of
the continuance of the war is not computed as part of the
time limited for the commencement of the suit.
SEC. 2639. (3251). Notes put in circulation as money.—The pro
visions of this chapter do not apply to actions to enforce pay
ment of bills, notes, or other evidences of debt issued or put
in circulation as money.
CHAPTER 3.
THE VENUE.
Article 1. —Where suit brought.
2. —Change of venue.
Article I.
WHERE SUIT BROUGHT.
SEC. 2640. (2928). Venue of suits. —All actions on contracts, ex
cept as may be otherwise provided, must be brought in the
county in which the defendant, or one of the defendants, re
sides, if such defendant has within the state a permanent resi
dence; all other personal actions, if the defendant, or one of
the defendants, has within the state a permanent residence,
may be brought in the county of such residence, or in the
county in which the act or omission complained of may have
been done, or may have occurred. All actions for the recovery
of land, or of the possession thereof, or for a trespass thereto,
must be brought in the county where the land lies; a summons
issuing contrary to this section must be abated on the plea of
the defendant.

SEC. 2641. (2929). Residents of new counties not organized.
Persons residing in new counties may sue and be sued in the
counties from which their residences are taken, until such new
counties have elected their officers and are organized.
SEC. 2642. Corporation sued in any county where it does business
by agent. —A foreign or domestic corporation may be sued
in any county in which it does business by agent.

SEC. 2643. (2930). Suits by, or for the use of the state.—At the
election of the attorney-general, all suits or summary proceed
ings by or for the use of the state, founded on the breach of the
official bond of a state officer, or of a former state officer, of a
tax-collector or former tax-collector, of a judge of probate or
former judge of probate, of a tax-assessor or former tax-assessor,
may be instituted in a court of the county of Montgomery hav
ing jurisdiction of the subject-matter, or in a court of the county
in which any one of the obligors in such bond may reside.
SEC. 2644. (2931). Where suit brought upon contracts for the
hire of convicts. —Suits upon contracts for the hire of state con
victs shall be in the name of the state, and may be instituted in
the county of the residence of the defendants, or cither of them,
or in the county of Montgomery, at the discretion of the attor
ney-general.
Article II.
CHANGE OF VENUE.
SEC. 2645. (3114). Venue changed once on motion of a party.
Either party to a civil suit may, at any time before final trial,
move the court to change the venue, making affidavit that, for
causes set forth, he cannot have a fair and impartial trial in the
county where the suit is pending. The court may direct a
change to the nearest county free from proper exception by
either party, to he determined by affidavits; and, whenever it
will best secure the ends of justice, may require the applicant to
give bond and security for costs. The same party can have the
venue changed but ouce.

SEC. 2646. (3115). Depositions of witnesses in the county taken.
When there has been a change of venue, the party opposed to
such change may take the depositions of witnesses residing in
the couuty from which the venue has been changed, under the
same rules and regulations as are now provided by law for
taking depositions in other cases.
SEC. 2647. (3116). Witnesses subpoenaed to attend at place of
trial. —The clerk of the court where the cause is pending must,
unless otherwise directed, issue subpoenas to all witnesses to
attend the court to which the venue is changed.
SEC. 2648. (3118). Original paper and transcript of orders trans
mitted. —"When a change oi venue is directed, the clerk of the
court must make a transcript of all the minutes, orders and other
proceedings in the cause, and certify under the seal of his court
that the same is a true copy. This transcript, together with all
the original papers, he must envelope and securely seal, and
write his name across the seals, and certify on the back of the
envelope that the enclosed papers, numbered from 1 to , in
clude all the original papers in the cause, naming it; and these
signatures and certificates must be received as true until the
contrary is shown. This package the clerk may deliver him
self, or send by messenger or express to the clerk of the trial
court, and, if not mutilated or defaced, must be presumed to he
as it came from the hands of the clerk of the court from which
the venue is changed.
SEC. 2649. (3119). Pay of messenger for carrying the papers.
The clerk or messenger so carrying the papers is entitled to five
cents per mile and tolls and ferriages going and returning, which
must be paid in advance by the party applying for the change
of venue ; if paid by the opposing party, to be taxed in the bill
of costs against his adversary.

SEC. 2650. (3117). Trial removed to new county if defendant
resides in it. —In like manner, when new counties are formed
out of old counties, the original papers of all unfinished busi
ness in the county where 'the defendant resided, with a tran
script of all orders made in the cause, must be transmitted to
the new county as soon as it is organized.
CHAPTER 4.
THE SUMMONS.
SEC. 2651. (2924). Civil actions commenced by summons.—All
civil actions in courts of record, except in such cases as are
otherwise provided by this Code, must be commenced by the
service of summons.

SEC. 2652. (2925). Summons and complaint. —The summons
must be issued by the clerk of the court, and be accompanied
by the complaint of the plaintiff, signed by him or his attor
ney, setting forth the cause of action.

SEC. 2653. (2926). Form.—The summons must be in the follow
ing form :
"The State of Alabama, \ To any sheriff of the State of Ala-county. J bama :
" You are hereby commanded to summon A. B. to appear at
the next term of the circuit court, to be held for said county at
the place of holding the same, then and there to answer the
complaint of C. 1). Witness my hand, this day of .
"E. F., Clerk."

SEC. 2654. (2927). Branch summons when defendants in dif
ferent counties. —When any joint or joint and several cause
of action exists, and the defendants reside or may be found in
different counties, a summons may issue from the court having
jurisdiction of any one of such defendants, and be executed in
any county, which must be returned and filed in the court from
which the process issued, and constitute but one suit, in the
same manner as if but one summons had issued against all the
defendants; and it is the duty of the clerk, on issuing such
branch summons, to indorse thereon that it is a branch of the
original suit, and that all the summons constitute one suit, and
are for one and the same cause of action.

SEC. 2655. (2932). Execution and return of summons. — The
summons must be executed by the sheriff or other officer in
any county, by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
with the defendant, which fact he must return with the process*.

SEC. 2656. (2933). Service on one representative sufficient.
When there are two or more executors or administrators of
an estate, service of summons on one is sufficient.
SEC. 2657. (2934). How corporation served. —When the suit is
against a corporation the summons may be executed by the
delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the presi
dent or other head thereof, secretary, cashier, station agent, or
any other agent thereof.

SEC. 2658. When the summons issues to the sheriff of the county in which the
defendant resides, he may execute it in an adjoining county if
the defendant is there found.
SEC. 2659. (2937). Summons to county executed on judge of
probate. —When a county is a defendant, the summons must
Be executed by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
with the judge of probate.
SEC. 2660. (2938). When executed by coroner or special coroner.
When the office of sheriff is vacant, and until his successor is
qualified, or when the sheriff is imprisoned, or in cases in which
the sheriff is a party, or is interested, or otherwise is incompe
tent to act, if such interest or cause appear on the face of the
proceedings, the summons must be directed to, and executed by
the coroner; and if such interest or cause does not appear on
the face of the proceedings, the coroner must execute the sum
mons, though directed to the sheriff, if the judge of probate,
on proper showing by affidavit, direct the execution thereof by
the coroner; and when in such cases the coroner has not qual
ified, or the office is vacant, or when the coroner is absent from
the county, having no deputy therein, or when the coroner is
imprisoned, or when he is a party to, or interested in the suit,
the summons must be directed to, and executed by a special
coroner, to be appointed by the judge of probate.
SEC. 2661. (2939). Summons executed three days before return.
The summons must be executed at least three days before the
return day thereof, and be returned to the office whence it issued
on or before the return day; but when the summons has been
executed twenty days or more before the return day, it must be
returned five days after the execution thereof.

SEC. 2662. (2940). When returned, if issued less than three days
before term. —When the summons is issued less than three days
before the term of the court next thereafter, it must be made
returnable to the next succeeding term.
SEC. 2663. (2941). Return day. —The return day of the summon?
is the first day of the court to which it is returnable.
Article I.
GENERAL RULES.
SEC. 2664. (2978). Pleadings to be short ; no objection for want
of form. —All pleadings must be as brief as is consistent with
perspicuity, and the presentation of the facts, or matter to be
put in issue, in an intelligible form ; no objection can be allowed
for defect of form, if facts are so presented that a material issue
in law or fact can be taken by the adverse party thereon.

SEC. 2665. (2979). Pleadings struck out for prolixity on motion.
If any pleading is unnecessarily prolix, irrelevant, or frivolous,
it may be stricken out at the costs of the partj- so pleading, on
motion of the adverse party; and any pleading which conforms
substantially to the schedule of forms in this Code is sufficient.

SEC. 2666. (2980). Complaint for defamation. —No colloquium or
innuendo is necessary in actions for defamation ; it is sufficient to
state in the complaint that the defendant falsely and maliciously
v charged the plaintiff with perjury, larceny, or other crime, or
as the case may be, in substance as follows, setting it out.
SEC. 2667. (2981). Consideration of sealed instrument may be
inquired into. —The defendant may by plea impeach or inquire
into the consideration of a sealed instrument in the same man
ner as if it had not been sealed.

SEC. 2668. (2982, 3033). Assignment of breaches on penal bond.
In actions upon penal bonds or other writings, for the non-per
formance of any covenant or agreement contained therein, the
plaintiff may assign such breaches as he may deem proper, and
verdict and judgment may be rendered for the plaintiff for such
of the breaches as he may prove ; and if judgment be rendered
for the plaintiff by default or nil dicit, a writ of inquiry of
damages must be awarded. Judgment shall in no case exceed
principal and interest due on the instrument.

SEC. 2669. (2983). New actions on same contract. —Successive
actions may be maintained upon the same contract cfr transac
tion, whenever, after the former action, a new cause of action
arises therefrom.
SEC. 2670. (2984;. Profert dispensed with; notice to produce.
No profert of a sealed instrument is required in pleading, but,
at any time previous to the trial, the defendant may have in-
spection of the bond or other instrument sued on, upon notice
to the attorney of the party ; or when an account is the foun
dation of the suit, a list of the items composing it.

Article II.
THE COMPLAINT AND OTHER PLEADINGS.
SEC. 2671. (2985). Complaint accompanies summons.—Thecomf)laint,
which must in all cases accompany the summons, is in
ieu of a declaration, and must he signed by the plaintiff or his
attorney.

SEC. 2672. (2986). Actions on contracts united in one suit. —All
actions on contracts, express or implied, for the payment of
money, whether under seal or not, may be united in the same
action.

SEC. 2673. Joinder of trespass and case. — Counts in trespass
and in trespass on the case may be joined, when they relate to
the same subject-matter.
SEC. 2674. (2987). Form and substance of plea.—The plea must
consist of a succinct statement of the facts relied on in bar or
abatement of the suit, and no objection can be taken thereto,
if the facts are so stated that a material issue can be taken
thereon.

SEC. 2675. (2988). Fleas general or special. —The defendant may
plead more pleas than one; and, if he does not rely solely on a
denial of the plaintiff's cause of action, must plead specially
the matter of defense. In all actions for defamation, or for in
juries to the person, or to real or personal property, the general
issue is " not guilty," and puts in issue all the material allega
tions of the complaint; in all other actions the general issue is
an averment that the allegations of the complaint are untrue,
and, except as may be otherwise provided, puts in issue only
the truth of such allegations.
SEC. 2676. (2989). What pleas must be sworn to.—All pleas in
abatement, unless it be of matter of record, pleas which deny
the execution by the defendant, his agent, attorney, or partner,
of any instrument in writing, the foundation of the suit, or the
assignment of the same, or which set forth any instrument in
writing, whether under seal or not, which is alleged to be lost
or destroyed, and pleas since the last continuance must be veri
fied by affidavit.
SEC. 2677. (2990). How character of plea determined.—Whethera plea is in bar or abatement, is ascertained by the subject-mat
ter and prayer of the plea.

SEC. 2678. (2991). Set-offs; when allowed.—Mutual debts, liqui
dated or unliquidated demands not sounding in damages mere
ly, subsisting between the parties at the commencement of the
suit, may be set off one against the other by the defendant or
his personal representative, whether the legal title be in the
defendant or not ; and such set-oft", if found for the defendant,
extinguishes, either in whole or in part, as the ease may be,
the plaintiff"' s demand ; but the wages or hire of any head of a
family in this state, not having property liable to levy and sale
under execution, caunot be defeated or abated by any set-off of
a money demand acquired by the person contracting to pay
such wages by assignment or transfer, unless the parties other
wise agree in writing.
SEC. 2679. (2992). Judgment for defendant for excess so set-off
and costs. —If the debt or demand so offered to be set-off ex
ceed the amount of the plaintiff's demand, the amount of such
excess being found by the jury, judgment must be rendered
against the plaintiff for costs, and in favor of the defendant for
such excess.

SEC. 2680. (2993). Judgments set-off on motion. —Judgments
may be set-off against each other by a court of record on mo
tion.

SEC. 2681. (2994). Surety may set-off debt due principal. —A co
maker or surety sued alone may, with the consent of his co
maker or principal, avail himself, by way of set-off, of a debt or
liquidated demand due from the plaintiff at the commencement
of the suit to such co-maker or principal.

SEC. 2682. (2996). When set-off not barred by statute of lim
itations. —When the defendant pleads a set-off to the plaintiff's
demand, to which the plaintiff replies the statute of limitations,
the defendant is nevertheless entitled to his set-off, where it
was a legal subsisting claim at the time the right of action ac
crued to the plaintiff on the claim in suit.

SEC. 2683. Plea of recoupment. —On a plea of recoupment, if the
claim or demand of the defendant equals the claim or demandof the plaintiff, judgment must be rendered for the defendant ;
if the claim or demand of the defendant exceeds the claim or
demand of the plaintiff, and the plaintiff be the party liable to
its satisfaction, judgment must be rendered against him in favor
of the defendant for such excess and all costs.

SEC. 2684. (2995). Negotiable paper not subject to set-off or
recoupment.—Paper governed by the commercial law, nego
tiated before maturity, is not subject to set-off' or recoupment.

SEC. 2685. (2997, 2998). Plea of tender.—A plea of tender of
money, or of a thing in action, must be accompanied by a de
livery of the money or such thing in action to the clerk of the
court; if the tender be of ponderous articles or other personal
property, the plea must aver a readiness to deliver it to the
plaintiff", and judgment for the defendant upon the plea vests
the title to the thing tendered in the plaintiff, subject to any
claim the defendant may have for his trouble in keeping it.

SEC. 2686. (3000). Plea since last continuance.—A plea since the
last continuance is not a waiver of any plea to the merits pre
viously pleaded.
SEC. 2687. ("2999). Indorsement on pleas. —All pleas must, when
tiled, be indorsed by the clerk with the true date, and, for want
of such indorsement, may be rejected by the court on motion,
unless sufficient cause be shown.
SEC. 2688. (3001, 3002, 3003). Replication.—The plaintiff may
file more than one replication. The general replication is,
"the plaintiff joins issue on said plea." A special replication
is a brief statement, in plain language, of the facts relied on as
an answer to the plea.
SEC. 2689. (3004). Subsequent pleadings. —The rules of this chap
ter relative to pleas and replications apply to all subsequent
pleadings.
SEC. 2690. (3005). Demurrer. —No demurrer in pleading can be
allowed but to matter of substance, which the party demurring
specifies ; and no objection can be taken or allowed which is not
distinctly stated in the demurrer.

SEC. 2691. (3006). Amendments; when allowed. —Either before
or after judgment on demurrer, the court must permit an amend
ment of the pleadings ; and such amendment must cause no de
lay in the trial of the cause, unless injustice will thereby be done.

SEC. 2692. (3007). Plea over after judgment on demurrer does
not waive errors.—The party against whom a judgment on de
murrer is rendered may plead over as a matter of right, without
waiving his privilege of assigning such judgment as error in an
appellate court, unless he lias subsequently had the benefit
sought by the demurrer upon the trial of other equivalent
issues.

SEC. 2693. (3008). Terms for frivolous demurrer.—If, in the
opinion of the court, a demurrer is interposed without cause,
terms may be imposed, not exceeding the costs of the action, or a continuance of the cause.

CHAPTER 6.
REAL ACTIONS AND ACTIONS FOR USE AND OCCUPATION.
SEC. 2694. (2948). Seal not necessary to enable grantee to sue-A seal is not necessary to convey the legal title to land to en
able the grantee to sue at law. Any instrument in writing
signed by the grantor, or his agent having a written authority,
is effectual to transfer the legal title to the grantee, if such was
the intention of the grantor, to be collected from the entire in
strument.

SEC. 2695. (2970). Action of ejectment. —A plaintiff suing for the
recovery of lands, or of the possession thereof, has an election
to proceed by an action of ejectment, or by an action in the
nature of an action of ejectment, as is provided in the succeed
ing section.
SEC. 2696. (2959, 2960). Action in the nature of ejectment.
An action for the recovery of lands, or the possession thereof,
in the nature of an action of ejectment, may be maintained with
out a statement of any lease or demise to the plaintiff, or ouster
by a casual or nominal ejector; and the complaint is sufficient
if it alleges that the plaintiff was possessed of the premises, or
has the legal title thereto, properly designating or describing
them, and that the defendant entered thereupon, and unlawfully
withholds and detains the same.

SEC. 2697. (2961). Abstract of title; right to demand- —In an ac
tion of ejectment, or in an action in the nature of an action of
ejectment, the defendant may, by notice in writing to the plain
tiff or his attorney, not less than ten days before the trial of the
cause, demand an abstract in writing of the title or titles on
which he will rely for a recovery, and the plaintiff must be con
fined to the proof of such title or titles ; and when such abstract
is demanded by the defendant, he must tender, if demanded by
the plaintiff or his attorney, five days before the trial, an abstract
of the title or titles on which he will rely for defense, and on
the trial shall be confined to such title or titles.
SEC. 2698. (2962). Effect of pleading general issue.— The general
issue in an action in the nature of an action of ejectment is
" not guilty," and under it the defendant may give in evidence
the same matters which may be given in evidence under such
plea in an action of ejectment; the general issue is an admission
that the defendant is in possession of the premises sued for.

SEC. 2699. (2963). Disclaimer of possession.—The defendant
may, in an action of ejectment, or in an action in the nature of
an action of ejectment, disclaim possession of the premises sued
for, in whole or in part, and, upon such disclaimer, the plaintiff
may, if he so elects, take issue; and, if the issue be found for
him, be is entitled to judgment as if the defendant had, in an ac
tion of ejectment, entered into the consent rule, confessing pos
session as well as lease, entry and ouster, or, in an action in the
nature of an action of ejectment, had pleaded " not guilty," ad
mitting possession.

SEC. 2700. (2955). Landlord made party on motion. —When the
suit is against a tenant, the landlord must he made a defend
ant to the suit on motion of the tenant, or, upon the landlord's
application in writing, supported by affidavit that the defendant
is his tenant by demise in writing, or is in the occupancy of the
land sued for with his consent, or of some portion thereof, which
must be specified in the application.

SEC. 2701. (2965). Tenant liable only for rent in arrear. —A ten
ant in possession, asserting his right thereto under a lease or
license from another, is not liable beyond the rent in arrear at
the commencement of the suit, and that which may accrue dur
ing the continuance of his possession.
SEC. 2702. (2951). Suggestion of adverse possession for three
?rears; proceedings on. —When a suit is brought to recover
and or the possession thereof, the defendant may, at any time
before the trial, suggest upon the record that he and those
whose possession he has, have, for three years next before the
commencement of the suit, had adverse possession thereof. In
such case, if the jury find for the plaintiff, they must also as
certain by their verdict whether such suggestion be true or
false.

SEC. 2703. (2952). Verdict and judgment on suggestion. — If
they find it to be false, they must return a verdict for the dam
ages as in ordinary cases. If they find it to be true, they must
assess the value, at the time of trial, of the permanent improve
ments made by the defendant, or those whose estate he has, and
also ascertain by their verdict the value of the lands, and of the
use and occupation thereof, not including the increased value
by reason of such improvements; if the value of the use and
occupation as assessed exceed the value of the permanent im
provements made, judgment must be rendered against the de
fendant for the excess.
SEC. 2704. (2958). If value of improvements greater than rents,
possession retained for one year. —If the value of the im
provements exceeds the value of the use and occupation, no
writ of possession shall issue for one year after the rendition of
the judgment, unless the plaintiff, or his legal representative,
pay the defendant, or deposit with the clerk for him, the excess
of the assessed value of the improvements over the value of
the use and occupation.
SEC. 2705. (2954). When, on non-payment of excess, plaintiff
barred of his writ. —If the plaintiff, or his legal representative,
neglect for the term of one year to pay such excess, and the de-
the expiration of the year, pays to the plaintiff, or to the clerk
for him, the value of the land as assessed by the jury, the
plaintiff is forever barred from his writ of possession, and from
maintaining any action whatever against the defendant, his
heirs, or assigns, to recover such land, or the possession thereof.
SEC. 2706. (2966). Persons having color of title bona fide, liable
for only a year's rent. —Persons holding possession under color
of title, in good faith, are not responsible for damages or rent
for more than one year before the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 2707. Action by mortgagee or assignee. —If the action be
by a mortgagee, or his assignee, against the mortgagor, or any
one holding under him, the defendant may plead payment of
the mortgage debt, or performance of the condition of the mort
gage* and if the issue is found for the defendant, judgment
shall be rendered for him ; or, upon the suggestion of the de
fendant, the amount of the mortgage debt must be ascertained
and entered of record, and if, within thirty days after the ren
dition of judgment, the defendant shall pay to the plaintiff, or
to the clerk for his use, such debt, interest and the costs, then
a writ of possession must not issue, and the clerk shall indorse
upon the face of the record the fact of such payment.
SEC. 2708. (2968). Judgment by default. — A judgment by de
fault against a defendant is an admission of title in the plaintiff;
but to recover costs against the defendant, the plaintiff must
prove defendant's possession of the premises, or some part
thereof, at the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 2709. (2967). Verdict for plaintiff; what should specify.
If the verdict is for the plaintiff, it must specify whether it is
for the whole or a part only of the premises, and, if for a part,
must describe such part, and judgment must be rendered ac
cordingly.

SEC. 2710. (2964). When several defendants, damages assessed
severally. — When there are more defendants than one, the
jury may assess the damages arising from the detention of the
land, and the injury thereto, in severalty against each defendant
for distinct damages.

SEC. 2711. (2958). Rent accrued after judgment recovered on
motion.—The plaintiff may have judgment against the defend
ant for the rent of the premises which accrues after judgment,
and before the delivery of possession, by motion in the circuit
court where the judgment was rendered, on ten days' notice in
writing, unless the judgment is stayed by appeal and superse
deas, in which case the motion may be made after affirmance of
the judgment.

SEC. 2712. (2949). If land recovered with growing crops, pos
session retained on giving bond. —If the defendant has a crop
planted or growing on the premises, and the jury find for the
plaintiff, they must also ascertain the rental value of the prem
ises during the current year, and no writ of possession can be
issued until the expiration of the year, if the defendant ex
ecutes a bond in double the amount of such rent, payable to
the plaintiff, with surety approved by the clerk, conditioned to
pay the rent so assessed at the expiration of the year.
SEC. 2713. (5950). Effect of bond.—The bond must be filed in the
office of the clerk, and, if the rent be not paid at the expira
tion of the year, has the force and effect of a judgment, and
thereon execution for the amount of the rent must issue against
all the obligors, or such of them as may be living.
SEC. 2714. (2969). Two judgments bar further suit.—Two judg
ments in favor of the defendant in an action of ejectment, or
in an action in the nature of an action of ejectment, between
the same parties, in which the same title is put in issue, is a bar
to any action for the recovery of the land, or any part thereof,
between the same parties or their privies, founded on the same
title.

SEC. 2715. (2956). When action for use and occupation sus
tained.—A reasonable satisfaction may be recovered for the
use and occupation of land,—
1. When there has been a demise by deed, or by parol, and
no specific sum agreed on as rent.
2. When the tenant has been let into possession upon a sup
posed sale of the lands, which, from the act of the defendant,
has not been consummated.
3. When the tenant remains on the laud by the sufferance of
the owner; and when after a demise the tenant, having had
thirty days' previous notice, holds over without the consent of
his landlord, he shall pay to such landlord double the value of
the customary rent of the property so withheld.

SEC. 2716. (2957). Damages to time of verdict. —Damages in ac
tions for the possession, or for the use and occupation of land,
must be computed to the time of the verdict.

CHAPTER 7.
THE RECOVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IX SPECIE.
SEC. 2717. (2942). Writ of seizure in detinue. —When a suit is
brought for the recovery of personal chattels in specie, if the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make affidavit that the property
sued for belongs to the plaintiff, and execute a bond in such
sum, and with such surety as may be approved by the clerk,
with condition that if the plaintiff fail in the suit he will pay
the defendant all such costs and damages as he may sustain by
the wrongful complaint, it is the duty of the clerk to indorse
on the summons that the sheriff is required to take the prop
erty mentioned in the complaint into his possession, unless the
defendant give bond payable to the plaintiff, with sufficient
surety, in double the value of the property, with condition that
if the defendant is cast in the suit he will, within thirty days
thereafter, deliver the property to the plaintiff, and pay all costs
and damages which may accrue from the detention thereof.

SEC. 2718. (2943). Provisions for delivery of property to parties.
If the defendant neglect for five days to give such bond, the
property sued for must be delivered to the plaintiff, on his giv
ing bond with sufficient surety, in double the value of the prop
erty, payable to the defendant, with condition to deliver the
property to the defendant within thirty days after judgment,
in case he fail in the suit, and to pay damages for the deten
tion of the property and costs of suit. If the plaintiff fail to
give such bond for five days after the expiration of the time al
lowed the defendant, the property must be returned to the de
fendant.

SEC. 2719. (2944). Assessment of value and damages. — Uponthe trial, the .jury must, if they find for the plaintiff, assess the
value of each article separately, if practicable, and also assess
damages for its detention ; if they find for the defendant, they
must in like manner assess the value, and, if in the possession
of the plaintiff, assess damages for its detention. Judgment
against either party must be for the property sued for, or its
alternate value, with damages for its detention to the time of
trial.

SEC. 2720. Suit by and between mortgagee and mortgagor.—If
the suit is by a mortgagee, or by his assignee, against the mort
gagor, or one holding under him, the defendant may, upon sug
gestion, require that the jury ascertain the amount of the mort
gage debt, and such ascertainment must be entered on the record
of the judgment, and the court must order that, if the debt so
ascertained, interest and costs be paid within thirty days, no ex
ecution or other process shall issue on the judgment; and, on
clerk must, on the face of the record of the judgment, indorse
the fact of such payment; and after such payment, the plaintiff'
shall be deemed the unsuccessful party within the meaning of
the succeeding section.
SEC. 2721. (2945). Failure of unsuccessful party to deliver prop
erty. —If the unsuccessful party, who has given bond and taken
the property into possession, fails, for thirty days after the judg-ment, to deliver the property, and to pay the damages assessedfor the detention thereof, and the costs, the sheriff must uponthe bond make return of the fact of such failure; and there
upon, the bond has the force and effect of a judgment, on which
execution may issue against any or all the obligors therein for
the alternate value of the property as assessed by the jury, the
damages assessed for its detention, and the costs ; if the property
be delivered, and the damages assessed for its detention and the
costs be not paid, the sheriff' must upon the bond make return
of the fact, and execution must issue against any or all of the
obligors for such damages and costs, or for either, as either may
be unpaid.

SEC. 2722. (2046). Bonds returned in ten days; penalty for neg
lect. —All bonds taken under this chapter must be returned
within ten days thereafter to the clerk of the court in which the
suit is pending; and on failure, the sheriff' is liable to the suc
cessful party to the amount of the value of the property, and the
damages for its detention as assessed by the jury, with interest
thereon from the rendition of the judgment, to be recovered on
motion to the court in which such judgment was rendered, on
three days' notice, or the sheriff' may, at any time, be compelled,
by attachment, to make such return.
SEC. 2723. (2947). Delivery compelled by attachment or distrin
gas. —Any party recovering specific property may compel its
restoration, when practicable, by a writ of distringas, or moving
for an attachment. *
CHAPTER 8.
DEFAMATION.
SEC. 2724. (2976). Truth of charges against public men may be
proved. —In civil actions for the publication of papers, investi
gating the official conduct of officers or men in public capacity,
or when the matter published is proper for public information,
the truth thereof may be given in evidence.
SEC. 2725. (2977). Truth of the words, etc., evidence under the
general issue. —In all actions of slander or libel, the truth of
the words spoken or written, or the circumstances under which
they were spoken or written, may be given in evidence under
the general issue in mitigation of the damages.
SEC. 2726. (2975). Import of words. —Every accusation of false
swearing presumptively imports a charge of perjury, and every
accusation importing the commission of a crime punishable by
indictment must be held presumptively to mean what the lan
guage used ordinarily imports.
SEC. 2727. (2971). Charge of unchastity actionable.—Anywords, written, spoken, or printed, of any woman, married or
unmarried, falsely imputing to her a want of chastity, are ac
tionable without proof of special damages.

SEC. 2728. (2972). Retraction mitigates damages.—The defend
ant in an action of slander or libel may prove, under the general
issue in mitigation of damages, that the charge was made by
mistake or through inadvertance, and that he has retracted the
charge and offered amends before suit, by publishing an apol
ogy in a newspaper, when the charge had been thus promul
gated, or verbally, in the presence of witnesses, when the ac
cusation was verbal or written, and had offered to certify the
same in writing.

SEC. 2729. (2973). Recantation and tender; effect of.—If the de
fendant, after or before suit brought, make the recantation and
amends recited in the preceding section, and also tender to the
plaintiff a compensation in money, and bring the same into
court, the plaintiff can recover no costs, if the jury believe and
iind the tender was sufficient.
SEC. 2730. (2974). Effect of tender received.—The receipt of the
money tendered, if before suit brought, is a bar to the action ; if
after suit, releases the defendant from all damages and costs, ex
cept the costs which accrued before the tender and receipt of the
money.
Article I.
GENERAL RULES OF PRACTICE.
SEC. 2731. (3011). Trial term. —When the summons is executed
twenty days previous to the return term thereof, the cause must
he placed on the trial docket, and stands for trial at that term.
Cumming v. Richards, 32 A la. 459; Ware v. Willis, 45 Ala. 120.
SEC. 2732. (3012, 3013, 3014). Time for pleading—When the
term of the court is but one week, the defendant must plead
or demur to the complaint within the first two days; and when
the term of the court is more than one week, within the first
three days ; other pleadings may be filed in such time as the
court may direct.

SEC. 2733. (3015). Causes set, —The trial causes must be set for
particular days when the term of the court is more than one
week, to which day the witnesses must be subpomaed ; and no
cause in which the defendant has pleaded or demurred can be
called for trial before the day for which it is set, except by con
sent.
SEC. 2734. (3022). Copy of lost pleading. —If the original plead
ing be lost or withheld by any person, the court may order a
copy to be filed in the place of the original.

SEC. 2735. (3019). Argument of counsel. —But two attorneys can
argue on a side, except by leave of the court.
SEC. 2736. (3027.) Notice to attorney ; effect of. —Written notice
to the attorney of record is as effectual as notice to the party to
be affected by it, and may be executed by the sheriff, whose re
turn of service is evidence of the fact.
SEC. 2737. (3020). Nonsuits; when taken and effect of—Non
suits must be taken before the jury retire, and two nonsuits,
not set aside at the term at which they arc suffered, or reversed
on error, are equivalent to a verdict against the party suffering
them.
SEC. 2738. (3021). Only two new trials granted. —No more than
two new trials can be granted the same party in any cause.
SEC. 2739. (3120). Proceedings when amount sued for or recov
ered less than limit of jurisdiction. —If suit be brought on
any moneyed demand for a less amount than that of which the
court has jurisdiction, the suit must be dismissed; or if suit be
brought for such amount, and a less sum be recovered, unless
the amount is reduced below that of which the court has juris
diction by a set-off successfully made by the defendant, the
judgment must be set aside and the suit dismissed, unless he,
or some one for him, make affidavit, which must be filed in the
cause, that the amount sued for is actually due, and that a re
covery for the true amount was prevented by failure of proof,
the interposition of the statute of limitations, or some other
sufficient cause, to be judged of by the court; and in that
event he must have judgment for the reduced sum.

SEC. 2740. (3032). Calculation of interest, etc., on judgment
by default. —In all actions founded on any instrument of writ
ing, ascertaining the plaintiff's demand, if judgment by default,
nil dicit, or on demurrer, be rendered for the plaintiff, such
judgment may be entered up by the clerk, under the direction
of the court, without the intervention of a jury; and the clerk
must compute the interest, and, in case of a bill of exchange,
the damages, if any be due thereon.

SEC. 2741. (3025). Dismissal in vacation. —The plaintiff may dis
miss his suit in vacation, by causing the clerk to make on the
docket an entry of dismissal. When the summons has been
executed, notice must be given to the defendant of the in
tended dismissal.
SEC. 2742. (3024). Consolidation of suits. — AVhenever two or
more actions are pending at the same time, between the same
parties, in the same court; and which might have been joined,
the court may order them to be consolidated.

Article II.
TRIAL WITHOUT JURY AND DKHCRRER TO EVIDENCE.
SEC. 2743. (3029). Trial without jury. — An issue of fact in a
civil case may be tried and determined by the court without the
intervention of a jury, whenever the parties, or their attorneys
of record, file an agreement in writing with the clerk, waiving
a jury ; and in such case, the finding of the court upon the facts
shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury.

SEC. 2744. (3030). Finding may be general or special. — The
finding of the court may De general or special, unless the parties,
or either of them, in writing, request a special finding of the
facts ; if a special finding is requested, the court must state in
writing the facts as it finds them, and such statement, with the
judgment of the court, must be entered on the minutes.
SEC. 2745. (3031). Reservation of exceptions; revision on ap
peal. —On the trial, either party may reserve, by bill of excep
tions, any ruling, opinion, or decision of the court, to which an
exception could have been reserved if a trial by jury had not
been waived, and is entitled to an appeal from the judgment of
the court, as if the judgment had been rendered on the verdict
of a jury; and if the finding is special, on appeal, the supreme
court must examine and determine whether the facts are sufficient
to support the judgment.

SEC. 2746. (3103). Demurrer to evidence; when allowed. —In
all actions upon contracts, when the testimony on both sides is
written, either party may demur thereto ; when the testimony
on either side is parol, the opposite party, having ottered no
parol testimony, may also demur thereto ; and the other party
must be required by the court to join in the demurrer.

SEC. 2747. (3104). Effect of such demurrer.— The effect of a de
murrer to evidence is an admission by the party demurring of
the truth of the evidence demurred to, and of every inference
and conclusion which a jury could legally deduce therefrom;
and devolves on the court the determination of the issue of
fact between the parties, as well as the law.

SEC. 2748. (3105). Testimony written out; part of record. —Upon
a demurrer to evidence being tendered, the court must reduce
the testimony to writing, or cause it to be done, which, being
signed by the judge, constitutes part of the record.
SEC. 2749. (3106). Damages assessed by jury. —If the court de
termine the issue for the plaintiff, a jury must be immediately
impaneled to ascertain the damages, if unliquidated ; or the
jury, if one has been impaneled, may be required to assess the
damages conditionally previous to their being discharged.
Article III.
THE JURY AND CHARGES OF COURT.
SEC. 2750. (3017). How jurors drawn. —Jurors for the trial of
civil cases are drawn, summoned, impaneled and sworn as di
rected by the provisions of chapter 4, title 3, part 5.
SEC. 2751. (3016). Challenges. —Each party has the right to chal
lenge four of the jury peremptorily.
SEC. 2752. (3018). Struck jury. —In all actions triable by jury,
either party may demand a struck jury, and must thereupon be
furnished by the sheriff with a list of twenty-four jurors in at
tendance upon the court, from which a jury must be obtained
by the parties or their attorneys alternately striking one from
the list until twelve are stricken off", the party demanding the
jury commencing; and the jury thus obtained must not be chal
lenged for any cause, except bias or interest as to the particular
case.

SEC. 2753. (3026). When state, county, or city interested, citi
zens competent jurors. —In actions to which the state, or a
county, or a city or town, is a party, or has an interest, citizens
of the state, county, city, or town, ara not disqualified by reason
of interest.
SEC. 2754. (3028). Charge of court. —The court may state to the
jury the law of the case, and may also state the evidence when
the same is disputed, but shall not charge upon the eftect of the
testimony, unless required to do so by one of the parties.

SEC. 2755. (3110). When charge must be in writing. —In all civil
and criminal cases, the judge must charge the jury in writing,
if the charge is required to be so given by either party, and
notice of such requisition is given after the testimony is closed,
and before the argument to •the jury is commenced.
SEC. 2756. (3109). Charges moved for by the parties. —Charges
moved for by either party must be in writing, and must be
given or refused in the terms in which they arc written; and it
is the duty of the judge to write "given " or "refused," as the
case may be, on the document, and sign his name thereto ;
which thereby becomes a part of the record, and may be taken
by the jury with them on retirement.

SEC. 2757. (3023). Jury take out written evidence.—All instru
ments of evidence, and depositions read to the jury may be
taken out by them on their retirement.
SEC. 2758. (3107). Bill of exceptions taken during trial.— Eitherof the parties in any civil case, during the trial of the cause,
may reserve hy bill of exceptions any charge, opinion, or de
cision of the court touching the cause of action, which would
not otherwise appear of record.
of a cause, it may become necessary for the plaintiff to suffer a
nonsuit, the facts, point, or decision may be reserved for the
decision of the supreme court by bill of exceptions, as in other
cases.

SEC. 2760. (3108). Bill to state point excepted to; if correct
must be signed. —The bill must be tendered by the party sup
posing himself aggrieved, stating the point, charge, opinion, or
decision, wherein the court is supposed to err, with such a state
ment of the facts as is necessary to make it intelligible; and if
correctly stated, it is the duty of the presiding judge to sign
the same, which thereby becomes a part of the record.

SEC. 2761. (3113). When bill signed.—Xo bill of exceptions can
be signed after the adjournment of the court during which the
exception was taken, unless by consent or agreement of coun
sel in writing, except in such cases as is otherwise provided.

SEC. 2762. (3111). Refusal to sign bill; establishment of in su
preme court. —If the judge fail or refuse to sign a bill of ex
ceptions, the point or decision and the facts being truly stated,
he is guilty of a high misdemeanor in office ; and the supreme
court must receive such evidence of the facts as may be deemed
by it satisfactory, and proceed to hear the cause as if the bill
had been signed by the court.

CHAPTER 10.
EVIDENCE.
Article 1. —General rules.
SEC. 2., —Procuring testimony by subpoena.
3. —Procuring testimony by deposition.
4. —Examination of parties by interrogatories.
5. —Perpetuating testimony.
Article I.
GENERAL RCLES.
SEC. 2763. (3057). Testimony; how given. — All testimony, ex
cept as otherwise directed, must be given in open court on the
oath or affirmation of the witness.

SEC. 2764. (3034). Interpreters. —Interpreters may he sworn truly
to interpret, when necessary, and must he paid as witnesses in
the cause.
SEC. 2765. (3058). Competency of parties as affected by interest.
In civil suits and proceedings, there must be no exclusion of any
witness because he is a party, or interested in the issue tried, ex
cept that neither party shall be allowed to testify against the
other as to any transaction with, or statement by any deceased
person whose estate is interested in the result of the suit or pro
ceeding, or when such deceased person, at the time of such trans
action or statement, acted in any representative or fiduciary re
lation whatsoever to the party against whom such testimony is
sought to be introduced, unless called to testify thereto by the
opposite party.
SEC. 2766. Competency of witness as affected by conviction for
crime. —No objection must be allowed to the competency of a
witness because of his eonviction for any crime, except perjury
or subornation of perjury; but if he has been convicted of other
infamous crime, the objection goes to his credibility.
SEC. 2767. (3059). Proof of usury by representative. —When the
borrower is dead, and usury is relied on as a defense, the repre
sentative of the borrower, having given ten days' notice to the
plaintiff, or his attorney, of his intention to do so, is a competent
witness to prove the usury, by swearing that he believes the con
tract to be usurious, if the plaintiff was the lender, unless the
plaintiff denies on oath, in open court, the truth of the facts pro
posed to be sworn to by the defendant.
SEC. 2768. (550). Oaths without state in commencement or
progress of suit. —Affidavits required in the commencement or
progress of any suit or judicial proceedings may be taken with
out this state before any commissioner appointed by the gov
ernor of this state, any judge or clerk of a federal court, or judge
of any court of record, or notary public, who shall certify under
their hands, and seals of office, if any.
SEC. 2769. (3035). Written contract sued on; effect of as evi
dence ; consideration, how impeached.—Every written con
tract, the foundation of the suit, purporting to be executed by
the party sought to be charged, his partner, agent, or attorney
in fact, is evidence of the existence of the debt, or that the party
undertook to perform the duty for which it was given, and that
it was made on sufficient consideration ; but may be impeached
by plea, and, when so impeached, the burden of proof is on the
defendant.

SEC. 2770. (3036). Execution of instruments purporting to be
signed by defendant impeached by sworn plea. — Everywritten instrument, the foundation of the suit, purporting to be
signed by the defendant, his partner, agent, or attorney in fact,
must be received in evidence without proof of the execution,
unless the execution thereof is denied by plea verified by affi
davit ; and every assignment of such instrument, on which suit
is brought in the name of the assignee, must be deemed genuine,
unless impeached in like manner, when, in either case, the bur
den of proof is cast on the plaintiff*.
plea in bar, unless the plaintiff put the execution or assignment
thereof in issue by a replication verified by affidavit.
SEC. 2772. (3038). When proof of partnership not required,When suit is brought by partners, the plaintiff must not be re
quired to prove the existence of the firm, or the individuals
composing it, unless the same is denied by plea verified by affi
davit.

SEC. 2773. When sworn account admissible in evidence.
In all suits upon accounts, an itemized statement of the account,
verified by the affidavit of a competent witness, taken
before, and certified by an officer having authority under the
laws of this state to take and certify affidavits, is competent
evidence of the correctness of the account, if the plaintiff, at
the time of bringing his suit, indorses on the summons and
complaint, or other original process, the fact that the account
is verified by affidavit, unless the defendant, within the time al
lowed him for pleading, files in the cause an affidavit denying,
on information and belief, the correctness of the account.
SEC. 2774. (3039). Effect of written releases and receipts. —All
receipts, releases and discharges in writing, whether of a debt
of record, or a contract under seal, or otherwise, must have ef
fect according to the intention of the parties thereto.

SEC. 2775. (3040). Written composition or settlement of debts.
All settlements in writing, made in good faith for the composi
tion of debts, must be taken as evidence, and held to operate
according to the intention of the parties, though no release un
der seal is given, and no new consideration has passed.

SEC. 2776. (3041). Justification under process regular on its
face. —Whenever it appears that the process is regular on its
face, and is issued by competent authority, a sheriff or other
ministerial officer is justified in the execution of the same,
whatever may be the defect in the proceeding on which it was
issued.

SEC. 2777. (3053). Entry on physician's hook; effect of as evi
dence. —The original entries in the books of a physician are
evidence for him in all actions brought for the recovery of his
medical services, that the services were rendered, unless the
defendant in open court deny on oath the truth of such en
tries; but the physician is required to prove the value of such
services. "When the denial is by a legal representative of the
party, it is sufficient for him to swear that he believes the en
tries to be untrue.

SEC. 2778. (3054). Entries or memoranda made by deceased rep
resentative, guardian, or trustee. —Books of account kept by
a deceased executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, or en
tries or memoranda made by him in the course of business or
duty, are admissible evidence ; and if such book or memoranda
be lost, a copy thereof, supported by the oath of the person
making it, is admissible evidence.
SEC. 2779. (3055). Prices current evidence of value of articles.
Prices current and commercial lists, printed at any commercial
mart, are presumptive evidence of the value of any article of
merchandise specified therein, at that place, at the date thereof,
and of the rate of exchange between that and other places ;
also of the rates of insurance, freights, and the times of arrival
and departure of ships and other vessels.
SEC. 2780. (3056). Registers of marriages, births and deaths asevidence. —Registers of marriages, births and deaths, kept in
pursuance of law, or any rule of a church or religious society,
may be certified by the custodian thereof; and, when so certi
fied, are presumptive evidence of the facts therein stated, as
well as of the law or rule in pursuance of which such registry
was made, and of the authority to certify the same.
SEC. 2781. (3052). Patents.—Patents issued by the United States,
or any state of the United States, must be received in evidence
without further proof.

SEC. 2782. (3043). Certificates of registers of land-office vest
title and received in evidence. —All certificates issued pur
suant to any act of congress by any board of commissioners,
register of a land-office, or by any one authorized by law to
issue such certificate, upon any warrant or order of survey, or
for any donation or pre-emption claim, vest the legal title in
the holder, or his assignee, and must be received as evidence of
such title ; and all transcripts of any official book, official entry,
or other document pertaining to any land-office in this state,
certified by the register of such land-office, must be received as
prima facie evidence of the facts contained in such transcripts
so certified, in all the courts of this state.

SEC. 2783. (3044). Deeds made and signed in land-office; how
proved. —Any deed or written instrument for the conveyance
or sale of land purchased or entered at any land-office of the
United States in this state, made or signed in or upon any book
or record of such office, may be proved by a copy thereof, cer
tified by the register of such land-office under his hand to be a
correct copy, and such copy shall be received in all courts and
proceedings under the laws of this state, and may be recorded
in the office of the judge of probate of the county in which the
land may be ; and a transcript of such record in the office of the
judge of probate may be certified and used in the same manner,
and in the same cases as transcripts of such records of original
deeds may be.
SEC. 2784. (3048). Books, etc., of surveyor-general public ar
chives ; certified copies evidence. —The books, maps and field-
notes of the surveyor-general of the United States for the State
of Alabama, deposited in the office of the secretary of state, are
public archives of the state ; and the secretary of state must,
upon the application of any person, furnish certified copies,
which must be received in evidence in any court.
SEC. 2785. (3049). Transcripts of books kept in office of sec
retary of state or auditor, evidence. —All transcripts of books
or papers required by law to be kept in the office of the sec
retary of state, or the office of the auditor, when certified by the
proper custodian thereof, must be received in evidence in all
courts ; and it is no objection to such transcript that the book
from which it is taken is a copy of office books belonging to the
United States.
SEC. 2786. (3050). Copy of field-notes certified by judge of pro
bate, evidence. —Copies of the field-notes of the original gov
ernment surveys of lands, furnished by the secretary of state to
the judge of probate, when certified by such judge, are admis
sible in evidence in any court of this state.
SEC. 2787. (3046). Certificate of head of department sufficient.
The certificate of the head of any bureau or department of the
feneral government is sufficient authentication of any paper or
ocument appertaining to his office.
SEC. 2788. (3047). Copies of official bonds, etc., required by law
to be kept by any officer, are evidence.—Copies of official
bonds, or other instruments or papers, required to be kept by
any officer of this state, and transcripts from the books and pro
ceedings required to be kept by any sworn officer of the state,
are presumptive evidence in any civil cause, and have the same
effect as if the original were produced and proved, upon the
certificate of the custodian thereof that it is a true copy of the
original ; but the court may, on motion, require production of
the original, if practicable, when necessary to promote the ends
of justice.

SEC. 2789. (3051). Private acts. —All private acts of the general
assembly of this or any other state of the United States may be
given in evidence without being specially pleaded.

SEC. 2790. (3045). Statutes of other states. —Transcripts of acts
of congress, or of the statutes of any other state or territory of
the United States, certified by the secretary of state of this
state as being deposited in his office, and public or private stat
utes, or the proceedings of any legislative body, purporting on
the face of the book to be printed by authority of the govern
ment, or state, or territory, are evidence without further proof.

SEC. 2791. (3042). Interest in other states. — The secretary of
state must cause to be printed, in the pamphlet acts of each ses
sion of the general assembly, the rate of interest of each state
and territory; and such publication must be received as pre
sumptive evidence of such interest.
"" ' ' Article II.
PROCURING TESTIMONY BY SDBPCENX.
SEC. 2792. (3060). Issue of subpoena. —At the request of either
party to a pending suit, his agent or attorney, the clerk of the
court must issue subpoenas for witnesses, specifying therein the
time and place for their appearance, the title of the suit, and
the party at whose instance they are summoned, and command
ing them to appear in conformity therewith and give testimony.
SEC. 2793. (3061). When affidavit required for subpoena. —No
subpoena can issue for a witness residing more than one hun
dred miles from the place of trial, computing by the route
usually traveled, unless the party summoning him, his agent, or
attorney, make affidavit that the personal attendance of the
witness is necessary to a proper decision of the cause, and that
his deposition would be insufficient for that purpose ; and the
fact that such affidavit has been made must be indorsed by the
clerk upon the subpoena.
SEC. 2794. (3062). How and by whom executed. —The subpoena
must be directed "to any sheriff of the State ot Alabama,"
and may be executed upon the witness either personally or by
leaving a copy at his place of residence, unless the subpoena is
issued during term time, when it must be executed by personal
service.
SEC. 2795. (3063). Issued to each term.—In civil cases, where the
cause is not decided at the first term, witnesses must be sum
moned by the clerk by the issue of subpoenas to each term until
the case is disposed of, unless otherwise directed by the party
summoning them.
SEC. 2796. (3064). Penalty for default.—Any witness who, after
being subpoenaed, fails to attend pursuant to the mandate of
the subpoena, and remain until his testimony is given, or he is
discharged, forfeits one hundred dollars to the use of the party
summoning him.

SEC. 2797. (3065). Proceedings to recover penalty. — A condi
tional judgment must, on motion of such party, be rendered
against such witness, and a notice issued to him that such judg
ment will be made absolute unless he appear at the next court
and render a good excuse for his default ; and on being person
ally served with a copy of such notice ten days before the next
or any succeeding term, if he fail to appear and render a satis
factory excuse for his default, such judgment may be made ab
solute, or reduced, as the court may direct.

SEC. 2798. (3068). Excuse; how made. —Witnesses failing to at
tend court may make their excuse by affidavit, or viva voce, in
open court, which the court must hear at any time, unless en
gaged in the trial of a cause, and, if the excuse is sufficient, re
lease the party from any fine imposed, without payment of
costs.
SEC. 2799. (3066). Witness imprisoned for refusal to testify.
Any witness refusing to testify, unless privileged by law from
testifying in the cause, must be committed to the jail of the
county, there to remain without bail until he consents to tes
tify. "
SEC. 2800. (3067). Discharged on bond. —No witness so impris
oned must be discharged at the adjournment of the court, or
afterwards, until he give bond and surety in an amount to be
prescribed by the judge of such court, to be approved by the
judge of probate, payable to the state, and conditioned to ap
pear at the next term and give evidence in the cause.
Article III.
PROCURING TESTIMONY BY DEPOSITION.
SEC. 2801. (3069). When deposition may be taken.—The evi
dence of witnesses in civil cases may be taken by deposition by
either party,—
1. When the witness is a woman.*
2. When the witness, from age, infirmity, or sickness, is un
able to attend court.
3. When the witness resides more than one hundred miles
from the place of trial, computing by the route usually trav
eled, or resides out of, or is absent from the state.
4. When the witness is about to leave the state, and will prob
ably not return until after the trial.
5. When the claim or defense, or a material part thereof, de
pends exclusively on the evidence of the witness.
6. When the witness is the governor, treasurer, auditor, chan
cellor, judge, or clerk of any court of record, register in chan
cery, or sheriff; or president, director, or other officer of a bank
incorporated in this state; postmaster, or other officer of the
United States; or practicing physician or lawyer; or a person
constantly employed on any steamboat or other water-craft, or
on any turnpike, or manufactory, or about the engine or other
machinery of a railroad, or is a superintendent, secretary, treas
urer, master of road repairs, or conductor of any railroad ; or
is a telegraph operator; or a teacher of a public or private
school actually engaged in teaching, or a minister of the gos
pel, or pastor of a religious society in charge of any diocese,
parish, church, district, or circuit.
Subdivision 2. —Herndon v. Givins, 16 Ala. 261. Subdivision 8. —May v. May,
SEC. 28. Ala. 141; Henry v. Northern Bank. 63 Ala. 527; M. & C. R. R. Co. v. Maples,
lb. 601.
SEC. 2802. (3070). Steps to be taken before issue of commission.
The party desiring to take such deposition, his agent, or attor
ney, must make affidavit before the clerk of the court, or any
officer authorized to administer oaths, setting forth some one
or more of the above causes for taking such deposition, and
that the witness is material, which must be filed in the cause;
and thereupon the clerk must issue a commission to one or
more persons to take such deposition, and prescribe the notice
to be given the opposite party, or his attorney, of the time and
place of taking it. If the party on whom the notice is to be
served resides out of the county, and has no attorney of record,
it is sufficient to file the notice with the papers in the cause for
the length of time prescribed. When the testimony is desired
under the third subdivision of the preceding section, the testi
mony must be taken by interrogatories, as prescribed by the
succeeding section.

SEC. 2803. (3071). Interrogatories may be filed; notice. —The
party, after making affidavit, may file with the clerk interrog
atories to be propounded to the witness, of which, and of the
residence of the witness, and of the commissioner to be ap
pointed, he must give the opposite party, or his attorney, notice
in writing, who has ten days thereafter to file cross interroga
tories, to which the party filing the interrogatories may file re
butting interrogatories. After the expiration of the ten days, a
commission, accompanied by a copy of the interrogatories and
of the cross and rebutting interrogatories, if filed, must be is
sued by the clerk to take the deposition, which may be taken
at such time and place as the commissioner shall appoint. On
failure to give the notice herein required of the residence of
the witness and the commissioner, unless the same is waived
by the adverse party, the deposition of such witness must be
suppressed at the cost of the party taking it.

SEC. 2804. (3072). Notice when party resides out of county.—If
the party, to whom notice is to be given under the provisions of
the preceding section, resides out of, or is absent from, and has
no attorney of record within the county, notice may be given by
filing the interrogatories in the office of the clerk for ten days.
SEC. 2805. (3076). Commissioner subpoenas witnesses; default
proved by his certificate. —The commissioner has power to is
sue subpumas for witnesses, which may be served by the sherifl
or any constable ; and the certificate of the commissioner that a
witness failed to appear, together with the return of service by
the officer, is proof of the facts.
SEC. 2806. (3075). Penalty for failure of witness to appear; how
recovered. —Any witness whose testimony is required, and who
fails, on due notice, to appear before the commissioner and give
evidence, forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred
dollars, for which, on motion, judgment may be rendered by the
court where the cause is pending, on five days' notice in writ
ing; and is also liable, at the suit of the party aggrieved, to an
action for damages ; but the witness may make his excuse as in
other cases.
SEC. 2807. (3073). Duty of commissioner in executing commis
sion. —It is the duty of the commissioner to reduce the answers
of the witness to writing, or cause it to be done by the witness
himself, or some impartial person, as near as may be, in the lan
guage of the witness, having first sworn him to speak the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth ; and the deposition,
when complete, must be by the commissioner enveloped, to
gether with the commission and any document which may have
been deposed to, sealed and directed to the clerk of the court
where the cause is pending, with the title of the cause indorsed
thereon.

SEC. 2808. (3074). Certificate of commissioner evidence; how
returned. —The certificate of the commissioner of the manner,
time and place of taking the deposition, and that he has personal
knowledge of, or has had proof made before him of the identity
of the witness, and that he is not of counsel or of kin to any of
the parties to the cause, or in any manner interested ill the re
sult thereof, shall be presumptive evidence of the facts stated by
him ; and the package may be sent by mail or by private con
veyance to the clerk.

SEC. 2809. (3077). Depositions thus taken read in evidence.
Any deposition thus taken may be read in evidence, so far as
the same is pertinent to the issue, and legal evidence; and if
the package bears no marks of violence, or evidence of mutila
tion, must be presumed to be as it came from the hands of the
commissioner until the contrary is shown.

SEC. 2810. (3081). Objections to the whole deposition taken be
fore trial. — All objections to the admissibility of the entire
deposition in evidence must be made before entering on the
trial, and not afterwards, unless the matter is not disclosed in
the deposition, and appears after the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 2811. (3080). When witnesses may be re-examined on
cross interrogatories. — The party against whom the deposi-
tion of a witness has been taken may cross-examine such wit
ness on interrogatories, under the rules for taking depositions,
on making affidavit, when such witness has not been cross-ex
amined, that a cross examination is necessary, and that the fail
ure to cross-examine the witness was without fault or neglect
on his part, or, when the witness has been cross-examined, but
such examination is imperfect or insufficient, that the cross ex
amination of such witness is imperfect or insufficient, and that
the imperfection or insufficiency was not caused by fault or
neglect on his part. Notice of the filing of interrogatories for
such cross examination, and of the name and residence of the
commissioner to be appointed to take the deposition of the
witness thereon, must be given, as in the case of filing direct
interrogatories, to the opposite party, who has ten days there
after to file rebutting interrogatories.

SEC. 2812. (3078). Depositions, except of females, taken de bene
esse. —The deposition of a witness cannot be used, if it appear
at the trial that the cause for which it was taken does not then
exist, unless such witness is dead, of unsound mind, or resides
more than one hundred miles from the place of trial.

SEC. 2813. (3079). When personal attendance of witnesses com
pelled. —When the deposition of any witness, residing in the
county in which the cause is pending, shall have been taken
under the provisions of this article, the court, or, in vacation,
the clerk, on the application of either party, supported by the
affidavit of the party, his agent, or attorney, that he believes
the personal attendance of the witness on the trial is necessary,
may make an order requiring such witness to attend the trial of
such cause in person. A copy of the order, with a subpoena,
must be served on the witness, and, on proof of such service, the
deposition must be suppressed on the trial.
SEC. 2814. (3082). Interrogatories to witnesses in foreign suits.
The provisions of this article to compel witnesses to answer in
terrogatories, and for failure to answer, are applicable to parties
litigant in the courts of such states as grant similar privileges
to citizens of this state, and proceedings therefor may be had
in the circuit court of the county where the witness resides.
The certificate of the person issuing the commission, that the
state in which such suit is pending has a statute to compel wit
nesses to testify in foreign suits, is prima facie evidence of that
fact; but no witness shall be required to give testimony under
such commission, unless the party desiring such testimony, his
agent, or attorney, first deposit with the commissioner for the
witness the amount allowed by law for mileage and per diem
to witnesses attending to give evidence under commission from
courts of this state, which deposit may be evidenced by the
certificate of the commissioner.
SEC. 2815. (3083). Fees of witnesses before commissioner. —Wit
nesses who attend and testify, with or without subpoena, are, on
the certificate of the commissioner of the distance traveled and
the number of days' attendance, entitled to the same compensa
tion as other witnesses, and the commissioner to twenty cents
for every hundred words ; all of which must be taxed in the
bill of costs upon the certificate of the commissioner.
Article IV.
EXAMINATION OF PARTIES BY INTERROGATORIES.
SEC. 2816. (3084). Interrogatories to adverse party.—Either
part}' to a civil suit, his agent, or attorney, desiring the testi-
mony of the other party, may file with the clerk interrogatories
to be propounded to him, with an affidavit that the answers
thereto will be material testimony for him in the cause.

SEC. 2817. (3085). Service of copy; issue of commission when
non-resident. —If the party whose testimony is required re
sides out of the state, the clerk must issue a commission to
take his testimony, to which a copy of the interrogatories must
be appended ; if he resides within the state, the party desiring
his testimony must serve him with a copy of the interrogato
ries, which may be executed by the sheriff.
SEC. 2818. (3086). Answers evidence. —The answers to the inter
rogatories, duly sworn to before, and certified by any officer au
thorized to take and certify affidavits, are evidence in the cause
when offered by the party taking them.

SEC. 2819. (3087). Impertinent questions need not be answered.
If the interrogatories are not pertinent to the issue or matter in
dispute between the parties, there shall be no obligation to an
swer them, and, if answered, the answers may be suppressed by
the court at the trial.
SEC. 2820. (3088). Proceedings on failure to answer. —If answers
to the interrogatories are not filed within sixty days after ser
vice of a copy of the interrogatories, or when the answers are
not full, or are evasive, the court may either attach the party
and cause him to answer fully in open court, or continue the
cause until full answers are made, or direct a nonsuit or judg
ment by default to be entered.

SEC. 2821. (3089). Answer may be contradicted. — A resort to
this mode of obtaining evidence does not preclude the party
calling for it from adducing other proof of the same facts, or
from contradicting it.

SEC. 2822. (3090). What questions must be answered. —Under
the provisions of this article, the party is bound to answer all
pertinent interrogatories, unless by the answer he subjects him
self to a criminal prosecution.
Article V.
PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATB TESTIMONY.
SEC. 2823. (3091). Testimony may be perpetuated. —The testi
mony of a witness may be taken conditionally, and perpetuated,
as provided in this article.
SEC. 2824. (3092). Affidavit specifying grounds. —The applicant
must make affidavit before a circuit or probate judge, or regis
ter in chancery, stating, —
1. That he is a party, or expects to be a party, to a suit, either
at law or in equity, in a court of this state.
2. That the testimony of a witness, whoBe name and place of
residence are stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense
of such suit, and the facts generally expected to be proved by
the witness.
3. If such suit be not actually commenced, the name of the
party who is expected to be adverse therein, his residence, and
that he is of full age.
SEC. 2825. (3093). Order for examination; notice to adverse
party. —Such judge or register must thereupon make an order
allowing the examination of the witness, and, if the adverse
party, or the party expected to be adverse to the application, re
sides in this state, a copy of such application, and notice of the
time and place of such examination, must be given him, at least
ten days before such examination.
SEC. 2826. (3094, 3096). Notice when adverse party non-resi
dent. —If such adverse party, or expected adverse party, is a
non-resident, notice of such application, of the time and place of
the examination, of the names and residences of the witnesses
to be examined, and of the matter touching which the examina
tion is to be had, must be given by publication, once a week for
three successive weeks, in such newspaper as the judge or regis
ter may direct ; and a copy of such paper, containing such pub
lication, must be sent by mail, directed to such adverse party at
his post-office, if known ; and if such adverse party is a non-res
ident, the examination must not be taken within less than forty
days from the time of the first publication. The costs of the
publication must be paid by the applicant.
SEC. 2827. (3097). Examination. —Upon the application being re
turned executed by the sheriff, or proof of publication, as the
case may be, such judge or register must take the deposition of
the witness at the time and place appointed ; and the examina
tion, if necessary, may continue from day to day until completed.
SEC. 2828. (3098, 3099). Examination reduced to writing, cer
tified and filed with circuit clerk.—The witness, having been
first duly sworn, every question and answer must be taken
down, and the deposition, when completed, carefully read to, and
subscribed by the witness, certified by the judge or register,
and, with all the papers, must be immediately filed in the office
of the clerk of the circuit court for the county in which it was
taken. The return of the sheriff of service of the notice and ap
plication, or affidavit by the publisher of the publication of the
notice and mailing of copies to the adverse party, is presumptive
evidence of the facts therein stated. The clerk must record all
the papers so returned to him.
SEC. 2829. (3100). Deposition; when evidence.—If a trial be had
between the persons described in the affidavit as parties, act
ual or expectant, or their successors in interest, upon proof of
the death or insanity of the witness at the time of such trial, the
deposition, or a certified copy thereof, may be given in evidence
by either party.
SEC. 2830. (3101). Effect of such depositions as evidence.—The
deposition so read in evidence has the same effect as the oral
testimony or the deposition of such witness, and no other; and
every objection to the witness, or to the relevancy of any ques
tion put to him, or of any answer made by him, may be made in
the same manner as if he was orally examined on the trial, or
as if his deposition had been taken in the case.
SEC. 2831. (3102). Fees.—The judge of probate or register examin
ing is entitled, for copy of application and taking down ques
tions and answers, to twenty -five cents for each hundred words,
and for the other duties, one dollar on each application, to be
paid by the applicant; the sheriff, for serving and returning the
application and notice, one dollar ; the clerk, for recording, fif
teen cents for each hundred words.
CHAPTER 11.
AMENDMENTS.
SEC. 2832. (3155). Proceedings not vitiated by want of form.
No summons, complaint, plea, return, process, judgment, or
other proceeding, can be arrested, quashed, or reversed for any
defect or want of form, in any of the courts of this state ; but
the courts must proceed and give judgment according to the
right of the cause and matter in law, without, regard to any de
fect or want of form in the summons, complaint, or other plead
ing.

SEC. 2833. (3156). Amendments allowed. —The courts, respect
ively, must, whilst the cause is in progress, amend all and every
such imperfection and defect of form, on motion of the party,
without costs and without delay, unless injustice will thereby
be done to the opposite party ; and must permit the amendment
of the complaint by striking out or adding new parties plaintift,
or by striking out or adding new parties defendant, upon
such terms and conditions as the justice of the case may require.
SEC. 2834. (3157). Mistake of name, sum, quantity, or date,
cured by judgment. —Any mistake in the christian or surname
of either party, sum of money, quantity of merchandise, day,
month, or year, in the summons, complaint, or other pleading,
the same being right in any part of the record or proceedings,
must, after judgment, be considered as having been amended
whilst the cause was in progress.

SEC. 2835. (3158). When judgment not set aside, if complaint
contain cause of action.—-No judgment can be arrested, an
nulled, or set aside, for any matter not previously objected to,
if the complaint contain a substantial cause of action.

SEC. 2836. (3154). Amendment within three years; when al
lowed. — The judges of the circuit courts may, at any time
within three years after the rendition of final judgment, upon
the application of either party, amend any clerical error, mis
take in the calculation of interest, or other mistake of the clerk,
when there is sufficient matter apparent on the record or en
tries of the court to amend by. No cause can be reversed for
such error or defect by the supreme court, unless the court of
original jurisdiction refuses to make the amendment.
CHAPTER 12.
COSTS.
Article 1. — Taxation and relaxation of costs.
2. — Security for costs.
Article I.
TAXATION AND RETAXAT10N OF COSTS.
SEC. 2837. (3128). Costs given to successful party. — The suc
cessful party in all civil actions is entitled to rail costs, for
which judgment must be rendered, unless in cases otherwise
directed by law ; and this provision is applicable in all cases in
which the state is a party plaintiff in civil actions, as in cases
of individual suitors.

SEC. 2838. (3129). Rule for recovery in torts, if verdict is for
less than twenty dollars; exception. —In all actions to re
cover damages for torts, the plaintiff recovers no more costs
than damages, where such damages do not exceed twenty dol
lars, unless the presiding judge certifies that greater damages
should have been awarded; and on failure to certify, judgment
must be rendered against the plaintiff for such residue.

SEC. 2839. (3130). Defendant proving usury recovers costs.—If
it be made to appear that usurious interest has been intention
ally taken or reserved, the defendant recovers full costs.

SEC. 2840. (3131). Costs of set-off, if sustained, recovered by
defendant. —In all actions, when a set-off' is pleaded and con
troverted, the defendant recovers his costs sustained in estab
lishing the set-off", though judgment.be rendered for the plaint
iff' for a residue.

SEC. 2841. (3132). Fees of witnesses for mileage and attend
ance.—Witnesses are allowed one dollar and fifty cents per
day in civil cases ; also five cents per mile for each mile to and
from their residence by the usual traveled route, and all neces
sary ferriage, tolls of turnpikes and toll-bridges, whether at
tending under subpoena, or at the request of the party.

SEC. 2842. (3133). Certificates to witnesses. —After the trial, con
tinuance of the cause, or discharge of the witness, the clerk
must, on his application, and upon his oath, give him a certifi
cate, setting forth the cause in which he was a witness, the party
by whom he was summoned, or on whose request he attended,
the number of days he attended as a witness, and the sum to
which he is entitled for his attendance, travel, ferriage and tolls,
which he must also enter, either upon the subpoena docket, or
book to be kept for that purpose.

SEC. 2843. (3134). Attendance ; when proven. —The witness must
prove his attendance within five days after the adjournment of
the court at which he attended.

SEC. 2844. (3135). Only to charge one party. —A witness shall
charge for his attendance but on one side of the same cause.

SEC. 2845. (3136). Costs against beneficial plaintiff. — When
judgment is rendered against the plaintiff, in any suit brought
in the name of a nominal plaintiff for the use of another, judg
ment for costs must be rendered against the beneficiary, or his
personal representative.

SEC. 2846. (3137). Costs of transcript of other court taxed.
When the suit is founded on the record of another court, the
costs of the transcript, on proof to the court, must be taxed in
the bill of costs.
SEC. 2847. (3138). Fees for certificates taxed in the bill. —When
either party introduces on the trial any execution, bond, or
other matter of evidence, certified by any officer or person whose
certificate makes the copy thereof evidence, the fees allowed by
law to such officer or person, for the transcript thereof and cer
tificate, must be allowed as costs.
SEC. 2848. (3139). Costs on a plea "since last continuance."
When the party filing a plea "since last continuance" succeeds
thereon, but fails on the plea to the merits, previously filed, he
must be taxed with the costs which accrued previous to the
filing of the last plea.

SEC. 2849. (3140). Witness fees taxed, collected and paid to
clerk. —Upon the final disposition of any civil cause, the amount
proved by the witnesses, as hereinbefore provided, must be taxed
in the bill of costs against the rightful party, setting forth the
name of each witness, and the amount allowed him, which must
be collected by the sheriff for the use of such witnesses, and be
paid to the clerk issuing the execution, unless the certificate of
such clerk, with the receipt of the witness thereon, is produced
to the sheriff.
SEC. 2850. (3141). When refused payment, witness excused
from further attendance. —The certificate issued to the wit
ness entitles him to demand of the party summoning him, or at
whose request he attended, the amount therein stated, and is
presumptive evidence that such amount is due, in any proceed
ing instituted for its recovery; and if in any civil cause, on de
mand therefor of the party, his agent, or attorney, the same is
not paid, the witness is not obliged to appear again as a witness
in the same cause until his fees are paid.
SEC. 2851. (3142). On abatement by death of defendant, plaintiff
pays costs. —When a plaintiff brings a suit which he suffers to
abate by the death of the defendant, or other cause, judgment
for costs shall be rendered against such plaintiff; or where the
suit abates by the death of the plaintiff, and his representative
fails to revive the same, judgment for costs may be rendered
against such representative; judgments in both cases must be
in the name of the officers ot the court, and when against rep
resentatives, are paid as other claims against such estate.

SEC. 2852. (3143). Defendant, as to whom plaintiff fails, re
covers costs. —When a plaintiff fails to recover against all of
the defendants, the defendants against whom he fails to recover
are entitled to have their aliquot proportion of the whole costs
taxed against the plaintiff.
SEC. 2853. (3144). Only two witnesses charged to prove one
fact; exception. —Not more than two witnesses shall be taxed
in any bill of costs, who were called to prove any one matter of
fact, or, having been subpoenaed, were not examined, unless the
court, upon a motion to retax the costs, should, in its discre
tion, consider that the circumstances of the case warranted the
examining or summoning of more than two witnesses for the
proof of a particular fact; or unless such witnesses were sum
moned or examined to assail or defend the reputation of a wit
ness for veracity, or to assail or to establish the character of a
party, when character is put in issue.

SEC. 2854. (3145). Motion for instructions to clerk in such case.
If more than two witnesses are examined in proof of any par
ticular fact, a motion must be made, at the term at which the
cause is tried, for instructions to the clerk as to the taxation of
costs, and cannot be made afterwards.
SEC. 2855. (3146). Motion to retax costs. — If the taxation of
costs be excessive, by charging the costs of witnesses who were
not examined, or by charging costs to an improper party, or
taxing costs contrary to law, the party aggrieved may move the
court for a retaxation, setting forth the particulars in which the
clerk has erred.

SEC. 2856. (3147). When sheriff ordered not to collect items of
costs. —If execution has issued in any such case, the party com
plaining thereof, or his attorney, may file a written application
with the clerk for a retaxation of the costs, setting forth in
what the alleged error consists, and the clerk must issue an or
der to the sheriff, directing him to abstain from the collection
of the disputed items of cost until the further order of the court,
to which a motion must be made, at the ensuing term, for a re
taxation thereof.
SEC. 2857. (3148). Payment of costs against township. —If any
township shall fail to recover in any suit brought by it, the
clerk of the court or justice of the peace shall certify the costs
to the superintendent of education, who shall pay the same out
of the funds of such township, if any it have.
SEC. 2858. (3149, 3772). Non-residents must give security for
costs. —All suits at law or in equity, commenced by or for the
use of a non-resident of this state, must be dismissed on mo
tion, if security for the costs, approved by the clerk or register,
be not given by such non-resident when the suit is commenced,
or within such time thereafter as the court may direct.

SEC. 2859. Money may be deposited. —Money may be deposited
with the clerk or register as security, the amount of the de
posit to be fixed by the clerk or register, subject to increase or
diminution on the order of the court.
SEC. 2860. (3153). When attorney liable for costs. — If a suit,
commenced by or for the use or a non-resident of the state, is
dismissed for the want of security for costs, on motion, judg
ment for the costs must be rendered against the attorney or
solicitor instituting the suit, knowing of the non-residence of
the plaintiff.
SEC. 2861. (3150). If plaintiff removes, security required.—If
suit be commenced by or for the use of a resident, who after
wards removes from the state, the defendant, by motion to the
court iu term time, or by notice to the plaintiff, his agent, or
attorney, or solictor, in vacation, may require security for costs;
and if such security be not given at or before the next term of
the court, the suit must be dismissed.
SEC. 2862. (3152). Judgment against surety for costs. —If judg
ment be rendered for the defendant, judgment must, on motion,
be rendered against the surety for the costs, as well as against
the plaintiff.
SEC. 2863. Security for costs in court of probate, or before
justice.-^The provisions of this article apply to suits or pro
ceedings in the court of probate, or before a justice of the
peace; and the judge of probate, or the justice, must take and
approve the security for costs.
CHAPTER 13.
CORRECTION OF ERRORS AFTER JUDGMENT, AND PREVENTION OF
ABUSE OF PROCESS; ENTRY OF SATISFACTION; JUDG
MENTS NUNC PRO tunc; REHEARINGS
AND NEW TRIALS.
SEC. 2864. (3159). Correction of errors; prevention of abuse of
process. —The circuit court has power after final judgment,—
1. To correct any error in fact in the judgment or process,
apparent upon the whole record.
2. To secure parties or privies in their rights against any op
pression or ahuse of execution, or other process, or upon any
release, discharge, or payment after judgment.

SEC. 2865. (3172). Entry of satisfaction of -udgment or decree.
When a motion is made to enter satisfaction of a judgment or
decree, because of matters extrinsic to the record, notice to the
plaintiff therein, or, if he be dead, to his personal representative,
is essential ; if the plaintiff, or his personal representative, reside
within the state, the notice must be in writing, and must be
served ten days before the time of hearing the motion ; if he or
they reside without the state, or their residence be unknown,
affidavit of the fact being made and filed, notice must be given
by the clerk, register, judge of probate, or justice of the peace,
by advertisement in some newspaper published in the county,
for three consecutive weeks, or if there be no such paper pub
lished in the county, by advertisement in a newspaper published
nearest to the county.

SEC. 2866. (3172). Motion to set aside judgments or decrees, or
entry of satisfaction. —When a motion is made to set aside a
final judgment or decree, or the entry of satisfaction thereof for
any cause, notice to the party adversely interested, or, if he be
dead, to his personal representative, is essential ; and if such
party, or his personal representative, reside within the state, the
notice must be in writing, and must be served ten days before
the hearing of the motion ; if he or they reside without the state,
or their residence be unknown, affidavit of the fact being made
and filed, notice must be given by the clerk, register, judge of
probate, or justice of the peace, by advertisement for three con
secutive weeks in a public newspaper published in the county,
or if there be no such paper published in the county, by adver
tisement in a newspaper published nearest to the county.
SEC. 2867. Amendments of judgments, decrees, or orders nunc
pro tunc. —Notice is essential of a motion or application to
amend nunc pro tunc the judgment, decree, or order of a court
of record, if the amendment be not of mere clerical errors ; if
the party adversely interested, or, if he be dead, his personal
representative, reside in the state, the notice must be in writing,
and must be served ten days before the hearing of the motion
or application ; if he or they reside without the state, or their
residence be unknown, affidavit of the fact being made and filed,
notice must be given by the clerk, register, or judge of probate,
by advertisement in some newspaper published in the county
for three consecutive weeks ; or if there be no such paper pub
lished in the county, by advertisement in a newspaper published
nearest to the county,
SEC. 2868. Costs of motion or application— If a motion or appli
cation made under either of the three preceding sections is not
contested, the costs must be adjudged against the applicant; if
contested, the costs must be adjudged against the unsuccessful
party.
SEC. 2869. Bill of exceptions; appeal. —An exception may be
taken on the hearing of any motion or application made under
either of such three sections to any ruling, charge, opinion, or
decision of the court, and a bill of exceptions signed and certi
fied as part of the record, as in civil cases in courts of law; and
from the judgment, decree, or order of the court, an appeal
mjiy be taken to the supreme court within thirty days after the
rendition of the judgment, decree, or order, under the rules
and regulations governing appeals from the final judgments or
decrees of the circuit or chancery court, or court of probate.
SEC. 2870. Issues of fact triable by jury.—If the motion or ap
plication is to enter satisfaction or a judgment or decree, or to
set aside the entry of satisfaction of a judgment or decree, on
request of either party, the issues of fact must be tried by ajury-
SEC. 2871. (3160). Right of new trial on release found. —When
a party had a release or discharge in writing of a claim upon
which judgment has been rendered against him, which was
lost or mislaid at the trial, and which such party was unable to
prove by secondary evidence, but has since found, the circuit
court may cause the action to be retried at any time after the
discovery of the release or discharge, within two years after
judgment. 

SEC. 2872. (3161). When rehearing granted within four months.
When a party has been prevented from making his defense by
surprise, accident, mistake, or fraud, without fault on his part,
he may, in like manner, apply for a rehearing at any time with
in four months from the rendition of the judgment.
SEC. 2873. (3162). Contents of petition; notice; how petition
controverted. —In the cases specified in the two preceding sec
tions, the proceeding is by petition to a judge of the circuit
court, stating the matter complained of, with a prayer for the
appropriate relief. The facts stated in the petition must be
sworn to, unless they appear from a transcript of the record,
submitted with the petition ; and the petitioner shall give the ad
verse party, or his attorney, ten days' notice of the judge be-fore whom, and the time when, and place where the application
will be made, and also cause a copy of the petition to be served
on such adverse party ten days before such application is made ;
and the adverse party may controvert the petition by affidavit
in writing.

SEC. 2874. (3163). Supersedeas ordered by judge. — The judge
to whom the petition is made must, if satisfied that the peti
tioner is entitled to the relief sought, make the necessary order
for a supersedeas to issue, or in restraint of the issue or col
lection of the execution; and the judge shall havejjower to im
pose such terms as he may think proper for granting an order
for the supersedeas.
SEC. 2875. (3164). Bond before supersedeas issues. —The super
sedeas must not issue, nor the execution be suspended, unless
the petitioner, or some one for him, give bond in double the
amount of the judgment or execution, or in double the amount
superseded or restrained, payable to the plaintiff in the judg
ment, or his personal representative, with sufficient sureties, to
be approved by the clerk, and conditioned to pay such judg
ment of execution, with interest, and all damages and costs
awarded on the trial of the proceeding against him.
SEC. 2876. (3165, 3170). Petition tried at first term; on denial
on oath supersedeas dismissed. —The facts alleged in the pe
tition must De tried, or the cause reheard, at the first term after
the granting of the order, unless for cause the same is contin
ued; and the court may direct the trial of all questions of fact
by a jury, upon an issue made up under its direction. When
the cause is not tried or reheard at such first term, the court
may, on the denial on oath by the adverse party of the facts al
leged in the petition, make an interlocutory order dismissing
the supersedeas, or dissolving the restraining order.
SEC. 2877. (3166). Refunding bond required, on such dismissal,
before execution issues. —In the case provided for in the pre
ceding section, no execution can issue, unless such party, his
agent, or attorney, execute a refunding bond, in double the
amount of the judgment or execution, payable to the adverse
party, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the clerk, and
conditioned that if the final determination of the cause is against
him, he will refund the amount collected, and interest.
SEC. 2878. (3167). Damages when petition not meritorious. —If,
on the final hearing of the cause, it is decided against the pe
titioner, and it appears that the petition was not founded on a
just or meritorious cause, the court may award damages, not
exceeding ten per cent, on the amount superseded or restrained.
SEC. 2879. (3171). Applicable to plaintiffs.—The provisions of
this chapter shall be construed as applicable to plaintiffs, and
those for whose benefit suits are brought, who must comply
with its provisions, so far as applicable to them, before they are
are entitled to relief.
SEC. 2880. (3168). Bonds have the force and effect ofjudgments.
The bonds given under this chapter have the force and effect of
judgments, and executions may issue against all or any of the
obligors, either for the amount superseded or restrained, dam
ages and costs, or the amount collected of the petitioner, after
the execution of the refunding bond, and interest on such
amount.
SEC. 2881. (3169). Right to pass on validity of execution not
affected. —The provisions of this chapter must not be construed
to prevent the circuit court from deciding, on an application
made in term time, on the validity of any writ of execution.
CHAPTER 14.
EXECUTIONS and forthcoming bonds.
Article 1. — Form of execution; by whom and when issued.
2. —Property subject to execution.
3. —Lien of execution.
4. —Levy, sale and return; venditioni exponas, and conveyance.
5. —Forthcoming bonds and executions thereon.
Article I.
FORM OK execution; by whom and when issued.
SEC. 2882. (3179). Executions on moneyed judgments, and for
recovery of personal and real property ; forms of. —The party
in whose favor a judgment is rendered, whether for debt, dam
ages, or costs, for the satisfaction thereof, may, within a year
thereafter, have a writ of fieri facias against the lands and
goods of the party against whom such judgment is rendered;
and when the judgment is for specific property or the alternate
value, or for the possession of lands, appropriate writs of ex
ecution may issue for the satisfaction thereof; and such writs
of fieri facias and of execution must substantially conform to
the following forms :
[form of fieri facias.]
" The State of Alabama, \ To any sheriff of the State of Alacounty.
J bama :
" You are herehy commanded that of the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of , you cause to be made the
sum of dollars, which recovered of him on the
day of , 18—, by the judgment of our circuit court,
held for the county of , besides costs of suit ; and have the
same to render to the said ; and make return of this
writ and the execution thereof according to law.
" Witness my hand, this day of , 18—.
« , Clerk."
[FORM OF WRIT OF POSSESSION" AND FIERI FACIAS.]
" The State of Alabama, \ To any sheriff of the State of Ala-county. J bama :
" You are hereby commanded to deliver to posses
sion of the lands and tenements which the said recov
ered of by the judgment of our circuit court, held for
the county of , on the day of , 18—, viz. : (Describe
the land recovered). You are further commanded of the goods
and chattels, lands and tenements of the said , you
cause to be made the sum of dollars, damages adjudged to
the said , and also the further sum of dollars, costs
of suit ; and make return of this writ and the execution thereof
according to law.
" Witness my hand, this day of , 18—.
" Clerk."
[FORM OF WRIT FOR SEIZURE AXD DELIVERY OF SPECIFIC PROPERTY.]
" The State of Alabama, \ To any sheriff of the State of Alacounty,
j bama:
" You are hereby commanded to seize and deliver'to
the following personal property, viz. : (Describe the property re
covered) ; which the said —, on the day of ,
SEC. 18.—, by the judgment of our circuit court, held for the county of
, recovered of , if the same can be had ; if not, you
are hereby commanded that of the goods and chattels, lands and
tenements of the said , you cause to be made the sum
of dollars, the alternate value of the personal property, viz. :
(Set out the assessed value of each item of personal property) ;
also the further sum of dollars for the detention of said
property b}r the said , besides dollars, costs of
suit; and make return of this writ and the execution thereof ac
cording to law.
"Witness my hand, this day of , 18—.
" Clerk."
McMahan v. Colclough, 2 Ala. 68; Joseph v. Joseph, 5 Ala. 280 ; Haden v. Wal
ker, lb. 86; Vancleave v. Haworth, lb. 188; Thompson v. Bondurant, 15 Ala. 3-46 ;
Smith v. Knight, 11 Ala. 618; Barron v. Tart, 18 Ala. G68; Woodward y. Harbin,
1. Ala. 104; Couch v. Akinson, 32 Ala. 683; Goodman v. Walker, 38 Ala. 142; Cal-
len v. Itottenberry, 76 Ala. 169.
SEC. 2883. (3180). Issue of executions; must be signed and
tested. —The clerk must issue executions on all judgments in
favor of the successful parties, as soon after the adjournment of
court as practicable, within the time prescribed by this Code, un
less otherwise directed. The writ must be signed by the clerk,
and tested on the day it is issued.

SEC. 2884. (3181). Time in which executions must issue. —When
the court continues in session but one week, the clerk must issue
executions within ten days thereafter; when it continues two
weeks, within fifteen days thereafter; and when it continues
three or more weeks, within twenty days after the adjournment
of the court.

SEC. 2885. (3182, 5015). Bill of costs to accompany the execu
tion. —At the foot, or on some part of the execution, the clerk
must state, in intelligible words and figures, the several items
composing the bill of costs ; and without such copy of the bill
of costs, the execution is illegal, and shall not be levied.
SEC. 2886. (3183). When may be issued before adjournment.
Upon the rendition of judgment, execution may be issued, by
leave of the court, before the adjournment thereof, the plain
tiff, his agent, or attorney, showing sufficient cause therefor by
affidavit; but the defendant is not prevented thereby from mov
ing for a new trial, 'or in arrest of judgment, or deprived of any
right he would otherwise have had.

SEC. 2887. (3184). When must be issued immediately after ad
journment. —After the adjournment of the court, and before
the expiration of the time limited by section 2884 (3181), on
affidavit being made and filed in his office, that the defendant
is about fraudulently to dispose of, or remove his property, and
that thereby the plaintiff will probably lose his debt, the clerk
must issue execution against the property of the defendant.
SEC. 2888. (3185). More than one writ may be issued. —More
than one writ of execution may be issued at the plaintiff's cost,
though the first be not returned; and when a fieri facias is re
turned not satisfied, or satisfied only in part, an alias fieri facias
may be issued.

SEC. 2889. (3186). When directed to coroner.—When the office
of sheriff is vacant, and until his successor qualifies, or when
the sheriff is imprisoned, or in cases to which he is a party, or
in cases in which he is interested, or for any legal cause is in
competent to act, if such interest or cause appears on the face
of the proceedings, the execution must be directed to, and exe
cuted by the coroner, or special coroner, as the case may be.

SEC. 2890. (3187). Credits to be indorsed.—When a judgment
has been satisfied in part, and an alias execution is issued, the
clerk must indorse thereon the amount which had been previ
ously made, with the date of its collection or payment.
SEC. 2891. (3188). When against plaintiff for his costs.—Whenexecution against the defendant is returned " no property
found," execution may issue against the plaintiff', in the name
of the clerk of the court, for all the costs created by him in ob
taining his judgment.

Article II.
PROPERTY SUBJECT TO EXECUTION.
SEC. 2892. (3209). Property subject to levy and sale under ex
ecution. —Executions may be levied,—
1. On real property to which the defendant has a legal title,
or a perfect equity, having paid the purchase-money, or in
which he has a vested legal interest, in possession, reversion, or
remainder, whether he has the entire estate, or is entitled to it
in common with others.
2. On personal property of the defendant (except things in
action), whether he has the absolute title thereto, or the right
only to the possession thereof for his own life, the life of an
other, or any shorter period ; but this does not apply to a pos
session acquired by a bona fide hiring of chattels.
3. On an equity of redemption in either land, or personal
property. When any interest less than the absolute title is sold,
the purchaser is subrogated to all the rights of the defendant,
and subject to all his disabilities.

SEC. 2893. Growing or ungathered crop exempt. —No execution
or other legal process must be levied upon a growing or un-
gathered crop of any description, except for the purpose of
enforcing liens upon such crop for rent, advances, or labor, as
prescribed by law.
Article III.
LIEN OF EXECUTION.
SEC. 2894. (3210). Extent of lien declared; how continued. —A
writ of fieri facias is a lien, only within the county in which it
is received by the officer authorized to execute it, on the lands
and personal property of the defendant subject to levy and sale,
from the time only that the writ is received by such officer;
which lien continues as long as the writ is regularly issued and
• delivered to such officer, without the lapse of an entire term.*
SEC. 2895. (3211). Order of liens of different executions— The
liens of executions, as between different judgment-creditors,
and between judgment-creditors and purchasers from the de
fendant for valuable consideration, are declared to be : That if
an entire term elapse between the return of an execution and
the suing out an alias, the lien created by the delivery of the
first execution to the sheriff is lost; but if an alias be sued out
before the lapse of an entire term, and delivered to the sheriff
before the sale of property under a junior execution, the lien
created by the delivery of the first execution must be preferred.

SEC. 2896. (3212). Lien destroyed by supersedeas or injunction.
The execution of a bond for an appeal, by which the judgment
is suspended, or the execution of a bond by the defendant,
upon the proper officer granting an injunction, supersedeas, or
restraining order, destroys the lien created by the delivery of a
fieri facias to the sheriff*.
SEC. 2897. (321 3). Execution levied after defendant's death.
A writ of fieri facias, issued and received by the sheriff during
the life of the defendant, may be levied after his death, or an
alias issued and levied, if there has not been the lapse of an
entire term, so as to destroy the lien originally created.

Article IV.
SEC. 1.8VT, SALE AND RETURN; VENDITIONI EXPONAS AND CONVEYANCE.
SEC. 2898. (3189). Time of receipt, and, if more than one, or
der of receipt, indorsed. —The sheriff or other officer receiv
ing an execution must indorse thereon the day, month and
year of its receipt ; and when more than one execution against
the same defendant comes to his hands on the same day, if not
received at the same time, he must indorse thereon the order
in which they are received.

SEC. 2899. (3190). To be executed with diligence and returned.
He must execute the writ with diligence, and, if practicable,perform the mandate thereof, and make return of his acts tothe clerk, three days before the first day of the return term ofthe writ.

SEC. 2900. (3191). Return term. —The return term of the writ is
the term next after its date, unless issued less than fifteen days
before court, in which case it is the term next thereafter.

SEC. 2901. (3192). Reason for not executing stated.—If the writ
is not executed, or only executed in part, the reason why it is
not executed, or only executed in part, must be stated in the
return.

SEC. 2902. (3193). Return from another county; money sent
therefrom. —The return of an execution, or other process, by a
sheriff of a county other than that from which the process is
sued, may be made through the public mail ; and the certificate
of the postmaster that it was placed in his office in time, by the
usual course of mail, to reach the court-house of the county
where the return has to be made, by the return-day of the writ,
shall be presumptive evidence for the sheriff of the fact ; but the
sheriff is not authorized to send money by the mail without the
consent of the plaintiff in execution.
SEC. 2903. (3194). Sheriff's duty when levy is on live stock.
When live stock is levied on and remains in the hands of the offi
cer for sale, he must provide sustenance therefor; and it is his
duty to hire out or employ the horses or other stock, if practi
cable, for their support ; and if unable to do so, he must be al
lowed by the court a reasonable compensation for their support,
which he may retain from the proceeds of the sale.
SEC. 2904. (3195). Description of property indorsed; notice of
levy on land. —When a levy is made on real or personal prop
erty, a full description thereof, with the date of the levy, must
be indorsed upon, or appended to the execution; and when the
levy is on real estate, personal notice thereof must be given to the
defendant, or a notice thereof in writing left at his residence, if
resident in the county; if not resident in the county, thenjby
putting up a written notice at the court-house door; and the
manner of giving notice must be stated in the return.
SEC. 2905. (3196). Bond of indemnity, when required. —When
a reasonable doubt exists whether the property levied on be
longs to the defendant, or whether property alleged to be his is
subject to levy and sale, the sherifl may require of the plaint
iff, his agent, or attorney, a bond of indemnity; and if it is
not given within ten days thereafter, he may restore the prop
erty to the defendant, if levied on, or decline to levy, if one has
not been made ; but he may be required to levy and sell at any
time thereafter, on being indemnified.

SEC. 2906. (3197). Right to give such bond in case of several
executions. —If a party having the prior lien refuses to give
such indemnity on demand of the sheriff, the party having the
next lien in order may give it, and have the property sold for
his benefit.
SEC. 2907. (3198). Time and place of sale. —Lands, when levied
on under execution from any court of record, must be sold on
any Monday in the month at the court-house of the county;
other property may be sold on any day, except Sunday, either
at the court-house, the residence of the defendant, the place
where levied on, or the neighborhood thereof, as may be most
expedient. The sale may be continued from day to day, if ren
dered necessary by the inclemency of the weather, or from ina
bility to conclude the sale in one day.

SEC. 2908. (3199). Notice of sale. —In sales of personal property,
notice must be given by advertisement at the court-house door
for ten days, and also by publication in a newspaper, if one is
published in the county, once a week for three successive weeks,
previous to such sale; and in sales of real property, the publi
cation in such newspaper must be once a week for three succes
sive weeks, and by posting up notice for thirty days at the
court-house door previous to the sale.

SEC. 2909. (3200). When property of principal first levied on.
When execution issues against two or more persons, any of
whom were sureties on the contract before the judgment, the
sheriff must levy on the property of the principal first, if any
can be found in the county, on the application of such surety ;
and he may require of the surety affidavit of the fact of surety
ship, which he must file with the execution.
SEC. 2910. (3201). Indorsement of, and receipt for collection.
When money is collected on an execution, the officer collecting
it must indorse thereon, or append thereto the amount collected,
specifying the judgment, interest thereon, and costs, with his
own commissions, and sign his name thereto ; and he must also,
if required, receipt in like manner to the defendant.
SEC. 2911. (3202). Substitution of other property—The debtor
has the right,' on the day of sale, to substitute other property of
equal value, not covered by any lien, in lieu of that levied on ;
which fact, and a description of the property substituted, must
be indorsed on, or appended to the execution, and the substi
tuted property be sold in lieu of that levied on.
SEC. 2912. (3203). Notice of collection to be given —When the
money, or any part thereof, has been made on an execution, the
officer must give the plaintiff', his agent, or attorney, personal
notice thereof within ten days thereafter, if resident in the
county ; if not resident in the county, and he knows the res
idence of them, or either of them, such notice may be sunt by
mail through the post-office.
SEC. 2913. (3204.). When excess of sale, or money collected paid
to defendant. —When, at an execution sale, the amount of the
sale exceeds the judgment, interest and costs, the excess must
be paid to the debtor, or his legal representative ; and when
money is paid or collected on an execution, the whole or any
part of which is enjoined in chancery, the same must on demand
be refunded to the debtor, or his legal representative, if it has
not been paid over to the plaintiff", his agent, or attorney, with
out notice of the injunction.
SEC. 2914. (3205). Description of land sold and price indorsed
on writ. —When land is sold under execution, a description of
the land and the price obtained for it must be indorsed upon, or
appended to the writ by the officer making such sale.

SEC. 2915. (3206). Return as to goods not sold; writ issues for
sale thereof; form.—When goods levied on remain in the hands
of the officer unsold, it is his duty to make return of the fact,
and thereupon the clerk must issue a writ for the sale thereof in
substance as follows :
" The State of Alabama, ) m . i •«■ f -,
. ' - To the sheriff of said county :county. J J
"You are hereby commanded to sell those goods and chattels
of , which you have taken pursuant to our command,
and which, according to your return, remain in your hands un
sold, to satisfy the sum of dollars, recovered by
him of the said by the judgment of our circuit court,
held for the county of on the day of , 18—, and
dollars, costs of suit; and make return of this writ and the
execution thereof according to law.
" Witness my hand, this day of , 18—.
" Clerk."

SEC. 2916. (3207). Conveyance by sheriff of lands sold by prede
cessor. —When any sheriff, authorized by law to sell real estate,
makes such sale, and dies or vacates his office before making a
conveyance to the purchaser thereof, the court from which the
writ issued, upon proof of the sale and of the payment of the
purchase-money, may order the successor in office of the sheriff
making such sale to make a conveyance of such lands to the
purchaser; and such conveyance shall relate back to the date of
the sale. If the purchaser is the plaintiff in the judgment, proof
that he has credited, or the fact that he does credit on the record
the defendant with the amount of the purchase-money, less the
necessary expenses and costs, is equivalent to proof of payment
of the purchase-money.

SEC. 2917. (3208). Sheriff required to make deeds.—When real
estate, or any interest therein, has been sold by any sheriff, he
shall, upon compliance by the purchaser with the terms of sale,
and the payment or tender of the fees for executing the deed
therefor, execute a deed for such real estate, or interest therein
sold, and deliver the same to the purchaser within five days
after such sale.
Article V.
FORTHCOMING BONDS AND EXECUTIONS THEREON.
SEC. 2918. (3214). Personalty restored if forthcoming bond ex
ecuted. —When personal property is levied on by the sheriff, if
the defendant executes bond with sufficient surety, in double
the amount of the execution, payable to the plaintiff, and con
ditioned to deliver the property levied on to the proper officer
by twelve o'clock, noon, of the day, and at the place appointed
for the sale thereof, the sheriff must restore the property to the
defendant.

SEC. 2919. (3215). Issue of execution on forfeiture of bond.—If
the property is not delivered according to the condition of the
bond, the sheriff must return it forfeited within five days there
after to the clerk's office out of which the execution issued, in
dorsing thereon a forfeiture of the bond; and it is then the
duty of the clerk, without delay, to issue execution on the for
feited bond against all the obligors therein for the judgment
and costs, upon which no security of any kind can be taken,
which he must indorse on the writ.

SEC. 2920. (3216). Certain persons denied right to give forth
coming bonds. —The two preceding sections do not apply to
executions issued on judgments against sheriffs, coroners, or
other officers of court, against whom judgment is obtained for
failing to pay over money collected by, or paid to them in their
official capacity ; and the clerk must indorse on all such execu
tions, "no security of any kind to be taken."
SEC. 2921. (3217). When value may be tendered for property
destroyed. —When property is restored to the defendant on
the execution of a forthcoming bond, and the same dies, or is
destroyed before the day for the delivery thereof, without fault
on his part, the obligors in the bond may tender the value
thereof to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney ; and if such ten
der is refused, the obligors in such bond may, on petition to the
judge of the circuit court, supersede the same.
CHAPTER 15.
REVIVAL OF JUDGMENTS AND EXECUTIONS THEREON.
SEC. 2922. (31 73). If execution is issued in a year, others may
issue for ten. —When execution has been issued on a judgment
within a year after its rendition, and has not been returned sat
isfied, another execution may be issued at any time within ten
years after the test of the last, without a revival of the judg
ment.

SEC. 9223. (3174). Scire facias when execution did not issue
within a year. —No execution shall issue on a judgment or
decree of the circuit, chancery, or probate court, on which an
execution has not been sued out within one year after its ren
dition, until the same has been revived by scire facias, if the
defendant is a resident of the state, calling on him to show
cause why the plaintiff should not have execution. When the
defendant is a non-resident, the plaintiff must make affidavit of
such non-residence, and that such judgment or decree is unsat
isfied, and cause publication to be made, once a week for three
successive weeks, in some newspaper published in the county,
calling on the defendant to show cause why the plaintiff should
not have execution on his judgment or decree; and a copy of
the paper containing such publication must be forwarded bymail to the defendant, if his post-office is known. But if ten
years have elapsed from the rendition of the judgment, with
out issue of the execution, or if ten years have elapsed since the
date of the last execution issued, the judgment must be pre
sumed satisfied, and the burden of proving it not satisfied is
cast on the plaintiff.

SEC. 2924. (3175). Scire facias barred in twenty years. — No
scire facias shall issue to revive a judgment or decree after the
lapse of twenty years from its rendition.

SEC. 2925. (3176). Execution issues in favor of representative.
When a plaintiff dies after the rendition of a judgment or de
cree in his favor, and such judgment or decree is unsatisfied,
execution may issue thereon in favor of the personal represent
ative of such deceased plaintiff without a revival thereof; and
when a judgment or decree is rendered in favor of an executor,
administrator, guardian, or trustee, who dies, resigns, or is re
moved, or whose authority ceases from any cause, execution
may issue in favor of the successor without a revival.
SEC. 2926. (3177). Revival of judgment or decree after plain
tiff's death. —When any plaintiff in a judgment or decree dies,
the same may be revived in favor of his personal representative
upon ten days' notice to the defendant. This may be done in
vacation, and if objection is made to the revival, appeal may be
taken to the next term of the court, upon the defendant giving
bond in twice the amount of the judgment.

SEC. 2927. (3178). Assignee of judgment or decree may have
execution. —If the assignment of a judgment or decree is made
or indorsed on the execution docket, or on the margin of the
record of the judgment or decree, and is attested by the clerk,
register, or judge of probate, the assignee may have execution
thereon, in the name of the plaintiff, for his use, whether the
plaintiff be living or dead.
SEC. 2928. (3178). Also scire facias. —The assignee of a judgment
or decree, if the assignment be in writing, may by scire facias
have such judgment or decree revived in his name.

CHAPTER 1.
ATTACHMENTS AT LAW.
Article 1. —Issue of attachments.

ISSUE OF ATTACHMENTS.
SEC. 2929. (3252). For what demands issued.—Attachments may
issue,—
1. To enforce the collection of a debt, whether it be due or
not, at the time the attachment is taken out.
2. For any moneyed demand, the amount of which can be
certainly ascertained.
3. To recover damages for a breach of contract, when the dam
ages are not certain or liquidated.
4. When the action sounds in damages merely.
(3253). Cases in which issued.—And in the following ca
ses :
1. When the defendant resides out of the state.
2. When the defendant absconds.
3. When the defendant secretes himself so that the ordinary
process of law cannot be served on him.
4. When the defendant is about to remove out of the state.
5. When the defendant is about to remove his property out of
the state, so that the plaintiff will probably lose his debt, or have
to sue for it in another state.
6. When the defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of his
property.
7. When the defendant has fraudulently disposed of his
property.
8. When the defendant has moneys, property, or effects, lia
ble to satisfy his debts, which he fraudulently withholds.

SEC. 2931. (3254). By what officers issued.—In the first and sec
ond cases mentioned in the first section of this article, an attach
ment may be issued by any judge of the circuit court, returna
ble to any county in the state ; or by the clerk of the city or cir-
cuit court, judge of probate, or any justice of the peace, or 'a no
tary public exercising the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace,
within their respective counties; in the third and fourth cases,
only by a judge of the circuit court, judge of probate, or chan
cellor, returnable to any county.

SEC. 2932. (3255). Oath to be made. —The officer, before issuing
the attachment in the first two cases mentioned in the last sec
tion, must require the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, to make
oath of the amount qf the debt or demand, and that it is justly
due, and that one of the causes enumerated in the second sec
tion of this article exists; and that the attachment is not sued
out for the purpose of vexing or harassing the defendant; and
such oath must be reduced to writing and subscribed by the
party making it.

SEC. 2933. (3256). Bond and surety also required.—Such officer
must further require the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, to exe
cute a bond in double the amount claimed, with sufficient surety,
payable to the defendant, with condition that the plaintiff will
pi'osecnte the attachment to effect, and pay the defendant all
such damages as he may sustain from the wrongful or vexatious
suing out of such attachment.

SEC. 2934. (3257). When additional affidavit required— When
an attachment is applied for in the cases provided for in the third
and fourth subdivisions of the first section of this article, the
judge or chancellor, before issuing it, must require the plaintiff',
his agent, or attorney, in addition to the affidavit and bond re
quired in other cases, to make affidavit in writing of the special
facts and circumstances, so as to enable him to determine the
amount for which a levy must be made; which sum may, at the
discretion of the court, be reduced at the return term of the at
tachment, on affidavit of the defendant, and the levy released to
the amount of such reduction.

SEC. 5935. (3258). Attachment by a non-resident against an
other. —A non-resident of this state may sue out an attachment
against a non-resident for an existing debt or ascertained lia
bility; but the plaintiff", his agent, or attorney, is required, in
addition to the oath necessary in other cases, to swear that, ac
cording to the best of his knowledge, information, and belief,
the defendant has not sufficient property within the state of his
residence wherefrom to satisfy the debt; and must also give
bond as in other cases, with surety resident in this state.

SEC. 2936. (3259). Notice to non-resident defendant.—When an
attachment is sued out against a non-resident of the state, the
writ shall be returned to the clerk of the court as soon as levied
upon the property of the defendant, and thereupon the clerk
shall cause a notice of the attachment and levy on the defend
ant's property to be advertised, once a week for three successive
weeks, in some newspaper, a copy of which must be sent by
mail to the defendant, if his residence is known or can be as
certained ; and if such publication is perfected twenty days be
fore the next term of the court, the case shall stand for trial at
that term; otherwise, at the succeeding term, or any other
term after the perfection of such publication twenty days prior
thereto.

SEC. 2937. (3260). Notice of levy when defendant resident of
state. —Notice of the levy of the attachment shall be given in
writing by the sheriff, or other person who makes such levy, to
the defendant in person, or notice thereof in writing left at his
residence, if resident in the county; and if not resident in the
county, but a resident of the state, then by posting up a writ
ten notice at the court-house door, and by sending a copy of
the same by mail, addressed to the defendant at the post-office
nearest his residence.
SEC. 2938. (3261). Corporations may sue out attachments. —Cor
porations, either foreign or domestic, are entitled to process of
attachment for the recovery of the debts or ascertained de
mands due them, the president, cashier of the corporation, or
an agent or attorney thereof, making the affidavit and execut
ing bond as in other cases.
SEC. 2939. (3262). How security for costs may be given.—When
an attachment is sued out in favor of a non-resident, or a
foreign corporation, security for the costs of the suit may be
taken and approved by the officer issuing the same, or may be
indorsed with his approval on the attachment.

SEC. 2940. (3263). Attachments against foreign corporations.
Process of attachment may issue against foreign corporations,
having property in this state, for the recovery of debts, or to
recover damages for a breach of contract when the damages
are not certain or liquidated, or in cases where the action
sounds in damages merely, in the same manner, and subject to
the same rules as in case of natural persons residing without
this state.

SEC. 2941. (3264). Form; no objection taken for want of. —The
form of attachment must be in substance as follows, but no ob
jection shall be taken for any defect in form, if the essential
matters are set forth :
"The State of Alabama, \ To any sheriff of the State of Ahicounty.
j bama:
" Whereas A. B. (or 0. IX, as the agent or attorney of A. 13.,
as the case may be,) hath complained on oath to me, E. F.,
judge of the circuit court of said state (or justice of the peace,
or judge of the probate court, or clerk of the circuit court of
said county, or as the case may be), that G. H. is (or will be,
as the case may be,) justly indebted to the plaintiff in the sum
of dollars, and the plaintiff having made affidavit and
given bond as required by law in such cases, you are hereby
commanded to attach so much of the estate of (1. H. as will be
of value to satisfy the said debt and costs, according to the com
plaint ; and such estate, unless replevied, so to secure that the
same may be liable to further proceedings thereon, to be had at
the next term of the circuit court for the county of , to be
held at the court-house thereof; when and where you must
make known how you have executed this writ. •
"Witness my hand, this, etc. E. F., Clerk."

SEC. 2942. (3265). Return of bond and affidavit.—The bond andaffidavit must be returned by the officer issuing the attachment
to the court to which the attachment is returnable.
SEC. 2943. (3266). When issued and executed on Sunday. —At
tachments may issue and be executed on Sunday, if the plaintiff,
his agent, or attorney, in addition to the oath prescribed for the
issue of such process, make affidavit that the defendant is
absconding, or is about to abscond, or is about- t""> remove his
property from the state, and give the bond required in this
article.
SEC. 2944. (3267). Provisions of chapter applicable to private
corporations.—The provisions of this chapter are applicable to
all private corporations*, and all affidavits or answers, required
to be made under any of its provisions, may be made by the
president, cashier, secretary, or any other duly authorized agent
of such corporation ; and such corporations may do and be
dealt with under its provisions, in the same manner as if they
were natural persons.

Article II.
IX WUAT MANNER AND OX WHAT PROPERTY EXEC'l'TED.
SEC. 2945. (3268). How attachment executed. — Attachments
may be levied on real estate, whether a fee-simple or any less
legal estate, or on personal property of the defendant; or may
be executed by summoning any person indebted to the defend
ant, or liable to him on a contract for the delivery of personal
property, or for the payment of money which may be discharged
by the delivery of personal property, or on a contract payable
in personal property, or a person having in his possession, or
under his control, any money or effects belonging to the de
fendant; and the officer executing the writ must indorse such
levy or service thereon, and, if practicable, take the property
into his possession, unless replevied as hereinafter prescribed.

SEC. 2946. (3269). Garnishee cited to appear and answer. —Such
person is called the garnishee, and the summons must be to an
swer, at the return term upon oath, whether, at the time of the
service of the garnishment, or at the time of making his answer,
or at any time intervening the time of serving the garnishment
and making the answer, he was indebted to the defendant, and
whether he will not be indebted in future to him by a contract
then existing, and whether by a contract then existing he is li
able to him for the delivery of personal property, or for the
payment of money which may be discharged by the delivery
of personal property, or which is payable in personal property,
and whether he has not in his possession, or under his control,
money or effects belonging to the defendant, a copy of which
citation he must return executed, together with the attachment
and levy.
SEC. 2947. (3270). Levied on joint or separate estate or interest. An attachment may be levied on the joint or separate estate
of joint obligors, promissors, or partners, whether resident or
non-resident.

SEC. 2948. (3271). Executors and administrators. — Executors
and administrators may be garnished for a debt due by the testator
or intestate to the defendant, and may commence a suitby attachment in their representative character.

SEC. 2949. (3272). Garnished for amounts due legatees and dis
tributees. —Executors and administrators may be garnished for
debts due the legatees, or distributees; but no judgment can
be rendered against them until a settlement of the estate, un
less they assent to the legacy, or admit assets to pay the amount
claimed, or some portion thereof, out of the distributive share
of the debtor.

SEC. 2950. (3273*). Money in hands of officers or attorneys.
Money in the hands of an attorney at law, sheriff, or other offi
cer, may be attached; and in the case of officers of the court,
the money must be paid into court, to abide the result of the
suit, unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. 2951. (3275). Money in the hands of a trustee. —Money or
effects of the defendant, in the hands of a trustee, may be at
tached and held subject to the validity of the instrument creat
ing the trust, or the excess remaining in the trustee's hands af
ter the execution of the trust, if valid; but if the deed be held
void, the trustee, if not guilty of actual fraud, may retain for a
debt due himself, and must be protected so far as he has acted
in good faith under the trust before the levy of the attach
ment.

SEC. 2952. (3276). Debts or demands in suit subject to garnish
ment. —A debt or demand which is subject to garnishment
may be reached and subjected, though suit may be pending
thereon; and if the suit be not pending in the court from which
the garnishment issues, the court, on proof by the garnishee
of the pendency of the garnishment, must, on the rendition
of judgment, stay execution until notified by the clerk of the
court in which the garnishment or attachment is instituted, that
final judgment has been rendered; in which case it must make
the appropriate order according as the judgment is rendered
for the plaintiff or defendant.

SEC. 2953. (3277). Attachments executed in any county.—The
attachment may be executed in any county of the state by the
sheriff of the county in which the property or garnishee may
be found; and the sheriff must take and hold the property at
tached, unless replevied, subject to the order of the court in
which the attachment is pending.
SEC. 2954. (3278). Branch writs. —Branch writs of attachment
may issue to any county of the state, directed to any sheriff of
the State of Alabama, to be executed as in the preceding sec
tion.
SEC. 2955. (3313). Alias writs; new writs of garnishment.
Alias writs of attachment, or new writs of garnishment, may be
issued by the clerk without a renewal of the bond or affidavit,
in cases where no property, or an insufficient amount thereof to
satisfy the plaintiff's demand, has been found, or when, pending
the suit, the plaintiff wishes to garnish other persons.
SEC. 2956. (3279). Levy by constables. — When an attachment is
issued by a justice of the peace, if the amount of the debt does
not exceed the penalty of the constable's bond, the justice may,
by indorsement on the process, direct it to be executed by the
constable of the precinct, who shall return the same to the
court to which it is returnable.
SEC. 2957. (3280). Lien of attachment—The levy of an attach
ment, or service of a garnishment, creates a lien in favor of the
plaintiff.

SEC. 2958. (3281). Sale of perishable property under order of
court. —If the property levied on be perishable, it must be sold
by order of the court, on motion of either party, and the pro
ceeds of the sale retained by the sheriff to await the decision of
the cause, unless the court otherwise direct.
SEC. 2959. (3282). When sold without order of court—If the
property levied on be of so perishable a nature that it will de
teriorate greatly in value, or be destroyed, before the meeting
of the court, or if the charge of keeping it be very great, it is
the duty of the sheriff, if not replevied, to sell it at public auc
tion, returning the facts and the money to the court.

SEC. 2960. (3283). When plaintiff may receive proceeds of sale
upon executing refunding bond. —When property levied on
under an attachment has been sold pending the suit, on motion
of the plaintiff, the judge of the court to which the attachment
is returnable must, at any time after thirty days from the levy,
in term time or vacation, make, and cause to be entered upon
the minutes of the court, an order directing the officer having
in his hands the proceeds of sale, after reserving an amount, to
be fixed in the order, to cover the probable costs and charges in
the cause, to pay over to the plaintiff, or his attorney, the bal
ance of such proceeds, not exceeding the amount of the plain
tiff's demand, to be stated in the order, upon his giving bond in
double the amount of the money to be paid over, payable to the
defendant, with sufficient surety, to be approved by such officer,
and with condition, that if he is cast in the suit, he will pay into
court the amount so paid over to him, with interest, or if he
recovers in the suit, and the recovery is for a sum less than the
amount so paid over to him, he will pay into court the excess,
with interest ; and upon the execution of such bond, such offi
cer shall pay over to the plaintiff, or his attorney, the proceeds
of sale as directed in the order. Such order shall not, however,
be made, if, upon the hearing of the motion, or at any time
prior thereto, a claim to the property levied on is interposed by
any person not a party to the suit, or the defendant denies
under oath the existence of the plaintiff's demand. Notice of
such motion, and of the time and place of hearing the same,
must be served on the defendant, or his attorney, ten days be
fore the hearing thereof; or if the defendant resides out of the
state, and has no attorney resident of the county, such notice
must be given by publication in some newspaper published in
the county, once a week for three successive weeks.
SEC. 2961. (3283). Proceedings on forfeiture of such bond ; when
money to be paid defendant. —The officer taking such bond
shall forthwith return the same to the clerk of the court in
which the suit is pending, with his indorsement thereon, show
ing how he has executed such order, and specifying the amount
paid over to the plaintiff, or his attorney, thereunder, and the
date of such payment; and if the plaintiff is cast in the suit,
or if he recovers, and his recovery is for a less sum than the
amount paid him under such order, and he fails for thirty days
after the date of the rendition of the judgment to pay into
court the money required by the condition of his bond to be
paid, the clerk shall indorse the bond forfeited, and issue exe
cution thereon against the obligors for the amount so paid to
the plaintiff, or his attorney, as shown by the indorsement of
the officer taking the bond, with interest from the date of such
payment, if the plaintiff was cast in the suit; or, if the plaintiff
recovered, and his recovery was for a less sum than the amount
so paid, for the difference between the amount recovered and
the amount received by him, with interest from the date of pay
ment. If the plaintiff complies with the condition of the bond
by paying the money into court, the same must be paid to the
defendant.
SEC. 2962. (3284). Amount so received by sheriff recovered on
one day's notice. —The sheriff and his sureties, or either of
them, may be proceeded against by motion, on one day's no
tice, at the instance of the plaintiff, or of the defendant, if the
plaintiff fail in the action, for any money received for the sale
of perishable property; and judgment rendered against him or
them for the amount, and five per cent, a month from the time
of the demand.

SEC. 2963. (3285). Bond of indemnity.—When a doubt exists as
to the title of the defendant to personal property which the
sheriff is required to levy upon, he may demand indemnity
from the plaintiff.
Article III.
REPLEVY OF PROPERTY.
SEC. 2964. (8289). Replevy of property levied on.—The defend
ant in attachment, or, in his absence, a stranger, may replevy
the goods or chattels attached, or any part thereof, by execut
ing bond, with sufficient sureties, payable to the plaintiff, in
double the value of the property replevied, to be determined by
the officer making the levy, with condition that if the defend
ant fail in the action, the principal in the bond, or his sureties,
will return the specific property attached within thirty days af
ter the judgment; which bond must be returned with the other
papers of the cause.

SEC. 2965. (3291). Forfeiture of replevy bond ; execution there
on. — When the property replevied is not delivered in thirty
days after judgment against the defendant, in attachment, the
sheriff shall return the bond forfeited, and execution must be
issued thereon against the principal and sureties for the amount
of the value of the property replevied, as fixed by the sheriff
or other officer making the levy, with interest thereon from the
date of the bond, and for the cost of the replevy and of the ex
ecution, unless such value is greater than the amount of the
judgment against the defendant, in which case the execution
shall be for the amount of such judgment and costs.

SEC. 2966. (3292). If property dies, or is destroyed, value re
ceived in discharge of bond. —If any of the property so re
plevied should die or lie destroyed without fault or negligence
on the part of the person in possession, before the day for the
delivery thereof, the obligors in the bond may tender the value
to the plaintiff his agent, or attorney; and if such tender is re
fused, such obligors may obtain relief by supersedeas.

Article IV.
ANCILLARY ATTACHMENTS; GARNISHMENT.
SEC. 2967. (3319, 3320). Attachment in aid of pending suit.
When a suit has been commenced by the suing out of a sum
mons, whether such summons has been executed or not, the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, may, at any time before judg
ment, sue out an attachment in aid of such suit, upon making
affidavit and giving bond as is required on the issue of original
attachments; and all proceedings on such attachments must he
conducted as are proceedings on original attachments; and such
attachment may be sued out in any case in which an original
attachment may be sued out, and may be issued by the officer
having authority to issue original attachments.
SEC. 2968. (3219). Garnishment in aid of pending suit. —A gar
nishment may issue in aid of a pending suit, at any time before
judgment, whether the summons has been executed or not ; but
if the suit be for the recovery of damages merely, or for the re
covery of uncertain or unliquidated damages for a breach of
contract, such garnishment must be issued only on the order of
a judge of probate, or chancellor, or judge of the circuit or city
court, in which such suit is pending, after the plaintiff has
made the special affidavit of the facts and circumstances of the
case required by section 2934 (3257), and such judge or chancel
lor has prescribed the penalty of the bond to be given by the
plaintiff; and in all cases the plaintiff, upon the issue of the
garnishment, must give bond with surety, payable and with
condition as in case of original attachments.*
SEC. 2969. (3321). Attachment may issue when resident de
fendant evades service of summons. —When a summons has
been returned "not found" as to all or any of the defendants,
residents of the county, if the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
make affidavit that the defendant has evaded the service of the
process, the court must direct an attachment to issue, returnable
to the next term of the court, and the cause must in all respects
proceed, as against such defendant, as if originally commenced
by attachment.
SEC. 2970. (3322). Proceedings in such case. —The plaintiff may,
notwithstanding such attachment, proceed to judgment against
any of the defendants on whom process was served ; but a judg
ment and satisfaction of the debt or claim abate the attachment
at the costs of the plaintiff.
SEC. 2971. (3218). Garnishment on judgment. —Process of gar
nishment may issue on a judgment or decree on which execu
tion can issue without bond or security, and may be sued out
by the assignee of such judgment or decree.
\
SEC. 2972. (3220). Subscription for stock in a corporation sub-
!"ect to garnishment. —A judgment creditor of a corporation,
laving execution returned " no property found," may sue out a
garnishment to reach and subject the unpaid subscription of
any stockholder in such corporation, without giving bond or
security.

SEC. 2973. Special affidavit. —Garnishment must not issue to ob
tain satisfaction of a judgment or decree, or in aid of a pend
ing suit commenced in the ordinary form, without an affidavit
made and filed by the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, that pro
cess of garnishment is believed to be necessary to obtain satin-faction of such judgment or decree, or of the judgment which
may be recovered in such pending suit, and that the person to
be summoned as garnishee has, or is believed to have, in his
possession, or under his control, money or effects belonging to
the defendant, or that he is, or is believed to be, indebted to the
defendant, or to be liable to him on a contract for the delivery
of personal property, or on a contract for the payment of
money which may be discharged by the delivery of personal
property, or which is payable in personal property; and it is
not an objection to an affidavit for garnishment that all or any
of these matters are stated in the alternative.
Article V.
ANSWER OF GARNISHEE AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON
SEC. 2974. (3293). Answer of garnishee. —The garnishee must
answer under oath according to the terms of the citation or
garnishment, within the first three days of the return term of
the attachment or garnishment, and may, if required by the
plaintiff, be examined orally in the presence of the court.

SEC. 2975. (3222). Answer of corporation ; by whom made.—No
person shall answer, on behali of any corporation, any process
of garnishment, unless he shall make affidavit that he is the duly
authorized agent of the corporation to make such answer.

SEC. 2976. (3294). Judgment on answer; when execution sus
pended. —If the garnishee answers and admits indebtedness to
the defendant, judgment thereon must be rendered against him,
after judgment against the defendant, for the amount so ad
mitted, if less than the amount of the judgment against the de
fendant; if more or equal thereto, for the amount thereof; and
if the debt or demand is not then payable, execution must be
suspended until its maturity.
SEC. 2977. Judgment on demand payable in personal property,
or on contract to deliver personal property.—If the garnishee
is liable for the delivery of personal property, or for the payment
of money which may be discharged by the delivery of personal
property, the value of the property must be ascertained, and a
judgment rendered against the garnishee that, if he do not, by
a day to be fixed by the court, which must be a day after the ma
turity of such contract, deliver such property to the sheriff or
other lawful officer, he must pay the value thereof, or the sum
of money which was payable therein; and, upon the return of
the sheriff, or such other officer, that such property was not de
livered, or the value thereof, or such sum of money was not paid
to him, as required by the judgment, execution must be issued
for the ascertained value of such property, or for the sum of
money payable therein, if the same is less than the amount of
the judgment against the defendant in the original suit; if more,
or equal thereto, for the amount thereof. If such property is
delivered to the sheriff, or other lawful officer, he must proceed
to a sale thei'eof.
SEC. 2978. (3295, 3296, 3297). Judgment and proceedings on an
swer admitting possession of effects of defendant. —If the
garnishee admits the possession of effects of the defendant, the
subject of levy and sale under legal process, judgment of con
demnation must be rendered, that such effects be delivered up on
demand, after the rendition of judgment in favor of the plaint
iff in the original suit, or so much thereof as may be necessary
to satisfy the judgment, and the sheriff must make sale thereof.
If the garnishee fails to deliver such effects to the sheriff on de
mand, he must make return thereof to the clerk, who must
thereupon issue an execution against the garnishee in favor of
the plaintiff for the amount of the judgment and costs. If, how-
over, such failure is without fault or negligence on the part of
the garnishee, he may tender to the plaintiff, his agent, or attor
ney, the value of such effects, and if such tender is refused, he
may obtain relief by supersedeas.
SEC. 2979. Judgment when garnishee admits possession of
money.—If the garnishee admits the possession of money be
longing to the defendant, he must pay the same, or so much
thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the plaintiff's demand and
costs, into court, to await the order of the court; and if he fails
to make such payment, he is liable as if he had admitted an in
debtedness for the amount of such money.
SEC. 2980. (3298). Proceedings on failure to answer. — If the
garnishee fails to appear and answer, a conditional judgment
must be rendered against him for the amount of the plaintiff's
claim, as ascertained by his judgment, to be made absolute, un
less he appears within the first three days of the next term and
answer ; and a notice of the judgment must be issued to him
by the clerk, to be served on him, as other process, by the sheriff.
If he fails to appear at the next term, after notice executed, or-
if two notices be returned not found by the sheriff of the county
in which the garnishment was executed, the judgment must be
made absolute.

SEC. 2981. (3299). Contest of answer by plaintiff.—The plaintiff,his agent, or attorney, may controvert the answer of the gar
nishee, by making oath, at the term the answer is made, that he
believes it to be untrue ; and thereupon, an issue must be made
up, under the direction of the court, in which the plaintiff must
allege in what respect the answer is untrue ; and if required by
either party, a jury must be impaneled to try such issue.
SEC. 2982. (8300). Contest of answer by defendant. — The de
fendant, upon the coming in of the answer, may allege that the
garnishee is indebted to him in a larger sum than he has ad
mitted, or is otherwise liable to him on a demand, the subject
of garnishment, or that he holds money or effects of the defend
ant not admitted in his answer, which being reduced to writing,
setting forth particularly in what respect the answer is defi
cient, and being sworn to, an issue must thereupon be made up,
under the direction of the court, which must be tried by a jury,
if required by either party; but such controversy shall not pre
vent the plaintiff from taking judgment upon the answer of
the garnishee.

SEC. 2983. (3301). Judgment when answer is not sustained.
If such issue is founu against the garnishee, judgment must be
rendered against him in favor of the plaintiff, if necessary to
satisfy his claim or judgment against the defendant, or in favor
of the defendant, if such judgment has been satisfied.
SEC. 2984. (3302). On suggestion by garnishee of claim by an
other, such claimant made a party.—When the garnishee,
by his answer as originally filed, or by any supplemental an
swer thereafter, at any time before final judgment against him,
alleges that lie has been notified that another person claims title
to, or an interest in the debt or demand, or money, or effects,
which by his answer he has admitted to be due or owing, or to
be in his possession, the court must suspend proceedings against
the garnishee, and cause a notice to issue to such person to ap
pear at the next term of the court, and contest with the plaint
iff the right to such debt, demand, money, or effects.
SEC. 2985. (3303). Proceedings to try such claim. —If he ap

ars, he must be required to propound his claim in ■writing,
and make oath thereto, upon which the plaintiff must take is
sue in law, or in fact, and the issue in fact must be tried by a
jury, if required by either party. If the issue be found for the
plaintiff, judgment must be rendered against the garnishee on
his answer; if for the contestant, the garnishee must be dis
charged.

SEC. 2986. (3304). When a contestant is a non-resident. —If the
contestant be a non-resident, the contest must be stayed six
months, and the same proceedings had as in the case of a non
resident defendant.

SEC. 2987. (3305). If resident contestant be not found, judg
ment against the garnishee. —If two notices to the resident
contestant he returned "not found," judgment must be ren
dered against the garnishee on his answer.

SEC. 2988. (3306). Such issues do not change the jurisdiction.
The interposition of these collateral issues does not affect the
jurisdiction of the court obtained by levy of the attachment.
SEC. 2989. (3307). Bills of exceptions in such cases. —Upon the
trial of these collateral issues, either party may reserve any
question by bill of exceptions for revision ; and judgment for
costs must be rendered against the unsuccessful party.
SEC. 2990. (3308). Appeals. —An appeal lies to the supreme court
at the instance of the plaintiff, the defendant, the garnishee, the
contestant, or claimant.
SEC. 2991. (3309). Garnishee recovers his costs on a discharge.
When the answer of the garnishee is not controverted, or, if
controverted, is found for him, he is allowed the pay of a juror
during his attendance, for which execution may issue ; if there
be no effects, then from the plaintiff, for which he may have
judgment and execution.
SEC. 2992. (3310). Proceedings on death of garnishee or con
testant. —If the garnishee die after he has been summoned as
garnishee, and pending the litigation, the proceedings may be
revived against his legal representatives; so, if the contestant
die, after notice to appear and contest with the plaintiff

SEC. 2993. (3316). Effect of judgment of condemnation as be
tween garnishee and defendant. —The judgment condemning
the debt, or demand, or money, or effects, to the satisfaction of
the plaintiff's demand, is conclusive as between the garnishee
and the defendant to the extent of such judgment, unless the
defendant prosecutes to effect an appeal from such judgment,
which he may do in his own name; and if such judgment is su
perseded by bond, and the garnishee is notified of the fact, he
is not permitted to discharge such judgment pending the ap
peal.

SEC. 2994. Garnishment; nature of. — A garnishment, as the
word is employed in this Code, is process to reach and subject
money or effects of a defendant in attachment, or in a judg
ment or decree, or in a pending suit commenced in the ordi
nary form, in the possession or under the control of a third per
son, or debts owing such defendant, or liabilities to him on
contracts for the delivery of personal property, or on contracts
for the payment of money which may be discharged by the de
livery of personal property, or on a contract payable in personal
property; and such third person is called the garnishee.
Article VI.
PLEADINGS, TRIAL, JUDGMENT AND EXECUTION.
SEC. 2995. (3323, 3324). Complaint, when to be filed; time oftrial. —The plaintiff must, within the first three days of the re
turn term of the attachment, file his complaint, and the cause
stands for trial at such return term, if the levy is made and
notice thereof is given twenty days before the commencement
of such term; but if the attachment is issued upon a demand
not then due, the cause shall not stand for trial, nor shall the
plaintiff be required to file his complaint, until such demand is
due and payable.

SEC. 2996. (3325). Practice in such suits. —If the defendant ap
pears and pleads, the cause proceeds as in suits commenced by
summons and complaint; if he fails to appear, or appearing,
fails to plead within the time required by law, the plaintiff may
take judgment by default or nil dicit, and may execute a writ of
inquiry, if necessary.
SEC. 2997. (3314). When attachment may be abated. —An at
tachment issued without affidavit and bond, as prescribed in
this chapter, may be abated on plea of the defendant, filed
within the first three days of the return term.

SEC. 2998. (3315). Attachment law; how construed; when at
tachment cannot be abated. —The attachment law must be
liberally construed to advance the manifest intent of the law ;
and the plaintiff, before or during the trial, must be permitted
to amend any defect of form or of substance in the affidavit,
bond, or attachment; and no attachment must be dismissed for
any defect in the affidavit, if the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
will make a sufficient affidavit, or for any defect in the bond, or
for want of a bond, if the plaintiff', his agent, or attorney, is will
ing to give or substitute a sufficient bond.

SEC. 2999. (3317, 3318). Grounds of issue not traversable; suit
on bond, when brought, and what damages recoverable.
The defendant must not deny or put in issue the cause for which
the attachment issued; but, at any time within three years of the
suing out of the attachment, before or after the suit is deter
mined, he may commence suit on the attachment bond, and may
recover such damages as he has actually sustained, if the attach
ment was wrongfully sued out; and, if sued out maliciously as
well as wrongfully, the jury may, in addition, give vindictive
damages.

SEC. 3000. (3311). Judgment in attachment suspended until
trial of collateral issues. —No judgment can be rendered against
the defendant in attachment, when a claim has been interposed
to try the right of property, or when the answer of the garnishee
is contested, or a contest has arisen about the title to, or inter
est in the debt or demand, money or effects garnished, until
these questions are settled ; unless other property or effects of
the defendant be attached or garnished, about which no contest
has arisen.
SEC. 3001. (3312). Property condemned restored. —If the plaintiff
do not obtain judgment against the defendant in attachment, all
property condemned, where a claim for the trial of the right of
property had been interposed, must be restored to the claimant
at the costs of the plaintiff.
SEC. 3002. (3274). Judgments against personal representatives.
No judgment can be rendered against an executor or adminis
trator upon his answer in attachment or garnishment, until
eighteen months after the grant of letters testamentary, or of ad
ministration.
SEC. 3003. (3326). Process for satisfaction of judgment.—If the
judgment of the plaintiff be not satisfied by the property at
tached, or by the garnishee, execution must issue thereon, which
may be levied on, and satisfied by any property of the defendant ;
and the plaintiff may proceed to a sale of the property attached
by a venditioni exponas, or by an ordinary writ of execution.
CHAPTER 2.
TRrAL OF RIGHT OF PROPERTY.
SEC. 3004. (3341). Personal property levied on under execufion.
when delivered to claimant. — When an execution is
levied on personal property claimed by any person, not a party
to the writ, he ie entitled to try the right to such property be
fore a sale thereof, upon affidavit being made by himself, his
agent, or attorney, that he has a just claim to the property
levied on, and upon executing a bond, with two good and suffi
cient sureties, payable to the plaintiff, in double the value of
the property so levied on and claimed, the value thereof to be
determined by the sheriff, but in no case is such bond to be
more than double the amount of the execution so levied, with
condition to have the property forthcoming for the satisfaction
of the judgment, if it be found liable therefor, and also for the
payment of such costs aud damages as may be recovered for
putting the claim in for delay; whereupon the property levied
on must be delivered to the possession of the claimant; Pro
vided, This right of trial to property shall include any person
who holds a lien upon, or equitable title to such property ; And
prodded further, That this rule shall apply to trials of the right
of property both in circuit and justice courts.

SEC. 3005. (3342). Return of papers; issue made up between
parties. —If the execution issued from the circuit court, or
court of like jurisdiction, the sheriff must return the affidavit
and bond to the next term of such court, when an issue must be
made up between the plaintiff in execution and the claimant,
in which the former must allege that the property claimed isthe property of the defendant in execution, and is liable to itssatisfaction.

SEC. 3006. (705). Return and proceedings when execution is
sued from probate or chancery court. —If the execution issued
from the probate or chancery court, the sheriff must return the
original execution to the court issuing the same, with an in
dorsement thereon of the interposition of such claim ; and he
must return a copy of the execution and of the returns thereon,
the affidavit and bond to the next term of the circuit court, or
other court of like jurisdiction, of his county, where the trial of
the right of property must be had according to the provisions
of this chapter.
SEC. 3007. (3343). Burden of proof on plaintiff in execution;
damages for delay. —Upon the trial ot the issue, the burden of
proof is on the plaintiff in execution ; and if the jury subject the
property to the payment of the execution, they must, as far as
practicable, assess the value, at the time of the trial, of each
article separately ; and if it be shown on the trial that the claim
was interposed for delay, they must also assess such damages as
the plaintiff may be entitled to, not less than ten per centum on
the execution.

SEC. 3008. (3344). When bond indorsed forfeited; execution
thereon. —If judgment is rendered against the claimant, and he
fails to deliver the property to the sheriff within thirty days
thereafter to satisfy the plaintiff's execution, the sheriff must in
dorse the bond forfeited ; and thereupon the clerk must issue an
execution against all the obligors therein for the amount of the
plaintiff's judgment, if that is less than the value of the prop
erty as assessed by the jury, or for the amount of such assessed
value, if less than the amount of the judgment, and also for the
damages, if any were assessed, and the costs of the trial of the
right of property.
SEC. 3009. (706). Return of execution on bond, when original
execution issued from probate or chancery court. —If the
original execution issued from the probate or chancery court,
the execution on the forfeited bond must be made returnable to
such court, as other process returnable thereto; of which, and
the time of its receipt by the sheriff", he must give the judge of
such probate court, or the register of such chancery court, as the
case may be, written notice, which shall be presumptive evidence
of the fact against such sheriff".
SEC. 3010. (3345). Proceedings when property levied on under
execution from another county. —When the levy is made in a
different county from that in which the j udgment is rendered, if a
claim is interposed to the property, it is the duty of the sheriff
to return the original execution to the court from which it is
sued, with his return thereon of the interposition of the claim,
and true copies of the bond and affidavit, certified by him; and
he must return the bond and affidavit, and a true copy of the ex
ecution, certified by him, to the circuit court, or other court of
like jurisdiction, of his own county, where the trial of the right
of property must be had; and the'copies thus required to be
made, certified by the sheriff" to be true copies of the originals,
must be received in lieu of, and have, in all respects, the same
effect as the originals.

SEC. 3011. (3346). Proceedings on forfeiture of bond in such case.If, in the case provided for in the preceding section, the prop
erty is found liable to the plaintiff's execution, and is not deliv
ered up to the sheriff' of the county in which the trial of the
right of property was had, within thirty days thereafter, he
must indorse the bond forfeited, and thereupon the clerk must
issue execution as in other cases of the trial of the right of
property, except that he must make the same returnable to the
court from which the original execution issued; of which, and
the time of its receipt by the sheriff", he must give the proper
officer of such court written notice ; which shall be presump
tive proof of the fact against the sheriff; and he must also issue
a separate execution for the costs of his own court.

SEC. 3012. (3290). Claim to property levied on under attach
ment ; proceedings thereon. — If any personal property, ou
which an attachment has been levied, is claimed'by any person
not a party to the writ, on making affidavit and executing bond
as required when property levied on under execution is claimed,
the property must be delivered to the claimant; and thereupon
the attachment and such bond and affidavit must be returned
by the sheriff in the same manner, and, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, the same proceedings must be had
thereon, as in the trial of the right of property levied on under
execution.
SEC. 3013. (3291). Forfeiture of claim bond in attachment cases,
and execution thereon. —When property levied on undar an
attachment, and delivered to a claimant, is not by the claimant
delivered to the sheriff' within thirty days after judgment
against him, the sheriff must return the bond forfeited; and,
upon the recovery of judgment by the plaintiff' against the de
fendant in attachment, execution must be issued upon such for
feited bond within the time required for the issue of executions
on judgments.
SEC. 3014. (3290). Affidavit administered by officer levying
process. —The affidavit to be made by the claimant, on inter
posing his claim under this chapter, may be made before the
officer levying the process.
SEC. 3015. (3347). Levy on other property not prevented. —The
interposition of a claim and the trial of the right of property do
not prevent the plaintiff' from levying on other property of the
defendant in the process.
SEC. 3016. (3348). Damages against sheriff released by claim.
A claim interposed for the trial of the right of property is a re
lease by the claimant in favor of the sheriff' from all damages
for seizing such property.

SEC. 3017. (3349). Claim by mortgagee; payment of secured
debt by plaintiff. —When personal property mortgaged to
another is levied on under execution or attachment, the mort
gagee, or his assignee, may try the right of property as provided
in this chapter ; but the plaintiff in the process may pay to the
mortgagee, or his assignee, the amount owing on the debt se
cured by the mortgage; and in such case the property shall be
sold, as well for the payment of the mortgage debt as for the
(satisfaction of the process, the proceeds of sale to be first ap
plied, after payment of costs, to reimburse the plaintiff' the
amount so paid by him to such mortgagee or assignee.

CHAPTER 3.
LIENS OF MECHANICS ANO MATERTAL-MEN.
SEC. 3018. (3440, 3441). Lien declared.—Every mechanic, or other
person, who shall do or perform any work or labor upon, or
furnish any material, fixtures, engine, boiler, or machinery for,
any building or improvement on land, or for repairing the same,
under or by virtue of any contract with the owner or proprietor
thereof, or his agent, trustee, contractor, or subcontractor, upon
complying with the provisions of this chapter, shall have a lien
therefor on such building or improvement, and on the land on
which the same is situated, to the extent, in ownership, of all
the right, title and interest owned therein by such owner or pro
prietor, and, in area, of the entire lot or parcel of land, if in a
city, town, or village, or, if not in a city, town, or village, of one
acre; but the lien of employes of the contractor and persons
furnishing materials to him shall extend only to the amount of
any unpaid balance due the contractor by the owner or pro
prietor; and such employes and material-men shall also have a
lien on such unpaid balance.

SEC. 3019. (3442). Priority of lien.— Such lien, as to the land,
shall have priority over all other liens, mortages, or incum
brances created subsequently to the commencement of the work
on the building or improvement, or repairs thereto ; and, as to
the building or improvement, it shall have priority over all
other liens, mortgages, or incumbrances, whether existing at the
time of the commencement of such work, or subsequently cre
ated ; and the person entitled to such lien may, when there is a
prior lien, mortgage, or incumbrance on the land, have it en
forced by a sale of the building or improvement under the pro
visions of this chapter, and the purchaser may, writhin a reason
able time thereafter, remove the same.
SEC. 3020. (3443). When building is on leased land.—When thebuilding or improvement is erected under or by virtue of any
contract with a lessee in possession, and the erection thereof is
not .in violation of the terms or conditions of the lease, the lien
shall attach to such building or improvement, and to the unex
pired term of the lease, and the holder of the lien shall have the
right to avoid a forfeiture of the lease by paying rent to the
lessor, as it becomes due and payable, or by the performance of
any other act or duty to which the lessee may be bound ; and if
the lien is enforced by a sale of the building or improvement,
the purchaser may, at his election, become entitled to the pos
session of the demised premises, and to remain therein for the
unexpired term, by paying rent to the lessor, or performing any
other act or duty to which the lessee was bound, as if he were
the assignee of the lease ; or he may, within sixty days after the
sale, remove such building or improvement from the premises ;
and if he elects to take possession and to remain therein until
the expiration of the term of the lease, he may, within a rea
sonable time after the expiration' of the term, remove such
building or improvement from the premises. If, before a sale,
the holder of the lien has made any payments of rent, or other
pecuniary compensation to the lessor, which ought to have been
paid by the lessee, he shall be reimbursed such payments from
the proceeds of sale.

SEC. 3021. Right of lessor to discharge lien or prevent removal
of building. —When a lien attaches under the preceding sec
tion, the lessor, at any time before a sale of the property, shall
have the right to discharge the same, by paying to the holder
the amount secured thereby, including costs and all moneys he
may have paid to the lessor to prevent a forfeiture of the lease ;
and after a sale, he shall have the right to prevent the removal of
the building or improvement from the premises, by paying to the
purchaser the value of such building or improvement; and
upon such payment, either to the holder of the lien or to the
purchaser, such building or improvement shall become the prop
erty of the lessor.
SEC. 3022. (3444). Verified statement to be filed with judge of
probate; filing and contents of statement. —It shall be the
duty of every original contractor, within six months, and of
every journeyman and day laborer, within thirty (lays, and ot
every other person entitled to such lien, within four months,
after the indebtedness has accrued/to file in the office of the
judge of probate of the- county in which the property upon
which the lien is sought to be established, is situated, a state
ment in writing, verified by the oath of the claimant, or some
other person having knowlege of the facts, containing a just
and true account of the demand secured by the lien, after all
just credits have been given, a description of the property on
which the lien is claimed, and the name of the owner or pro
prietor thereof, if known; but no error in amount or name of
the owner or proprietor shall affect the lien ; and unless such
statement is so filed, the lien shall be lost.

SEC. 3023. By what officers oath administered out of state.
If the oath to such statement is made beyond this state, it may
be administered by any officer authorized to take acknowledg
ments and proofs of conveyances beyond this state.
SEC. 3024. (-3445). Record of statement and fee therefor. —The
judge of probate shall indorse on such statement the date of its
filing, and shall record the same in a book kept for that pur
pose, which shall be properly labled and indexed, and note
therein the date of the filing: for all which he shall receive one
dollar, which shall be secured to the party filing the statement
by such lien.
SEC. 3025. Selection of land, when tract exceeds one acre.
When the land on which the building or improvement is situ
ated is not in a city, town, or village, and exceeds in area one
acre, the original contractor, or, if he dies, is absent from the
state, or, for any cause, refuses or fails, on demand, to do so, any
other party entitled to the lien, may, at anytime prior to filing
his statement in the office of the judge of probate, select the
one acre which shall be subject to the lien; such selection to
include the site of such building or improvement, and the
land contiguous thereto, and to constitute but one lot or par
cel.
SEC. 3026. (3457). When lien claimed by other than contractor;
notice given to owner; unpaid balance subject. —Every per
son, except the original contractor, who may wish to avail him
self of the provisions of this chapter, shall, before filing his
statement in the office of the judge of probate, give ten days'
notice in writing to the owner or proprietor, or his agent, that
he claims a lien on such building or improvement, setting forth
the amount thereof, for what and from whom it is owing; and
after such notice, any unpaid balance in the hands of the owner
or proprietor shall be held subject to such lien when perfected
and established.
SEC. 3027. (3458). List of employes, etc., furnished owner; ef-
fec^ of failure. — The original contractor shall, when so re
quired, furnish to the owner or proprietor a complete list of all
the material-men, laborers and employes, who have furnished
any material or thing, or have done any labor, or performed
any service, or who may be under any contract or engagement
to furnish any material or thing, or to do any labor, or perform
any service, for such contractor for or on such building or im
provement, with the terms and price thereof; and if he fails or
refuses to furnish such list, or to give such information, or if
he shall fail to pay any material-man, subcontractor, laborer, or
employe in accordance with any special contract made with the
owner or proprietor, he shall thereby forfeit his right to a lien
under this chapter.
SEC. 3028. Jurisdiction for enforcement of lien. — When the
amount involved exceeds fifty dollars, actions for the enforce
ment of liens under this chapter shall be brought in the circuit
court, or court having like jurisdiction, of the county in which
the property is situated; in all other cases, such actions shall be
brought before justices of the peace.
SEC. 3029. (3446). How suits brought ; pleadings and practice.
Such actions, when brought in the circuit court, or court of
like jurisdiction, shall be commenced by summons and com
plaint, and when brought before justices of the peace, by sum
mons. The complaint, or, when brought before justices of the
peace, the statement indorsed on the summons, shall contain a
description of the property on which the lien is claimed, and
shall allege the facts necessary to entitle the plaintiff to the
lien, .and the enforcement thereof; in all other respects, the
pleadings, practice and proceedings shall be the same as in or
dinary civil actions at law.

SEC. 3030. (3447). Parties to such actions. —In such actions, all
persons interested in the matter in controversy, or in the prop
erty charged with the lien, may be made parties; but such as
are not made parties shall not be bound by the judgment or
proceedings therein.

SEC. 3031. (3448). Revivor in case of death.—On the death of
any party to such suit, his personal representative shall be
made a party thereto, plaintiff or defendant, as the case may
be, and it shall not be necessary to make his heirs or devisees
parties; but if he has no personal representative, and it is not
desired to have one appointed, his heirs or devisees may be
made parties.
SEC. 3032. (3448). Service on, and guardian ad litem for in
fants and lunatics; effect of judgment. — When infants or
persons non compos mentis are made parties defendant in such
suit, the court must appoint a guardian ad litem to represent
them and to protect their interests therein; and the judgment
and proceedings in any such suit shall be as binding on them
as on adults or persons of sound mind. If the infants are four
teen years of age, or over, service shall be made on them per
sonally; if under the age of fourteen years, it shall be made
for them on the person having the charge or custody of them.
SEC. 3033. Service by publication. —When any defendant is ab
sent from, or a non-resident of the state, or secretes himself so
that service of process cannot be had upon him, upon affidavit
being made of such fact, publication shall be made as to such
defendant, as in cases commenced by attachment.
SEC. 3034. Issues, verdict and judgment. —Any defendant, by
appropriate plea, may put in issue the fact of indebtedness, or
the existence of the lien, or both, and may interpose any other
defense applicable to the suit; and if the court by its finding,
or the jury by their verdict, as the case may be, ascertain that
the plaintiff has a lien as claimed, judgment shall be rendered
for the amount secured thereby, interest and costs, against the
party liable for the same, and establishing the lien, and con
demning the property to sale for the satisfaction thereof; but if
the finding or verdict is for the plaintiff only on the issue of in
debtedness, a judgment shall be rendered in his favor for the
amount thereof as in other cases.
SEC. 3035. (3450). Judgment by default. —Judgment by default
may be rendered against any defendant, except infants and per
sons non compos mentis, who, after service has been perfected
on him, fails to appear within the time required by law in other
cases.
SEC. 3036. (3453). Enforcement of judgments.—Judgments es
tablishing the lien, and ordering the property sold for the sat
isfaction thereof, may be enforced by writs of fieri facias or
venditioni exponas ; but if by fieri facias, the clerk shall indorse
thereon the fact, that the lien has been established, and a de
scription of the property.
SEC. 3037. Enforcement of judgments when rendered by jus
tices of the peace. —Upon the rendition of such judgment by a
justice of the peace, he shall transmit all the papers and a cer
tified transcript of the judgment to the clerk of the circuit
court, or court of like jurisdiction; and thereupon such clerk
shall enter the cause on the execution docket, record the judg
ment, and issue a writ of fieri facias or venditioni exponas, as
on judgments rendered in that court.
SEC. 3038. (3459). Suits by employes, etc. ; contractor necessary
party ; garnishment against owner. —If the suit is by an em
ploye of the contractor, or by any person who has furnished to
him materials for the building or improvement, the contractor
shall be a necessary party defendant thereto ; and in such suit,
on motion of the plaintiff, the owner or proprietor may be cited
to answer under oath how much Avas owing by him to the con
tractor, at the time of the service on him of the notice required
by section 3026 (3457), on his contract with such contractor;
and such answer may be controverted, and proceedings had,
and judgment rendered as in garnishment cases.
SEC. 3039. (3459). When contractor must defend suit, and
owner entitled to withhold or recover money from con
tractor. —When the lien is sought to be enforced by any person
other than the contractor, it shall be the duty of the contractor
to defend the suit at his own expense; and after notice of an
intention to file a statement of the lien, and pending the suit,
the owner or proprietor may withhold from the contractor
money sufficient to cover the amount claimed, and the probable
cost and expense of suit; and in case of recovery against the
owner or proprietor, or his property, he shall be entitled to
deduct from the amount owing by him to the contractor the
amount of such judgment, cost and expense; and if he shall
have settled with the contractor, he shall be entitled to recover
from the contractor the amount recovered of, and paid by him ;
and such recovery may be had in the same court, on motion,
on three days' notice.
SEC. 3040. (3461). Liens of employes, etc., on equal footing.
All liens arising under this chapter, except in favor of the orig
inal contractor, shall stand on an equal footing, and be first paid
out of the proceeds of the sale of the property, or money col
lected from the owner or proprietor ; and if such proceeds and
money are insufficient to satisfy such liens in full, the same
shall be distributed pro rata among the holders thereof; but no
person shall be entitled to participate in such distribution until
he has obtained judgment establishing his lien.
SEC. 3041. (3454). Limitation. —Except in cases hereinafter pro
vided, all liens arising under this chapter shall be deemed lost,
unless suit for the enforcement thereof is commenced within six
months after the maturity of the entire indebtedness secured
thereby.

SEC. 3042. Additional time to representative for filing state
ment and bringing suit. —If any person entitled to a lien under
this chapter shall die before the time has elapsed for filing his
statement in the office of the judge of probate, without filing it,
his personal representative may file the same within three
months after the grant of letters ; and if such person shall die
before commencing suit for the enforcement of his lien, and
the lien is not lost at the time of his death, his personal repre
sentative may bring suit for the enforcement thereof at any
time within six months after the grant of letters.
SEC. 3043. Suits against representative within six months
after grant of letters. —The provisions of this Code, prohibit
ing the bringing of suits against personal representatives within
six months after the grant of letters, shall not apply to suits
brought under tlie provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 3044. (3455). Satisfaction acknowledged of record. —When
ever any such lien has been fully satisfied, the holder thereof
must acknowledge satisfaction of the same on the margin of its
record in the office of the judge of probate.
SEC. 3045. (3456). Penalty for failure to enter satisfaction. —Anyholder of such lien who, after having been fully paid, fails for ten
days after demand to so acknowledge satisfaction thereof, shall
be liable to any person thereby injured to the amount of such
injury.
SEC. 3046. (3460). "Owner or proprietor" defined.—Every per
son, including married women and cestuis que trust, for whose
use, benefit, or enjoyment any building or improvement shall
be made, is embraced within the words "owner or proprietor,""
as used in this chapter.

SEC. 3047. Lien may be assigned. —Any claim for which a lien
is provided in this chapter may be assigned; and the assignee
shall be thereby invested with all the rights of the originalholder of the lien, and be entitled to all his remedies to enforce
them.
SEC. 3048. When lien may be enforced in equity. —Any lien
provided for under the provisions of this chapter, when the
amount claimed is not less than one hundred dollars, may also
be enforced by bill in equity, without alleging or proving any
special ground of equitable jurisdiction.
CHAPTER 4.
LIENS IN FAVOR OF BLACKSMITHS AND WOOD-WORKMEN.
SEC. 3049. (3462). Lien declared. —Any blacksmith, wood-workmen,
or other mechanic, who contributes his labor and mate-
rial, or either, to the production, manufacture, or repair of any
vehicle, implement, machine, or article of anv kind, shall havea lien thereon in the hands of a party for whom such vehicle,
implement, machine, or article was made or repaired, or to
whom sold, and in the hands of a purchaser with notice of such
lien, for the value of the labor and material, or either, contrib
uted to the production, manufacture, or repair of the same.
SEC. 3050. (3464). Attachment to enforce lien; bond and affi-
davit. —Any party entitled thereto may enforce such lien in any
court of law, of competent jurisdiction, by attachment, issuedby any officer authorized to issue such writs, upon executing
bond as in other cases of attachment, and upon making affi
davit that the attachment is not sued out for the purpose of
vexing or harassing the defendant, and describing the property
on which the lien is claimed, and setting forth all 1'acts neces
sary to the creation of the lien under the preceding section, and
the amount due, and that one of the following causes of attach
ment exists:
1. That the party for whom such vehicle, implement, machine,
or article was made or repaired, or to whom sold, is the owner
thereof, and that the price, if agreed on, or if not, the value of
the same, or of the repair thereof, or some part of either, is due
and unpaid.
2. That the party for whom such vehicle, implement, machine,
or article was made or repaired, or to whom sold, has transferred
or sold the same to a purchaser with notice of the lien, and that
the price, if agreed on, if not, the value of the same, or of the
repair thereof, or some part of either, is due and unpaid.
SEC. 3051. (3463). Joinder of parties having liens on same prop
erty; verdict, judgment and distribution. — Parties having
liens under the provisions of this chapter, on the same property,
may join in the same action for the enforcement of their
respective liens ; and when there is such joinder, the court or
jury trying the cause must ascertain the amount due to each of
the plaintiffs secured by the lien, and judgment must be ren
dered accordingly ; but the failure of one or more of the plaint
iffs to establish his or their liens shall not defeat a recovery by
the others. The proceeds of the sale of the property levied on,
if not sufficient to satisfy the demands of all the plaintiffs, shall
be distributed, after payment of the costs, pro rata among
them.
SEC. 3052. (3463). Proceedings when one or more fail to join
in action. —When parties, liaving such liens on the same prop
erty, refuse, after notice in writing, to join in such action, the
parties giving the notice may proceed without them, on making
affidavit of the fact of such notice and refusal ; and notice of
the levy of the attachment must be served on the parties re
fusing to join, in the manner and within the time required for
the service of such notice on the defendant ; and such parties,
either at the trial, or at any time prior. thereto, on making affi
davit setting forth all facts necessary to the creation of their
liens, and the amounts thereof, may be made plaintiffs in the
action, and the cause shall then proceed as if commenced jointly
by them with the original plaintiffs ; but on their failure to thus
join, the cause shall proceed for the benefit of the original plaint
iffs, who shall, in that event, be entitled to priority of satisfac
tion.
SEC. 3053. (3464). Limitation. —Proceedings for the enforcement
of any lien created by the provisions of this chapter must be
commenced within six months after the demand becomes due ;
and unless commenced within that time, the lien is lost.
CHAPTER 5.
LIENS ON SHIPS, STEAMBOATS AND OTHER WATER-CRAFT.
SEC. 3054. (3465). Lien declared. —A lien is hereby created on
any ship, steamboat, or other water-craft, whether registered,
enrolled, or licensed, or not, that may be built, repaired, fitted,
furnished, supplied, or victualed, within this state, for work
done, or materials supplied by any person within this state, in
or about the building, repairing, fitting, furnishing, supplying,
or victualing such ship, steamboat, or other water-craft, and
for the wages of the masters, laborers, stevedores and shipkeepers
of such ship, steamboat, or other water-craft, in pref
erence to other liens thereon for debts contracted by, or owing
from the owners thereof; and such lien may be asserted in any
court of competent jurisdiction.

SEC. 3055. (3466). Limitation. —Proceedings to enforce such lien
must be commenced within six months after the demand be
comes due; and unless commenced within that time, the lien is
lost.
CHAPTER 6.
LIENS IN FAVOR OF LANDLORDS.
Article 1. — For rent of farm-lands and advances.
2. —For rent of store-houses and other building?.
Article I.
FOR RENT OF FARM-LANDS AND ADVANCES
SEC. 3056. (3467). Lien declared.—A landlord has a lien, which
is paramount to, and has a preference over all other liens, on
the crop grown on rented lands for rent for the current year,
and for advances made in money, or other thing of valuei either
by him directly, or by another at his instance or request, or for
which he became legally bound or liable at or before the time
such advances were made,y for the sustenance or well-being of
the tenant or his family,|or for preparing the ground for culti
vation, or for cultivating, gathering, saving, handling, or pre
paring the crop for market; and also on all articles advanced,
and on all property purchased with money advanced, or ob
tained by barter in exchange for articles advanced, for the ag
gregate price or value of such articles and property.

SEC. 3057. (3468). Maturity of rent and advances in absence
of stipulation. —Unless otherwise stipulated, such rent and ad
vances shall become due and payable on the 25th day of De
cember of the year in which the crop is grown.
SEC. 3058. (3469). Lien continues and attaches to crop of suc
ceeding year. —When the tenant fails to pay any part of such
rent or advances, and continues his tenancy under the same
landlord, on the same or other lands, the balance due therefor
shall be held and treated as advances to him by the landlord
for the next succeeding year, for which the original lien for ad
vances, if any remain unpaid, shall continue on the articles
advanced, or property purchased with money advanced, or ob
tained by barter in exchange for articles advanced, and for
which a lien shall also attach to the crop of such succeeding
year.
SEC. 3059. (3470). Assignment; remedies of assignee. —The
claim of the landlord for rent and advances, or for either, may
be by him assigned; and the assignee shall be invested with all
the laud lord's rights, and entitled to all his remedies for theirenforcement.
SEC. 3060. (3471). Rent and advances; recovery of. —Separate
actions may he brought for rent and for advances, or both may
be combined in the same action.
SEC. 3061. (3472). Lien enforced by attachment ; grounds. —The
landlord, or his assignee, may have process of attachment for the
enforcement of bis lien for rent and advances, or either, when
such rent and advances, or cither, as the case may be, are due.
and the tenant fails or refuses, after demand made, to pay the
same; and also in the following cases, whether such rent and
advances, or either, are due or not :
1. When there is good cause to believe that the tenant is
about to remove from the premises, or otherwise dispose of any
part of the crop, without paying such rent and advances, or
either, and without the consent of the landlord, or, when the
claim has been assigned, of the assignee.
2. When the tenant has removed from the premises, or oth
erwise disposed of any part of the crop, without paying such
rent and advances, or either, and without the consent of the
landlord, or, when the claim has been assigned, of the assignee.
3. When the tenant has disposed of, or there is good cause to
believe that he is about to dispose of, any of the articles ad
vanced or obtained by purchase with money advanced, or by
barter in exchange for any article advanced, in fraud of the
rights of the landlord, or of his assignee, as the case may be.

SEC. 3062. (3473). Affidavit and bond required. — Before sucha
tachment is issued, the plaintiff, or his agent, or attorney,
must make affidavit, setting forth the amount that is or will be
due for rent and advances, or either, as the case may be, or, if
the rent is not payable in money, the value of the part of the
crop, or other thing agreed to be paid as rent, that one of the
causes for issuing an attachment prescribed in the preceding section exists, and that the attachment is not sued out for the
purpose of vexing or harassing the defendant ; and must also exe
cute a bond in double the amount claimed, with sufficient sure
ty, payable to the defendant, and with condition that the plaint
iff will prosecute the attachment to effect, and pay the defend
ant all such damages as he may sustain from the wrongful or
vexatious suing out of such attachment.

SEC. 3063. (3473). Issue and trial of attachment; on what prop
erty leviable. —Such attachment may be issued by any officer
authorized to issue attachments in other cases, and made return- ,able before any court of competent jurisdiction, and must be
tried in the same manner and upon the same notice as other at-tachment causes are tried, and may be levied on the crop, or 'the proceeds thereof, and on the articles advanced, and prop- j
erty purchased with money advanced, or obtained by barter in
exchange for articles advanced.

SEC. 3064. (8474). Relation between party furnishing land and
party furnishing team and labor. —When one party furnishes
the land, and another party furnishes the labor and team to cul
tivate it, with stipulations, express or implied, to divide the
crop between them in certain proportions, the relation of land
lord and tenant, with all its incidents, and to all intents and
purposes, shall be held to exist between them; and the portion
of the crop to which the party furnishing the land is entitled
shall be held and treated as the rent of the land.

SEC. 3065. (8475). What a contract of hire; lien of laborer, and
proceedings for its enforcement. —When one party furnishes
the land and the team to cultivate it, and another party fur
nishes the labor, with stipulations, express or implied, to divide
the crop between them in certain proportions, the contract of
hire shall be held to exist, and the laborer shall have a lien
upon the crop produced by his labor for the value of the por
tion of the crop to which he is entitled; and such lien shall
have the same force and effect, and shall be enforced in the
same manner, and under the same conditions, and in the same
cases as the lien in favor of a landlord; but no more of the
crop shall be levied on than may be necessary to satisfy the de
mand.

SEC. 3066. (3476). When levied on crop of sub-tenant ; vacation
of levy. —When lands are cultivated by a sub-tenant, and an
attachment or other process is sued out by the superior landlord,
or his assignee, for the purpose of enforcing his lien for rent and
advances, or either, the crop of the tenant in chief must first be
exhausted, before levy is made on the crop of the sub-tenant;
but if the tenant in chief makes no crop, or if the crop made by
him is not sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, then a
sufficient amount of the crop of the sub-tenant may be levied on
to supply the deficiency ; and any lev^ made in violation of this section may be vacated on motion, at the first term of the court
thereafter.

SEC. 3067. (-5477). When sub-tenant may require attachment
against tenant in chief; effect of failure to attach. —The sub
tenant may notify the superior landlord, or his assignee, of the
existence of any one of the several causes authorizing the issue
of an attachment against the crop of the tenant in chief, and if
such notice is given, and an affidavit is made by the sub-tenant
before an officer authorized by law to administer oaths, setting
forth the existence of any one of such causes, and is served by
the sub-tenant, in person, or by his agent, on such landlord, or
his assignee, at the time the notice is given, and the landlord, or
his assignee, fails or refuses to proceed within a reasonable time
thereafter against the crop of the tenant in chief, he thereby
loses his right to proceed against the crop of the sub-tenant for
any deficiency in the crop of the tenant in chief to satisfy his
claim, in so far as that deficiency resulted from such failure or
refusal to proceed.

SEC. 3068. (3478). Chapter applies to tenant in chief and sub
tenant. —The provisions of this chapter shall apply to parties
occupying the relation of tenant in chief and sub-tenant.
Article II.
FOR RENT OF STORE-HOUSES AND OTHER BUILDINGS.
SEC. 3069. Lien declared. —The landlord of any store-house,
dwelling-house, or other building, shall have a lien on the goods,
. - '- - ■ . »'. .. •
furniture and effects belonging to the tenant, for his rent, whichshall be superior to all other liens, except those for taxes.
SEC. 3070. Lien enforced by attachment; grounds. —The land
lord shall have the right, for the enforcement of such lien, to sue-
out an attachment before any officer authorized to issue attach
ments, and returnable to any court having jurisdiction of the
amount claimed, when the rent, or any installment thereof, is
due, and the tenant fails or refuses, on demand, to pay such rent
or installment ; and also in the following cases, whether due or
not:
1. When the tenant has fraudulently disposed of his goods, or
is about to fraudulently dispose of his goods.
2. When the tenant has taade an assignment for the benefit of
his creditors.
3. When the tenant has made a complete transfer of all, or
substantially all of his goods, without the consent of the laud-
lord, or without first having paid the rent in full for the term.
SEC. 3071. Affidavit and bond for attachment. —Before such at-
'tachment is issued, the plaintiff, or his agent or attorney, must
make affidavit, setting forth the amount that is, or will be due
for the rent, that one of the causes for issuing an attachment
prescribed in the preceding section exists, and that the attach
ment is not sued out for the purpose of vexing or harassing the
defendant; and must also execute a bond in double the amount
claimed, payable to the defendant, with sufficient surety, and with
condition that the plaintiff will prosecute the attachment to ef
fect, and pay the defendant all such damages as he may sustain
from the wrongful or vexatious suing out of such attachment.
SEC. 3072. On what property leviable; priority of lien. —Such
attachment may be levied on so much of the goods, furniture
and effects of the tenant as will satisfy the plaintiff's demand for
rent ; and such levy shall have priority over the levy of any other
attachment on such goods, furniture and efi'ects, infavor of any
other creditor.
SEC. 3073. By what law attachment proceedings governed.
The law governing the issue, levy, trial and other proceedings in
attachment suits in general, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this article, shall govern in all cases arising under this article.3074. Lien and remedy vest in assignee. —The lien pro-
vided in this article shall vest in any assignee of the claim for
rent; and such assignee shall he invested with all the rights of
the landlord, and entitled to all his remedies for their enforce
ment.
CHAPTER 7.
LIEN OF TENANT IN COMMON ON CROP.
SEC. 3075. (3479). Lien of tenant in common on crop of co-
tenant. —Persons farming on shares, or raising crops by joint
contributions, in such manner as to make them tenants in com
mon in such crops, or their assignees, shall each have a lien
upon the interest of the other in such crops for any balance due
for provisions, supplies, teams, materials, labor, services and
money, or either, furnished to aid in cultivating and gathering
such crops, under contract, or furnished when the interest of
such crops require it, in case of a failure of either to contribute
the amount and means as agreed upon by the parties.
SEC. 3076. (3480). Lien enforceable by attachment; grounds;
remedy accumulative. —Such lien may be enforced by attach
ment upon the grounds, and in the manner provided for the en
forcement of the landlord's lien on crops grown on rented lands ;
but this section shall not prevent the enforcement of such lien
by any other remedy.
CHAPTER 8.
LIEXS IN FAVOR OF AGRICULTURAL SUPERINTENDENTS AND LABORERS,
AND RAILROAD EMPLOYES.
SEC. 3077. (3481). Lien in favor of railroad laborers and em
ployes. —Laborers and employes of each railroad company
operated in this state, except the officers thereof, shall have a
lien for all debts due to them for work and labor done and per
formed by them for such company, which shall extend to, and
cover all the property, rights, effects and credits of every de
scription belonging to such company, and situate in this state.
SEC. 3078. (3482). Lien in favor of agricultural laborers and
superintendents. —Agricultural laborers and superintendents
of plantations shall have a lien upon the crops grown during
the current year, in and about which they are employed, for the
hire and wages due them for labor and services rendered by
them in and about the cultivation of such crops under any con
tract for such labor and services; but such lien shall be subor
dinate to the landlord's lien for rent and advances, and to any
other lien for supplies furnished to make the crops.

SEC. 3079. (3484). Limitation. —The liens created by this chapter
shall be held to have been waived or abandoned, unless pro
ceedings to enforce the same are commenced within six months
after the work shall have been completed.
SEC. 3080. (3485). Liens enforceable by attachment. —For theenforcement of such liens, the party entitled may sue out at
tachments before any officer authorized to issue such writs, re
turnable before any court of competent jurisdiction ; but before
any attachment shall issue, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney,
must make affidavit of the amount due, that the same remains
unpaid, and that the attachment is not sued out for the purpose
of vexing or harassing the defendant, and must describe therein
the property on which the lien is claimed.
SEC. 3081. (3486). When attachment issues whether debt due
or not; additional affidavit. —An agricultural laborer or su
perintendent of a plantation may sue out an attachment, whether
his demand is due or not ; but, in either event, he shall, in ad
dition to the affidavit required in the preceding section, make
affidavit that such demand is or will be due, as the case may be,
and that the defendant, without the consent of, and contrary to
his agreement with the plaintiff, is about to remove the crop
from the premises without paying such demand, or that the de
fendant has so removed such crop, or some portion thereof.
SEC. 3082. (3487). Bond required before issue of attachment.
Before any attachment shall be issued under the provisions of
this chapter, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, must also ex
ecute a bond in double the amount claimed, payable to the de
fendant, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the officer is
suing the attachment, with condition that the plaintiff will
prosecute the attachment to effect, and pay the defendant all
such damages as he may sustain from the wrongful or vexatious
suing out of such attachment.
SEC. 3083. (3483). Attachment to be levied only on crop suf
ficient to pay demand. — When an attachment is sued out by
an agricultural laborer or a superintendent of a plantation, it
shall not be levied on a greater portion of the crop than is suf
ficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand and the costs of the suit.
SEC. 3084. (3488). Time and manner of trial, and notice. —Cases
arising under this chapter shall stand for trial at the time, and
shall be tried in the manner, and upon the notice required in
other attachment cases.
SEC. 3085. (3490). Property or proceeds subject to garnishment.
All the property upon which a lien is created under the provis
ions of this chapter, or the proceeds thereof, in the hands of
third parties, shall be subject to garnishment for the enforce
ment and satisfaction of such lien; and such garnishment, and
the proceedings thereunder, shall be governed by the laws of
force relating to other garnishments, so far as the same are ap
plicable.
SEC. 3086. (3491). Other remedies not affected—Nothing in this
chapter contained shall be so construed as to prevent any per
son having a lien thereunder from resorting to any other reme
dies, legal or equitable, which he may have for the enforcement
of his hen, or the collection of his demand.
SEC. 3087. (3492). When crop not to be removed.—No part of
any crop levied on under the provisions of this chapter shall be
removed from the premises on which it was raised, until all
claims for rent and advances for the current year have been
satisfied.
SEC. 3088. (3493). When prior liens must be satisfied. — Anyofficer, enforcing the satisfaction of any lien under the provis
ions of this chapter, shall first apply the proceeds of the crop
or property in his hands to the payment of any debt or claim
of a third party which constitutes a prior lien upon such crop
or property, if the priority of such lien has been established,
and the claim ordered to be paid, by the court before which the
cause is tried.
CHAPTER 9.
liens of livery-stable keepers.
SEC. 3089. (3494). Lien on stock kept and fed for charges. —Any
keeper, owner, or proprietor of a livery-stable shall have a lien
on all stock kept and fed by him, for the payment of his charges
for keeping and feeding such stock, and he shall have the right
to retain the stock, or so much thereof as may be necessary, for
the payment of such charges.
SEC. 3090. (3495). Power of sale to satisfy lien, on ten days'
notice after demand. —If the charges, when due, are not paid
within ten days from demand therefor, such keeper, owner, or
proprietor is authorized, after giving thirty days' notice of the
time and place of such sale, by advertisement in some news
paper published in the county in which the stable is located,
once a week for three successive weeks, or, if there be no such
paper, by posting the notice in three conspicuous places in the
county, to sell the stock, for the payment of the charges, and
expense of keeping the stock, and of the sale; and the balance,
if any there be, he shall pay over to the owner.
CHAPTER 10.
LIENS IN FAVOR OF OWNERS OF STALLIONS, JACKS, RAMS, HE-GOATS
AND BOARS.
SEC. 3091. (3496). Lien declared. —The owner of every stallion,
jack, bull, ram, he-goat, or boar, who keeps it for profit, and
charges a price for the season thereof, shall have a lien, for the
amount of the stipulated price therefor, on any mare, jenny,
cow, ewe, she-goat, or sow, to which such stallion, jack, bull,
ram, he-goat, or boar is put, and also on the colt, calf, lambs,
kids, or pigs born next after such season.
SEC. 3092. Attachment for enforcement of lien; grounds for.
For the enforcement of such lien the owner of any such animal
may have process of attachment from any court having jurisdic
tion of the amount claimed, leviable on the animal or animals
upon which the lieu exists,—
fails or refuses to pay.
2. Whether such sum is due or not, when the defendant has
traded off, or otherwise disposed of, or there is good reason to
believe he is about to trade off, or otherwise dispose of, or re
move from the county, any of the animals on which the lien
exists, without paying the stipulated price for such season.
SEC. 3093. Affidavit and bond required before issue of attach
ment. —Before such attachment shall issue, the plaintiff, his
agent, or attorney, must make affidavit of the amount of such
stipulated price, whether the same is, or is not due, and if not
due, when the same will become due, that the attachment is
not sued out for the purpose of vexing or harassing the defend
ant, and that some one of the enumerated causes for such at
tachment exists, and must describe therein the property on
which the lien is claimed ; and he must also execute bond as
prescribed by section 3082 (3487).
SEC. 3094. Time and manner of trial; notice. —Cases arising
under this chapter shall stand for trial at the time, and shall be
tried in the manner, and upon the notice required in other at
tachment cases.

CHAPTER 11.
SUMMARY JUDGMENTS.
Article 1. — General rules.

Article I.
GENERAL RULES.
SEC. 3095. (3351). Summary judgments against certain offi
cers; notice of motion. —Judgment may be rendered summa
rily against the persons, and for the defaults hereinafter stated,
upon notice in writing by the party aggrieved, that a motion
will be made for judgment, succinctly stating in such notice
the cause for which such motion will be made, and the term of
the court, and the county.

SEC. 3096. (3352). By and against whom motion may be made;
judgment against parties served with notice. —The motion
may be made by the party aggrieved, or his legal representa
tive, against the person in default and the sureties upon his of
ficial bond; and judgment must be rendered against such of
the parties, whether principal or surety, as may have received
notice of the intended motion.

SEC. 3097. (8353). Entry on motion docket as notice. —A mo
tion entered on the motion docket, in term time, is sufficient
notice to all officers of the court and their sureties.
James v. Moseley, 47 Ala. 299.
SEC. 3098. (3354). Trial of motion. —Unless in cases otherwise
directed by this chapter, the court must hear and determine
the motion, and render judgment upon the evidence, without
a jury, unless an issue is tendered, and a jury trial demanded,
when a jury must be immediately impaneled to try the facts,
unless good cause be shown for a continuance.
Andrews v. Keep, 38 Ala. 315.
SEC. 3099. (3355). Court in which motion must be made. —The
summary remedies here given must be enforced in the manner
following, except in cases otherwise specially provided in this
chapter : When the motion is against a sheriff, coroner, clerk,
or other officer of court, or their sureties, the motion must be
made in the circuit court of the county in which such officer
was acting officially at the time of the default, or in the court
to which the process was returnable, when the default consists
in the failure to execute or return process, or to pay over money
collected thereon; and in all other cases not specially provided
for, the motion must be made in the circuit court of the county
in which the person moved against resides; or if he has no per
manent residence, then in any county where he may be found.

Article II.
PROCEEDINGS AUAINST SHERIFFS, CORONERS AND OTHER EXECUTIVE OFFICERS.
SEC. 3100. (3356). Against sheriff, coroner, or other officer re
ceiving or executing writ; notice. —Judgment must be ren
dered tor the plaintiff, on three days' notice, in the following
cases, against the sheriff, coroner, or other officer receiving or
executing the writ.

SEC. 3101. (3357). For failure to return execution, or pay over
money collected. —For failing to return an execution, twenty
per centum on the judgment. For failing to pay over money
collected upon an execution, on demand of the plaintiff", his
agent, or attorney, for the amount so collected, and five per
centum per month damages from the time such demand was
made.
SEC. 3102. (3358). For failure to make money on execution.
For failing to make the money on an execution, which, by due
diligence, could have been made, for the amount of the execution,
interest, and ten per centum damages thereon.

SEC. 3103. (3359). For false and fraudulent return. —For fraud
ulently making a false return, for the amount of the execution,
interest, and ten per centum damages thereon.

SEC. 3104. (3360). For failure to give notice of collection of
money.—For failing to notify the plaintiff, his agent, or attor
ney, of the collection of money by execution, for five per centum
per month on the amount collected, from the time when the
notice should have been given, not to exceed twenty-five dollars
per month.
SEC. 3105. (3361). For failure to indorse on execution true date
of delivery. —For failing to indorse on an execution the true
date of its delivery to him, for ten per centum on the amount
of the execution; and the officer is also responsible for any in
jury or loss which may arise from such omission.
SEC. 3106. (3362). For failure to execute mesne process. —For
failure to execute a summons, attachment, or other mesne pro
cess, which by due diligence could have been executed, for a
sum not less than fifty, nor more than five hundred dollars, to
be ascertained by a jury; and this remedy shall not preclude
the party injured from a resort to other legal modes of redress.
SEC. 3107. (3363). In favor of defendant in execution; notice;
when rendered. —Judgment must, in like manner, be rendered
in favor of the defendant in execution against the sheriff' or
coroner, on three days' notice, in the following cases.
SEC. 3108. (3364). For failure to pay over excess received on
sales. —For failure to pay over on demand any excess of money
which may remain upon a sale under execution, after the satis
faction thereof, and of the costs, for the amount of such excess,
and five per centum per month after demand.

SEC. 3109. (3365). For failure to return execution satisfied.
For failing to return an execution wholly or partially satisfied,
for twenty-five per centum on the amount paid.
SEC. 3110. (3366). For failure to refund money when collection
has been enjoined. —For failing to pay over on demand money
paid or collected on an execution, the whole or an}' part of
which is enjoined in chancery, for the amount so enjoined', and
five per centum per month on the amount from the time of the
demand.
SEC. 3111. (3367, 3368). In favor of clerk of supreme court;
notice and grounds. —Judgment must, in like manner, be
rendered in favor of the clerk of the supreme court against the
sheriff or coroner, on three days' notice, for failure to return an
execution from that court, for making a false return thereon,
for failing to make the money thereon, when by due diligence
it could have been made, or for failing on demand to pay over
money collected on execution, for the penalties herein pre
scribed for the same defaults on executions issued from the
circuit court.
SEC. 3112. (3369). Copy of execution and certificate of clerk as
evidence. —On the trial of the motion by such clerk, a copy of
the execution made and certified by him, with the return there
on, if any was made, or a statement that no return was made,
if such be the fact, together with his certificate that the execu
tion was received by the sheriff, or sent to him by mail, is evi
dence of the facts so certified, without producing a transcript
of- the record from the proceedings of the supreme court; and
also presumptive evidence that the writ was received by the
sheriff, unless he states under oath, in writing, that he never
received the writ, or that he returned it according to law.
SEC. 3113. (3371). Penalty for accepting substitute for juror;
proceedings. —Any officer who accepts or receives a substitute
for any person drawn as a juror, or whom he is directed to
summon as a juror, or who intentionally serves any other per
son than the one drawn as a juror, or whom he is directed to
summon as a juror, must be fined fifty dollars, to be recovered
on motion by the solicitor in the name of the state, in the cir
cuit court of the county in which the offense is committed, on
five days' notice; one-half of which shall be for the use of the
county, and the other half for the use of the solicitor.

Article III.
IX FAVOR OF SHERIFF OR CORONER.
SEC. 3114. (3374). Against whom, for what, and on what notice.
Judgment must, in like manner, be summarily rendered in favor
of the sheriff" or coroner, on three days' notice of the pendency
of the suit, —
1. Against the obligors on bonds given to indemnify such
officer for levying an execution or attachment, or for making
sale of property so levied on or attached, after judgment against
him for making such levy or sale, for the amount rendered
against such officer, with interest from date of judgment against
him.
2. Against the deputy of the sheriff' or coroner and hissureties, or either of them, for the amount of any judgmentrendered against the sheriff or coroner for the default of suchdeputy, with interest from date of judgment against him.
SEC. 3115. (3375). Against judge of probate for failing to pay
over fees to sheriff. —Judgment must, in like manner, be sum
marily rendered in favor of the sheriff, on three days' notice,
against the judge of probate, for the amount of any fees re
ceived by him for such sheriff for the service of citations,,
notices, or other process in relation to estates of deceased per
sons or minors, which, on demand, have not been paid over,,
with five per cent, per month from the time of such demand.
Article IV.
AGAINST CLERKS OK THE CIRCUIT COURT AND REGISTERS IN CHANCERY.
SEC. 3116. (3376). Grounds of judgment and notice. —Judgment
must, in like manner, be summarily rendered against the clerk
of the circuit court and his sureties, or either of them, and
against the register in chancery and his sureties, or either of
them, on three days' notice, in the following cases.

SEC. 3117. (3377). For failure to enter return on execution. —In
favor 6f the plaintiff in execution, for failing to enter on the
execution docket the return made upon an execution by the
proper officer, within three days after the return is made, for
twenty per centum on the amount of the execution, and interest
thereon.
SEC. 3118. (3378). For failure to pay over money.—For failing,
on demand, to pay over money received by him on any judg
ment, or paid into court on a plea of tender, or other plea, or by
rule of court, for the sum so received by him, with five per cen
tum per month on the amount from the time of the demand.
SEC. 3119. (3379). For failure to give notice of collection of
money. —For failing to notify the plaintiff, his agent, or attor
ney, under the provisions of section 2912 (3203), which are made
to apply to such clerk, of the collection of money upon judg
ments, for five per centum per month on the amount collected,
from the time when the notice should have been given, not to
exceed twenty-five dollars per month.
SEC. 3120. (3380). For failure to issue executions.—For failing
to issue execution as required by sections 2884 (3181) and 2887
(3184), within the time prescribed by law after the adjournment
of the court, or at any time subsequent, on the request of the
party interested, his agent, or attorney, or for failing to issue
execution within five days on any bond returned forfeited, and
upon which execution may rightfully issue, and upon any judg
ment remanded from the supreme court, for twenty per centum
on the amount of the judgment.
SEC. 3121. (3381). For failure to pay over money deposited in
court. —In favor of the party entitled thereto, for failing, on
demand, to pay over money received by him under section 2610
(2906, 2907), for the amount, so paid, and five per centum
damages thereon per month from the time of the demand.
SEC. 3122. (3382). For failure to pay over county funds.—In
favor of the county treasurer, for the use of the county, for fail
ing to pay over to that officer, on demand, any fine, forfeiture,
or other money belonging to the county treasury, for the
amount thereof, and five per centum per month on that amount
from the time of the demand.
SEC. 3123. (3383). For failure to render statement of fines, etc.
For failing to render to that officer, within ten days after the
adjournment of court, a statement of all fines assessed, forfeit
ures obtained and moneys received for the county, during the
previous term, as required by subdivision 16 of section 768 (671),
for fifty dollars.
SEC. 3124. (3384). In favor of auditor for specified defaults;
court and notice. —In favor of the state auditor, in the circuit
court held at the seat of government, or of the county in which
the clerk or any surety proceeded against resides, on ten days'
notice, in the following cases.
SEC. 3125. (3386). For failure to issue execution for forfeiture.
For failing to issue execution for any forfeiture belonging to
the state treasury within the time prescribed by section 2884
(3181), for two hundred dollars.
SEC. 3126. (3387). For failure to pay into state treasury fines,
etc.—For failure to pay into the state treasury any fine, pen
alty, or forfeiture belonging thereto, received by such clerk,
within one month after it was received by him, for the amount
so received, and ten per centum damages thereon.
SEC. 3127. (3388). For failure to send copy of indictment to
governor; court and notice. —In favor of the solicitor for the
use of the state, on three days' notice, in the circuit court of
the county of such clerk, for neglect of the duty imposed by section 772 (675), for not less than one hundred, nor more than
five hundred dollars, at the discretion of the court.
SEC. 3128. (3389). For failure to send up transcript in criminal
case; court and notice- —The solicitor, or prosecuting attorney,
in each county, upon being notified that the clerk of the circuit
court has neglected to send to the clerk of the supreme court
a full transcript of the record of any criminal case appealed to
the supreme court, within the time required by law, shall enter
a motion against such defaulting clerk and his sureties, in the
court from which the appeal was taken, setting out the title of
the case, the ofieuse of which the accused was convicted, the
day on which tbe sentence was pronounced, the day on which
the court adjourned, and the default of the clerk; and such
motion shall be heard at the next term of the court, and of it
the clerk shall have at least ten days' notice.
SEC. 3129. (3390). Certificate of clerk of supreme court as evi
dence. —The certificate of the clerk of the supreme court that
the transcript of the record in such criminal case was not re
ceived by him in twenty-five days after the final adjournment
of the court in which the case was tried, shall be prima facie
evidence of the default of the clerk.
SEC. 3130. (3391). Fine against clerk and sureties for such neg
lect. —On conviction tor such neglect, a fine of not less than
twenty -five dollars, at the discretion of the court, shall be en
tered against such defaulting clerk and his sureties for the use
of the county.
SEC. 3131. (3392). Against registers for failure to keep reverse
indexes; court, notice and judgment.—The solicitors in the
several chancery districts must inquire whether the duty re
quired of registers in chancery by section 743 (646) has been per-
formed, and must, in every case of failure, move in the circuit
court of the proper county against such register; and shall,
upon three days' notice of such motion, recover judgment in
favor of the state against him for one hundred dollars, unless
good cause to the contrary be shown ; and such recovery may
he had from term to term as long as such register shall remain
in default.

Article V.
AGAINST JUDGES OK PROBATE, TAX-COLLECTORS, TAX-ASSESSORS, COUNTY TREASURERS,
AND OTHER PERSONS RECEIVING MONET FOR COUNTIES.
SEC. 3132. (3393). Court, notice and grounds. —Summary judg
ment must be rendered in favor of the state against the default
ers hereinafter named, and their sureties, or either, in any court
of the county of their residence having jurisdiction, on ten
days' notice, in the following cases :
1. Against any tax-assessor for failing to comply with the
requirements of section 487 or section 491, for not more than
five hundred dollars; and such tax-assessor may be also impris
oned in the county jail for not exceeding three months.
2. Against any tax-assessor for making up a false or fraudu
lent assessment, in each case, for not more than five hundred
dollars; and such tax-assessor may also be imprisoned in the
county jail for not exceeding three months.
3. Against any tax-assessor for any willful neglect or failure
to perform the duty required of him in section 469, for not more
than two hundred dollars.
4. Against any county treasurer for failing to pay over the
excess of purchase-money, as provided in the revenue law, to the
former owner of any property sold for taxes', for not less than
two hundred dollars.
5. Against any judge of probate for failing to make out and
forward abstracts, or reports, or returns, according to the re
quirements of the revenue law, for not more than five hundred
dollars.
6. Against any judge of probate for issuing license to retail
or wholesale liquor dealers contrary to the provisions of law, in
each case, for not less than one hundred dollars.
7. Against any tax-collector for failing to comply with section
SEC. 533., for not more than two hundred dollars.
8. Against any tax-collector for knowingly collecting more
taxes from a tax-payer than authorized by Taw, or justified by
the assessment, in each case, for not more than five hundred
dollars.
9. Against any tax-collector for failing to make the statement
provided by section 547 within the time required, for each week
he so fails, for not more than five hundred dollars.
10. Against any tax-collector, for not paying over surplus of
sale of any property sold by him for the payment of taxes, as
required by law, for not more than one hundred dollars.
11. Against any tax-collector for any violation of section 550,
for not more than two hundred dollars.
SEC. 3133. (3394). When collector, assessor, or judge of probate,
forfeits half pay; court and notice.—Any tax-collector, tax-
assessor, or judge of probate, who knowingly and willfully neg
lects to discharge any of his duties as required in the revenue
law, shall forfeit one-half of his compensation under that law,
for the use of the county, which may be recovered, on motion
in the circuit court of the county, on ten days' notice; and it
shall be the duty of the solicitor to make the motion ; but any
other person may make it.
SEC. 3134. (3395) . Against county treasurer and sureties for fail
ure to pay allowed claims ; court and notice. —If any county
treasurer fail, on demand, and without good excuse, to pay an
allowed claim against the county, when there are funds in the
treasury to pay the same, judgment may be obtained against him
and his sureties, or any or either of them, on five days' notice, on
motion in the circuit court of the county, in the name of the
party to whom the claim is payable, his legal representatives, or
assigns, for the amount of the claim, with interest from the time
of the demand, and ten per centum damages and costs.

SEC. 3135. (339G). Judgments for failure to pay over moneys of
the county; court and notice. —If any tax-collector, judge of
probate, sheriff, clerk, or other officer or person, fail to pay to
the county treasurer, within the time prescribed by law, or, in
case no time is fixed by law, on the demand of such treasurer,
any money he has collected or received for the county, judgment
may be recovered against such person, or such officer and his
sureties, or any or either of them, on ted days' notice, on mo
tion in the circuit court, in the name of the county of such treas
urer, for the amount so collected or received, with interest from
the time fixed for the payment, or from the demand when no time
is fixed, and ten per centum damages and costs.

Article VI.
AGAINST DEFAULTERS OK PUBLIC SCHOOL MONEYS.
SEC. 3136. (3397). For failures to pay over school moneys; court
and notice. —Summary judgments must be rendered on motion,
after ten days' notice, in favor of the county superintendent of
education, for the use of his count}', against the defaulters here
inafter named, and the sureties on their official bonds, or any
one or either of them, in the circuit court, or other court hav
ing jurisdiction, of the county in which the defendants, or either
of them, reside, in the following cases :
1. Against the tax-collector and his sureties, or any or either
of them, for the failure of such collector to pay over, according
to law, the school moneys due his county, as shown by the audi
tor's warrant on him, or so much thereof as he may have col
lected, or for the failure of such collector to pay over, according
to law, all the poll-tax collected by him, which it was his duty to
collect, and which by due diligence he could have collected, for
the amount for which the collector is in default, with interest from
the time of the default, and twenty per centum damages and
costs.
2. Against the county treasurer and his sureties, or any or
either of them, for the failure of such treasurer to pay over ac
cording to law all school moneys coming into his hands, for the
amount due by such treasurer, with interest from the time of
the default, and twenty per centum damages and costs.
8. Against any county superintendent of education who has
resigned, removed from his county, or been legally removed
from office, or whose term of office has expired, and his sureties,
or any or either of them, in favor of his successor, if there be
one, or if there be no successor, in favor of the superintendent
of education, for the amount of school moneys belonging to his
county which have not been legally disbursed by him, or paid
over to his successor in office, with interest from the time of the
default, and twenty pCr centum damages and costs ; and the
money, when recovered by the superintendent of education,
must be turned over to the county superintendent of educa
tion.

SEC. 3137. (3398). Authority to employ counsel.— The county su
perintendent of education may employ attorneys to prosecute
actions under the provisions of this article against such default
ers and their sureties ; but in no case shall any attorney receive
more than 'ten per centum of the amount which may be col
lected on any judgment obtained by him, or of the amount
which may be otherwise recovered by him.
SEC. 3.^ (3399). Notice.—The notice of such motion may be
served by any sheriff of this state, and must succinctly state the
cause for which, and the court and term at which, the motion
will be made.
SEC. 3139. (3400). Transcript of superintendent of education ev
idence. —On the trial of such motion, a transcript from the books
and records in the office of the superintendent of education, or
of the auditor, duly certified under his hand, shall be prima
facie evidence of the facts shown by them.
SEC. 3140. (3401). Time and manner of trial. —If the notice hasbeen given as herein required, such motion shall stand for trial at
the first term, and the court must hear and determine the same,
and render judgment upon the evidence without a jury, unless a
trial by jury be demanded, when a jury must be immediately
impaneled to try the issues of fact, unless good cause be shown
for a continuance.
SEC. 3141. In favor of teachers for moneys due them ; courtand notice; appeal from justices' courts. — Summary judg
ment may also be rendered against the county superintendent.
of education and his sureties, or any or either of them, in favor
of any teacher of the public schools, his legal representative, or
assignee, by motion, on ten days' notice, in any court of the
county of such superintendent, of competent jurisdiction, for
failing to pay over, on demand, to such teacher any moneys in
the hands of such superintendent due or owing to such teacher,
as required by law, for the amount of such moneys, with inter
est from the time of the demand, and ten per centum damages
on the aggregate amount, and costs; but from all cases tried
before a justice of the peace, or notary public, either party
shall have the right to appeal, as provided by law in other cases
tried before such officer.
Article VII.
AGA1XST ATTORNEYS AT LAW.
SEC. 3142. (3402, 3404). For money collected and not paid over;
proceedings. —Judgment may, in like manner, be summarily
rendered against any attorney at law in this state who fails to
pay over money collected by him in that capacity, on demand
made by the person entitled thereto, his agent, or attorney, for
the amount due, interest thereon, and damages at the rate of
five per centum per month, after such demand, on the aggre
gate amount, in the circuit court of the county in which such
attorney resides, or if he has no known place of residence in
this state, in the circuit court of any county, on three days'
personal notice; but such attorney may, if a doubt exists as to
the right of the person making the demand, or if there be a dis
pute as to his compensation, pay the money into court, at the
first term after receiving notice of such motion, if the notice of
the same is given in vacation, or at the term at which the no
tice is given, if given during term time, and have such ques
tions there decided, without being liable for interest or dam
ages.
SEC. 3143. (3403). Plaintiff's title to be shown; both parties
may be examined; costs. —The court may require the party
claiming the money to establish his right thereto, and, in deter
mining the question of compensation, may examine both par
ties and give costs in discretion.

CHAPTER 12.
PROCEEDINGS by sureties.
SEC. 3144. (3405). Surety on replevy bond may demand in
demnity. —When the principal in any replevy bond is wasting
the replevied property, or is removing, or is about to remove
himself or property out of the state, the surety or sureties on
the replevy bond may demand of the principal adequate in
demnity against loss by collateral security.
SEC. 3145. (3406). Affidavit may be made of refusal to give in
demnity. —If such security is not given within five days after
demand made, the surety may make affidavit thereof before the
clerk of the court in which such bond is filed, setting forth
the demand of the principal for collateral security, for some
one or more of the causes mentioned in the preceding section,
and that the principal has failed to give such security.
SEC. 3146. (3407). Writ of seizure may then issue. —Thereupon
the clerk must issue a writ directed to the sherifl, commanding
him to seize the replevied property, and hold the same until the
decision of the cause in which it was replevied, or until the
principal executes bond with sufficient surety, in the same pen-
<>
alty as the replevy bond, payable to the surety, with condition
to have the property forthcoming to abide the decision in the
principal cause, or to pay and satisfy the judgment rendered
therein.
SEC. 3147. (3408). Bond, if given, filed with original bond.—If
the bond is given, it must be filed with the original replevy
bond; and execution may issue thereon, upon a breach of the
original replevy bond, in favor either of the plaintiff or of the
surety.
SEC. 3148. (3409). Proceedings on writ of seizure, when prop
erty is perishable. —If the bond is not given, and the property
is seized, and is of a wasting or perishable nature, or the ex
pense of keeping it would materially affect its value, it must
be sold by the sheriff in the same manner as property levied on
under execution, and return thereof made as upon a writ of
fieri facias.
SEC. 3149. (3410). Judgments for sureties against their prin
cipals, and between each other ; motion and notice. —Sureties,
whether bound on the contract or instrument with the principal
debtor as joint, or joint and several obligors or promisors, or as
accommodation drawers, acceptors, or indorsers of a bill of ex
change, or in any other manner, are entitled to a summary
judgment against their principal, and between each other, by
motion in the circuit court, on three days' notice thereof, in the
cases, and in the manner following.

SEC. 3150. (3411). For surety against principal debtor. —Against
the principal debtor, —
1. When a judgment has been obtained against the surety,
which he has satisfied, either wholly or in part, for the amount
paid and interest.
2. When a surety or sureties are sued without their prin
cipal, upon notice given to the principal of the pending suit, if
judgment is obtained against the surety, judgment for the same
amount must be rendered against the principal in favor of the
surety.

SEC. 3151. (3412). Judgments between sureties. —Between sure
ties, —
1. A surety who has paid the debt of his principal mav re
cover of each of his co-sureties their aliquot proportion of the
debt ; and if any of the co-sureties are insolvent, the proportion
/of such insolvent must be excluded from the estimate, and judg
ment be rendered against the remaining solvent sureties for
their proportion of the debt, as if such insolvent was not a co
surety.
2. When suit is pending against one or more sureties, either
in connection with, or without their principal, if the principal
is insolvent or dead, the surety so sued may, on notice of the
pending suit, recover judgment against such of the co-sureties
as are not sued in that action for their aliquot proportion of the
debt, excluding from the estimate the proportion of such of the
sureties as are insolvent, as if such insolvent had not been asurety.
SEC. 3152. (3413). When surety not to confess judgment. —Nos
rety, when sued, can confess judgment, or suffer judgment to
pass by default, if the principal debtor, on being notified of the
pending suit, is willing to defend the suit at his own cost, and
gives good and sufficient collateral security to the surety, to be
approved by the court.

SEC. 3153. (3414). Surety may require creditor to sue principal
or other sureties ; discharged on failure. —A surety upon any
contract for the payment of money, or for the payment or deliv
ery of personal property, may require the creditor, or any one
having the beneficial interest in the contract, by notice in writing,
to bring suit thereon against the principal debtor, or against any
co-surety to such contract ; and if suit is not brought thereon,
pursuant to such notice, to the first court to which suit can be
brought after the receipt of such notice, and prosecuted with dil
igence according to the ordinary course of law, the surety .giv
ing such notice is discharged from all liability as surety, or his
aliquot proportion of the debt, as the case may be ; and one
surety may give the notice in behalf of his co-sureties.

SEC. 3154. (3415). To what not applicable.—The remedy secured
by the preceding section does not apply to bonds or other con
tracts with collateral conditions, or to the bonds of executors,
administrators, guardians, or public officers.
SEC. 3155. (3416). In whose favor and against whom provisions
inure.—AH the provisions of this chapter inure to the benefit
of the personal representatives of the creditor or surety, and in
favor of sureties and co-sureties against the personal represent
atives of the principal, or of a surety.

SEC. 3156. (3417). Court in which motion should be made.—In
cases not otherwise provided for in this chapter, the motions
must be made in the circuit court of the county in which the
parties, or any of them, against whom the motion is made, re
side, or if they are non-residents, or have no fixed residence in
the state, then in the circuit court of any county in the state.

SEC. 3157. (3418). On payment by surety, judgment must be
assigned to him. — Whenever a judgment is obtained by a cred
itor on a demand to which there are one or more sureties, the
sureties may pay such demand, and the plantifi' in the judg
ment, his agent, or attorney of record, when the payment is
made, must assign such judgment to the surety or sureties pay
ing the money, who may collect the same, with interest and
costs, in the name of the plaintiff for their use, and may assert,
in law or equity, any lien or right against the principal debtor,
which the plaintiff could have asserted if the debt had not been
paid; but in every such case, the assignee of the judgment is
bound to accept and receive payment of it in the same kind of
currency which he may have paid for it.

CHAPTER 13.
MANDAMUS, PROHIBITION, CERTIORARI AND OTHER REMEDIAL WRITS
OF A SUPERVISORY NATURE.
SEC. 3158. Application for ; pleadings and right of amendment.
^yj applications for mandamus, prohibition, certiorari, or other
remedial writ of a supervisory nature, shall be commenced by
a petition verified by affidavit, in which the facts shall be stated
as briefly and succinctly as the case will admit of; and any de
fendant may demur, plead, or answer as to all such matters as
may be necessary to his defense ; and any of the pleadings in
such proceeding may be amended as often as occasion may re
quire to attain the ends of justice, and by striking out parties
and adding new parties ; and upon the issues thus presented,
the court shall award the relief, if any, to which the petitioner
is entitled.

 any such proceeding, the return or answer shall not be con
clusive, but the truth or sufficiency thereof may be put in issue
and controverted.
SEC. 3160. Appeal to supreme court ; a preferred case to be de
cided at first term. —From the final judgment of any circuit
court, or other court exercising the jurisdiction of such court,
in any such proceeding, an appeal shall lie to the supreme court
as in other cases ; but such appeal must be taken within thirty
days after the final judgment is rendered, and shall be a pre
ferred case in the supreme court, and shall be decided at the
first term to which it is taken.
SEC. 3161. Bill of exceptions taken ; judgment on appeal. —In
addition to the questions which may be presented on such ap
peal to the supreme court for review under existing laws and
rules of court, either party may, by a bill of exceptions, also
present for review the judgment of the court upon the evidence ;
and the supreme court shall review the same, and, in case there
is error, shall render such judgment in the cause as the primary
court should have rendered, or reverse and remand the same
for further proceedings, as to the supreme court may seem
right.
SEC. 3162. Revivor in case of vacancy in office. —If any officeragainst whom such proceedings are had, should die, or other
wise vacate his office, while the same are pending, whether on
appeal or otherwise, the same may be revived against his suc
cessor in office, in the manner in this chapter provided.
SEC. 3163. Proceedings to revive, when against one officer. —Ifsuch proceedings are against one officer only, and pending the
same ho shall die, or otherwise vacate his office, the petitioner
shall, in writing, addressed to his successor in office, briefly and
succinctly set forth the character and then condition of the pro
ceedings and the relief thereby sought, and demand of such
successor the performance of the duty sought to be enforced,
which writing must be personally handed to him ; and if he
shall fail or refuse to speedily perform the same, upon proof
that such writing has been served on him, and that he has failed
or refused to perform such duty properly, the court shall forth
with revive the proceedings against him, and proceed to a final
determination thereof in all respects in the same manner as if
no such vacancy had occurred.
SEC. 3164. Proceedings abate on performance of duty by sue-
cessor; costs. — If such successor, upon such demand, shall
speedily perform the duty therein demanded, the proceedingsshall thereby abate, and the court may render judgment for the
costs of the proceedings against the person who has vacated the
office, or, if h« is dead, against his executor or administrator;
and to this end, the court shall have the power to make his ex
ecutor or administrator a party by appropriate process; but all
questions of costs under this chapter shall rest in the discretion
of the court.
SEC. 3165. Proceedings to revive, when against several officers ;
costs. —If such proceedings are against more than one officer,
and pending the same any of them shall die, or otherwise va
cate the office, the proceedings may be revived against his or
their successors in the same manner as if the same had been
against one officer only; and if such successor or successors,
not failing or refusing on demand to perform the required duty,
shall in writing state his or their willingness to perform the
same, and it shall appear to the court that he or they cannot
perform such duty because of the failure or refusal of his or
their associates in office and co-defendants to co-operate in the
performance thereof, he or they shall not, in that event, be liable
for any part of the costs.
SEC. 3166. Common law not repealed ; certain proceedings excepted
from operation of this chapter. —The common law, asnow in force in this state, touching any of the matters em
braced in this chapter, is not repealed, but left in full force ;
the true intent and meaning of this chapter being to provide a
plain, more speedy and less expensive mode of procedure in all
cases to which it applies; nor shall the provisions of this chap
ter be held to apply to a certiorari obtained in the supreme court,
upon a suggestion of diminution of the record; nor is any
thing in this chapter contained intended to repeal, alter, or
change any statute of this state, now in force, in reference to
proceedings for habeas corpus or mandamus.

CHAPTER 14.
actions to vacate charters of private corporations, and for
usurpation or forfeiture of offices.
SEC. 3167. (3419). Actions to vacate charters of corporations ;
by whom instituted, and grounds for. —An action may be
brought in the name of the state, on the information of any
person, for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling the
existence of any corporatiou, other than municipal, whenever
such corporation,—
1. Offends against any of the acts creating, altering, or re
newing such corporation.
2. V iolates the provisions of any law, by which such corpo
ration forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers.
3. Has forfeited its privileges or franchises by failure to ex
ercise its powers.
4. Has done or omitted any act which amounts to a surren
der of its corporate rights, privileges and franchises.
5. Exercises a franchise or privilege not conferred on it by
law.

SEC. 3168. (3420). When solicitor directed to commence action ;
any person may sue on securing costs. —The judge of the
circuit in which such corporation is located, whenever he has
reason to believe that any of these acts or omissions can be
proved, and it is necessary for the public good, must direct the
solicitor of the circuit or county to bring such action ; or such
action may be brought on the information of any person giving
security for the costs of the action, to be approved by the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought.

SEC. 3169. (3421). In what county actions to be brought. —Such
actions must be brought in the circuit court of the county in
which the corporation has its principal office, or, if it has no
principal office, of any county in which it does business.
SEC. 3170. (3422). Action in name of state for usurpation of of
fice or franchise. —An action may be brought in the name of
the state against the party offending, in the following cases:
1. When any person usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully
holds or exercises any public office, civil or military, or any
franchise within this state, or any office in a corporation created
by the authority of this state.
2. "When any public officer, civil or military, has done or suf
fered an act, by which, under the law, he forfeits his office.
3. "When any association, or number of persons, act within this
state as a corporation, without being duly incorporated.

SEC. 3171. (3423, 3424). Judge may direct action to be brought;
may be brought by any person securing costs. —A judge of
the eireuit court may direct such action to be brought, when he
believes that any of these acts can be proved, and it is necessary
for the public good; or it may be brought on the information of
siny person giving security for the costs of the action, to be ap
proved by the elerk of the court in which the action is brought;
and such aetion must be brought in the circuit court of the
county in which the act or acts are done or suffered.

SEC. 3172. (3425). Informant joined as plaintiff with the state.
Whenever an action is brought, under the provisions of this
chapter, on the information of any person, his name must be
joined as plaintiff with the state.
SEC. 3173. (2426, 3427). In whose name continued on death of
informant ; when it abates, —On the death of such person pend
ing the suit, it may be continued in the name of the surviving
informant, or of any person who, on application, having first
given security for the costs, is substituted in his place; but on
the death of all the informants, if no person is substituted in
their place, the action abates.
SEC. 3174. (3428). Averments of complaint. —The complaint in
sueh aetion must concisely and clearly set forth the act or omis
sion complained of.
SEC. 3175. (-3429, 3430). In action for usurpation, true officer may
be averred; judgment. —When the action is brought against a
|>erson for usurping an office, the name of the person rightfully
entitled to the office, with a statement of his right thereto, may
be added, and, when added, judgment may be rendered upon the
right of the defendant, and also upon the right of the party so al
leged to be entitled ; or only upon the right of the defendant, as
justice may require.
SEC. 3176. (3431). Rights of such officer, on.judgment in his fa
vor. —If judgment is rendered upon the right of the person so
alleged to be entitled, and the same is in favor of such person,
lie is entitled, after taking the oath of office, and executing such
official bond as may be required, to take upon himself the execu
tion of the office; and it is his duty, immediately thereafter, to
demand of the defendant all the books, papers and property in
his custody, or within bis power, belonging to the office; and on
refusal or neglect to deliver over the same, he may be proceeded
against as is prescribed by the provisions of chapter 6, title 5, in
part first of this Code.
SEC. 3177. (3432). When validity of election not triable.—The
validity of no election which may be contested under this Code
can be tried under the provisions of this chapter.

SEC. 3178. (3433). Judgment of exclusion from office or fran
chise; costs. —When a defendant, whether a natural person or
a corporation, against whom such action has been brought, is
adjudged guilty of usurping or intruding into, or unlawfully
holding or exercising any office or franchise, judgment must be
rendered that such defendant be excluded from the office or
franchise, and that the plaintiff' recover costs against such de
fendant.
SEC. 3179. (3434). On judgment of forfeiture, corporation dis
solved; costs. — If it is adjudged that a corporation, against,
which an action has been brought under this chapter, has, by
neglect, abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, priv
ileges and franchises, judgment must be rendered that the cor
poration be excluded from such corporate rights, privileges and
franchises, and be dissolved; and judgment for costs must be
rendered against the persons claiming to be such corporation,
and the directors or managers thereof, as established by the ev
idence.
SEC. 3180. (3435). When costs against state; when against in
formant. —If such action is at the suit of the state aloue, and
judgment is for the defendant, or the defendant is insolvent,
the witnesses are paid as in other state cases; but if any person
is joined with the state as informant, judgment must be ren
dered against him for the costs, if rendered for the defendant.
SEC. 3181. (3436). Costs on abatement. —On an abatement of the
action, judgment must be rendered against the sureties of the
informant for the costs.
SEC. 3182. (3437). Execution against informant's sureties. —In
all cases under this chapter, in which judgment is rendered
against the informant for costs, execution may issue therefor
against his sureties.
SEC. 3183. (3438). Appeal; costs thereof. —The state, informant,
or defendant, may appeal to the supreme court within ten days
after judgment, on application to the clerk and giving security
for the costs of the appeal; the names of the sureties to be cer
tified, with the record, to the supreme court; and if the appeal
is not sustained, judgment for costs may b*e rendered against
such sureties; but in appeals by the state no security shall be
required.

CHAPTER 15.
AD QUOD DAMNUM.
Article 1. —Erection of dams for mills, gin* and factories.
2. —Condemnation of lands for public uses.
Article I.
ERECTION OK DAMS FOR MILLS, OIKS AND FACTORIES.
SEC. 3184. (3555). Dams for water-mills, gins, or factories; by
whom erected.— A dam for any water grist-mill, saw-mill, gin,
or factory, to be operated for the public, may be erected across
any water-course, not a navigable stream, by the owner in fee
of the land on both sides of the stream, or on one side, and of
part of the bed thereof, at the place wrhere the dam is proposed
to be erected, by proceeding as in this article provided.

SEC. 3185. (355G, 3557). Application; to whom made. —For
authority to erect such dam, application in writing, verified by
affidavit, must be made to the judge of probate of the county
in which it is proposed to erect the mill, gin, or factory, if by
the owner of the land on both sides of the stream, or if by the
owner of the land on one side only, to the judge of probate of
the county in which the land on the opposite side of the stream,
abutting the proposed site of the dam, lies.

SEC. 3186. (3558, 3559). Contents of such application. —Such ap
plication must set forth the right of the applicant to make the
same, the purpose or purposes for which the dam is to be
erected, a description of the land by sectional divisions and sub
divisions, township and range, the name of the water-course, if
it have a name, the side on which the mill, gin, or factory, is to
be erected, and the proposed height of the dam; and if the ap
plication is made by the owner of the land on one side only, he
.shall also set forth therein the name of the owner of the laud
on the opposite side, on which he proposes to abut, and his
residence, if known, and whether such owner is a minor, or of
full age; and if such owner is a person of unsound mind, that
fact must also be stated.
SEC. 3187. (3560). On filiner application, writ of ad quod dam
num issues. —On the filing of such application, the judge of
probate must issue to the sheriff a writ, setting forth the sub
stantial averments contained in the application, the name of the
applicant, and the place where it is proposed to erect the dam,
and commanding the sheriff to summon seven disinterested
freeholders of the county to meet at the place where the dam
is to be erected, on a day to be specified in the writ, not less
than fifteen, nor more than thirty days after the filing of the
application, and then and there to inquire touching the matters
contained therein.

SEC. 3188. (3561, 3562). Notice to owner of opposite land.—If
such application is filed by the owner of the land on one side of
the stream only, notice must be given to the owner of the land
on the opposite side, by serving him, his tenant, or agent, with
a copy of the writ, if to be found in the county, or if not, by
posting up a copy of such writ in a conspicuous place on the
land, ten days before the day specified in the writ for the meet
ing of the jury ; and if such owner is a minor or person of un
sound mind, such service must be on his guardian, or if he has
no guardian, the judge of probate must appoint a guardian ad
litem to protect his interest.
SEC. 3189. (3563). Notice when owner non-resident. —If such
owner is a non-resident of the state, notice must be given by
publication in the newspaper published nearest to such land,
once a week for three successive weeks.
SEC. 3190. (3564). Mode of executing writ; charge to and duties
of jury. —The sheriff and the jury must attend on the day ap
pointed ; and after the jury are sworn by the sheriff to dis
charge their duties fairly and to the best of their ability, they
must be charged by him, —
1. To examine the land above and below belonging to others,
which may probably be overflowed or injured, and to ascertain
and assess the damages resulting from the erection of such dam
to the several owners of such lauds.
2. To ascertain whether the residence of any of such owners,
or the outhouses, enclosures, gardens, or orchards, thereto im
mediately belonging, will be overflowed.
8. To ascertain whether the health of the neighborhood will
probably be endangered.
4. To ascertain whether any other mill, gin, factory, or water
works will be overflowed.

SEC. 3191. (3565). Value of one acre of land on opposite side to
be assessed. —If the applicant is not the owner of the laud on
both sides of the stream, the jury must also be charged to ascer
tain and assess the value of one acre of laud on the opposite
side, to include the place where the applicant would abut his
dam, and to locate and circumscribe the same by metes and
bounds, having a due regard to the interests of all parties.
SEC. 3192. (3566). Inquest; how made, signed and returned.
The inquest of the jury must be reduced to writing, signed by
a majority of them, and delivered to the sheriff, and by him re
turned in five days thereafter to the office of the judge of pro
bate.

SEC. 3193. (3567). Parties summoned to show cause against in
quest. — On the return of the inquest, the judge of probate
must summon the owner of the acre of land, if the same is as
sessed by the jury, and also the several owners of the land
found by the inquest to be liable to damage, to appear before
him on a day named in the summons, and show cause, if any
they have, why the applicant should not have permission to
erect his dam.

SEC. 3194. (3568). Ten days' notice to be given to owners of
land; how given. —Ten days' notice must De given to the sev
eral owners of such land, to show cause, if any they have,
against such application, by personal service, if to be found in
the county, or if not, by posting up a copy of such notice at a
conspicuous place on the several tracts of the owners who can
not be so found.
SEC. 3195. (3569). When application rejected; when granted.
If, on the day appointed to show cause, or any other day to
which the matter may be continued, it appears to such judge
from the inquest, or from" evidence introduced, that the resi
dence of any owner, or the outhouses, enclosures, garden, or
orchard, immediately belonging thereto, will probably be over
flowed, or that the health of the neighborhood will probably be
endangered, or that any other mill, gin, factory, or water-works
will probably be overflowed, the judge must not grant the ap
plication ; but if such results will not probably "ensue, the ap
plication must be granted.

SEC. 3196. (3570). Payment of assessment. — If the application
is granted, the applicant must, within three months thereafter,
pay to the several owners, or to the judge of probate for their
use, the sums severally assessed; and a failure to make pay
ment within such time operates a revocation of the grant.
SEC. 3197. (3571). Conditional fee vests on payment of assess
ment. —On making such payment, the applicant is vested with
a qualified estate in fee to the acre of land located and circum
scribed by the jury, to become absolute on performance of the
following conditions :
1. That the dam or mill, gin or factory, be commenced within
one, and finished within three'years from the date of the grant.
2. That whenever the dam or mill, gin or factory, is destroyed
or materially impaired, the same must be rebuilt or repaired
within three years thereafter; but if the owner of such dam is
an infant or person of unsound mind, he is allowed the same
length of time, after the removal of such disability, to com
mence, finish, rebuild, or repair.
SEC. 3198. (3572). On breach of condition, land reverts. —On
failure to comply with such conditions, the land reverts to its
former owner, or his heirs.
SEC. 3199. (3573). Proceedings when canal through another's
land is necessary. —When such land joins other lands, and it
is necessary for the erection of the mill, gin, or factory, to dig a
ditch or canal through such other lands, the application must
be made to the judge of probate of the county in which the
lands through which the ditch or canal is proposed to be dug,
lie ; and the writ must be obtained, inquest held on the same,
notice be given, the inquest returned, the owners of such other
lands summoned to show cause, the application granted or re
fused, and damages paid, the same as in other cases provided
for in this article.
SEC. 3200. (3574). Authority to raise dam higher. —An owner
or proprietor of any dam erected under this article may raise
the same, on application to the judge of probate ; and on such
application, the same proceedings must be had as on the first
application.

SEC. 3201. (3575). Failure to comply with conditions avoids
grant. —If any person to whom permission to erect a dam under
this article has been granted, his grantors, or heirs, fail to build,
rebuild, or repair the same, together with the mill, gin, or fac
tory, or the machinery appurtenant thereto, according to the
provisions of section 3197 (3571), such failure avoids the grant.
SEC. 3202. (3576). Who may contest application—In all appli
cations under this article, auy person making affidavit that he
is interested against the same, and giving security for the costs,
if he fail to defeat such application, must, at any time before
such application is granted, be permitted to make himself a
party, and to contest the same.

SEC. 3203. (3577). Liability for building or raising dam without
authority. — A.ny person who builds or raises a dam or other
obstruction across any water-course, except as authorized by
law, and thereby works any injury to any other person, by over
flowing his land, or in any other way, is liable to such person
for double damages for such injury; and he may, if the same is
a nuisance to the neighborhood, be prosecuted therefor.
SEC. 3204. (3578). Deputy sheriff may act. —The duties imposed
on the sheriff under this article may be performed by deputy.
SEC. 3205. (8579). Provisions as to toll. —All grist mills estab
lished in pursuance of this article are subject to the provisions
of this Code touching the order in which grain shall be ground,
and the rate of toll to be charged for grinding grain, at public
mills.
SEC. 3206. Land-owner entitled to appeal to circuit court.
From any assessment of damages made or had under this article,
the land-owner, if dissatisfied, is entitled to an appeal, as matter
of right, to the circuit court of the county, and on such an ap
peal to a trial de novo by jury; such appeal to be taken within
twenty days after the application is granted, on giving security
for the costs of the appeal, to be approved by the judge of pro
bate; and on giving such security, the judge of probate must
file in the office of the clerk of the circuit court a full and com
plete transcript of all the proceedings, including the inquest of
the jury, within ten days after such appeal is taken.
Article II.
CONDEMNATION OF LANDS FOR PUBLIC USES.
SEC. 3207. (3580). Application to court of probate for order of
condemnation. —Any corporation organized under the laws of
this state, or any person, or association of persons, proposing to
take lands, or to acquire an interest, or easement therein, for
any uses for which private property may be taken, may, if
there be no other mode of proceeding prescribed by law, apply
to the court of probate of the county in which such lands, or a
material portion thereof, may be situate, for an order of con
demnation thereof to such uses.

SEC. 3208. Application and contents. —The application must be
in writing, verified by the oath of the applicant, or by the oath
of an agent or attorney, and accompanied with security for the
costs, and must state with certainty the name and residence of
the applicant, the uses or purposes for which the land is to be
taken, or the interest or easement therein to be acquired, and
must state the name and residence of the owner, if known, or,
if unknown, must show that reasonable diligence has been used
to ascertain the same.
SEC. 3209. Order of court on filing application; notice. —On
the filing of the application, the court must make and enter an
order appointing a day for the hearing thereof; and, if the owner
of the lands resides in the state, must issue to him notice of the
application, and of the day for the hearing thereof, which must
be served by the sheriff, or other legal officer, at least ten days
before the day appointed for the hearing ; if the owner be un
known, or if he resides without the state, notice must be given
by advertisement in some newspaper published in the county,
or, if there be no newspaper published in the county, by post
ing notice at the court-house door and three other public places,
for at least three weeks before the day appointed for the hear
ing. If the owner be an infant, or be of unsound mind, notice
must be served on bis guardian, if any he have, resident in the
state, but if he resides in the state, and has no such guardian,
then upon the person who may have him in charge, or with
whom he may reside ; if the owner be dead, and the lands are
in the possession or under the control of his personal represent
ative, notice must be served on such representative, and on the
heirs at law of the decedent ; if the owner be a married woman,
notice may be served on her personally, or on her husband.
SEC. 3210. Jury to be summoned and impaneled. —The court
must also make an order directed to the sheriff, commanding
him to summon not less than eighteen, nor more than twenty-
four good and lawful men of the county, having the qualifica
tions of jurors as prescribed by law,* to be and appear before the
court on the day appointed for the hearing of the application ;
from the persons so summoned, a jury of twelve good and law
ful men must be sworn and impaneled to ascertain the compen
sation or damages the owner of the lands is entitled to receive
because of the land proposed to be taken, or because of the in
terest or easement therein proposed to be acquired; if from
any cause a jury cannot be obtained from the persons so sum
moned, or ordered to be summoned, the court must order the
summoning of talesmen until a jury is completed; each party
is entitled to challenge peremptorily four of the jurors so sum
moned.
SEC. 3211. Allegations, objections, and proof to be heard. —On
the day so appointed for the hearing, or on such other day to
which, for good cause, the court may adjourn the hearing, the
court must hear the allegations of the application, and any ob
jections which may be tiled to the granting thereof, and any
legal evidence touching the same ; and must also receive all, le
gal evidence that may be introduced by either party touching
the measure of the damages the owner of the lands will sustain,
and the amount of compensation he is entitled to receive; but
the amount of compensation to which the owner is entitled must
not be reduced or diminished because of any incidental benefits
which may accrue to him, or to his remaining lands, in conse
quence of the uses to which the land proposed to be taken, or
in whicli an interest or easement is proposed to be acquired,
will be appropriated. If the applicant has unlawfully taken
possession of the lands, or of the easement therein which he
seeks to condemn, the damages must be assessed at the highest
market value at any time from the date of the unlawful taking
to the date of hearing; and in assessing such damages, all build
ings, structures and improvements of every kind, erected or
placed thereon by such applicant, shall be considered as belong
ing to the owner of the lands, and not to the applicant.
SEC. 3212. Verdict of jury. —The jury, by their verdict, and un
der the charge of the court, from the evidence, must ascertain
and assess the damages or compensation to which the owner is
entitled; on the rendition of the verdict, the court must order
the same to be recorded, and must make an order of condemna
tion in pursuance thereof, upon the payment of the damages or
compensation so assessed.
SEC. 3213. Infants; persons of unsound mind.—If the owner of
the lands be an infant, or is of unsound mind, the court, on the
day appointed for the hearing, must appoint a guardian ad litem
to represent him ; and the guardian so appointed must file a writ
ten acceptance of the appointment, must appear and protect the
rights and interests of such infant, or person of unsound mind ;
and, if he deems it necessary, may employ counsel to assist him ;
the compensation of such guardian and of his counsel must be
ascertained by the court and taxed as costs of the proceeding.
SEC. 3214. Owner not appearing. —If the owner does not appear
and contest the application, the court must proceed to impanel
the jury as hereinbefore provided, must hear the allegations of
the application, and all legal evidence touching the same, and
touching the damages the owner will sustain, and the compen
sation he is entitled to receive; and such damages or compensa
tion must be ascertained and assessed by the jury, and upon their
verdict the like proceedings had as hereinbefore provided.
SEC. 3215. Hearing and trial. —The hearing and trial provided for
herein must in all respects be conducted as trials in civil cases at
common law are conducted; witnesses may be examined orally,
or evidence may be taken by deposition and introduced as in
cases in which such evidence may be taken and introduced in
civil cases in courts of common law ; on the trial and hearing
cither party may, by bill of exceptions, reserve any charge, opin
ion, or decision of the court, as in cases in which bills of excep
tion are allowed in civil cases in courts of common law ; and
either party is entitled to an appeal to the supreme court from
the order of the court within three months from the making
thereof.
SEC. 3216. Order of condemnation. —The order of condemnation,
upon the payment of the sum ascertained and assessed by the
verdict of the jury, shall vest in the applicant the easement pro
posed to be acquired, for the uses and purposes stated in the ap
plication, but for no other uses and purposes.
SEC. 3217. Costs. —The costs of the application and of the pro
ceedings thereunder, including the compensation of jurors,
must be adjudged against the applicant and his surety for
costs, for which execution may be issued.
SEC. 3218. Time within which damages to be paid; effect of
failure to pay.—The applicant may pay the damages and com
pensation assessed at any time within six months after the as
sessment thereof, or, in case an appeal is taken, within six
months after the appeal is determined; but if he fails to pay
the same within such time, such assessment shall cease to be
binding on the owner of the lands, and the rights of the appli
cant thereunder shall determine; and, upon such failure, the
applicant shall be liable to the owner for all damages the latter
may have sustained by the institution of such proceedings, in
cluding a reasonable attorney's fee for defending the same.
SEC. 3219. Foreign telegraph and telephone company.—A tele
graph or a telephone company, incorporated under the laws of
another state, proposing to extend connecting lines into this
state, may acquire an easement for the uses and purposes of
such connecting lines, and may pursue the mode of proceeding
prescribed in this article.
SEC. 3220. Court of probate open at all times. —The court of
probate must be deemed always open for the filing and trial of
all applications made under this article.

CHAPTER 16.
ARBITRATION.
SEC. 3221. (3536). Order of reference to arbitration in pending
suit; continuance. —It is the duty of all courts to encourage
the settlement of controversies pending before them by a ref
erence thereof to arbitrators, chosen by the parties or their at
torneys; and, on motion of the parties, must make such order
and continue the cause for award; but such continuance must
not extend beyond one term, unless for good cause shown, or by
consent.

SEC. 3222. (3537). Submission when no suit pending; award
to be entered as a judgment.—When no suit is pending, the
parties to any controversy may refer the determination thereof
to the decision of arbitrators, to be chosen by themselves ; and
the award made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter must
be entered up as the judgment of the proper court, if the award
is not performed.

SEC. 3223. (3538). Submission to be in writing; contents; de
livery of to arbitrators. —The parties must concisely state in
writing, signed by them, the matter in dispute between them,
and that they desire to leave the determination thereof to cer
tain persons, naming them, as arbitrators; and such submission
must be delivered to the arbitrators, or one of them, together
with a list of the witnesses either party may desire to examine.

SEC. 3224. (3539). Proceedings before arbitrators ; how award
made and delivered. —Thereupon, it is the duty of the arbitra
tors to appoint a time and place for hearing the parties and
making their award, of which they must give the parties three
days' notice ; and if no cause is shown for a continuance, they
must proceed to hear and determine the matters referred to
them, and make their award in writing, which must be signed
by them, and a copy thereof be delivered to each of the parties,
their agents, or attorneys.

SEC. 3225. (3540). Supplying place of arbitrator ; award by ma
jority.—If any of the arbitrators fail to attend at the time and
place designated, and the parties appear, they may substitute
others in their place ; or it' the parties cannot agree, the arbi
trators present may themselves appoint others in their stead, of
which they must make a memorandum on the submission. A
majority of the arbitrators may make the award.

SEC. 3226. (3541). Return and effect of award; to what court
returned. —If the award is not performed in ten days after
notice and delivery of a copy thereof, the successful party may
return the submission and the award to the clerk of the circuit
court of the county in which the award is made, if for the pay
ment of more than fifty dollars, for the delivery of specific prop
erty, or to do or omit to do any particular act ; if for fifty dol
lars, or less, then to a justice of the peace of the county ; and
such award has the force and effect of a judgment at law, upon
which execution may issue as in other cases.
SEC. 3227. (3542). Performance of award ; when enforceable by
attachment. —If the award is for the delivery of property, or
to do or omit to do any particular act, on notice and motion to
the court, performance may be enforced by attachment, or other
appropriate writ.
SEC. 3228. (3543). Oath to be administered to arbitrators. —Be
fore making their award, the arbitrators must be sworn impar
tially to determine the matters submitted to them, according to
the evidence and the manifest justice and equity of the case, to
the best of their judgment, without favor or affection ; which
oath they may administer to each other.

SEC. 3229. (3544). Witnesses and depositions. —The arbitrators,
or either of them, have power to subpoena witnesses, at the re
quest of either of the parties, and to administer all oaths which
may he necessary in the progress of the cause; and must, on the
application of either party, issue commission to take the de
position of any witness residing out of the county, which must
be taken in the same manner as depositions in the circuit court,
except that no oath to the materiality of the witness, or of the
cause for taking the deposition, is required.
SEC. 3230. (3545). How subpoenas executed. —Subpoenas for wit
nesses may be executed by the sheriff, by any constable of the
county, or by the parties themselves.
SEC. 3231. (3546). Defaulting witness ; fine and liability.—Any
witness duly summoned, who fails to attend without sufficient
excuse, may be fined ten dollars for the use of the county, for
the collection of which the arbitrators must issue execution ;
and such defaulting witness is also liable to the party summon
ing him for any injury sustained by the loss of his testimony,
to be recovered before any court having jurisdiction.
SEC. 3232. (3547) . Award final unless set aside for fraud, partial
ity, or corruption. —An award made substantially in compli
ance with the provisions of this chapter is conclusive between
the parties thereto and their privies, as to the matter submitted,
and cannot be inquired into, or impeached for want of form or
for irregularity, if the award determines the matter or contro
versy submitted; and such award is final, unless the arbitrators
are guilty of fraud, partiality, or corruption in making it.
SEC. 3233. (3547). Appeal to supreme court. —Either party may.
however, within five days after receiving notice of the award,
file in the office of the clerk, register, or judge of the court in
which the cause is pending, a notice of appeal to the supreme
court, and may tender to the arbitrators a hill of exceptions,
setting forth all the evidence in the cause, which, with the con
clusions of law of the arbitrators, and their award thereon, shall
be certified by them, and returned with the papers of the cause
to the court in which the cause is pending: and, either in term
time or vacation, the clerk, register, or judge of the court may
enter it up as the judgment or decree of the court, and it shall
stand as the judgment or decree of the court, unless set aside
for some of the causes specified in the preceding section; and
from the judgment or decree so entered up, or from the judg
ment setting aside the award, an appeal shall lie as in other
cases.

SEC. 3234. (3548). Arbitrations at common law not prevented.
Nothing in this chapter contained shall prevent any person orpersons from settling any matters of controversy by a referenceto arbitration at common law.

SEC. 3235. (3540). Pay of arbitrators, witnesses and sheriff or
constable. —The arbitrators are, if demanded by them, entitled
each to two dollars per day whilst actually engaged in the ar
bitration; the witnesses to one dollar per day each; and the
sheriff or constable to the customary fees for executing sub
poenas ; all of which must be paid jointly by the parties, unless
the arbitrators otherwise determine.
SEC. 3236. (3550). When witness may refuse to attend, and
arbitrators to deliver award; recovery of charges. —Anywitness may refuse to testify until his fees are paid by the party
summoning him ; and the arbitrators may refuse to deliver
copies of the award until all charges are paid ; but if paid by
a party not liable therefor, he may recover the same by action
before any court having jurisdiction thereof; and the receipt of
the arbitrators is presumptive evidence of the fact of payment,
and of the liability of the party therefor.
CHAPTER 17.
PARTITION.
Article 1. —Partition of property generally.
2. —Partition of crops.
Article I.
PARTITION OF PROPERTY GENERALLY.
SEC. 3237. (3497). Partition of property held by joint owners
or tenants in common.—Any property, real, personal, or mixed,
held by joint owners or tenants in common, may be' divided
among them, on the written application of one or more of them
to the probate court of the county in which the property is sit
uate ; and such application may be made by the executor or
administrator of a deceased person in interest, or by the guard
ian of a minor or person of unsound mind.

SEC. 3238. (3499, 3500). Application when land lies in different
counties; certificate and record. —When partition is sought
of a tract of land lying partly in different counties, the applica
tion may be made to the probate court of either county, and the
partition shall be made at the court-house of the county of the
judge of such court; and when made, the judge of such court
shafl, on demand and payment of lawful fees therefor, furnish
to each party in interest a certificate, under his official seal, of
the lots or parcels allotted to him, and of the book and page
where the proceedings are recorded ; and the record of such
certificate in the proper office of the county in which such lots
or parcels, or any part thereof, lie, shall operate as notice of its
contents.
SEC. 3239. (3498). Contents of application. — The application
for division or partition must set forth the names of all the
persons interested in the property, their residence, if known,
whether they are over or under twenty-one years of age, a full
and accurate description of the property sought to be divided
or partitioned, the interest of each person in the same, and
the number of shares into which it is to be divided.

SEC. 3240. (3501). Hearing and notice; guardian ad litem;
how non-residents made parties. —Upon the filing of the ap
plication, a day, not less than thirty days thereatter, must be
appointed for hearing the same ; and of the time and place of
such hearing, all parties in interest must have at least ten days'
notice; and when infants or persons of unsound mind are par
ties, guardians ad litem must be appointed to represent them ;
and if any of the parties in interest are non-residents, they
must be made parties in the same manner, and to the same ex
tent, as is done when property in the hands of an executor or
administrator is to be divided or distributed.
SEC. 3241. (3502). Appointment of commissioners; how proof
taken when minors interested in lands. —If, upon the hear
ing, the court is satisfied from the proof that the property de
scribed in the application is held and owned jointly, or in com
mon, it must decree the same to be divided or partitioned among
the joint owners or tenants in common, according to their re
spective interests therein ; and to effect such division or parti
tion, it must appoint suitable commissioners, not more than
five, any three of whom may act; but if the application be for
the partition of lands, and any of the parties interested are
minors, the court, before granting the application, must be sat
isfied by evidence taken as in chancery cases, that it is to the
interest of such minors that the partition be made.
SEC. 3242. (3503). Oath and duties of commissioners. —The com
missioners must be sworn faithfully to execute the trust imposed
in them, and to make the division or partition fairly and im
partially, if the same can be made; and the division or parti
tion shall be conducted in all respects, as nearly as may be, con
sistently with the provisions of this article, as is done when
property in the hands of an executor or administrator is to be
distributed or divided; and in case of application for partition
of lands, the commissioners must, after examining the lands, and
a survey thereof, if necessary, proceed without delay to make
division thereof into the necessary number of shares, having
regard to the quality of the soil, and other advantages, so as to
make the different shares as nearly equal in value as practicable;
and they must make a plat and map thereof, showing the sub
divisions and boundaries of the lots, and numbering them pro
gressively ; and they are authorized to employ a surveyor, andchain-bearers, and other attendants, if necessary.
SEC. 3243. (3504). Notice of time of making partition of lands-
In case of partition of lands, the commissioners must give notice,by publication in some newspaper published in. the county, if
there be one, or if not, in the one nearest thereto, to be made
not less than three successive weeks, that they will, on a day
designated, attend at the court-house of the county to make
partition.
SEC. 3244. (3505). Partition made by lot, and result returned.
On the day designated, the commissioners must, in the presence
of the judge of probate, determine by lot to whom each of the
several parcels belongs, and make a statement in writing of the
result, setting forth to whom the several parcels or lots were
allotted, together with all the facts relating to the partition and
allotment, which must be signed by them, and attested by the
judge of probate.
SEC. 3245. (350G). Papers filed and registered as conveyances.
The application, commission, statement of the commissioners,
and plat and map must be filed in the office of the judge of pro
bate, and, together with all orders made by him, must be re
corded in a book kept by him for the record of conveyances of
land, and when recorded, the record thereof shall be presump
tive evidence of the truth of any fact therein stated.
SEC. 3246. (3507). Partition vests title; but maybe set aside
in chancery for fraud. —The partition so made vests a title in
fee-simple in the persons to whom the several shares are
• allotted, as fully and completely as if each had conveyed to the
others; but if any fraud or undue influence be employed by any
of the parties to obtain an unfair partition or allotment, such
partition may be annulled by the chancery court, on bill filed
within five years after the allotment.
SEC. 3247. (3508). Lien against one attaches only to his share.
When there is a lien on an individual interest of any ot the
parties, such lien, if a partition is made, is thenceforth a charge
only on the share assigned to such party ; but such share must
first be charged with its just proportion of the costs of the par
tition, in preference to such lien.
SEC. 3248. (3509). New commissioners appointed if necessary.
If any of the commissioners die, resign, or neglect or refuse to
act, at any time before the final allotment, others 'may be sub
stituted in their stead by the probate court, and they shall have
the same power in completing such partition and allotment as
if they had been originally appointed.
SEC. 3249. (3510). Fees of commissioners. —The commissioners
are entitled to two dollars per day for each day whilst engaged
in such partition and allotment, and- all expenses they may have
incurred ia causing survey, map and plat to be made, or other
wise, in the discharge of their duties.
SEC. 3250. (3511). Costs and expenses; execution may issue
therefor. —The probate court must ascertain the costs and ex
penses attending the division, and make a record thereof,
stating distinctly each item of such costs and expenses; and if
the same are not paid within thirty days after the allotment, an
execution may be issued against each of the persons to whom
the land was allotted, for his aliquot proportion thereof, which
must be directed to the sheriff, to be levied as other executions,
and may be levied on the land so allotted to him.
SEC. 3251. (3512). No partition when adverse claim is set up or
made known.—^o division or partition can be made underthis article, when an adverse claim or title is asserted by any
one, or brought to the knowledge of the commissioners, or of
the judge of probate.
SEC. 3252. (3513). The remedy herein provided not exclusive.
The power hereby conferred does not prevent a resort to any
other lawful mode of obtaining partition of lands.
SEC. 3253. (3514). Sale for distribution. —Any property, real, per
sonal, or mixed, held by joint owners or tenants in common, on
the written application of any one or more of them, may be de
creed to be sold by the probate court of the county in which such
property is situate, or, in case of land lying partly in different
counties, of either of such counties, when the same cannot be
equitably divided or partitioned among them, notwithstanding
they, or any of them, are infants, or persons of unsound mind ;
and the application may be made by the executor or administra
tor of a deceased person in interest, or by the guardian of a mi
nor or person of unsound mind.

SEC. 3254. (3515). On filing application, day set for hearing.
Upon the filing of such application, setting forth that the prop
erty cannot bo equitably divided or partitioned without a sale
thereof, a day must be appointed, not less than thirty days there
after, for hearing the same.
SEC. 3255. (3516). Hearing; notice; guardian ad litem; how non
residents made parties. — All parties in interest must have at
least ten days' notice of the time and place set for the hearing of
such application; and when infants or person of unsound mind
are parties, guardians ad litem must be appointed to represent
them: aud if any of the parties in interest are non-residents,
they may be made parties in the same manner, and to the same
extent as is done when property in the hands of an executor or
administrator is to be divided or distributed.

SEC. 3256. (3517). Evidence taken as in chancery cases; what
must be proved. —Evidence in support of such application must
be taken as in chancery cases, and before granting the decree ol
sale the probate court must be satisfied from the evidence that
an equitable division or partition cannot be made; and when the
application is by the guardian of an infant or person of unsound
mind, the court must also be satisfied from the evidence that it
would be to the interest of such infant, or person of unsound
mind, to sell the property for the purpose of division or par
tition.

SEC. 3257. (3518). Decree, appointment of commissioner, sale,
collection of purchase-money, and conveyance. — If, upon
the hearing, the court is satisfied from the proof, that such
property cannot be equitably divided or partitioned among the
parties in interest, it must decree the same to be sold, and make
and issue all such orders as may be necessary to effect the sale
thereof, and appoint a suitable commissioner to make the sale;
and the sale shall be conducted, the purchase-money collected,
conveyance of the title made, and all proceedings subsequent to
the sale conducted in every respect as is done when property in
the hands of an executor or administrator is to be distributed.
SEC. 3258. (3519). Payment and distribution of the purchase-
money. — Such commissioner may discharge himself from all
liability for money received by him for the property sold, by
paying over the same to the judge of probate, after deducting
therefrom the costs and expenses attending the sale, including
commissions to him at the same rate that executors or admin
istrators receive fpr collecting and disbursing, but in no case
more than one hundred dollars ; and such net proceeds must be
distributed by the judge of probate among the persons entitled
thereto, according to their respective interests.

SEC. 3259. New commissioner appointed if necessary. —If the
commissioner dies, resigns, or neglects, or refuses to act, at any
time before the sale, another may be substituted in his stead by
the court, who shall have the same power in completing the
sale as if originally appointed.
SEC. 3260. (3520). Provisions applicable to representative of
party in interest. — Should any of the parties interested in
property, real, personal, or mixed, held by joint owners or
tenants in common, die, the provisions of this article shall fully
apply to his executor or administrator.
SEC. 3261. Not applicable to partition of crops. — The provis
ions of this article are not applicable to the partition of crops.
SEC. 3262. Jurisdiction of chancery court to divide or sell for
division. —The chancery court shall have concurrent jurisdic
tion with the probate court to divide or partition, or to sell for
division or partition, any property, real, personal, or mixed,
held by joint owners or tenants in common.
Article II.
PARTITION OF CROPS.
SEC. 3263. (3521). Partition of crops among joint owners or
tenants in common.—Matured crops of corn, cotton, or other
produce, raised and made by persons in such manner as to make
them joint owners or tenants in common therein, whether
gathered or ungathered, may be divided among them, on the
written application of any one or more of them to the probate
court of the county in which such crops, or any portion thereof,
are situate; and such application may be made by the adminis
trator or executor of a deceased person, or by the guardian of
a minor or person of unsound mind, interested in such crops.

SEC. 3264. (3522). Contents of application. — Such application
must set forth the names, ages and places of residence of all the
persons interested in the crops, the location, value and descrip
tion of the crops, the number of shares into which it is sought
to divide them, the interest of each person therein, and who is
in the actual possession thereof; and it must be sworn to by
the applicant, his agent, or attorney.
SEC. 3265. (3523). Day appointed for hearing; appointment of
guardian ad litem.—Upon the tiling of such application, a day
must be appointed for the hearing of the same, within fifteen
days thereafter, if the parties are residents of this state, but if
they are non-residents, within thirty days thereafter ; and if any
of the parties in interest are minors or persons of unsound mind,
guardians ad litem must be appointed to represent them, unless
they have general guardians who will represent them on the
hearing.
SEC. 3266. (3523). Notice of hearing; how given. —Notice ofsuch application, and of the day appointed for its hearing, must
be issued by the judge of probate to the parties in interest who
are residents of this state, which must be served on them at
least five days before the day appointed for the hearing; and
if any of the parties in interest are non-residents, such notice
must be given by publication, once a week for three successive
weeks, in some newspaper published in the county, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then in one that is published in
an adjoining county, a copy of which shall be mailed by the
judge of probate, directed to such non-residents at their postoffices,
if the same are known, or can be ascertained by reason
able effort.
SEC. 3267. (3524). When sheriff ordered to take possession of
crops. —If, at the time of filing such application, or afterwards,
any party interested in the crops, his agent, or attorney, makes
affidavit before the judge of probate, that he has cause to believe
that the crops, or any portion thereof, will be removed, sold, con
sumed, or destroyed, before they can be divided, and gives bond,
with sufficient surety, in double the value of the property to be
divided, payable to the defendant or defendants, with condition
to pay all costs and damages that may accrue from the wrongful
filing of the application, the court shall order the sheriff to take
possession of such crops, and to safely keep the same until final
disposition thereof shall be made by the court, unless the other
parties in interest, or some of them, give bond, with sufficient
surety, to be approved by the sheriff, in double the value of the
shares of those complaining, with condition for the delivery of
such crops to the sheriff within five days after judgment, or, in
case of default, to pay those entitled the value of their interests
in the crops, together with all costs and damages for the deten
tion of the same; and if the crops are not delivered according
to the condition of the bond, any of the parties in interest may
sue on the bond, jointly or severally, in the name of the sheriff
for their use, and recover the value of their interests in the
crops, and the costs and damages resulting from the detention.
SEC. 3268. (3525). Decree of partition or sale; liens in favor of
parties declared and enforced. —If. on the hearing, the court is
satisfied from the evidence, that the parties are joint owners or
tenants in common in the crops, a decree must be entered, de
claring the interest or share each has therein, and ordering the
crops divided in specie, or sold for division, as may appear from
the evidence more practicable and better for the interests of the
parties; and if any liens exist on the crops, or on any interest or
share therein, in tavor of any of the parties, such liens, and the
extent and amount thereof, must be declared ; and if a division
in specie is ordered, such liens shall be charges only on the
shares of the parties against whom they exist; but if a sale be
ordered, the proceeds of the shares or interests upon which they
exist, after payment of their part of the costs, shall be applied
to the satisfaction of such liens.
SEC. 3269. (3534). Liens in favor of strangers; how adjusted.
When any lien exists on the crops, or on any share or interest
therein, in favor of any person other than the joint owners or
tenants in common, such person must be made a party to the
application, and his lien declared and protected; and if division
in specie is made, such lien shall thenceforth rest only on the
share or interest of the party against whom it exists; but if a
sale is made, such lien shall be satisfied out of the proceeds of
the share or interest upon which it exists; but such share or in
terest must first be made to contribute its share of the costs.
SEC. 3270. (3526). Sale by sheriff ; proceeds distributed by judge
of probate. —If the crops are ordered sold, the judge of probate
must forthwith issue a wrrit, directed to the sheriff, command
ing him to sell such crops for division, at a place to be desig
nated in the decree and writ; and thereupon the sheriff must
proceed to advertise and sell such crops at the place designated,
in the same manner as he is required to advertise and sell per
sonal property under execution issuing from the circuit court;
and after making the sale, he shall forthwith make due return,
and pay over the proceeds thereof to the judge of probate, who
shall distribute the same among the parties according to their
respective interests. If a forthcoming bond has not been exe
cuted under section 3267 (3524), and the sheriff is not in pos
session of the crops, he shall seize the same for the purpose of
making a sale thereof, if in the hands of any of the parties to
the proceedings.
SEC. 3271. (3527). Commissioners appointed to make partition;
oath and return. —If a division of the crops is decreed, the
judge of probate must forthwith issue a writ, directed to the
sheriff, and commanding him to summon three disinterested
and intelligent, householders of the county, not related to either
of the parties, to make such division, who shall divide the crops
among the parties according to the decree, a copy of which
must accompany the writ, and shall, within ten days after their
appointment, make due return of the division made by them in
writing and under oath, which oath must be taken before the
judge of probate, and must set forth that they made the divis
ion fairly and impartially, to the best of their knowledge and
ability; and for the purpose of such division the sheriff, if not
in possession, and no forthcoming bond has been given under section 3267 (3524), must seize the crops to be divided, if in the
possession of any of the parties to the proceedings.

SEC. 3272. (3527). If partition cannot be made, crops must be
sold. —If the commissioners find it impracticable to make divi
sion of the crops in specie, or that it is necessary to sell a por
tion thereof tto make or equalize the division, they shall at once
report that fact to the probate court, which shall thereupon
order the crops to be sold for division, and shall issue a writ to
the sheriff commanding him to make such sale ; and such sale,
and the distribution of the proceeds thereof, shall be made as
provided in section 3270 (3526).
SEC. 3273. New commissioners appointed if necessary. —If any
of the commissioners for any cause fail to act, others may, at
any time before division made, be appointed in their stead, and
they shall have the same* power as if they had been originally
appointed.
SEC. 3274. If condition of forthcoming bond is broken, sheriff
makes return of that fact. —If a forthcoming bond is given
under section 3267 (3524), and the crops are not delivered to the
sheriff, as required by its condition, the sheriff must indorse on
the bond the failure to deliver such crops to him, and must re
turn the same to the judge of probate.
SEC. 3275. (3528). Contest of commissioners' report; proceed
ings if report set aside. —Any of the parties may file objections
to the report of the commissioners making the division, within
ten days after the same is returned, and, when filed, a day must
be appointed to hear the same, of which notice, not exceeding
ten days, shall be given to all the other parties in interest ;
and on the evidence adduced on such hearing, the report shall
be confirmed or set aside, as equity and justice may demand :
and if the report is set aside, new commissioners shall be ap
pointed to make division, who sliall proceed as herein provided
of those originally appointed.
SEC. 3276. (3529). When shares delivered to parties after par
tition. —If all the parties consent in writing, the sheriff, imme
diately after the division is made, shall deliver to each party his
share of the crops; but if such consent is not given, the crops
must be held by him until after the report of the commissioners
has been confirmed, when he shall deliver the same to the par
ties entitled thereto, unless a supersedeas bond on appeal is
given.
SEC. 3277. (3531). Trial by jury; when may be had; how jury
organized. —Either party shall be entitled to a trial by jury, on
demand made therefor at any time before the hearing, and the
jury shall decide the facts under the charge of the judge. When
a jury is demanded, the court shall order the sheriff to summon
twelve men, or, by agreement of the parties, any less number,
competent to serve as jurors; and the mode of swearing, im
paneling, challenging, and supplying the places of jurors shall
be the same, so far as practicable, as in the circuit court, on the
trial of civil causes.
SEC. 3278. (3532). Costs and fees; how taxed.—The probate
court may tax the costs against the unsuccessful party litigating,
or against the crops, which may be sold in amount sufficient to
satisfy the same, if* not paid; but each share shall be charged
with only its proportion of the costs. If the crops involved are
worth less than one hundred dollars, the judge, sheriff, jurors,
commissioners, and witnesses shall only be allowed half the
fees for similar services in other cases; if over one hundred
dollars, the same fees as they are allowed for such services in
other cases.
SEC. 3279. (3530). Right of appeal; how decree superseded on
appeal. —Any of the parties may, within ten days thereafter,
appeal to the circuit or supreme court from the decree of parti
tion or sale, or from the decree confirming or setting aside the
commissioners' report, under the regulations governing appeals
in other cases from decrees of the probate court to the circuit
or supreme court; and such decree may be superseded pending
the appeal by the appellant, on giving bond in double the
amount of the value of the interests of the other parties in the
crops, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the judge of
probate, and with condition to have the crops forthcoming to
abide the decree to be finally rendered in the cause, and in the
event of his failure to do so, to pay all costs and damages aris
ing therefrom.
SEC. 3280. (3533). Papers filed, but not recorded unless re
quested; effect as evidence. —All papers connected with the
proceedings shall be filed, but shall not be recorded unless one
or more of the parties request it, in which case such party or
parties shall pay the costs thereof; and the papers, or the record
thereof, shall be evidence of title between the parties and their
privies, to their respective shares of the crops.
SEC. 3281. (3535). Provisions apply to assignees; remedy not
exclusive. —The provisions of this article shall apply to the
assignee of anv joint owner or tenant in common; but the
remedy hereby given shall not prevent a resort to any other
remedy allowed by law.
CHAPTER 18.
SALVAGE.
SEC. 3282. (2863). Property adrift. —All property adrift may be
taken up by any person and secured.
SEC. 3283. (2864). Appraisement of such property.—Such per
son must, within two days after the same is taken up, exhibit
the property to a justice, and if, in his opinion, it is worth over
thirty dollars, he must issue an order of appraisement to three
disinterested freeholders or householders, who, after being duly
sworn to estimate the value of such property fairly, must ap
praise and certify the same to the justice of the peace, with a de
scription of the property ; if not exceeding the value of thirty
dollars, the justice must make the appraisement and descrip
tion of the property.
SEC. 3284. (2865). Copy of appraisement to taker; original re
tained. —The justice must give to the taker a copy of the ap
praisement and description of the property, retaining the orig
inal.
SEC. 3285. (286(5). Notice when value over thirty dollars. — If
the appraised value is over thirty dollars, the taker must, within
ten days thereafter, give notice thereof, once a week for three
successive weeks, in the newspaper published nearest to the
place where the property was taken up.

SEC. 3286. (2867). Contents of notice.'—Such advertisement must
state the name of the taker, the time and place, a description
of the property, with its marks, and the name of the owner, if
known, its appraised value, and where the same is secured or
deposited.
SEC. 3287. (2868). Notice when not worth more than thirty
dollars. —If the property is not worth exceeding thirty dollars,
the same must be advertised at the next steamboat landing, if
the property was taken up on a navigable stream, otherwise,
at the nearest public place, within five days after the taking up.
SEC. 3288. (2869). On proof of title, property restored. — Theowner may, on notifying the taker, or the person in possession,
and proving the property by his own oath, or the oath of an
other, satisfactorily to a justice of the peace, obtain from such
justice an order to restore such property on the payment of the
legal costs and charges thereon.
SEC. 3289. (2870). Compensation of taker.— The taker is entitled
to ten per cent, on the appraised value of each bale of cotton,
and on other property as follows : Twenty-five per cent, on all
under thirty dollars; between thirty and one hundred dollars,
twenty per cent. ; between one hundred and live hundred dol
lars, fifteen per cent. ; between five hundred and one thousand
dollars, ten per cent.; and on all over one thousand dollars, five
per cent.
SEC. 3290. (2871). Also to be paid his charges.—The taker is
also entitled to the justice's fees paid by him, the expenses of
the advertisement, if published in a newspaper, and reasonable
compensation for the keeping, if necessary to preserve the prop
erty from loss or injury, to be ascertained as in the case of
estrays.
SEC. 3291. (2872). Fees of appraisers. —The appraisers, other than
the justice, are entitled to two dollars each, to be paid by the
taker.
SEC. 3292. (2873). Time allowed to make claim; if no claim
made, property vests in taker. —The owner may prove his
property, if appraised at not more than thirty dollars, within
three months; between thirty and one hundred dollars, in six
months ; at more than one hundred dollars, within one year after
the appraisement ; and on failure to do so, the right to the same
is vested in the taker, under the provisions of this chapter.
SEC. 3293. (2874). Remedy of owner when taker refuses to de
liver property. —If the taker, or the person in possession of the
property, fails to deliver the same to the owner on the order of
the justice, and the payment of, or offering to pay all legal costs,
charges and expenses for keeping, such owner may recover the
same; and the person failing also forfeits, to any person suing
for the same, double the appraised value of the property.
SEC. 3294. (2875). Penalty for concealing, destroying, etc., the
property so taken up. —If any person conceals, destroys, in
jures, obliterates, or defaces any mark, or disposes of, or carries
beyond the state any property taken up adrift, before the expi
ration of the time allowed by this chapter for the owner to
prove his property, he is liable to such owner to the extent of
the injury he may sustain thereby.
SEC. 3295. (2876) ._ On death. of salvor, his representative acts.
If the taker dies before the expiration of tlie time allowed to
the owner to prove his property, all the provisions of this chap
ter, in relation to the giving up of the property, apply to his
personal representatives.
CHAPTER 19.
INJURY TO TREKS AND WATER-CRAFT.
SEC. 3296. (3551). Damages for destruction, injury, or removalof trees. —Any person who cuts down, deadens, girdles, or de
stroys, or takes away, if already cut down or fallen, any cypress,
pecan, oak, pine, cedar, poplar, walnut, hickory, or wild cherry
tree, or sapling of that kind, on land not his own, willfully and
knowingly, without the consent of the owner of the land, must
pay to the owner ten dollars for every such tree or sapling ; and
for every other tree or sapling not hereinbefore described, so
cut down, deadened, girdled, destroyed, or taken away by any
person, he must pay to such owner the sum of five dollars.

SEC. 3297. (3552). Damages for destruction or injury of fruit or
ornamental tree, etc. —A.ny person wbo cuts down, digs up,
girdles, destroys, or mutilates any fruit tree, or ornamental
tree, or shrub, bush, or plant, which is enclosed on premises not
his own, willfully and knowingly, without the consent of the
owner, must pay to such owner fifteen dollars for every such
tree, shrub, or plant.
SEC. 3298. (3553). Damages for injuries to canoe, boat, or water-
craft. —Any person, who, without the consent of the owner, de
stroys, or who, without such consent, looses, sinks, or takes
away, and fails to return, any canoe, boat, or water-craft, must
pay to the owner double the value thereof; or if taken away,
loosed, or sunk, and returned, but not in as good condition as
when taken away, loosed, or sunk, such person must pay to the
owner twenty-five dollars, and the expense of putting it in such
condition.
SEC. 3299. (3554). Court in which suit must be brought; lim
itation; to what no bar. —Any action for the specific penalties
given by this chapter may be brought in any court of compe
tent jurisdiction, and must be brought within one year from
the time the injury was committed, and not after; and neither
suit brought, nor penalty incurred, under any of the provisions
of this chapter, is a bar to any action for further damages, or to
any criminal proceeding for any offense included in the acts for
which such penalties are herein imposed, or connected therewith.

CHAPTER 1.
GENERAL RULES OF PROCEDURE.
SEC. 3300. (3602). Time and place of trial.—Justices of the peace
must designate certain days, at least once a month, and appoint
a particular place within their precincts for the trial of civil
causes ; but, in cases of emergency, they may make their process
returnable at any other time or place ; and at such time and place
all civil actions and proceedings cognizable before them must be
tried, unless otherwise provided.
SEC. 3301. (3604). How suits commenced; form of summons.
Civil suits before justices of the peace, unless otherwise pro
vided, must be commenced by a summons issued by him, with
the cause of action indorsed thereon ; and the form of the sum
mons must be in substance as follows:
" The State of Alabama, ) To any lawful officer of the countycounty. j of :
" Summon to appear before me, on the day of
next, at , (designating the place), to answer the com
plaint of , and there make return of this summons
" Witness my hand, this, the day of , 18—.
" , Justice of the Peace."
SEC. 3302. (3605). Service of summons. —The summons must be
executed three days before the return-day thereof, by personal
service on the defendant.
SEC. 3303. (3606). In what precinct suit to be brought. —Unless
otherwise provided, no person can be sued out of the precinct of
his residence, or of that in which the debt was created, or the
cause of action arose; and if suit is brought contrary to the
provisions of this section, it must, on motion, be dismissed by
the justice.

SEC. 3304. (3607). When there are several defendants. — When
there are more than one defendant, the suit may be brought in
the precinct of the residence of any one of them.
SEC. 3305. (3608). When there is no justice in precinct. — If
there is no justice, or notary public having the jurisdiction of
a justice, within the precinct of the defendant's residence, or
if he is from any cause incompetent to try the cause, the sum
mons must be issued and the cause tried by the justice of an
adjoining precinct competent to try the same.
SEC. 3306. (3609). When branch summons may issue.—When
a joint or joint and several cause of action exists, and the de
fendants reside or may be found in different couuties, original
and branch summons may be issued by any justice of the peace
having jurisdiction of any one of such defendants, and be exe
cuted in any county, and must be returned and filed with the
justice of the peace issuing the same, and shall constitute but
one suit, in the same manner as if only one summons had issued
against all the defendants; and it shall be the duty of the jus
tice of the peace, on issuing such branch summons, to indorse
thereon that it is a branch of the original suit, and that all the
summons constitute one suit, and are for one and the same
cause of action.
SEC. 3307. (3610). Taking of depositions and examination of
witnesses. —The depositions of witnesses in cases before jus
tices of the peace may be taken, on application to the justice,
in the same manner, and upon the same grounds as in cases in
the circuit court, and also when the witness is a non-resident of
the county and lives ten miles from the place of trial; in all
other cases, witnesses must be examined orally before the jus
tice.
SEC. 3308. (3611). Issue and service of subpoenas.—The justice,
on the application of either party, must issue subpu'iias for wit
nesses, stating therein the names of the parties, by whom the
witness is summoned, and the time and place of trial ; which
must be executed by the constable in the same manner as the
summons.
SEC. 3309. (3612). Service of subpoena in another county.
Where the witness is not a resident of the county, but resides
within ten miles of the place of trial, computing the distance
by the route usually traveled, the subpoena may be served either
by a constable of the county in which it was issued, or by one
in which the witness resides; but in the latter case, a justice of
such county must certify that he is an acting constable thereof.
SEC. 3310. (3613, 3614). Fine against defaulting witness. — If
any witness duly summoned fails to attend, a conditional fine
of ten dollars may be entered against him by the justice, which
must be made absolute, if the witness, upon notice issued by the
justice, and served three days before the trial, fails to make a
sufficient excuse, either in person, by some one who knows the
facts constituting the excuse, or by affidavit before some officer
authorized to administer oaths, and presented at the time des
ignated for the trial thereof; and if the fine is made absolute,
execution must issue therefor, and the proceeds, when collected,
must be paid to the county treasurer.
SEC. 3311. (3614). Attendance, how enforced ; liability. —A wit
ness may also be compelled by attachment to appear and tes
tify; and he is also liable to the party summoning him for any
injury caused by the want of his testimony.
SEC. 3312. (3615). Fees to witnesses. —Witnesses are entitled to
fifty cents per day while in attendance on the trial, to be taxed
as part of the costs.
SEC. 3313. (3603, 3617, 3662). What circuit court rules applica
ble. —As to parties, trial, competency of witnesses, admissibil
ity of evidence, regulation of suits, and the time within which
suits may be brought, unless otherwise provided, suits before
justices of the peace shall be governed by the same rules and
provisions, so far as they are applicable, as suits in the circuit
court.

SEC. 3314. Judgment by default or nil dicit. —No judgment by
default or nil dicit shall be entered by a justice of the peace
until twelve o'clock of the day to which the process is return
able.
SEC. 3315. (3630, 3631). Set-off and recoupment in such suits.
The rules and provisions of law relating to set-oft' and recoup
ment, which prevail in the circuit court, shall also, so far as ap
plicable, prevail in suits before justices of the peace; and the
defendant, if his demand is greater than that of the plaintiff,
may have judgment for the residue, if it does not exceed one
hundred dollars ; if it exceeds that sum, and the defendant enters
on the docket of the justice satisfaction of so much of his claim
as equals the amount of the plaintiff's demand, as ascertained
by the justice, and tenders the plaintiff a receipt therefor, judg
ment must be rendered in favor of the defendant for costs; and
the amount so entered on the docket shall be taken as a credit
on the defendant's demand.
SEC. 3316. (3660). Effect of death of either party—When anyof the parties to a suit die during its progress, the suit abates,
unless the cause of action survives, when it may be revived
within six months thereafter, by rive days' notice to the legal
representative to appear and prosecute or defend the suit, unless
such legal representative voluntarily makes himself a party;
and upon the death of the defendant being made known to the
justice, he must continue the cause six months.
SEC. 3317. (3618). Judgments in detinue. —In actions for the re
covery of specific personal property, the justice must ascertain
the value thereof, and render judgment for the property, if to
be had; if not, then for its value; and execution must issue
accordingly.
SEC. 3318. (3633). Effect of judgment as a bar. —A judgment
rendered by a justice of the peace on the merits of the case is
a bar to any other suit for the same cause of action.

SEC. 3319. (3634). Evidence of judgment. —A statement of any
judgment rendered by a justice of the peace, made and certified
by him, or his successor in possession of his docket, is presump
tive evidence of the fact.

SEC. 3320. (3635). Completion of unfinished business on va
cancy in office. —When a justice of the peace dies, resigns, or
removes from his precinct, the remaining justice of the peace,
or if there is none, the nearest justice to his place of residence,
is authorized to complete the unfinished business, in the same
manner as if it had been commenced before him.
CHAPTER 2.
SUMMARY JUDGMENTS.
SEC. 3321. (3663). Rendered on motion and five days' notice.
Judgments, not exceeding one hundred dollars, may be ren
dered on motion by justices of the peace in favor of the party
aggrieved, or the other persons in this chapter specified, against
the persons therein named, five days' notice thereof in writing
being given, specifying the cause for which such motion will be
made, and the time and place. 

SEC. 3322. (3664). Against justices for acting after vacating of
fice. —Against any justice of the peace, for acting in an official
capacity as such, after his office has been vacated by removal
from the precinct for which he was elected, or from any other
cause, for forty dollars, one-half thereof to the use of the county,
and the residue to any one who will sue for the same.
SEC. 3323. (3665). Against justices for failure to pay overmoney.—Against any justice of the peace, for failure to pay
over any money received or collected by him by virtue or under
color of his office, after demand made, for the amount so re
ceived or collected, with five per cent, a mouth thereon from
the time of the demand.

SEC. 3324. (3G67). Against constables for acting after vacating
office. —Against any constable, for acting as su-ch after removal
from the precinct for which he was elected, or after his term of
office has expired, or has been vacated from any cause, for forty
dollars, one-half to the use of the county, and the residue to
any one who will sue for the same.
SEC. 3325. (3668). Against constables or sheriffs for failure to
make money.—Against any constable or sherift, for failing to
make the money on an execution issued by a justice, which, by
due diligence, might have been made, for the amount of the
execution and interest, and five per cent, damages on the
amount thereof.
SEC. 3326. (3669). Against constables or sheriffs for failure to
pay over money. —Against any constable or sheriff, for failing
to pay over money collected or received by virtue of any execu
tion, attachment, or other process, issued by a justice, on de
mand by the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, for the amount so
received, and five per cent, per month thereon from the time of
the demand.

SEC. 3327. (3670). Against constables or sheriffs for failure to ex
ecute summons. —Against any constable or sherift, for failing
to execute any summons issued by a justice, which, by due dili
gence, could have been executed, for a sum not more than ten,
nor less than five dollars.
SEC. 3328. (3671). Against constables or sheriffs for failure to
levy an attachment. —Against any constable or sheriff for fail
ing to execute process of attachment, returnable before a jus
tice, which, by due diligence, could have been executed, whereby
the plaintiff has lost his debt or demand, for the amount of such
debt or demand, and interest.
Thompson v. Acree, 69 Ala. 178.
SEC. 3329. (3672). Against constable or sheriff for failure to
make return, or for making false return. —Against any con
stable or sheriff' for neglecting to make return of any summons,
execution, or other process, returnable before a justice, or for
making a false return thereof, for a sum not more than twenty,
nor less than five dollars.

SEC. 3330. (3673). In favor of constables or sheriffs in indem
nity bond. —Judgment may, in like manner, be rendered in favor
of any constable or sheriff* against the obligors in any bond, or
promisors in any undertaking to indemnify him in levying an
attachment or execution returnable before a justice of the peace,
for the amount which was rendered against such constable or
sheriff for making such levy, on three days' notice of the mo
tion therefor.
SEC. 3331. (3674). Venue of motion; judgment against sureties.
The motions authorized by this chapter may be made before
any justice of the peace of the county in which the parties
moved against, or any of them, reside, and judgments may be
obtained therein against the justice of the peace, constable, or
sheriff, and such of the sureties on his official bond as may be
notified that such motion will be made, or against either of
them.
SEC. 3332. Limitation of certain motions. —The motions au
thorized by sections 3323 (3665) and 3326 (3669) must be made
within six months after demand made for the money received
or collected.
SEC. 3333. (3675). When motion made in circuit court. —When
the amount claimed, by reason of interest or damages, exceeds
the sum of one hundred dollars, the motion must be made in
the circuit court of the county in which the parties moved
against, or some of them, reside, unless a remittitur is entered
for the excess.
CHAPTER 3.
ATTACHMENTS.
SEC. 3334. (3682). Attachments returnable before justices.
Justices of the peace, have power to issue attachments, return
able before themselves, where the amount claimed does not ex
ceed one hundred dollars, for the enforcement of the debts or
demands, and iu the cases mentioned in sections 2929 (3252) and
SEC. 2930. (3253) of this Code.

SEC. 335. (3683). What provisions applicable. —The provisions
of this Code regulating the issue and levy of attachments, orig
inal or ancillary, and of garnishments, and the trial of, and pro
ceedings in suits commenced by attachments, or in aid of which
attachments or garnishments are issued in the circuit court, not
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, and so far as applica
ble, shall apply to, and govern in like cases triable before justices
of the peace.
SEC. 3336. (3684). Form of attachment. —The form of such at
tachment must be, in substance, as follows :
"State of Alabama, j Tq &qj Wful officer of 8aid cQunty .
" Whereas ■ (or , as the authorized
agent or attorney of ), hath complained on oath
to me, , a justice of the peace for the county afore
said, that is (or will be) justly indebted to him in
the sum of dollars, and has made affidavit and given bond
as required by law : You are hereby commanded to attach so
much of the estate of as will be of value suffi
cient to satisfy the complaint and costs, and such estate, un
less replevied, so to secure that the same may be liable to fur
ther proceedings thereon, to be had before me on the day
of , 18—, at , when and where you must make re
turn how you have executed this writ. Witness my hand this
day of , 18—.
T.nwrv v. Stowe, 7 Port. 483.
" , Justice of the Peace."
SEC. 3337. (3685). Notice of levy on real estate. —When such at
tachment is levied on real estate, notice must be given as pro
vided for by section 3360 (3639), and the papers, after judgment
against the defendant, must be returned to the clerk of the cir
cuit court by the justice for an order of sale, as in other cases of
levy on lands by constables.
SEC. 3338. (3686). What cannot be attached. —Neither money in
the hands of a sheriff, or other executive officer of the court, nor
a debt or demand in any court of record, can be attached under
an attachment or other process issued by, and returnable before
a justice of the peace.
SEC. 3339. (3687). Sale of property attached before judgment.
Property which is perishable, or such that the expense of keep
ing it will materially impair its value, must be sold by order of
the justice, when the debt upon which the attachment is sued
out is not due, or when the defendant is a non-resident, or when
from any cause the judgment or sale is postponed, so that the
property attached will materially deteriorate in value, unless the
same is replevied ; and the proceeds of such sale must be retained
in the hands of the justice to abide the judgment.
SEC. 3340. (3688). Answer of garnishee; evidence on appeal.
The garnishee must answer on oath in writing, or his statement
must be reduced to writing by the justice; and if an appeal is
taken, the answer made before the justice is evidence against the
garnishee in the circuit court.
SEC. 3341. (3689). When property replevied to be delivered; ex
ecution on forfeited bond. — Property replevied must be deliv
ered to the constable within ten days after judgment against the
defendant, unless an appeal is prosecuted from the judgment;
and, on failure thereof, the constable must indorse the bond for
feited, upon which execution must issue against the obligors
therein.

SEC. 3342. (3690). Contest of garnishee's answer and collateral
issues tried without jury. —When the answer of a garnishee
it contested, or when any collateral issue arises from a contest
between a transferee or claimant of the debt attached and the
plaintiff, the question must be decided by the justice, without
the intervention of a jury.
SEC. 3343. (3691). Execution for balance of judgment unsatis
fied. —When the property attached, or in the hands of the gar
nishee, is not sufficient to satisfy the judgment, execution may
issue for the residue, and be levied on any other property of
the defendant subject to levy and sale.
SEC. 3344. (3641). Sale of land when garnishee answers in
debtedness for purchase-money. —If trie garnishee answers an
indebtedness to the defendant on account of the purchasemoney
of land, and the same is condemned in his hands to the
payment of the plaintiff's judgment against the defendant, and
execution against the garnishee is returned "no property
found," or is not fully satisfied, the plaintiff may move in the
circuit court of the county for an order for the sale of such land,
in the same manner as lands levied on by a constable are sold,
and in the same manner such order and sale shall also be granted
and conducted ; and in such case the justice of the peace shall
send up to the circuit court the papers in the cause, as in other
cases of levy on lands by a constable.
CHAPTER 4.
EXECUTIONS.
SEC. 3345. (3627). Issue and return of executions. —After the
lapse of five days from rendition of judgment, if an appeal is
not taken, the justice must, unless otherwise directed, issue a
writ of fieri facias for the satisfaction of the judgment, which
must be signed by him, dated on the day it was issued, and made
returnable Defore him, not less than twenty, nor more than sixty
days from the date of its issue ; and alias writs shall be made re
turnable in like manner.

SEC. 3346. (3628). Form of execution. —The writ must be, in sub
stance, as follows :
" State of Alabama, 1 To any lawful officer of the county ofcounty. J :
" You are hereby commanded, of the goods and chattels of
-, you make the sum of dollars, which
recovered before me of him, on the day of -
SEC. 18.—, besides dollars, his costs ; and make return to me
on the day of next, at , in your county, how
yon have executed this writ.
" "Witness my hand, this, day of , 18—.
" , Justice of the Peace. "
SEC. 3347. (3629). When may be issued immediately.—If the
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, make oath in writing before the
justice, that the plaintiff is in danger of losing the fruit of his
judgment by delay, the justice must issue execution thereon im
mediately.
SEC. 3348. (3632). When execution may be stayed.—The defend
ant may, at any time before the issue of execution, stay the
issue thereof for thirty days, if the judgment is for less than
twenty dollars, or for sixty days, if for more than twenty dol
lars, by executing an undertaking in writing, payable to the-
plaintiff, in double the amount of the judgment, with sureties
to be approved by the justice, and conditioned to pay the judg
ment at the expiration of the stay ; and if not paid, execution
may issue therefor against the defendant and the sureties on
such undertaking.
SEC. 3349. (3647). Execution to another county. —When a de
fendant in judgment removes to another county, or has property
in any county other than that in which the judgment was ren
dered, execution on such judgment may be issued by the justice.
>
and directed to any constable of such county, which must be
certified by the judge of probate of the county in which the
judgment was rendered, or by a justice of the county to which
it is sent, who has knowledge of the handwriting of the justice
issuing it.

SEC. 3350. (3648). By whom executed. —Such execution may be
executed by any constable of the county to which it is sent, and
must be by him returned to the justice issuing it, as in other
cases.
SEC. 3351. (3649). Lien of execution. — Executions issued by
justices are hens on the property of the defendant on which
they are levied from the time of the levy.
SEC. 3352. (3650). Order of payment of several executions
against same defendant-—-If more than one execution comes
to the hands of the constable against the same defendant at
different times, the first received by him must be first satisfied;
and if they come to his hands at the same time, and all cannot
be fully satisfied, each must receive a ratable proportion of the
funds; and it is the duty of the constable to indorse on even-
execution received by him the true date of the receipt thereof.
SEC. 3353. (3652). When indemnity may be required. —When a
reasonable doubt exists as to the title of the defendant to per
sonal property, the constable may refuse to levy, or may re
lease a levy already made, unless indemnified by the plaintiff";
and if there are more than one execution in his hands, the
plaintiff in the execution first received has the prior right to
give such indemnity ; and upon his refusal, the plaintiff in the
execution next received may give the indemnity, and have the
property sold for his benefit.

SEC. 3354. (3643;. Forthcoming bond; effect of.—When a levy
is made on personal property, the defendant may retain the
possession thereof until the day of sale, upon executing a forth
coming bond, payable to the plaintiff', in double the amount of
the judgment, with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
constable, with condition to have the property forthcoming at
twelve o'clock of the day, and at the place appointed for the
sale.
SEC. 3355. (3644). Execution issues on forfeiture of bond; no
stay allowed. —If the property is not delivered at such time
and place, the constable must return the bond forfeited to the
justice, who must thereupon, without delay, issue execution
thereon for the amount of the judgment and costs against the
defendant and the sureties on the bond, upon which no further
stay of execution must be taken.
SEC. 3356. (3645). Proceedings on forfeited bond, when execu
tion issued from another county. —If property is levied on by
a constable under an execution from another county, and the
property is not delivered on the day of sale according to the
forthcoming bond, the constable must return the bond forfeited
to any justice of his county, together with a copy of the execu
tion, who must proceed thereon in the same manner as if the
judgment had been rendered by him; and the constable must
then return the execution to the justice who issued it, with an
indorsement showing the levy, and the execution and forfeiture
of the bond.
SEC. 3357. (3646). Defects in form do not affect bond.—Any
undertaking entered into by the parties, with the consent of
the justice or constable, as a stay of execution, or forthcoming
bond, and which has the effect to stay execution, or continue
the property levied on in the possession of the defendant, must
be deemed sufficient, though defective in form.
SEC. 3358. (3637). Time and place of sale of personal property.
Personal property, levied on under an execution issued by a
justice of the peace, must be sold at the residence of the defend
ant, or at such other place within the precinct as may be most
for the benefit of the parties, between the hours of eleven in
the morning and four in the afternoon.

SEC. 3359. (3638). Levy on land; when made, and proceedings
thereunder. —If the defendant has no personal property known
to the constable, or if it is insufficient to satisfy the execution,
he must indorse the fact upon the execution, and may then levy
on land of the defendant subject to execution, describing it in
his levy, and make return thereof to the justice, who shall there
upon transmit all the papers in the cause to the next circuit
court, or court having like jurisdiction.

SEC. 3360. (3639). Notice of levy on land.—If the defendant, on
whose land the levy is made, is a resident of, and within the
county, personal notice of such levy must be given him ; other
wise, by posting a notice in a conspicuous place on the land
levied on.
SEC. 3361. (3640). Sale of land ordered on motion. —If the pro
ceedings before the justice are regular, and establish a judgment
against the defendant, issue of execution and levy on land for
want of personal property, and notice thereof, and no sufficient
objection is made, the court must, on motion of the plaintiff,
direct a sale of the land for the satisfaction of the judgment.
SEC. 3362. (3642). Record and writ for sale of land.—The clerk
of the court in which the motion is made must record all the
proceedings before the justice, together with the return of the
constable, the motion of the plaintiff and the order of the court
thereon, and must issue a writ directing the sheriff to sell the
land for the satisfaction of the judgment.
SEC. 3363. (3658). Issue of alias executions without revival.
"When an execution has been issued within six months after the
rendition of judgmeut, and has not been returned satisfied,
another execution may be issued" thereon at any time within
three years thereafter, without a revival of the judgment.

SEC. 3364. (3659). When scire facias necessary ; bar to revival
ofjudgment.—When execution has not been thus sued out, no
execution can issue until the defendant is notified to appear at
a time and place designated by the justice, and show cause why
the plaintiff should not have execution of his judgment ; but no
judgment can be revived after the lapse of five years from the
rendition thereof, or from the issue of the last execution thereon.
CHAPTER 5.
trial of right of property.
SEC. 3365. (3676). Trial of right of property ; how instituted.
When an attachment or execution is levied on personal property
claimed by any person not a party to the writ, he may trythe right to such property, before a sale thereof, by making an
affidavit, which may be administered by the officer levying the
process, that he has a just title thereto, and executing bond in
double the value of the property so levied on, payable to the
plaintiff", with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the officer
making the levy, with condition to have the property forth
coming for the satisfaction of the plaintiff's judgment, if it be
found liable therefor, and also for the payment of such costs and
damages as may be recovered for putting in the claim for delay ;
and thereupon the property must be delivered to the possession
of the claimant.

SEC. 3366. (3677). Bond and affidavit returned; issue and bur
den of proof. —The affidavit and bond must, without delav, be
returned to the justice who issued the process, when an issue
must be made up between the plaintiff in the process and the
claimant, in which the former must be required to allege that
the property levied on is the property of the defendant in the
process, and liable to its satisfaction ; and upon such issue the
burden of proof is on the plaintiff in the process.
SEC. 3367. (3680). Assessment of value of property, and dam
ages for delay. —The justice, if he finds for the plaintiff, must
ascertain the value of each article of the property separately,
as far as practicable, and if he is of the opinion that the claim
was put in for delay, he must also assess the plaintiff's dam
ages, not exceeding fifteen per cent, on the amount of the
plaintiff's demand.

SEC. 3368. Forfeiture of claim bond.—If judgment be rendered
against the claimant, and he fail to deliver the property to the
sheriff or constable levying the process within ten days there
after, such officer must indorse the bond forfeited, and return
the same to the justice; and thereupon, if the property was
levied on under execution, or, if levied on under an attachment,
after judgment in favor of the plaintiff against the defendant
in attachment, the justice must issue an execution against all
the obligors in the bond for the amount of the judgment against
the defendant, if that is less than the value of the property as
assessed by the justice, or for the amount of such assessed
value, if less than the amount of the judgment; also for the
damages, if any were assessed, and the costs of the trial of the
right of property.
SEC. 3369. Provisions of Code made applicable. —The provis
ions of sections 3015 (3347), 3016 (3348), 3017 (3349) of this
Code shall also be applicable to trials of the right of property
before justices of the peace.
CHAPTER 6.
TRIAL BY JURY.
SEC. 3370. (3619). Appeal to jury, how taken; subpoenas for
witnesses, —Any party, dissatisfied with thc-judgment rendered
by a justice of the peace, may, within five days thereafter, ap
peal to a jury, on giving bond with sufficient sureties, to be ap
proved by the justice, in double the amount of the judgment
and costs, with condition for the payment of such judgment as
may be rendered against him; and such justice, his successor in
office, or any other justice of the peace in the county, may issue
subpoenas for all witnesses that the parties may desire.

fect. —Such appeal must be tried before any one or more of
the justices of the peace in the precinct in which the cause
originated, by five jurors, to be drawn, sworn and impaneled
as hereinafter directed, whose verdict shall be final and conclu
sive between the parties, unless removed by certiorari or appeal
to the next term of the circuit court, or other court of like ju
risdiction, of the county; and such jury must be impaneled
and sworn, and the trial conducted, and the evidence admitted,
in the same manner as in the circuit court; and such justice
must enter up judgment on his docket in accordance with the
verdict of the jury, and issue execution thereon as in other
cases before justices of the peace.
SEC. 3372. (3621). Mode of drawing juries. —The mode of draw
ing juries under the preceding section must be as follows: The
justices of the peace in each precinct must, once in two years,
make a list of all persons liable to serve on juries in the circuit
court, who reside in the precinct, and must write the name of
each person so liable on a separate piece of paper, which must
be deposited in a box marked number one; and must draw
therefrom not less than five, nor more than seven of the names
so deposited, from time to time, as may be necessary to try the
causes pending in their courts, which names must be entered in
the justice's docket, and deposited in a box marked number
two; and after all the names are drawn from number one, they
must commence drawing from number two, and so on alternately.
SEC. 3373. (3622). Penalty on jurors for failure to attend; how
deficiency supplied. —The justices or justice of each precinct
may draw a jury at any time within five days after judgment is
rendered, should an appeal be taken within that period ; and any
person so drawn and summoned by a constable three days before
court, neglecting to attend, shall be subject to the same fines and
forfeitures, and be proceeded against in the same manner as wit
nesses are for failing to attend justices' courts; and the consta
ble, by direction of the justice, must fill and complete such jury
from the by-standers in case of deficiency of jurors; but there
must be at least three of the original panel on such jury.
SEC. 3374. (3623). Pay of jurors.— Such jurors shall be entitled to
receive fifty cents each for their attendance, which must be taxed
in the bill of costs.
SEC. 3375. (3624). Jurors, how summoned.—The justice must is
sue a venire facias for the jury so drawn, returnable to the next
regular term of his court, and the constable must, at least three
days before court, summon the jurors so drawn to attend such
court.
SEC. 3376. (3625). Oath of iurors— The following oath must be
administered to the jury by the justice of the peace, before any
cause is submitted for their consideration : " You, and each of
you, do solemnly swear that you will well and truly trv all issues
submitted to you by the court during the day, and a trueverdict render according to the law and the testimonv ; so help
you God."
SEC. 3377. (3626). Jury trials only at regular terms; exception.
The jury trial, within the meaning of this chapter, must be had
on a regular court day, as provided for in section 3300 (3602) of
this Code, unless it becomes necessary to adjourn such court
to a stated time, not beyond ten days, in order to dispose of
the causes pending therein.
CHAPTER 7.
forcible entry and unlawful detainer.
SEC. 3378. (3694). Cognizable before justice of the peace. —The
forcible entry upon and detainer, or the unlawful detainer of
lands, tenements and hereditaments, is cognizable before a jus
tice of peace of the county in which the offense is committed.
Not unconstitutional. —Ward v. Lewis, 1 Stew. 26; Beck v. Glenn, 69 Ala. 121.
SEC. 3379. (3695). Courts for such trials always open. —Courts
having jurisdiction under this chapter must be held open at all
times, for the consideration and determination of questions
arising under this chapter, and judgments had thereon without
delay.
SEC. 3380. (3696). Forcible entry and detainer defined. —A forcible
entry and detainer is, where one, by force or strong hand,
or by exciting fear or terror, enters upon and detains lands or
tenements in the possession of another; as by breaking open
doors, windows, or any other part of a house, whether any per
son be within or not; by threats of violence to the party in
possession, or by such words or actions as have a tendency to
excite fear or apprehension of danger; by putting out of doors,
or removing the goods or chattels of the party in possession;
or by entering peaceably, and then, by unlawful refusal, or by
force or threats, turning or keeping the party out of possession.
SEC. 3381. (3697). Unlawful detainer denned. —An unlawful de
tainer is, where one who has lawfully entered into possession of
lands or tenements, after the termination of his possessory in
terest, refuses, on demand in writing, to deliver the possession
thereof to any one lawfully entitled thereto, his agent, or attor
ney.

SEC. 3382. (3698). What estates in land included.— The two pre
ceding sections extend to, and comprehend terms for years, and
all estates, whether freehold or less than freehold.
SEC. 3383. (3699). Issue and form of notice upon complaint filed.
Upon complaint being made, the justice of the peace must issue
a notice to the party against whom the complaint is made, to
the following eftect:
'• The State of Alabama, 1 Tf) .
county. j
" You are hereby commanded to be and appear before me, at
, on the day of , 18—, to answer to, and make
defense against a complaint exhibited to me against you by ■
-, for a forcible entry and detainer (or for an unlawful de
tainer, as the case may be).
" Witness my hand, this day of , 18—.
" , Justice of the Peace. "

SEC. 3384. (3700). Time and mode of serving notice. —The no
tice must be served on the defendant at least six days before the
return day of the process, and may be served on him anywhere
within the state. The return of the service thereof by any sheriff
or constable of the state is sufficient, or proof of the fact may
be made before the justice. It is sufficient to leave a copy
thereof at his usual place of abode.
SEC. 3385. (3714). Before whom tried. —The complaints provided
for in this chapter must be exhibited to, and be tried by a justice
of the peace for the precinct in which the lands or tenements
are situated; if in a city or corporate town, before the mayor,
intendant, or any justice of the peace thereof; and if the office
is vacated, or such justice, mayor, or intendant, is disqualified,
from any cause, from sitting, then by the justice of some ad
joining precinct.
SEC. 3386. (3701). Issue and trial- —If the parties appear, an issue
must be made between them upon the complaint; but if the de
fendant, having been duly cited, does not appear, or appearing
declines to plead, the cause proceeds as if the defendant had
pleaded not guilty ; or, for good cause, the trial may be post
poned not more than fifteen days, at the cost of the applicant.
SEC. 3387. (3702). If plaintiff succeeds, writ of restitution is
sued; costs.—If the justice determine in favor of the plaintiff,
he must record the decision, and render judgment with costs,
upon which he must issue a writ of execution, commanding the
sheriff to restore the plaintiff to the possession of his lands and
tenements according to the complaint, and to levy and sell a
sufficiency of the defendant's goods and chattels, lands and ten
ements to satisfy the costs of the proceedings.

SEC. 3388. (3703). If plaintiff fails, judgment entered against
him for costs; execution.—If the justice determines in favor
of the defendant, judgment must be rendered in his favor for the
costs, upon which an execution may issue as in other cases ; and
in either case, the items composing the bill of costs must be
stated at the foot of the execution.
SEC. 3389. (3704). Title not in issue.—The estate or merits of the
title cannot be inquired into on the trial of any complaint ex
hibited under this chapter.

SEC. 3390. (3705). Statute of limitations.— The uninterruptedoccupation of the premises in controversy by the defendant, forthe space of three entire years preceding the exhibition of thecomplaint, is, if the estate of the defendant is not determined, abar to any proceeding under this chapter.
SEC. 3391. (3709). Damages for detainer after expiration of term
of lease. —Any person who, having entered into the possession
of lands and tenements under a contract of lease, forcibly or
unlawfully retains the possession thereof after the expiration of
his term, or refuses to surrender the same on the written de
mand of the lessor, his agent, or attorney, or legal representative,
is liable for double the amount of the annual rent agreed to be
paid under such contract, and for such other special damages as
may be thereby sustained by the party thus unlawfully kept out
of po88ession,to be recovered as now provided bylaw in actions
of unlawful detainer, or by an action at law for damages.

SEC. 3392. (3708). Proceedings no bar to other remedies. —No
proceeding had under this chapter, or judgment rendered, bars
or prevents the party injured from prosecuting an action of
trespass, or other action, against the aggressor or party offend
ing.

SEC. 3393. (3706). Subpoenas and depositions. —The justice be-
fore whom the complaint is exhibited must issue subpoenas for
witnesses, at the request of either party, which may be served
either by the sheriff, or by a constable ; and either party may
also take- the testimony of witnesses by deposition, as in other
cases before justices of the peace.
SEC. 3394. (3707). Penalty for failure to execute process. —Any
sheriff or constable, neglecting or refusing to execute any pro
cess placed in his hands by a justice of the peace, in virtue of
the authority conferred by this chapter, forfeits to the party ag
grieved two hundred dollars, to be recovered by action in the
circuit court, or court of like jurisdiction.
SEC. 3395. (3715). Fine against defaulting witness. —Any wit
ness, duly subpoenaed, and failing to attend, or refusing to tes
tify, may be fined by the justice of the peace not exceeding one
hundred dollars, for the use of the county, for which he may
issue execution directed to the constable.
SEC. 3396. (3716). Notice to witness before judgment is made
absolute. —Tne judgment specified in the preceding section
must not be made absolute, until ten days after service of a
written notice on such witness, informing him of the rendition
of such judgment.
SEC. 3397. (3717). Fees of witnesses, sheriffs and constables.
In proceedings under this chapter, the following fees shall be
allowed : To witnesses, the same fees as are allowed by law in
the circuit court; to the sheriff's, for serving summons and re
turn, one dollar; for executing writ of restitution, two dollars;
for making money on execution, serving subpoenas, etc., the
same fees as in cases in the circuit court; to the constables, the
same fees as in other cases.
CHAPTER 8.
APPEALS AND PROCEEDINGS THEREON.
SEC. 3398. (3654,3710). Appeals from judgments before justices.
Any party may appeal from any judgment rendered against him
before a justice of the peace to the circuit court, or court of like
jurisdiction, upon complying with the provisions of this chap
ter, at any time within five days after the rendition thereof, ex
cept in cases of forcible entry or unlawful detainer, wherein he
may appeal at any time within ten days after the rendition of
the judgment.
SEC. 3399. (3654). Bond for appeal or certiorari. —Unless other
wise provided, no cause can be carried from a justice's court to
the circuit or other court of like jurisdiction by appeal or cer
tiorari, unless the party applying for such appeal or certiorari
first executes bond, with sufficient sureties, payable to the ad
verse party, with condition to pay such judgment as may be
rendered against him by the court to which the cause is sought
to be removed.

SEC. 3400. Amount of bond for appeal or certiorari. —If such ap
peal or certiorari is applied for by a defendant, claimant, gar
nishee, or any other party against whom a judgment for the
payment of money has been rendered, such bond shall be in
double the amount of the judgment rendered against him, in
cluding costs ; in all other cases, in such amount as may be pre
scribed, in cases of appeal, by the justice, and, in case of cer
tiorari, by the officer granting the same.
SEC. 3401. (3711). When writ of restitution in unlawful de
tainer, etc., not suspended. —In cases of forcible entry or un
lawful detainer, an appeal does not prevent the issue of a writ
of restitution, unless the defendant also executes bond, with
sufficient sureties, payable to the plaintiff, in the sum of twice
the yearly value of the rent of the premises, to be ascertained by
the justice, with condition to pay the plaintiff all such damages
as he may sustain by the prosecution of the appeal.

SEC. 3402. (3655). Papers and statement of the case to be returned
to the clerk. —When an appeal is taken, the j ustice must
return all the original papers of the cause, together with a state
ment, signed by him, of the case and the judgment rendered by
him, to the clerk of the court to which the appeal was taken,
within ten days after the taking of the appeal.

SEC. 3403. (3657). Notice of appeal to be served on appellee.
The justice must also issue a notice to the appellee that such ap
peal has been taken, which must be executed by personal service
on him, his agent, or attorney, five days before the return term
of the appeal, and must be returned by the constable to the clerk
of the court to which the appeal was taken, on or before the sec
ond day of the term.

SEC. 3404. (3654, 3126). Defects in bond may be cured. —When
ever it is made to appear to the appellate court that the appeal
or certiorari is defective, or the security is insufficient, such
court may require a new bond, or new or additional sureties,
within such time as the court may prescribe ; and if not given,
the court may dismiss the suit or appeal, or render judgment, as
the circumstances may require ; but no appeal or certiorari must
be dismissed for any defect in such bond, if the party is willing
to execute a sufficient bond.

SEC. 3405. (3121, 3127). When and how cases on appeal shall
be tried. —Cases brought by appeal or certiorari from judg
ments of justices of the peace must be tried at the first term
thereafter, if the five days' notice of the appeal or certiorari, re
quired by law, has been given to the appellee, his agent, or at
torney, unless good cause be shown for a continuance; but if
such notice has not been given, the case must be continued un
til the next term ; and all such cases must be tried de novo and
according to equity and justice, without regard to any defect
in the summons, or other process, or proceedings before the
justice.

SEC. 3406. (3693;. Attachments; what defects cured by appeal.No attachment can be quashed or dismissed in the appellate
court for any defect in the affidavit, attachment, or bond, or for
want of bond, if the plaintiff" will execute a sufficient bond;
and no objection can be made in that court to the regularity
of the proceedings which was not made before the justice of
the peace.

SEC. 3407. (3122). When case tried without a jury. —When the
sum claimed does not exceed twenty dollars, the cause must be
tried by the court without the intervention of a jury ; but when
it exceeds twenty dollars, an issue must be made up, under the
direction of the court, and the cause tried by a jury.

SEC. 3408. (3123). Damages assessed, if appeal taken for delay.
If it appear that the appeal or certiorari was taken for .delay
merely, fifteen per cent, damages may be assessed.

SEC. 3409. (3124). Costs; how taxed. —If the defendant appeals
or obtains a writ of certiorari, and the judgment of the ap
pellate court is for less than the judgment of the justice, the
court may tax either party with the costs, or both parties with
any portion thereof; and if the plaintiff' appeals, or obtains a
writ of certiorari, and does nor* recover more than the amount
for which the justice rendered judgment, he must be taxed
with the costs.

SEC. 3410. (3125). On affirmance, judgment rendered also
against sureties. — When, on appeal or certiorari, the judg
ment is affirmed, judgment must be rendered by the court
against the sureties as well as the principal, which must include
the costs of the inferior and appellate courts.

SEC. 3411. (3712, 3713). Judgment in forcible entry or unlawful
detainer ; writ of restitution. — In cases of forcible entry or
unlawful detainer, the judgment, if against the appellant, must
be rendered in the appellate court against him and the sureties
on the appeal or certiorari bond, including the costs in the in
ferior and appellate courts; and if the appeal or certiorari was
sued out by the defendant, and a supersedeas bond was execu
ted, a writ of restitution must be awarded, and, on motion of
the plaintiff, judgment must also be rendered against the de
fendant and the sureties on his supersedeas bond for the value
of the rent of the premises pending the appeal.

SEC. 3412. Procedendo when justice vacates office pending
appeal. —When a cause is removed from the court of a justice
of the peace, or notary public having like powers, to the cir
cuit or other court of like jurisdiction, by appeal or certiorari,
and while the cause is pending in such court, the justice or no
tary should die, or otherwise vacate his office, leaving no qual
ified successor, and in the prosecution of the cause, it should
become necessary, by a dismissal of the appeal or certiorari, for
a writ of procedendo to issue, it shall be the duty of the court,
upon motion, to direct such writ to issue to any justice of the
peace, or notary public having like powers, in the county.
SEC. 3413. How judgment in such case established, when
docket has been lost. —If, in such case, the docket of the jus
tice or notary has been lost or destroyed, the transcript of the
same on file in the appellate court, or a certified copy thereof,
shall be sufficient evidence upon which to establish the judg
ment before any justice or notary to whom the appellate court
may direct the writ of procedendo to issue.
CHAPTER 1.
CASES OF WHICH CHANCERY COURTS TAKE COGNIZANCE ; BILL, AN
SWER, REPLICATION AND DEMURRER.
SEC. 3414. (3753). Jurisdiction of courts of chancery. —Courts of
chancery must take cognizance of cases in equity, —
1. When the defendants reside in this state.
2. Against non-residents, when the object of the suit con
cerns an estate of, lien or charge upon lands, or the disposition
thereof, or any interest in, title to, or incumbrance on per
sonal property within this state, or where the cause of action
arose, or the act on which the suit is founded, was to have been
performed in this state.
3. In such other cases as such courts are by law required to
take jurisdiction.

SEC. 3415. (3754). Joint demand may be prosecuted against one
defendant.—When the plaintiff has a joint demand, he may
proceed against one or more of the parties thereto, without join
ing the others.

SEC. 3416. (3755). The state may bring suit in chancery. —The
state may sue in chancery, and the suit is governed by the same
rules as suits between individuals. The solicitor of the circuit
in which the suit is pending must attend to the same on the
part of the state, and the governor may employ assistant counsel,
if he deem it necessary, and the chancellor may determine the
amount of compensation ; and if unsuccessful, the state is liable
for costs as individual suitors are. The direction of the ex
ecutive of the state in writing is sufficient authority to the at
torney for bringing such suit.
SEC. 3417. (3756). How persons of unsound mind may sue.
Persons of unsound mind may sue by next friend, and guardians
may be substituted; and upon restoration to sanity, the suit
may proceed in their own names.
SEC. 3418. (3757). Suits; how commenced.—The mode of com
mencing the suit in chancery is by bill, addressed to the chan
cellor of the division in which the same is filed.

SEC. 3419. (3758). Limitation. —The provisions of chapter 2, title
SEC. 1., part 3", apply to suits commenced by bill in chancery.

SEC. 3420. (3759). Filing of bill commencement of suit.—The
filing of the bill is the commencement of the suit, if prosecuted,
whether the defendant is brought into court by personal serv
ice or by publication.

SEC. 3421. (3760). In what district filed.—The bill must be filed
in the district in which the defendants, or a material defendant
resides; and if to enjoin proceedings on judgments in other
courts, it may be filed in the district in which such proceedings
are pending, or judgment rendered; and in case of non-resi
dents, in the district where the subject of the suit, or any portion
of the same, is, when the cause of action, arose, or the act on
which the suit is founded was to be performed; or if real estate
be the subject-matter of the suit, whether it be the exclusive
subject-matter of the suit or not, then in the district where the
same, or a material portion thereof, is situated.

SEC. 3422. (3761). Frame of bill. — The bill must contain a clear
and orderly statement of the facts on which the suit is founded,
without prolixity or repetition, and conclude with a prayer for
the appropriate relief, without averring any combination or con
federacy between the defendants, or others, the insufficiency of
the remedy at law, or charging pretenses by the defendants ; and
it is the duty of the courts to discountenance prolix statements
and unnecessary and false allegations in all chancery pleadings.
SEC. 3423. Multifariousness. —Unless taken by demurrer, objection
to a bill because of multifariousness must n»t be entertained.
SEC. 3424. (3762). Waiver of oath to answer. —When a bill is
filed for any other purpose than discovery only, the plaintiff
may waive, in or upon the bill, the answer being made on the
oath of the defendants, or either of them ; and in such case the
answer is entitled to no more weight as evidence than the bill.

SEC. 3425. (3763). Issue of summons.—Upon the filing of the bill,
the register must forthwith issue a summons and copy for each
defendant against whom publication is not shown to be neces
sary, requiring him to appear and demur, plead to or answer the
bill within thirty days after service.
SEC. 3426. (3764, 3765). Service of summons.—A copy of such
summons must be personally served by the sheriff", if the defend
ant is to be found in his county, his return indorsed on the orig
inal, and returned to the register within five days after service;
but it is not necessary to serve a copy of the bill.

SEC. 3427. (3766). Summons executed in another county re
turned by mail. —When the summons is executed in any other
county than the one in which the court from which the same
issues, is held, the return may be made by mail, directed to the
register, the title of the suit being indorsed on the envelope,
and the word "summons" written against the same.
SEC. 3428. (3767). Mailed within five days.—When the return is
by mail, the summons, directed and indorsed according to the
provisions of the preceding section, must be deposited in a postoffice
of the county in which the same is executed, within five
days after the execution.
SEC. 3429. (3768). How parties of unsound mind may be made
defendants. —When a party to a suit, or other proceedings in
chancery, is alleged to be of unsound mind, and to have no legal
guardian, such party may be brought into court by service of
process personally upon him, and a guardian ad litem appointed
for such person, as in case of infants over fourteen years of age
who fail to select or nominate a guardian ad litem.
SEC. 3430. (3769). Publication as to non-residents. —If any de
fendant is shown to be a non-resident, or if his residence is un-
known, or if, being a resident, he has been absent from the state
more than six months from the filing of the bill, or conceals
himself so that process cannot be served on him, the register
must, on proof thereof by affidavit, make out and superintend
the execution of the appropriate order of publication.

SEC. 3431. (3770). Fee for publication deposited with register.
In all cases in which an order of publication is necessary, a suf
ficient amount of money must be deposited with the register to
cover the expense of such publication ; and the bill may be dis
missed, on thirty days' notice to the plaintiff or his solicitor, on
failure to make such deposit within that time.
SEC. 3432. (3771). Defendant entitled to copy of bill.—Any de
fendant, after service of a summons, or after being brought into
court by publication, may, on application to the register, ob
tain a copy of the bill, to be taxed as other costs. •
SEC. 3433. (3774). Publication and proceedings against defend
ants whose names are unknown.—In cases where it is neces
sary to make any persons defendants to a bill, and the names of
all or any of them are unknown to the plaintiff, and cannot be
ascertained on diligent inquiry, and he annexes to his bill an
affidavit that the names of such persons are unknown, that he
has made diligent inquiry to ascertain the same, and that their
residence, as he believes, is not in this state, proceedings may
be had, and a decree rendered against them without naming
them; and the register must make publication as in case of
non-residents, describing such unknown parties, as near as may
be, by the character in which they are sued, and with reference
to their title or interest in the subject-matter.

SEC. 3434. (3775). Time for answer; decree pro confesso. —A
defendant must demur, plead, or answer within thirty days
after the service of the summons, or within thirty days after the
period specified in the order of publication, if the publication
required by the order has been perfected, or he must obtain
further time ; otherwise, a decree pro confesso may be passed.

SEC. 3435. (3776). When answer compelled by attachment.
Answers from resident defendants may be compelled by attach
ment, if the bill is filed for discovery, or answer on oath is not
waived.
SEC. 3436. (3777). Arrest under attachment ; discharge on bond.
Such attachments are executed by the arrest of the defendant
and bringing him before a chancellor, circuit judge, or register,
who may discharge him on his giving bond with surety in such
sum as may be fixed by such chancellor, circuit judge, or regis
ter, to be approved by the arresting officer, payable to the regis
ter of the court in which the bill is filed, and conditioned that
he will file a full answer to the bill, within a time to be pre
scribed by the officer before whom such defendant is brought;
which bond must be returned with the attachment within the
same time after service, and in the same manner, if by mail,
as a summons is required to be returned under the provisions
of this chapter.
SEC. 3437. (3778). Suit on attachment bond.—Upon the forfeit
ure of the bond, the chancellor may direct the same to be sued,
and the whole or such part of the penalty as he directs may be
recovered against any or all of the obligors having ten days' no
tice, by motion in the circuit court of the county in which the
court issuing the attachment is held; and on the trial of such
motion, the indorsement by the register of forfeiture is pre
sumptive evidence of the fact.
SEC. 3438. (3779). Defendant imprisoned until he files answeror bond.—In case a defendant refuses or neglects to give such
bond, he must be committed to jail by the sheriff", and there
kept until he files a full answer with the register.
SEC. 3439. (3780). Oath to answer; by whom administered.
"When an answer is required to be sworn to, the oath may be
administered by any officer authorized to take and certify affi
davits, or by a commissioner appointed by the register.

SEC. 3440. (3781). Protection from full answer. —A defendant
may in his answer protect himself from furnishing a full an-,swer to the allegations of the bill.

SEC. 3441. (3782). Application to answer specially.—When a
party offers to answer specially, and applies for leave to do so, the
ground of such application may be contested, and the applica
tion must only be granted upon reasonable notice.
SEC. 3442. (3783). All defenses may be set up in answer;—A
defendant may incorporate all matters of defense in his answer,
and is not require to plead specially in any case.

SEC. 3443. (3784). Grounds of demurrer. — A demurrer to the
bill must set forth the ground of demurrer specially, and other
wise must not be heard.

SEC. 3444. (3785). No replication. —No replication is necessary
to an answer.

SEC. 3445. (3786). Effect of answer on hearing on bill and an
swer. — When the cause is heard on bill and answer without
testimony, the answer must be taken to be true, so far as it is
responsive to the allegations of the bill, except in those cases
where the complainant has waived the oath of the defendant to
the answer.

SEC. 3446. (3787). Dismissal of suit in vacation. — Before an
answer or cross-bill is filed, the complainant may, on applica
tion to the register in vacation, dismiss the suit. On such ap-
plication, the register must enter on the minutes an order of
dismissal; and may issue execution against the complainant for
all costs which have accrued. After answer or cross-bill filed,
the complainant may, on application to the register in vacation,
dismiss the suit ; and the register must enter an order of dis
missal on the minutes. But the defendant, at the next succeed
ing term of the court, may show cause against the dismissal,
and procure a vacation of the order. If cause is not shown at
the next succeeding term, the order is final; and execution may
issue against the complainant for all costs which have accrued.
CHAPTER 2.
amendments, exceptions, filing of papers, and serving notices;
making answer a cross-bill ; revivor of suit by a de
FENDANT.
SEC. 3447. (3788). Amendments before answer. — Amendments
to bills before answers, pleas, or demurrers filed, are allowable
as of course and without notice ; and amendments to any sum
mons may be made before service thereof.
SEC. 3448. (3789). Amendments after service and before answer.
After a defendant has obtained a copy of the bill from the reg
ister, and before answer, plea, or demurrer, amendments to the
bill may be made without notice, upon payment of the costs of
furnishing a copy of the amendment to such defendants as have
obtained a copy of the bill ; and amendments may also be made
after demurrer, and before argument on the same terms.
SEC. 3449. (3790). Amendments before decree, on terms.
Amendments to bills must be allowed at any time before final
decree, by striking out or adding new parties, or to meet any
state of evidence which will authorize relief; and amendments
to answrers must be allowed at any time before final decree, so
as to set up any matter of defense ; but such amendments to bills
and answers must be allowed on such terms as the chancellor
may impose, not extending beyond the payment of all the costs ;
and if an amendment be allowed at the hearing to bill or answer,
the party against whom the amendment is allowed shall be enti
tled to a continuance as a matter of right ; and if the cause is
continued, both parties 6hall have the right to take additional
testimony ; and if an amendment be allowed in vacation, both
parties shall have the right to take additional testimony with
out a special application.
SEC. 3450. (3791). Register may allow amendments after
answer. —The register may, on notice to the opposing party,
allow amendments to bills after answer, and amendments to
answers, but only on payment of the costs of the amendment
by the party making the application.
SEC. 3451. (3792). Answer to amendment.—If an amendment to
the bill is made after answer filed, and an answer to the amend
ment is required, the defendant must answer within thirty days
after notice thereof, or obtain further time to answer ; failing
therein, the matter of the amendment may be taken as confessed.
But at any time before the hearing, the order or decree pro confesso
may be set aside on application to the register or chancel
lor, and on filing a full and sufficient answer, on such terms as
the chancellor or register may prescribe.
SEC. 3452. (3793). What objections set for separate hearing.
When an objection is made to a bill for want of parties, or
joinder of improper parties, it may be set for hearing on that
objection only; and if not set for hearing on that ground, the
court, if the objection prevail on the final hearing, must dismiss
the bill.
SEC. 3453. (3794). Decree, when objection for want of parties
first taken at hearing. —If the defendant, at the hearing of a
cause, take an objection for want of parties, not having by plea
or answer taken the objection, the court may render a decree
saving the rights of parties not before it, or it may grant leave
to amend the bill on terms not extending beyond the payment
of costs.
SEC. 3454. (3795). Pleadings indorsed with date of filing—All
bills, answers, and other papers filed in any cause must be in
dorsed by the register with the true date on which they were
filed.
SEC. 3455. (3796). Notices; when served on solicitor.— Notice
in relation to any supplemental bill, amendment, decree, motion,
or other proceeding in the court of chancery, served on the
solicitor of the party, is valid.
SEC. 3456. (3797). Notice to parties in default.—When parties
are in default for want of an answer, or other cause, the notices
may be entered on the order book of the register, and such
entries, for such time as is fixed by the register, are sufficient in
cases of amendments, supplemental bills, and of other orders in
the cause.


SEC. 3457. (3798). Exceptions to answers. —Exceptions to an
swers must be made within sixty days after the same are filed,
and notice must be given by the register of the day of hearing
the same.
SEC. 3458. (3799). Defendant may examine complainant. — If
the defendant wishes to examine the complainant touching the
subject-matter of the bill, or his defense, he may, after filing his
answer, exhibit interrogatories to the complainant and call upon
him to answer the same, and on his failing to answer them
within such time as may be prescribed by the register, his bill
must be dismissed with costs, unless such time is extended.
SEC. 3459. (3800). Exceptions to such interrogatories. —Excep
tions may be taken to such interrogatories and heard before the
register at such time as he may prescribe, on reasonable notice
to the defendant, or his solicitor, subject to an appeal to the
chancellor.
SEC. 3.*60 (3801, 3802). Answer may be made cross-bill.— A
defendant may obtain relief against a party complainant or de
fendant for any cause connected with, or growing out of the
bill, by alleging in his answer, and as a part thereof, the facts
upon which such relief is prayed. The matters or facts thus
alleged and put in issue must be considered in the nature of a
cross-bill, and be heard at the same time as the original bill.
Ex parte Thornton, 46 Ala. 384; Taunton v. Mclnnish, lb. 619; Davis v. Cook,
SEC. 65. Ala. 617; Gilman v. N. 0. & S. R. R. Co., 72 Ala. 566; Jones v. Robinson. 77
Ala. 499; Trimble v. Farris, 78 Ala. 260; Lehman v. Dozier, lb. 235.
SEC. 3461. (3803, 3804). Answer to such matter. — The party
complainant or defendant, as to whom such new matter is al
leged, must make answer thereto under the rules and regula
tions provided in this title for the answers of defendants to
original bills. An answer on oath may be required or waived
in or upon the answer introducing such matter; and if an an
swer on oath is waived, the answer is not evidence for the party
respondent. *
SEC. 3462. (3805). Revivor of suit by defendant.—Upon the
abatement of a suit by reason of the death of the complainant,
or if he be suing as executor, administrator, or trustee, by rea
son of his resignation or removal, if there be not, within ninety
days after his death, resignation, or removal, an application to
revive by his legal representative, his successor, or party in in
terest, a defendant, having an interest in the further prosecu
tion of the suit, may, at any time within twelve months, revive
the same by bill of revivor, or by bill of revivor and supple
ment, or by bill of revivor and cross-bill.
CHAPTER 3.
EVIDENCE IN CHANCERY.
SEC. 3463. Oral examination of witnesses. —Either party may
require witnesses residing within one hundred miles of the
place of trial, to be examined orally, instead of by interrogato
ries. Such examination may be taken before the register, orbefore an examiner appointed by the court, or by a special com
missioner of the appointment of the register, as the applicant
may desire.
SEC. 3464. Notice of oral examination. —Notice of the requirement
of an oral examination must be given by the party de
siring it to the adverse party, or to his solicitor of record, if hehave such solicitor residing in the district; but if such adverse
party do not reside in the district, and have no solicitor of rec
ord residing therein, notice may be given by an entry on the
order book of the register.
SEC. 3465. (3806). Testimony by interrogatories. —In all other
cases than that provided for in the first section of this chapter,
testimony in chancery causes must be taken by interrogatories,
under the rules now in force, or such as may hereafter be adopted.
SEC. 3466. (3807). Rules as to competency same as at law.
The rules of evidence as to the competency of witnesses in
courts of chancery are the same as in courts of law.
SEC. 3467. (3808). Testimony, when taken. —The plaintiff may
take testimony at any time after answer, or after a decree pro
confesso, and the defendant at any time after filing his answer.
P. 4 M. Bank v. Walker, 7 Ala. 926; Reynolds v. Pharr, 9 Ala. 560; Jordan v.
Jordan, 17 Ala. 406.
SEC. 3468. (3809). Proof of exhibits proved before register. —Ex
hibits to bills and answers may be proved by affidavits filed with
the exhibits in the register's office thirty days before the hearing.
SEC. 3469. (3810). When testimony may be retaken. —The party
against whom the deposition of a witness has been taken, may
retake the testimony of such witness, under the provisions of section 2811 (3080), and the provisions of that section apply to
such testimony when taken.
SEC. 3470. (3811). Commissions to take testimony. —All com
missions for the taking of testimony must be directed to one or
more commissioners, to be appointed by the register, and made
returnable with all convenient speed.

SEC. 3471. (3812). Service of interrogatories.—No commission to
take testimony must issue until the adverse party, or his solicitor,
if either of them reside in the district, has been served with a
copy of the interrogatories for ten days.

SEC. 3472. (3813). If adverse party a non-resident. —If such ad
verse party, or bis solicitor, do not reside in the district, this no
tice may be given by filing interrogatories in the office of the
register for ten days.

SEC. 3473. (3814). Rebutting interrogatories.—After such notice
has been given, if cross interrogatories are filed, the party has
five days to file rebutting interrogatories ; but this time may be
extended on application to the register without notice.
SEC. 3474. (3815). Register may act as commissioner, unless
objected to. —When interrogatories are filed in the chancery
court for the purpose of taking the deposition of a witness in
any cause pending in such court, and the solicitor filing the
same shall appoint the register, in writing indorsed on the inter
rogatories, as the commissioner to take the same, the register
may proceed to take the testimony of the witness specified in the
interrogatories, under the rules and regulations applying to the
taking of such testimony by commissioners appointed by such
register, unless the opposite party, within ten days after such
interrogatories are filed, files an objection in writing, when the
appointment of a commissioner must be made as usual.
SEC. 3475. (3816). Attendance of witnesses before commission
ers. —The attendance of a witness may be enforced by commis
sioners in chancery causes in the same mode, and their attend
ance proved and certified to the register in all respects the same,
as in the execution of commissions from courts of law.
SEC. 3476. (3817). Default of witness.—If the witness fail to at
tend before the commissioner, being served with a subpoena so
to do, the commissioner must indorse on the subpoena that the
witness failed to attend, and return the same to the clerk of the
circuit court of the county, who must enter the case on the
docket, and such proceedings may be had as in the case of de
faulting witnesses in the circuit court, the indorsement on the
subpoena being presumptive evidence of the default of such wit
ness.
CHAPTER 4.
references to the register.
SEC. 3477. (3818). Proceedings before the register on reference.
"Whenever a reference is made to the register, the party at
whose instance, or for whose benefit the reference is made, must
cause such matter to be presented to the register within the
time limited for the hearing, and if no time is limited, within
three months after the reference is made ; and if such party
omit to do so, the adverse party may cause proceedings to be
had before the register, at the costs of the party procuring the
reference.
SEC. 3478. (3819). Notice of day for hearing ; proceedings there
on.—Upon any such reference, the register must assign a time
and place for proceeding therein, and give reasonable notice to
each of the parties, or their solicitors ; and if either party fail to
appear at the time and place appointed, the register may pro
ceed ox parte, or, in his discretion, adjourn the examination to
another day, giving notice to the adverse party, or his counsel,
of such adjournment.
SEC. 3479. (3820). Authority of the register on reference.—The
register, in all matters referred, must proceed with the least prac
ticable delay, and has authority,—
1. To examine the parties on oath as to all the items of ref
erence.
2. To require the production of all books, papers, writings,
vouchers and documents in relation to such matters.
3. To examine on oath, viva voce, all witnesses produced by
the parties before him, and take down such evidence in writing.
4. To hear the depositions of witnesses taken under a com
mission, as in other chancery cases.
5. To do all other acts, and direct all other inquiries and pro
ceedings in the matters before him, which may be necessary,
subject at all times to the revision and control of the chancellor.

SEC. 3480. (3821). Evidence in cause used before register. —All
affidavits, depositions and documents, which have been made or
filed in the cause, may be used on reference before the register.

SEC. 3481. (3822). Exceptions to register's decisions. — Either
party may reserve in writing any question arising on a reference
for the revision of the chancellor.

CHAPTER 5.
DECREES PRO CONFESSO AND FINAL DECREES WITHOUT PERSONAL
SERVICE.
SEC. 3482. (3823). Decrees pro confesso. —Decrees pro confesso
may be taken before the register on the failure of the de
fendant to demur, plead to, or answer the bill within thirty days
after service of the summons, or thirty days after the period
specified in the order of publication, if the publication requiredby
the order has been perfected, unless the time for answering
or pleading has been extended; in which case, a decree pro
confesso may be passed at the expiration of such time.

SEC. 3483. (3824). On such decrees allegations of bill taken as
admitted; exceptions. —In all cases in which decrees pro con
fesso are lawfully taken, the allegations of the bill are to be re
garded as admitted, except in the case of infant defendants, per
sons of unsound mind, executors, administrators, and bills for
divorce.

SEC. 3484. (3825). Not heard on day of taking decree. —No cause
in which a decree pro confesso is taken must be heard on the
same day ; but the cause may be set for hearing on any subse
quent day.

SEC. 3485. (3826). Defendant may contest decree on merits, or
appear on reference. —A defendant against whom a decree pro
confesso is taken can appear and contest a decree on the merits
of the bill, or may appear before the register on a reference.
SEC. 3486. A defendant who has been served with a summons may, at any time before
publication of the testimony, on making a proper showing, ob
tain leave from the chancellor or register to set aside such de
cree, upon filing a full and sufficient answer, and upon such
terms, not extending beyond full costs, as the chancellor deems
proper; and the defendant may also plead or demur upon such
terms as the chancellor may order.

SEC. 3487. (3828). When set aside as against defendant on pub
lication. — A defendant brought into court by publication,
against whom a decree pro confesso lias been rendered, may
also, before publication of the testimony, set aside such decree
on application to the chancellor or register, on filing a full and
sufficient answer, and such other terms, not extending beyond
the payment of costs to the time of the application, as may be
imposed.
SEC. 3488. (3829). Answer after publication of testimony. —The
permission to file an answer, after the publication of the testi
mony, rests in the sound discretion of the chancellor.
SEC. 3489. (3830). Decree without personal service not absolute
for eighteen months ; copy sent defendant. —A decree made
against a defendant, without personal service, who does not ap
pear, is not absolute for eighteen months from the rendition
thereof, except as otherwise in this chapter provided ; and in
such case the court must direct a copy of the decree to be sent
to such defendant, or, in case of infants, or persons of unsound
mind, or married women, unless the suit or matter determined
concerns their separate estates, to their guardians or husbands,
if their residences can be ascertained.

SEC. 3490. (3831). Petition to set aside decree and defend on
merits. —Such defendant may file a petition, showing sufficient
cause for setting aside such decree and permitting him to de
fend the suit on the merits, at any time within such eighteen
months, unless he has been served with a copy of such decree,
when such petition must be filed within six months from such
service. If the parties have been dismissed, notice of such pe
tition shall be given those in interest. Upon the hearing of
such petition, the chancellor has full power to open the decree
and proceed with the cause as if no decree had been rendered
therein.

SEC. 3491. (3832). When testimony on file used by either party.
In the case provided for in the preceding section, either party
may use the testimony of witnesses on file in the cause, who
have died or removed from the state after the decree was ren
dered.
SEC. 3492. (3835). When decree becomes conclusive. — Where
personal service of a decree rendered under the provisions of
this chapter is made by serving the defendant with a copy of
such decree, the same is conclusive and binding on him, if the
petition to set aside such decree is not made within six months
from such service.
SEC. 3493. (3836). To whom preceding section not applicable.
The provisions of the preceding section do not apply to infants,
persons of unsound mind, or to married women, unless the suit
or matter determined concerns their separate estates; and such
persons are allowed twelve months from the termination of
their respective disabilities to show cause against such de
crees.
SEC. 3494. (3833). Rights and liabilities of parties without serv
ice extend to representatives. —The rights and liabilities of
any plaintiff or defendant on bills taken pro confesso, without
personal service, extend to the personal representatives of any
deceased plaintiff' or defendant; and with reference to the al
tered state of the parties, and any new interest acquired, the
chancellor may, on petition, upon due notice being given and
sustained by proof, permit any party to file such bills and adopt
such proceedings as the circumstances of the case may require
for having the matter of the decree duly considered, and the
rights of the parties interested therein duly ascertained and de
termined.
SEC. 3495. (3834). Execution of decrees on bills taken pro con
fesso without service. —It is no objection to the execution of
a decree rendered against a defendant, that it was founded on a
bill taken pro confesso without personal service; but before the
execution of such decree, within eighteen months from the ren
dition thereof, the plaintiff", or party interested, must give bond,
with two sureties, payable to and approved by the register, in a
penalty to be prescribed by the chancellor or such register, con
ditioned to pay the pecuniary value of the personal' property
which may be disposed of, or placed beyond the control of the
court or party, by the execution of the decree, and interest
thereon from the time such property is so disposed of, or placed
beyond such control; and to account for the value, rents and
profits of any real estate transferred by the operation of such
decree, and further to abide and perform such decree as the
court may render, if the decree taken on the bill pro confesso
is set aside ; and the chancellor may, if such decree is set aside,
render a final decree against all the parties to such bond.

CHAPTER 6.
bills of review, ne exeat, equitable attachments, and writs
of seizure.
SEC. 3496. (3842). Suspension of decree on presenting a bill of
review. —When a decree has been rendered, and a bill of re
view is presented, the chancellor may direct the proceedings on
such decree to be suspended until a decree is rendered on such
bill of review, or until the further order of the court; requiring
such bond of the plaintiff as will effectually protect the interest
of the parties interested in the decree rendered ; on which bond
the chancellor may render a final decree for any portion, or the
whole of the penalty.

SEC. 3497. (3843). Application to file such bills, when made.
Application to file bills of review must be made within three
years after the rendition of the decree, except in cases of in
fante, or married women, unless the matter of the decree relates
to their separate estates, and persons of unsound mind, who may
apply within three years after the termination of their respect
ive disabilities.

SEC. 3498. (3844). Writ of ne exeat; equitable attachment.
Writs of ne exeat and equitable attachments may issue on equi
table debts and demands iu any case in which an attachment at
law may issue ; and in the issue of equitable attachments, and
all the proceedings thereon, the provisions in relation to attach
ments from courts of law must be observed, except so far as
may be otherwise provided in this chapter.

SEC. 3499. (3845). Chancellors may examine answers in such
cases in vacation. —Chancellors may, in vacation, examine all
answers in relation to writs of ne exeat and attachments re
turnable into chancery, and writs of seizure, discharge, or reduce,
any bail taken, or levy made, on application and reasonable no
tice to the adverse party.

SEC. 3500. (3846). Attachments on legal demands to subject
equitable effects. —Courts of chancery may also issue writs of
attachment on legal demands, founded on any judgment or con
tract, express or implied, in such cases as attachments may issue
from courts of law ; which attachments operate only on the
efiects of the defendant held by an equitable title, or on de
mands owing by other persons, to which the defendant against
whom the attachment issues is in equity entitled, whether due
or not.
SEC. 3501. (3847). Attachments may issue before judgment for
debt. —To authorize the issue of equitable attachments, it is not
necessary that the demand of the plaintiff should be reduced to
a judgment, but the court may render a decree for the amount
proved, and execution may issue to enforce the same as from
courts of law.
SEC. 3502. (3848). Property to be specified. —Equitable attach
ments must specify the property, effects, or demands, on which
they are intended to operate ; and a copy of the bill must, in
such cases, be served with the summons.
SEC. 3503. (3849). Replevy of property attached. —Any property
levied on by an equitable attachment may be replevied by the
defendant, or any one for him, on giving bond with surety in
double the value of the property levied on, to be approved by
the sheriff, payable to the plaintiff, and conditioned as replevy
bonds on attachments from courts of law.
SEC. 3504. (3850). Replevy bond to be returned. —When prop
erty levied on by an equitable attachment is replevied, the bond
must be returned with the attachment.
SEC. 3505. (3851). Lien of such attachments.—Equitable attach
ments are a hen upon the property or debts attached from the
service of the attachment.
SEC. 3506. (3852). If property not delivered, execution issues
on replevy bond. —If a decree is rendered in a case in which
an equitable attachment has been levied, and the property re
plevied is not forthcoming within such time as the court may
direct, to be proved by the affidavit of the party before the reg
ister, the replevy bond in such case has the force of a judgment,
and execution may issue thereon for the whole, or any portion
of the penalty, as the court may direct, against any or alt of the
parties thereto.
SEC. 3507. (3853). Writs of ne exeat and attachment; orders in
respect to. — Chancellors, circuit judges and registers of the
court in which the bill is filed, may make all necessary orders
for the issuing of writs of ne exeat and equitable attachments,
and for the sale of personal property levied on, as in like cases
from courts of law ; the money arising from such sale to be paid
to the register.
SEC. 3508. (3854, 3855, 3856). Garnishments may issue.—On all
decrees for the payment of money, or on all decrees for the pay
ment of costs, and in all suits in which a decree for the pay
ment of money may be rendered, a writ of garnishment may be
issued by the register, under the rules and regulations prevail
ing in the circuit courts.

SEC. 3509. (3857). Writs of seizure in aid of suit commenced
in chancery. —Writs may also issue from the courts of chan
cery on an original bill, or in aid of a suit pending in such court,
by the order of any chancellor, judge of the circuit court, or
register, for the seizure of personal property, when the same is
claimed under an equitable title, or when a decree is sought
against the same, and it is in danger of being wasted, carried
beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or otherwise disposed of.

SEC. 3510. (3858). Affidavit to be made by plaintiff— The plaint
iff in such case must sustain his claim by affidavit, and give
bond with surety, payable to the defendant, in double the value
of the property, to be approved by the register, conditioned to
pay all damages the defendant may sustain by the wrongful or
vexatious suing out of such writ.
SEC. 3511. (3859). Property restored on giving bond. —The officer
executing such writ must restore the property seized to the de
fendant, on his giving bond in double the valtie of the same,
with surety, to be approved by such officer, payable to the
plaintiff', and conditioned to have such property forthcoming to
answer the decree of the court.
SEC. 3512. (3860). When property delivered to plaintiff—If the
defendant neglects, for five days after the seizure of such prop
erty, to give such bond, the sheriff' must deliver the same to the
plaintiff", on his giving bond with surety in double the value of
such property, to be approved by the sheriff', payable to the de
fendant, conditioned, if unsuccessful in his suit, to return such
property withiu thirty days after its determination.
SEC. 3513. (3861). Return of writs and bonds- —Such writs, with
the proper return thereon, and the bonds( taken under the pro
visions of either of the last two sections, must be returned to the
register of the court from which the writ issues.
SEC. 3514. (3862). Decree when plaintiff sustains his claim. —If
the claim of the plaintiff' is sustained, the court may direct that
if its decree in relation to such property is not performed within
a specified time, execution may issue on the bond of the defend
ant for all, or such portion of its penalty as the court may de
termine under all the circumstances.
SEC. 3515. (3863). Liability of plaintiff and his sureties. —If the
plaintiff' is unsuccessful, and fails to deliver the property to the
defendant within thirty days after the determination of the suit,
he and his sureties are liable to an action, and, in case of a re
covery, to damages, not exceeding fifty per centum on the value
of the property.
SEC. 3516. (3804). Equitable attachment for benefit of surety in
written contract. —A writ of attachment may be issued out of
the court of chancery, on the application of any surety, indorser,
accommodation drawer, acceptor, or maker of any bond, bill, or
note, or other contract in writing, against the principal debtor,
to be levied on the property or effects of the defendant, whether
held by a legal or equitable title, whenever such surety, indorser,
acceptor, maker, or drawer, could sue out an attachment at law,
if he was a creditor of such principal debtor; and the provis
ions in reference to attachments at law must be observed in the
issue of such attachments, and such writ of attachment may be
granted by the register in chancery.
SEC. 3517. (3865). When such attachments may be dissolved.
When such attachments are sued out by any indorser, surety,
acceptor, maker, or drawer, of any bond, bill, note, or other con
tract in writing, not due and payable, such attachment must be
dissolved, on application to the chancellor, in vacation or term
time, or by the register in vacation, on the principal debtor fur
nishing the complainant complete indemnity against his .liabil
ity, and paying all costs which may have accrued on such at
tachment.

SEC. 3518. (3866). Decree in favor of surety. —No decree must be
rendered in favor of the complainant in such attachment, until
he has paid the debt for which he is liable as the surety, indorser,
accommodation maker, drawer, or acceptor, of the defendant.
SEC. 3519. Creditor may intervene. —If the surety die before paying
the debt, and there is not administration of his estate, or his
personal representative fail or refuse for sixty days to revive the
suit, the creditor may by petition intervene anal prosecute the
suit to a final decree in his own name, becoming liable for the
costs as if he had been the original complainant.
CHAPTER 7.
injunctions; appointment of receivers.
SEC. 3520. (3867). By whom granted. — Injunctions may be
granted, returnable into any of the courts of chancery in this
state, by the judges of the supreme and circuit courts, chancel
lors, and no other officers.

SEC. 3521. (3868). Injunction of judgment a release of errors.
An injunction obtained by a defendant to a judgment at law, to
stay proceedings thereon, operates as a release of errors as to such
defendant.
SEC. 3522. (3869). Bond on injunction of judgment. —No injunc
tion must issue to stay proceedings after judgment, in a per
sonal action, until the party at whose application the writ issues
gives bond with surety, in double the amount of such judg
ment, payable to and approved by the register, conditioned, on
the dissolution of such injunction, to pay the amount of the
judgment enjoined with interest, and also such damages and
costs as may be decreed against such party.

SEC. 3523. (3870). Bond on injunction after recovery of lands.
No injunction must issue to stay proceedings at law after judg
ment, in any action for the recovery of lands, unless the party
give bond with surety, payable to and approved by the register,
in such sum as the officer granting the application directs, con
ditioned for the payment of the damages in such judgment, if
enjoined, and also all damages and costs which the plaintiff in
such judgment sustains by the suing out of such injunction, if
the same is dissolved.
SEC. 3524. (3871). Bond on injunction in other cases. —In other
cases, the party must give bond with surety, in such sum as the
officer granting the application directs, payable to and approved
by the register, and conditioned to pay all damages and costs
which any person may sustain by the suing out ot such injunc
tion, if the same is dissolved.

SEC. 3525. (3872). Application for injunction refused; how re
newed; when refusal final. —If any application is made to a
circuit judge for an injunction, and refused, no other circuit
judge can act on the application, but the application may be
made to a chancellor or judge of the supreme court; if refused
by a chancellor, it may be renewed to a judge of the supreme
court, but no other officer; and, if refused by a judge of the su
preme court, cannot be renewed.
SEC. 3526. (3873). Application to justice of supreme court. —No
application must be made to a judge of the supreme court for an
injunction, or other equitable process which may be granted by
any other judge or officer, unless the same has been made to
such other judge or officer, and refused by him.
SEC. 3527. (3874). Refusal to grant injunction indorsed on bill.
When an application for an injunction is refused, the officer to
whom the same is made must indorse his refusal on the bill, and
sign his name thereto ; and any one erasing such indorsement is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof, must be
fined not less than five hundred dollars.
SEC. 3528. (3875). On dissolution of injunction, damages granted
for delay. —Whenever an injunction to stay proceedings in an
action is dissolved on a final hearing, the chancellor may decree
six per centum damages on the amount of money for which
such judgment was enjoined, if of opinion that the injunction
was obtained for delay.

SEC. 3529. (3876). Effect of bond on dissolution of injunction
of a judgment; execution.—A bond to enjoin proceedings at
law on a judgment for money, upon the dissolution thereof, in
whole or in part, either upon an interlocutory or final decree,
has the force and effect of a judgment; and being certified by
the register to the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
rendered, execution may issue against any or all the obligors
thereto, for the amount of such judgment which has been en
joined, interest and the damages decreed.

SEC. 3530. (3877). Execution for costs. —The register may also
issue execution for costs, if decreed against the party obtaining
the injunction, against any or all the parties to the bond.

SEC. 3531. (3878). If injunction of judgment is dissolved pend
ing suit, refunding bond required. —When an interlocutor}7
decree is made dissolving an injunction to stay proceedings on
a judgment at law, the chancellor must require of the defendant
a refunding bond, in double the amount of the sum enjoined,
payable to, and to be approved by the register, conditioned to
refund the money and interest he may collect on the judgment,
if the same is, on the final hearing of the bill, perpetually en
joined; and the court may render a final decree on such bond
against any or all the parties thereto.

SEC. 3532. (3879). Motion to dissolve in vacation.—A defendant
may move to dissolve an injunction in vacation before the chan
cellor of the division in which the bill is filed, either for want
of equity, or on the coming in of the answer, to be heard on
certified copies of the bill and answer ; but ten days' notice of
such application must be given to the plaintiff or his solicitor.
SEC. 3533. (3880) . Notice of injunction to stay a judgment served
on the attorney is valid.—Notices of injunctions, or other re
straining process, staying proceedings in suits or on judgments
at law, served upon the attorney of the party on whom such
injunction or process is to operate, are valid.
SEC. 3534. (3881). Receivers appointed by chancellor or register.Receivers may be appointed by the chancellor in term time or
vacation, and by the register in vacation, upon application in
writing; and when the application is made in vacation, reason
able notice of the time of such application, and the person to
whom it will be submitted, must be given, or a good reason
shown to the chancellor or register for the failure to give the
same.

SEC. 3535. (639, 640). Appointment by register; suspension oforder. —When an order appointing a receiver is made by the
register, it shall be subject to appeal to the chancellor, which
may be heard in term time or vacation; and such order must
be suspended whenever the appellant enters into bond with
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the register, in such sum
as he shall prescribe, payable to the appellee, and conditioned
to pay the appellee all such costs and damages as he may sus
tain in case the appeal is not prosecuted to effect.

CHAPTER 8.
correction of errors in proceedings in court of probate.
SEC. 3536. (3837). Bill in chancery to correct settlements ; when
to be filed. —When any error of law or fact has occurred in the
settlement of any estate of a decendent, to the injury of any
party, without any fault or neglect on his part, such party may
correct such error by bill in chancery, within two years after
the final settlement thereof; and the evidence filed in the court
of probate in relation to such settlement must be received as
evidence in the court of chancery, with such other evidence as
may be adduced ; and a failure to appeal from the decree of the
probate court shall not be held to be such fault or neglect as
will bar the complainant of the remedy herein provided.
SEC. 3537. (3838). Infants, etc., allowed longer time.—The lim
itations of the preceding section do not extend to infants or
persons of unsound mind, who are allowed two years after the
termination of their respective disabilities.
SEC. 3538. (3839). Settlements by guardians may be corrected.
Errors of law or fact in the settlement of accounts of guardians
may be corrected in chancery according to the provisions of the
two preceding sections.

SEC. 3539. (3840, 3811). Irregular sales of lands under decrees
of court of probate may be confirmed. —Sales of lands made
under a decree of the court of probate, the parties in interest
having had legal notice of the proceedings in which the decree
was rendered, which are invalid because of errors, omissions, or
irregularities in the proceedings in the court of probate, may be
confirmed by a decree of the court of chancery, if it be shown
that the lands were sold for their full value, which has been
fully paid to the party entitled to receive it.

CHAPTER 9.creditors' bills.
SEC. 3540. (3882). Creditors' bills to enforce collection of judg
ments. — When an execution for money from any court has
been issued against a defendant, and is not satisfied, the plaintiff,
or the person for whose benefit such execution is sued out, may
file a bill in chancery against such defendant to compel the dis
covery of any property belonging to him, or held in trust for
him ; and to prevent the transfer, payment, or delivery thereof
to such defendant, except when the trust has been created by, or
proceeded from some other person than the defendant himself;
and the court may bring any other party before it, and decree
such property, or the interest of the defendant therein, to the
satisfaction of the sum due the plaintifi.

SEC. 3541. (3883). Bill for discovery of collusive judgments or
fraudulent conveyances.—A bill for discovery may be filed, and
the defendant compelled to answer such bill, when the defend
ant is charged with having confessed or suffered a judgment,
where no portion, or a part only of such judgment is due, with
the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud creditors, or with having
conveyed his property with the like intent.
SEC. 3542. (3884). Answers to such bills compelled. —A defend
ant may be compelled to answer a bill in chancery, charging him
with any fraud affecting the rights or property of others.
SEC. 3543. (3885). Not evidence on indictment for fraud. —No
answer made to a bill under the provisions of the two preced
ing sections can be read in evidence against the defendant, on
an indictment for any fraud charged in the bill.
SEC. 3544. (3886). Creditor without lien may subject property
fraudulently transferred. —A creditor without a lien may tile
a bill in chancery to discover or to subject to the payment of
his debt any property which has been fraudulently transferred
or conveyed, or attempted to be fraudulently transferred or con
veyed by his debtor.

SEC. 3545. (3887). Bill of discovery by creditor. — A creditor,
having obtained a judgment at law upon which execution has
issued and been returned "no property found," or a creditor
without a lieu or judgment, may, in the court of chancery of
the district in which the judgment-debtor resides, or in the
court of chancery of the district in which the judgment was
rendered, file a bill for the discovery of the assets of the debtor
subject to the payment of debts; and the debtor must answer
on oath, and disclose all property, real or personal, in which he
may have, or may claim an interest, legal or equitable; all
moneys, effects, or choses in action, in which he may have, or
may claim an interest, legal or equitable ; where such property,
real or personal, is situate, or may be found ; who has, or mayclaim possession thereof; in whose possession are the moneys,
effects, or choses in action, in which he has, or may claim an
interest, legal or equitable, and where such moneys, effects, or
choses in action may be found.

SEC. 3546. Several judgment creditors may join in such bill;
assignee of judgment may file. —Any number of judgment-creditors upon whose judgments executions have issued and
been returned " no property found," may join as complainants
in such bill. The assignee of a judgment, or the several as-
signees of several judgments, may maintain such bill.
SEC. 3547. (3888)- Orders; decrees—If from the answer it ap-
pears that the defendant has property, real or personal, or an
interest in property, real or personal, subject to the payment of
debts ; or has moneys, effects, or choses in action, or an interest
in moneys, effects, or choses in action, subject to the payment
of debts, whether such property, moneys, effects, or choses in
action, be within or without the state, the court, in term time
or in vacation, must make all such orders or decrees as may be
necessary and proper to reach and subject such property,
moneys, effects, or choses in action, and for that purpose may
appoint a receiver with authority to demand, sue for and re
cover, or otherwise to reduce to possession such property,
moneys, effects, or choses in action ; and may require the judg
ment-debtor to make to such receiver all conveyances, assign
ments, or transfers, which may be necessary and proper to en
able him to receive, or to sue for and recover such property.
SEC. 3548. (3887). Examination of debtor. —After answer filed,
on the application of the complainant showing a necessity there
for, which application must be verified by oath, the chancellor,
in term time or in vacation, may order an examination of the
debtor before the register, or before an examiner specially ap
pointed, touching and concerning his property, real or personal,
moneys, effects, or choses in action ; and it is the duty of the
debtor to attend at the time and place to which he may be sum
moned by the register or examiner, and submit to such ex
amination.
CHAPTER 10.
trusts and trustees.
Article 1. —Express trusts for payment or security of debts.
2. —Investment, removal and liability of trust estates.
3. —Resignation, appointment and removal of trustees.
Article I.
EXPRESS TRUST8 FOR PAYMENT OR SECURITY OF DEBTS.
SEC. 3549. Trustee of certain express trusts required to give
bond. —When an express trust is created for the payment or
security of debts, and by the terms thereof the trustee is not
required to give bond with surety, any creditor interested
therein may apply to the register of the court of chancery of
the district in which the trust property, or the most valuable
portion thereof, may be, for an order requiring such trustee to
give bond with surety for the faithful administration of the
trust.

SEC. 3550. Contents of application; notice. — The application
must be in writing, verified by affidavit; must state the nature
and character of the trust and of the interest of the applicant
therein, and must state, in the opinion of the applicant, said in
terest is, or will be endangered, if bond with sureties is not re
quired of such trustee; and, on the filing of such petition, the
register must appoint a day for the hearing thereof, of which
not less than five days' notice, by the service of summons to ap
pear and answer, must be given the trustee, if he resides in the
state ; and if he resides without the state, notice must be given
by publication for three successive weeks in some newspaper
published in the district, if there be such paper, and if there be
not, in the paper published nearest to such district.
SEC. 3551. Hearing; order. — On the day appointed, or on any
other day to which such application may be continued, if it ap
pears that the applicant has a real, bona fide interest in the
administration of the trust, and that by the terms thereof the
trustee is not required to give bond with surety, and that a ma
jority in number and interest of all the creditors for whose ben
efit such trust may be created do not oppose such application,
the register must make and enter an order requiring such trus
tee to give bond with at least two good and sufficient sureties,
payable to such register, in such sum as the register may pre
scribe, subject to change on application to the chancellor in
term time or vacation, with condition for the faithful discharge
of all the duties of such trustee, which bond must be approved,
filed and recorded in his office.
SEC. 3552. Failure of trustee to give bond ; appointment of suc
cessor. —If the trustee fails, for three days from and after the
making of such order, to give such bond, the register must make
and enter an order removing him as trustee, and may make and
enter an order appointing a successor, of whom bond with sure
ties, payable and conditioned as provided in the preceding sec
tion, must be required.
SEC. 3553. Inventory of trust property to be filed and recorded.
It is the duty of a trustee of an express trust created for the pay
ment or security of debts, within fifteen days after entering upon
the execution of such trust, to file in the office of the register of
chancery of the district in which the most valuable portion of
the trust property may be, an inventory of the entire trust prop
erty, so far as the same may have come to his knowledge, or to
his possession, describing the real estate, enumerating each ar
ticle of personal property, and stating the amount and character
of all choses in action, if there be any, subject to the trust;
which inventory must he verified by affidavit and recorded in
the office of the register; and of all property or choses in action
subject to the trust, subsequently coming to the knowledge or
possession of the trustee, a supplemental inventory must be filed
and recorded.
SEC. 3554. Appraisement of trust property. —On the filing ofsuch inventory, the register must appoint three disinterested per
sons appraisers of and in each county in which any part of the
trust property may be, and must furnish them a copy of such
inventory ; and the appraisers must, in writing, appraise at its
true value the property described or enumerated in such in
ventory, found in the county for which they may be appointed,
and must subscribe such appraisement, verify the same by affi
davit, and make return thereof to the register, by whom it must
be recorded ; and the appraisers are severally entitled to two dol
lars for each day's service in making such appraisement, to be
taxed as costs and collected and paid over by the register.
Article II.
INVESTMENT, REMOVAL, AND LIABILITY OF TRl'ST ESTATE.
SEC. 3555. (3742). Trustees may invest in state or United States
securities. —A trustee, having moneys to invest or loan, may in
vest them in the purchase of the interest-bearing securities oi"
this state, or of the United States ; but for such investment his
liability is governed by the general rules of law.
SEC. 3556. (3743). Investment without the state. —If the cestuis
que trust, or or any of them, reside without the state, and the
trustee has funds to loan or invest, the loan or investment whereof
in the state of their residence is desirable, the trustee may there
loan and invest them, under the authority of a decree of the
court of chancery.
SEC. 3557. (3743). Mode of obtaining authority. — The trustee
may obtain authority for the making of such loan or investment,
by petition to the court of chancery of the district in which the
trust was created, or in which the trust is being administered.
The petition must be verified by affidavit, and must state who
are the parties having interests in the funds, the nature of the
interest, their places of residence, which of them, if any, are
minors or of unsound mind, the amount and character of the
fund to he loaned or invested, the security upon which the loan
is to be made, or the nature and character of the investment to
be made, and the facts which render such loan or investment
desirable.
SEC. 3558. (3743). Hearing; notice of petition. —The petition
may be heard, and decree may be rendered in term time or in
vacation. On the filing of the petition, the time for the hearing
must be fixed by the register, and thereof notice must be given
to such of the cestuis que trust as are of full age and of sound
mind, residing in this state, by the service of summons for at
least ten days ; and like notices to such as are minors or of un
sound mind, by the service of summons on their guardian, if
any they have ; and if they have no guardian, upon such person
as may have charge of them, or with whom they may reside.
Notice by publication for such length of time, and in such mode
as the chancellor may direct, shall be given to the cestuis que
trust who reside without the state. The chancellor or register,,
after notice has been given, must appoint a suitable person as
guardian ad litem to represent the cestuis que trust who are
minors or of unsound mind.
SEC. 3559. (3743). Decree on hearing. —If, on the hearing, the
court is satisfied from the evidence adduced, which may be
oral, or by deposition, that it would be to the interest of the
cestuis que trust that the loan or investment should be made,
it must render a decree authorizing it.
SEC. 3560. (3744). Removal of trust estate. —The court of chan
cery of the district in which a trustee resides, or in which a trust
estate is created, or is being administered, may authorize the re
moval of such estate to another state.

SEC. 3561. (3745). Mode of obtaining authority for removal.
A cestui que trust or a trustee may obtain authority for the re
moval of a trust, by petition verified by affidavit, which may be
heard in term time or in vacation, and which must state the
property to be removed, the place to which removal is desired,
the names and residences of the parties having interests therein,
which of them, if any, are minors, or of unsound mind, and the
facts which show that the removal will be of benefit to the
cestuis que trust.
SEC. 3562. (3745). Hearing; notice. —On the filing of the petition,
the register must appoint a day for the hearing thereof, of
which notice for at least ten days must be given the parties re
siding within this state, by the service of summons. If any of
such parties be minors or of unsound mind, summons must be
served on their guardian, if any they have, or if they have no
guardian, upon such person as may have charge of them, or
with whom they may reside. If any of such parties reside
without the state, notice must be given them by publication, in
the mode, and for the length of time prescribed by the chan
cellor. After notice given, the register or chancellor must ap
point a suitable person as guardian ad litem to represent and
defend for the minors or parties of unsound mind.
SEC. 3563. (3746). Decree on hearing. —If, on the hearing, the
court is satisfied from the evidence adduced, which may be oral
or by deposition, that a removal would be to the interest of the
cestuis que trust, a decree must be rendered authorizing it. But
before the execution of the decree, the party or parties, at
whose instance the removal is to be made, must, in the state to
which the property is to be removed, before a court having
jurisdiction, give bond with sufficient surety, to be approved
by such court, in penalty and with condition that will fully pro
tect all parties in interest from loss or injury by reason of the
removal, or because of the waste or negligence of the party or
parties to whose care and custody such property is intrusted;
which bond must be properly certified, and filed in the court
of chancery, and must, before the removal, be approved by the
chancellor.
SEC. 3564. (3747). Liability of trust estate. —A trustee, or an ex
ecutor, or an administrator, may render the estate in his hands
to be administered liable for the payment for necessary services
rendered to him, or for necessary repairs in and upon the estate,
or for necessaries furnished to him, if he be or become insolvent
without making payment, and has not charged the estate with,
and obtained credit for such services, repairs, or necessaries.
SEC. 3666. (3747). Mode of enforcing such liability.—The liabil
ity of the estate may be enforced by the party rendering such
services, or by whom such repairs were made, or necessaries fur
nished, or by his assignee, or by the personal representative of
either, by petition filed in the court of chancery against such
trustee, executor, or administrator, or, if his authority has ter
minated, against his successor in the trust or administration;
which petition may be filed in the district of the residence of the
defendant, or in the district in which such estate is situate, or is
being administered. If pending suit an abatement occurs by
the death or disability of the petitioner, or by the termination of
the authority of the trustee, or of his successor, there may be
a revivor as in other suits in equity.
SEC. 3566. (3747). Decree. —If, on the hearing, the evidence is suf
ficient, the court must render a decree charging the trust estate,
or the assets subject to administration, with the payment of the
sum ascertained to be due the petitioner, and with the costs of
the petition ; and if the decree be against an executor or an ad
ministrator, or his successor, it must be preferred in payment,
as are the fees and charges of administration.
Daily v. Daily, 66 Ala. 266; Steele v. Steele, 64 Ala. 438.
SEC. 3567. (3748). When suit for administration pending. —If
there be a pending suit, in which the court of chancery has taken
jurisdiction of the administration of the trusts, or of the estate,
the petition must be filed in, and become a part of the proceed
ings in such suit.

SEC. 3568. Real estate to be charged. —If the personal assets be
insufficient, and it be necessary to charge lands descended, or
lands devised, with the payment of sucn claims, the heirs to
whom the lands have descended, or the devisees to whom they
are devised, must be made parties defendant to the petition.
Article III.
RESIGNATION, APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF TRUSTEES.
SEC. 3569. (3727). Trustee of express trust may resign on ap
plication to the register. —When any express trust is created
by will or deed, the trustee may resign on application to the
register of the district where the trust property, or the most
valuable portion of the same, is, or of the district in which the
trustee resided when he was appointed trustee.
SEC. 3570. (-3728). Notice of the application by advertisement.
Xotice of the application must be given in such paper as the
register may direct, for three successive weeks.
SEC. 3571. (3729). Trustee to account and settle before resigna
tion. —The trustee must render a full account, and pay over to
the parties entitled to the same, or to the register, all moneys
due by him.
SEC. 3572. (3730). Accounts not conclusive; payments valid.
Xo account so taken is conclusive on any of the parties inter
ested in the trust; but the trustee may be required to account
up to the time of granting the application, in the same manner
as if no proceedings had been had; except that he is entitled to
the benefit of all payments made by him under the provisions
of the preceding section.
SEC. 3573. (3731). New trustee appointed; bond, if necessary.
The register, on the granting of such application, may appoint
a trustee, and, if necessary to protect the parties interested in
the trust property, may require the necessary bond of such
trustee.
SEC. 3574. (3732). On death of trustee, register appoints an-other; bond in such cases. —Upon the death of trie trustee ofsuch express trust, the register of the district in which the
trust property, or the most valuable portion of the same, is,
may, on the application of any party in interest, appoint a trus
tee, and may also require of him a bond, as under the preceding section.
SEC. 3575. (3733). Notice of the application to appoint. —All the
parties interested in such trust property must have ten days'
personal notice of such application, or by publication, once a
week for three successive weeks, in such paper as the register
may direct.
SEC. 3576. (3734). Guardians for infants in such cases. —In any
proceeding to appoint a trustee before the register, he has author
ity, where minors or persons of unsound mind are interested, to
appoint guardians ad litem for their defense, and to protect their
interest.
SEC. 3577. (3735). Causes of removal of trustee, on petition to
the chancery court. —Upon the petition or bill of any person
interested in the execution of a trust, the court of chancery
may remove any trustee who has violated or threatened to vio
late his trust; who is insolvent, or whose insolvency there is
good reason to apprehend; who has removed from the state; or
who, for any other cause, is an unsuitable person to execute the
trust; or the court may require such bonds as will effectually
protect the interest of the parties.
SEC. 3578. (3736). New trustee appointed by the court in such
case. —Such court has authority to appoint a new trustee in the
place of a trustee removed, or may cause the trust to be exe
cuted by one of its own officers.
SEC. 3579. Refusal of trustee to accept trust. —If the trustee of
an express trust, created by will or deed, refuse to accept and
execute the trust, on the application of any party therein inter
ested, the register of the court of chancery of the district in
which the trust estate, or the most valuable portion thereof, may
be, may appoint a trustee to execute the trust. Notice of the
application must be given in such paper as the register may
direct, for three successive weeks.
SEC. 3580. (3737). Trustee appointed to receive trust property
in another state and remove it to this state. —Where there is
trust property in another state, held under deed, will, marriage
settlement, or otherwise, and the beneficiary owuing the entire
interest in such trust property has removed to this state, and
desires that the property may also be removed to this state, such
beneficiary may, if of age, or by next friend, if a minor or mar
ried woman, make application to the register of the chancery
court of the district in which such beneficiary resides, to ap
point a trustee to receive such trust property and remove the
same to this state.
SEC. 3581. (3738). Day of hearing appointed and notice given
by register. —The register in chancery must appoiut a day for
hearing such application, and notice thereof must be given by
advertisement in some paper published in the district for three
successive weeks, or if no paper is published in such district,
by posting such notice at the court-house door, and at three
other places in the district, three weeks before the day ap
pointed for hearing the application ; and a copy of such notice
must be sent to the non-resident trustee of such trust estate, if
there be one, and his place of residence be known.
SEC. 3582. (3739). Trustee appointed by register. — Upon the
hearing of such application, if there be no good and sufficient
reason to the contrary, such register must appoint a trustee liv
ing in the district wherein such beneficiary resides to receive
and remove the trust property to such district.

SEC. 3583. (3740). Bond of trustee. — Such trustee, before he
enters on the discharge of the duties of such trust, must give
bond, with good and sufficient surety, payable to the register
of such chancery court, in double the amount of the supposed
value of such trust estate, conditioned that he will faithfully
execute the trust.
SEC. 3584. (3741). Fees of register; by whom paid; how re
funded.—A fee of five dollars, to be paid to the register for his
services rendered under the provisions of the four preceding sections, must be paid by the party making the application ;
and such party may be reimbursed for this, and all other ex
penses growing out of such application, from such trust fund
when received t»y the trustee appointed by such register.
CHAPTER 11.
ISSUES OUT OF CHANCERY.
SEC. 3585. (3890). Trial of issues of fact. —An issue of fact, di
rected to be tried by a jury, may be tried by a jury summoned
to attend the court of chancery, or may be certified for trial to
the circuit court of the district. A change of the venue of the
trial may be had for good cause shown to the chancellor, as in
civil cases in courts of common law.

SEC. 3586. (3891). Evidence in such trials ; parties examined.
Such issue must be tried upou the like evidence as a suit at law,
together with such parts of the bill, answers, depositions, and
other proceedings in the cause as the court may order ; and the
court may also order the examination of the parties to the suit,
allowing the other party to impeach or contradict such evidence.
SEC. 3587. (3892). Proceedings to summon jury, etc., before
chancellor. —If such issue is to be tried before the chancellor,
he may make the necessary order for a jury to be summoned,
and witnesses to be subpoenaed by the register of the district in
which the trial is to be had ; and render judgments, conditional
and absolute, as the law directs.
SEC. 3588. (3893). Practice in partition suits.—In suits for par
tition of lands, if the defendant denies the title of the complain
ant, the chancellor need not dismiss the bill or delay the suit
until a trial can be instituted and had at law, but may direct the
issue as to the title of the complainant to be tried as other issues
of fact are triable, according to the three sections next pre
ceding.

SEC. 3589. (3894). Pay of jurors and how taxed.—In all cases in
which jurors are summoned to attend upon the chancery courts,
they must be allowed the same compensation as jurors attend
ing upon the circuit courts, to be taxed and collected as other
costs in the case in which they are called to serve as jurors.
CHAPTER 12.
OALL OF THE DOCKET; HEARING OF CAUSES; RENDITION, LIEN, EF
FECT, AND ENFORCEMENT OF DECREES, AND COSTS.
SEC. 3590. (3895). Call of docket ; setting causes for hearing.
If the term is more than one week, on the first day the docket
must be called, not peremptorily, but for orders which may be
taken by consent, or for the submission of causes which stand
on decrees pro confesso. The call of the docket thereafter may
be peremptory. The parties may by consent set down causes
for hearing on such day of the term as they may select.
SEC. 3591. (3896). Decrees in writing; rendered in term time or
vacation. —Decrees must be rendered in writing, in term time, if
practicable ; but in cases deemed by the chancellor difficult, he
may reserve the rendition of decree until vacation, and may ren
der it at any time before or during the next term.

SEC. 3592. Causes may be referred to arbitration.—By agree
ment in writing filed with the register in vacation, or by an en
try on the minutes in term time, the parties may refer a cause to
an arbitrator of their selection, for final decree. The arbitrator
must certify the decree, when rendered, to the register, and the
register must enter it on the minutes of the court. Such decree
shall have the force and effect of a decree rendered by the
chancellor ; and therefrom an appeal may be taken to the su
preme court, as from other final decrees in chancery.
SEC. 3593. (3897). Orders and decrees by consent.— Chancellors
may make orders and render final decrees at any time by con
sent of parties or their counsel.

SEC. 3594. (3898). Liens and priority of decrees. —Executions is
sued on decrees of a court of chancery, for payment or recovery
of money, are liens upon real and personal property subject to
execution, from their delivery to the officer, in the same manner
and to the same extent, and the rules as to the priority of liens
from such court are the same, as in courts of law.
SEC. 3595. (3899). Decrees for conveyances and releases operate
as such ; executed by commissioner. —When a decree is made
for a conveyance, release, or acquittance, and the party against
whom the decree is made does not execute the same by the time
specified in the decree, such decree operates in all respects as
fully as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance, was made ; or
the court may decree, in default of the execution of such convey
ance, release, or acquittance, the same to be executed by the reg
ister or a commissioner in the name of the party; and the con
veyance, release, or acquittance, when so executed, is as valid in
all respects as if executed by the party.
SEC. 3596. Protection of tenant having crop planted on lands
decreed to be sold. —A tenant or occupant of lauds ordered or
decreed to be sold by the court of chancerj', having a crop planted
or growing on such lands, or about being planted, may retain
possession until the expiration of the current year, on securing
to the purchaser the payment of the reasonable rent ; such rent
must, before or after the sale, be ascertained and determined by
the chancellor, and the tenant or occupant must enter into bond
in a sum equal to double the amount of such rent, payable to
the register, aud by him approved, with sufficient surety, and
with condition for the payment of such rent to the purchaser on
the expiration of the year; and if, on the expiration of the year,
such rent, or any part thereof, is not paid to the purchaser,
such bond has the force and effect of a judgment, and execution
may be issued thereon by the register against any or all the
obligors in such bond, for so much of such rent as remains
unpaid.
SEC. 3697. (3900). Costs at discretion of chancellor. —Costs may
be apportioned at the discretion of the chancellor; and in all
cases where costs are decreed against any party who has given
security for the costs, execution may issue against such security.

SEC. 3598. (3901). Decrees enforced by attachment or seques
tration. —Courts of chancery may also enforce their decrees,
orders and rules by process of attachment against the party or
officer in contempt, or by process of sequestration against his
property.
SEC. 3599. (3902). Decree for performance of some act to pre
scribe time. — If a decree is for the execution of a convey
ance, the delivery of deeds, or any other specified act, the de
cree must, in all such cases, prescribe the time within which
such act is to be performed.
SEC. 3600. (3903). Sales to be made by register. — When any
property is ordered to be sold by the decree of any chancery
court for the satisfaction of any debt secured by any mortgage
or deed of trust, such sale shall in all cases be made by the reg
ister of the court ordering the same.

SEC. 3601. (3904). Attachment on affidavit of failure to per
form. —Upon an affidavit being filed with the register by the
party entitled to have such act done, his agent, or solicitor, stat
ing that the decree of the court has not been performed, the
register must issue an attachment against the delinquent party,
upon which he may be arrested and committed to jail until he
performs such act, or he is discharged by a special order of the
chancellor extending the time for the performance ; and if such
act is not performed within the time as extended, another at
tachment may issue on the affidavit of the party, his agent, or
solicitor.
SEC. 3602. (3905). If attachment not executed, sequestration
follows. —Upon the issue of an attachment, if the delinquent
cannot be found, a writ of sequestration may issue against the
estate of such party to compel obedience to the decree.
SEC. 3603. (3906). Decrees; how enforced. —Courts of chancery
are authorized to issue such process, mesne and final, as has
been used in such courts; and all writs for the collection of
money, to obtain the possession of land or personal property,
in use in the common law courts, are to be adapted to the ex
ecution of decrees in the courts of chancery.
SEC. 3604. (3907). Return day of such process. —Writs from the
court of chancery for the collection of money, or to obtain the
possession of lands or personal property, may be made return
able on the first Monday of a month, to be specified in the writ ;
all other process, as the chancellor or register may direct, unless
the return is fixed by law.

SEC. 3605. (3908). Execution on decrees for enforcement of
liens.—In all cases when an account is taken between the par
ties, execution as at law may issue for the amount of indebted
ness ascertained by the decree of the court; and in all fore
closure suit, or suits for the enforcement of equitable liens, ex
ecution may issue for the balance found due after a sale of the
property ordered and decreed to be sold.

SEC. 3606. (3910, 3911). Decree on partition.—A final decree of
partition is operative to vest title, though releases or convey
ances are not executed.
SEC. 3607. (3912). Forthcoming bond. — When the sale of any
personal property is decreed, the register, or other person di
rected to make such sale, may take from the defendant a forth
coming bond, in double the amount of the property, in no case
to exceed double the amount of the decree, for the delivery of
such property on the day of sale.
SEC. 3608. (3913). Effect of forfeiture.—If the property is not de
livered, such register, or person directed to make such sale,
must return the bond "forfeited," in which case the bond shall
have the force of a judgment; and execution may issue against
all the obligors of such bond.
SEC. 3609. (3914). Sheriff liable for failure to collect money.
For failing to collect money on any execution from the court
of chancery, the sheriff and his sureties, or auy or either of
them, are liable to the same penalties, to be recovered in the
same manner as on failure to collect execution from the law
courts; the motion to be made by the plaintiff in the circuit
court of the county in which the court from which the execu
tion issues is held.
SEC. 3610. (3915). Rules of practice adopted by supreme court.
All the rules now in force, which have been adopted by the su
preme court, not contrary to the provisions of this title, are
recognized ; and power is granted to such court to adopt such
other rules to regulate the practice of the court of chancery, or
such modifications of the existing rules as they may deem
proper, and also to furnish forms of proceeding, to mould the
process of the chancery court, and to prescribe rules of evi
dence in the same, from time to time, as experience may deter
mine that the existing rules do not fully meet the ends of pub
lic justice.
TITLE V-
APPEALS.
Chapter 1. — From what judgments, orders and decrees appeals lie.
2. —Manner and time of taking appeals.
3. —Special provisions relating to appeals from court of probate.
4. —Rules of practice in supreme court on appeals.
CHAPTER 1.
FROM WHAT JUDGMENTS, ORDERS AND DECREES APPEALS LIE.
SEC. 3611. (3916). Appeals to supreme court on all final judg
ments.—From any final judgment or decree of the chancery,
circuit, city, or probate court, except in such cases as are other
wise directed by law, an appeal lies to the supreme court, for
the examination thereof, as matter of right, on the application
of either party, or his personal representatives; and the clerk,
register, or judge of probate, must certify the fact that such
appeal was taken, and the time when, as part of the record,
which gives the supreme court jurisdiction of the case.
SEC. 3612. (3918). Appeals from certain interlocutory decrees.
From any decree rendered by the chancery court in term time,
or by the chancellor in vacation, sustaining or overruling a de
murrer to a bill in equity, or sustaining or overruling a plea to
such bill, or sustaining or overruling a motion to dismiss such
bill for want of equity, an appeal lies to the supreme court, to
be taken within thirty days after the rendition of such decree;
the appeal shall be heard and determined by the supreme court
in preference to all other than criminal cases, and if the decree
of the chancellor is reversed, the court shall render such decree
as should have been rendered by the chancellor; but nothing in
this section shall be so construed as to prevent an assignment of
errors on such decrees, on appeals taken after the final deter
mination of the cause, if appeals are not taken under this section

SEC. 3613. (3922). Appeals on orders sustaining or dissolving in
junctions. —An appeal lies to the supreme court on all inter
locutory orders, in term time or vacation, sustaining or dissolv
ing injunctions, which must be heard and determined at the
first term after the appeal is taken, or if the supreme court is
in session when such appeal is or has been taken, then the same
shall be heard during such session, at least three days' notice of
the appeal having been first given to the adverse party.

SEC. 3614. (3921). Appeal from order appointing or refusing receiver.
—An appeal lies from an order of the chancellor, made
in term time or in vacation, appointing or refusing to appoint a
receiver, within thirty days from the filing of the order with
the register ; and such appeal must be taken and deemed by the
supreme court as a preferred case, and must be heard duriug
the term to which it is returnable in preference to all other than
criminal cases, or other preferred cases having priority on the
docket of the court.
SEC. 3615. (3917). Appeals from certain interlocutory judg
ments.—An appeal to the supreme court may be taken, before
the final determination of the cause, from any judgment over
ruling a motion to dismiss or quash an attachment, or sustain
ing a demurrer to a plea in abatement to an attachment, or sus
taining an attachment against matters set up in abatement of it,
either in the way of an agreed case, or by plea, or otherwise ;
but such appeal shall be taken only after the consent of the op
posite party, or his attorney, is obtained to its being taken ; and
on the trial of such appeal, there shall not be a reversal, if the
supreme court discovers that the defect or error alleged or in
sisted on can be removed or remedied by amendment.
SEC. 3616. (3923). Appeals from denial of remedial writs. —Ap
peals may be taken to the supreme court from the judgment of
judges ot the circuit and city courts on application for writs of
certiorari, supersedeas, quo warranto, mandamus and other re
medial writs, upon plaintiff" or defendant giving security for the
costs of appeal, approved by the judge trying the same, within
sixty days from the day of the judgment; but such appeal shall
not operate as a supersedeas of the judgment, unless bond with
sufficient sureties be given by the appellant, payable to the ap
pellee, in such sum as the judge hearing the application shall
require, conditioned to pay all damages thereby sustained.

SEC. 3617. (3924). Application, etc., filed in clerk's office; man
ner of taking appeal. —When any application mentioned in the
foregoing section has been acted upon by any judge of the cir
cuit or city court, such judge shall cause the application, to
gether with his order thereon, and the other papers in the cause,
to bo filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit or city court
of the county where the application is heard, and such clerk
shall prepare the transcript thereof, and certify the appeal as in
other cases.
SEC. 3618. (3919, 3920). Appeals from judgments or decrees of
abolished courts. —If an inferior court of record ceases to exist
by reason of the repeal of the statute creating it, and, while ex
isting, rendered a judgment or decree from which an appeal
would lie, within the time prescribed by law, an appeal there
from may be taken on application to the clerk or register of the
court to which the unfinished business, or the records of such
inferior court, may be transferred, as if such judgment or de
cree had been rendered in the court having the jurisdiction of
such unfinished business, or the custody of such records; and
in the event of the reversal of such judgment or decree, the remandment
of the cause must be to the latter court.
CHAPTER 2.
TIME AND MANNER OF TAKING APPEALS.
SEC. 3619. (3949). Limitation of appeals. —Appeals under this
title, except in such cases as a different time is prescribed,
must be taken within one year from the rendition of the judg
ment or decree.

SEC. 3620. (3925). When appeal returnable. —Unless otherwise
provided, an appeal to the supreme court, if taken in vacation,
is returnable to the next ensuing term; but if taken during the
term, must be made returnable to the first Monday of the term
next after the expiration of twenty days from the date of the
appeal.
SEC. 3621. Return of appeal from order appointing or refusing
receiver. —If an appeal is taken from an order appointing or re
fusing to appoint a receiver during the term ot the supreme
court, it must be made returnable to the first Monday succeed
ing the taking thereof, to which ten days' notice of the appeal
can be given ; otherwise, the appeal must be taken to the next
succeeding term of the court.
SEC. 3622. (3950). Security for costs ; when required. —No appeal
can be taken without giving bond to supersede the execution of
the judgment or decree, unless the appellant give security for
the costs of such appeal, to be approved by the clerk, register,
or judge of probate ; the names of the surety or sureties to be cer
tified with the record to the appellate court ; and execution may
issue against such sureties for the costs in such court and the
costs of the transcript, if decided against the appellant.

SEC. 3623. (3927). Supersedeas bond.—When the judgment or de
cree is for the payment of money only, the appeal does not op
erate as a supersedeas, or to stay or suspend the execution of
such judgment or decree (except in such cases as are otherwise
provided), unless bond be given by the appellant, or some other
person, in double the amount of the judgment or decree, includ
ing costs, payable to the appellee, with sufficient sureties, and
with condition to prosecute the appeal to effect, or, if he fails
therein, to satisfy such judgment as the supreme court may ren
der in the premises.

SEC. 3624. (3928). Supersedeas bond when judgment or decree
for payment of money, and for other acts. —If the decree or
judgment be for the payment of money, and also for the per
formance of some act or duty, or for the recovery of property,
real or personal, or the possession thereof, or for the sale of
property, real or personal, and the party appealing wishes to
supersede the execution of such judgment or decree, he must,
unless otherwise provided, give bond with good and sufficient
sureties, payable to the party recovering the judgment or de
cree, in double the amount of the money, with condition to pros
ecute to effect the appeal, or, if he fails therein, to pay such
judgment as the supreme court may render in the premises,
and must also execute bond with good and sufficient sureties,
payable to the clerk or register, in such sum as the judge or
chancellor may in writing prescribe, with condition to pay all
such costs and damages ae any party aggrieved may sustain by
reason of the wrongful appeal and suspension of the execution
of the judgment or decree; or if the party appealing wishes to
supersede the judgment or decree as to the payment of the
money only, the bond first above mentioned may be executed,
suspending the judgment or decree in that respect only; or if
the party appealing wishes to supersede the execution of the
judgment or decree in the other respect only, the bond secondly
above mentioned may be executed, superseding the execution
of the judgment or decree in that respect only.
SEC. 3625. If the decree or judgment be only for the performance of some act or
duty, or for the recovery of property, real or personal, or the
possession thereof, or for the sale of property, real or personal,
unless otherwise provided, the party appealing, if he wishes to
supersede the execution of the judgment or decree, must exe
cute bond with good and sufficient sureties, payable to the clerk
or register, in such sum as the judge or chancellor may in writ
ing prescribe, with condition that it he fail in the appeal he will
pay such judgment as the supreme court may render in the
premises, and all such costs and damages as any party aggrieved
may sustain by reason of the wrongful appeal and suspension of
the execution of the judgment or decree.

SEC. 3626. (3928). Order of judge or chancellor filed and re
corded. — The order of the judge or chancellor, fixing the
amount of the bonds mentioned in the two preceding sections,
must be filed and entered by the clerk or register on the min
utes of the court; but the failure to make such order, or if
made, to file, or to record the same, shall not impair the validity
or obligation of any bond which is given as a security under
the two preceding sections, by which an appeal and a suspen
sion of execution are in fact obtained.
SEC. 3627. (3934). Bond on appeal by claimant in trial of right
of property. —When an appeal is sued out by the claimant on
a judgment against him on a trial of the right of property, and
he desires to supersede the judgment, the bond must be taken
in double the amount of the plaintiff's judgment, if that, with
the interest, is less than the valuation by the jury of the prop
erty levied on, and in double the amount of the assessed value,
if less than the judgment of the plaintiff.
SEC. 3628. Bond or security for costs on appeal from order appointing
receiver. —If an appeal is taken from an order ap-
pointing a receiver, and it is intended to supersede such order,
the party taking the appeal must enter into bond with good
and sufficient sureties, payable to and approved by the register,
in such sum as may be prescribed by the chancellor or register,
with condition to prosecute such appeal to effect, or, if he fail
therein, to pay the costs thereof, and all such damages as any
person in interest may sustain from the suspension of such order
during the pendency of such appeal ; but if it is not intended
to supersede such order, or if the appeal is taken from an order
refusing the appointment of a receiver, security for the costs
only must be taken.
SEC. 3629. (3930). When married women relieved from giving
bond or security for costs. —From any judgment of the cir
cuit or city court, or from any order or decree of the court of
probate, or from an}' decree of the court of chancery, subject
ing to sale the separate estate of a married woman, or any part
thereof, be the same her statutory separate estate, or a separate
estate otherwise created, she is entitled to an appeal to the su
preme court to revise such judgment, order, or decree, without
giving security for costs of appeal, on making affidavit that she
is unable to give such security; and such appeal shall operate
as a suspension and stay of all proceedings under such judg
ment, order, or decree, until such appeal shall have been heard
and determined by the supreme court.

SEC. 3630. (3929). Liability for taking insufficient surety on
appeal bond. —For taking insufficient surety, the clerk, reg
ister, or judge of probate, is liable to the appellee for the dam
ages thereby sustained, unless the surety was generally reputed
good for the amount when he was received; but the clerk, reg
ister, or judge of probate, is not required to receive any one as
surety, who refuses to answer on oath as to his sufficiency.
SEC. 3631. (392G). Citation on appeal. —Ipon an appeal being
taken, the register, or clerk of the circuit or city court, or the
judge of probate, must issue a citation to the adverse party, re
turnable to the day to which the appeal is returnable, notifying
him of the appeal, which must be served on him, or his attor
ney, or solicitor, for at least ten days (unless otherwise pro
vided) before the day to which the appeal is returnable.

SEC. 3632. Notice of appeal from order appointing or refusing
receiver. —Notice of an appeal from an order appointing or re
fusing to appoint a receiver must be given by citation to the
adverse party, which must be served on him, or his solicitor of
record, ten days at least before the return day thereof.
SEC. 3633. (3944). Notice to appellee when non-resident. —When
the appellee is a non-resident and has no attorney or agent
within the state to receive notice of the appeal, oath in writing
being made of the fact, the supreme court may direct notice to
be given by publication, which is as effectual as actual notice.
SEC. 3634. (3933). Appellant to have transcript of record and
certificate of appeal and citation. — The register, clerk, or
judge of probate, must, on the application of the appellant or his
attorney, make and deliver to him in time to be returned to the
supreme court, a full and complete transcript of the record and
proceedings in the cause, together with his certificate that the
appeal was taken, and the time when, and when returnable, and
the citation and a copy of the appeal bond, if any was given,
with his certificate that it is a complete transcript of all the
proceedings in the cause, and envelope and seal up the whole
in a package directed to the clerk of the supreme court, or de
liver it to the attorney applying for the same.
SEC. 3635. (3939). When the transcript to be filed—If the ap
peal is returnable to the next ensuing term of the supreme
court, the transcript of the record must be filed therein on or
before the third day of such term; if the appeal be returnable
to a Monday of the term, the transcript must be filed on or be
fore the day to which the appeal is returnable. In either case,
the citation or notice of appeal must accompany the transcript.

SEC. 3636. (3937). Liability of clerk for delay in furnishing
transcript, or for imperfection in record. — If, by reason of
negligence or delay of the clerk, the transcript be not deliveredto the appellant or his attorney in time to be filed, or if the
transcript be so defective that the supreme court cannot proceed
thereon, the clerk forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of
two hundred dollars, and is further liable to him, in an action
on the case, for all damages sustained by his neglect or delay.
SEC. 3637. (3938). Certificate of appeal given appellee. —"When
an appeal is taken, the clerk, register, or judge of probate, must,
on the application of the appellee, make and' deliver to him a
certificate of the judgment or decree upon which the appeal has
been taken, specifying particularly the judgment or decree, the
amount of the same, if for money, the parties thereto, and when
rendered, and that an appeal has been taken thereon, with a state
ment of the obligors in the bond to supersede the judgment or
decree, if one has been given, or of the sureties for costs.

SEC. 3638. (3948). Appeals on death of either party after judg
ment.—When either party to a judgment or decree dies after
judgment or decree rendered, and before appeal taken thereon,
an appeal may be prosecuted in the name of, or against the legal
representative of the deceased, on producing satisfactory evi
dence to the clerk, judge of probate, or register, of the death of
the party, and grant of letters testamentary or of administration.

SEC. 3639. (3952). Clerks of inferior courts may issue execu
tions for costs unpaid. —Clerks of the circuit or city court, reg
isters in chancery, and judges of probate, when cases have been
taken from their respective courts to the supreme court by ap
peal, or other lawful mode, and been there decided, if the costs
accruing in such lower courts for transcripts, or otherwise, be
not paid by the parties against whom they were adjudged in the
supreme court, may issue executions for such costs, returnable
into the court in which such costs accrued.
CHAPTER 3.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO APPEALS FROM COURT OF PROBATE.
SEC. 3640. (3957). Final decree. —An appeal lies to the circuit or
supreme court from any final decree of the court of probate, or
from any final judgment, order, or decree of the judge of pro
bate; and in all cases where it may of right be done, the appel
late court shall render such decree, order, or judgment as the
court of probate, or the judge thereof, ought to have rendered.

SEC. 3641. (3954). Other cases in which an appeal lies. —Appeals
from the decrees of the court of probate, or from the order,
judgment, or decree of the judge of probate, may be taken by
the party aggrieved to the circuit or supreme court, in the
cases and within the time hereinafter specified, under the same
rules and regulations which govern other appeals.
1. From the decree or judgment on a contest as to the validity
of a will, to be taken within thirty days after the determination
of the contest.
2. On application, and claiming the right to execute a will, or
to administer on an estate, to be taken within thirty days after
the hearing and decision of such application; unless the appli
cation was denied because the applicant was deemed unfit to
serve by reason of a conviction of an infamous crime, or by
reason of improvidence, intemperance, or want of understand
ing, in which case the appeal must be taken within ten days
from the denial of the application.
3. Upon any judgment or order removing an executor or ad
ministrator, in which case the appeal must be taken within five
days after such judgment or order.
4. By a legatee or person entitled to distribution, on the de
cision of the court, in proceedings instituted to compel the pay
ment of a legacy or distributive share, at any time within six
months after such decision.
5. After a final settlement, upon any order, decision, or de
cree, made on such settlement, or respecting any item or matter
thereof, or on any previous settlement, or item, or matter thereof,
within six months thereafter.
6. Upon any issue as to the insolvency of an estate, and upon
any issue as to an allowance of any claim against insolvent
estates, in which cases the appeal must be taken within thirty
days after the determination of such issue.
7. On an application for a division or partition of real or per
sonal property, in which case the appeal must be taken within
six months, and the decree may be superseded, upon the execu
tion within fifteen days of a supersedeas bond, payable to the
appellee, in an amount and upon condition to be prescribed by
the judge of probate, such supersedeas to continue until the ap
peal is decided.
SEC. 3642. (3963). Appeals from circuit to supreme court.—An
appeal may be taken from the judgment of the circuit court on
an appeal brought to such court, under the provisions of this
chapter, to the supreme court, within thirty days after such
judgment.
SEC. 3643. (3958). Appeal to supreme court on change of venue
in contest of will. —Upon the contest of a will removed from
the probate court of the county in which it was propounded to
the probate court of another county for trial, an appeal lies to
the supreme court, and must be taken within thirty days after
the judgment.

SEC. 3644. (3964). No appeal from order removing executor or
administrator without bond. —No appeal can be taken from
any order of the probate court removing an executor or admin
istrator, unless the appellant gives bond with at least two good
and sufficient sureties, payable to the judge of probate, and in
an amount to be fixed by him, not less than the amount of his
bond as executor or administrator, conditioned to prosecute
the appeal to effect, and, until the same is decided, faithfully to
discharge his duties as such executor or administrator.
SEC. 3645. (3905). On affirmance, execution against principal
and sureties on bond. —If such appeal is decided against the
appellant, execution for costs may issue against him and the
sureties on such bond ; their names being certified with the
record to the appellate court.
SEC. 3646. (3966). Bond also security for estate. —Su.ch bond
also stands as security for the faithful discharge of his duties as
such executor or administrator, from the time the same is ap
proved until the appeal is finally decided.
SEC. 3647. (3967). Security for costs to be given in appeals. —In
all other cases in which an appeal is taken under the provisions
of this chapter, the appellant, or some one for him, must give
security for the costs of such appeal, to be approved by the
judge of probate, or the clerk of the circuit court, as the case
may be ; and the names of such sureties must be certified with
the record to the appellate court ; and if the appellant fails to
prosecute his appeal, or the judgment is not reversed, or is ren
dered against him for a less amount, execution may issue against
him and such sureties for the costs.
SEC. 3648. (3959, 3960). Bill of exceptions.—Either party may,
by bill of exceptions, reserve any charge, opinion, ruling, or
decision of the court, or of the judge, touching the matter of
controversy, which would not otherwise appear of record; such
bill to be signed by the judge within ten dav6 after the entry of
the decree or judgment; and, when signed, becomes part of the
record.
SEC. 3649. Transcript of record. —If the error complained of
arises only in the matter of the bill of exceptions, the transcript
thereof certified to the appellate court need contain only the
bill of exceptions and the decree, order, or judgment.
SEC. 3650. (3961). Judgment thereon. —If it appears from the
bill of exceptions that all the evidence in relation to the partic
ular matter is set out, the appellate court may reverse and ren
der such judgment, order, or decree, touching such matter, as
should have been rendered, or may remand generally, or may
remand with directions to enter the proper judgment, order, or
decree.
SEC. 3651. (3968). Minors; non compos mentis. —The next friend
or general guardian of a minor, or of a person of unsound mind,
may, in the name of such minor or person of unsound mind,
take and prosecute an appeal from any final decree of the court
of probate, or from any judgment, order, or decree of the judge
of probate, on giving security for the costs of the appeal ; but a
guardian ad litem may take and prosecute an appeal without
giving any security for costs of the appeal.
SEC. 3652. (3969). Costs of appeal. —The costs of an appeal, when
fmid by an executor, administrator, guardian, or guardian ad
item, or next friend, or an administrator ad litem, may, in the
discretion of the judge of probate, be reimbursed from the estate
of the testator, or intestate, or infant, or person of unsound
mind. "
CHAPTER 4.
PROCEEDINGS IN SUPREME COURT ON APPEAL.
SEC. 3653. (3931). Amendment of appeal. —An appeal must not
be dismissed because of any error, mistake, or irregularity in
the taking thereof, or because of any defect in the certificate ;
but on motion all such amendments as are necessary to perfect
it must be allowed.

SEC. 3654. (3932). Appeal bonds and bonds for costs amendable.
No appeal shall be dismissed for the want of a sufficient appeal
bond, or bond for the costs of the appeal, if the appellant will
give a sufficient bond, which bond the supreme court, or any
member thereof, may take and approve, or it may be taken and
certified to the supreme court by the judge, clerk, or register
certifying the appeal.See citations to preceding 

SEC. 3655. (3953). Discontinuance. — An appeal must not he
deemed or treated as discontinued, or as having otherwise lost
its force, unless the appellee shall duly move for a discontinu
ance after legal cause tor discontinuance has occurred.

SEC. 3656. (3947). On death of either party, cause revived.Upon the death of either party to an appeal being suggested, if
the cause cannot proceed without new parties, the cause may he
revived either for or against such party, on the production of
letters testamentary or of administration ; but citation must is
sue from the appellate court to all who are thus made defend
ants, unless they appear and waive it.
SEC. 3657. (3940). Judgment of affirmance on certificate. —If an
appeal is taken, and the transcript of fche record is not filed
within the time prescribed, it is the duty of the court, on the mo
tion of the appellee, to affirm the judgment or decree of the court
below, upon the production by him of the certificate of the reg
ister, clerk, or judge of probate, that an appeal has been taken
to the supreme court. J or good cause shown, the court may re
instate the cause during the term, on payment of costs.

SEC. 3658. (3943). Judgment or decree, if reversed, may be ren
dered, or cause remanded. —The supreme court may, upon the
reversal of any judgment or decree, remand the same for further
proceedings, or render such judgment or decree as the court be
low should have rendered, when the record enables them to do so.

SEC. 3659. (3946). Clerical errors corrected at appellant's cost.
Xo cause must be reversed by the supreme court for any miscal
culation of interest, or other clerical mistake in entering judg
ment, but on motion of, and at the cost of the appellant.

SEC. 3660. (3945). Confession of judgment releases errors. —A
confession of judgment is in law a release of errors.

SEC. 3661. (3941). If bond is filed, ten per cent, damages on
affirmance. —When bond with surety has been executed on an
appeal, and the judgment thereby suspended, if the supreme
court affirms the judgment of the court below, it must also
render judgment against all or any of the obligors in the bond,
for the amount of the affirmed judgment, ten per cent, damages
thereon, and the costs of the supreme court.

SEC. 3662. (3942). Damages in all cases of money judgments.
The preceding section applies to all cases where a judgment or
decree is rendered for money, whether debt or damages.
SEC. 3663. (3935 ) . Damages when judgment by claimant in trial
of right of property is affirmed. —When an appeal is taken by
the claimant on a trial of the right of property, and the judg
ment superseded, if the appellate court affirms the judgment of
the court below, it must render judgment of ten per cent, on
the assessed value of such property, if less than the amount of
the execution against the defendant ; if such value exceeds such
execution, ten per cent, on the amount thereof, against the ob
ligors in the appeal bond.
SEC. 3664. (3936). Damages on affirmance of judgment in de
tinue. —Upon the affirmance of a judgment for the recovery of
chattels in specie, whi^h has been superseded, the court must
render judgment for ten per cent, damages upon the assessed
value of the chattels, and upon the damages for the detention
thereof.
CHAPTER 1.
UENERAL RULES APPLICABLE TO ALL FEES, CIVIL OR CRIMINAL.
SEC. 3666. (5017). No fee charged unless expressly authorized-
The law of fees and costs must be held to be penal, and no fee
must be demanded or received except in cases expressly author
ized by law.

SEC. 3666. (5018). Fee bills posted. —Clerks of the circuit courts
and judges of probate and registers in chancery must keep
posted, in a conspicuous place in their respective offices, a com
plete list of all the fees allowed by law to them and to sheriffs
for services connected with their respective courts, and must
furnish a copy thereof on application.
SEC. 3667. (5019). Penalty for failure to post—The clerk of the
circuit court, judge of probate, or register in chancery, who
fails to comply with the provisions of the preceding section, is
not authorized to collect or receive any fee for services rendered
during such failure.
SEC. 3668. (5005, 5011). When fees due.—Fees allowed by law
are due only at the termination of the suit, except that fees for
transcripts of papers filed in the cause, other than copies of
bills to which parties are entitled as of course, are due when
service is performed ; and no fee, except for the final record,
shall be demanded or received in any case unless the service has
been performed.
SEC. 3669. (5009). Sheriff's fees; when due.—Sheriffs and coro
ners are not entitled to full commissions until after actual levy
of execution on property of the defendant, and the money made
or paid to the plaintiff in execution, and then only on the amount
actually collected or paid.
SEC. 3670. (5010). When entitled to half commissions.—Whenthe sheriff or coroner has levied execution, and before sale it is
stayed by order of the plaintiff, the officer so levying must re
ceive only half commissions.

SEC. 3671. (5008, 5012). Bill of costs on request; no fee for tax-
ing. —All officers entitled to fees or costs must, on demand,
make out a bill of such fees or costs, stating each item distinct
ly, and, except in cases where it is expressly authorized, no fee
shall be charged for taxing costs or furnishing a copy of the bill.
SEC. 3672. (5016). No commissions on costs. —No sheriff, coroner,
or constable, shall collect or receive commissions on costs taxed
in any execution put in his hands. The commissions allowed
by law shall be collected or received only on the principal, dam
ages and interest of the execution.
SEC. 3673. (5014). When execution against plaintiff for his own
costs ; penalty for failure to collect, etc. —The clerk of the
supreme court, clerks of the circuit court, judges of probate
and justices of the peace, upon return of an execution "no
property'" against the defendant by the proper officer of the
county in which the judgment was rendered, or, if the execu
tion be from the supreme court, of the county from which the
case was brought, may issue execution in their own names
against the plaintiff for the costs actually created by the plain
tiff, but for none other, to be collected and returned as other
executions. Judgment may be rendered on motion in the cir
cuit court of such county, in the name of the clerk, or judge of
probate issuing the execution, against the sheriff so failing and
his sureties, or either of them, upon three days' notice, for fail
ing to return, twenty per cent, upon the amount of the execu
tion; for failing to collect, the amount of the execution and
ten per cent, damages ; and for failing to pay over, the amount
of the execution and five per cent, damages for each month after
demand.

SEC. 3674. (5023). No charge for keeping indexes. —The probate
judges, clerks of the circuit courts and registers in chancery
are prohibited from receiving any fees or allowances out of the
county treasury for keeping direct and reverse indexes to books
and records required by law.
SEC. 3675. (5025). Account for ex officio services itemized and
sworn to; maximum of allowance. —Persons entitled to an
allowance by the court of county commissioners for what are
commonly called ex officio services, shall, before the allowance
is made, itemize such services, and make oath thereto, as in the
case of other claims against the county. The compensation al
lowed shall be the fair and reasonable value of the services, in
no case to exceed two hundred dollars per annum.
SEC. 3676. (5005, 5006). Clerks, registers and sheriffs keep fee-
books. —The clerks of the circuit courts, registers in chancery
and sheriffs must each keep a fee-book, which, in the case of
the clerk and register, is a book belonging to the office. Eacli
such officer must enter therein, in the form of a regular ac
count opened for that purpose, every fee charged hy him for
every distinct service rendered by him. The fee -book must
have an index pointing out the folio of the respective accounts.
SEC. 3677. (5007). No fee charged unless entered in fee-book.
No clerk, register, or sheriff, shall demand or receive a fee for
any service by him performed, not justified by a charge entered
in his fee-book.
SEC. 3678. (5021). Judge of probate keeps book showing fees
received. — The judges of probate must keep constantly in
their offices, free to public inspection, a book in which must be
entered all fees received by virtue of their office, stating for
what and from whom received.
SEC. 3679. (5013). Quadruple damages for unlawful charge.
Any officer authorized by law to take fees, who knowingly re
ceives any other or higher fees than are prescribed by law, is
liable to the party aggrieved for fourfold the fees so received, to
be recovered in any court of competent jurisdiction.

SEC. 3680. (5020). Judge of probate forfeits fifty dollars for re
ceiving unlawful fee. — Any judge of probate, who know
ingly receives any other or higher fees than are allowed by law,
forfeits fifty dollars, to be recovered in the name of the person
aggrieved. Such sum, if recovered by a personal representa
tive, or guardian, is assets of the estate. This peualty is no bar
to an indictment for extortion.
CHAPTER 2.
FEES OF OFFICERS.
SEC. 3681. (5026). Authority to recieve; how taxed and col
lected.—Clerks, sheriffs and other officers in this chapter named
are entitled to receive, for the services therein mentioned, the
fees to such services respectively annexed, and no more; to be
taxed, paid and collected in the manner directed by the provis
ions of this Code.
SEC. 3682. (5027). Fees allowed to clerks of circuit court.
Clerks of circuit courts are entitled to receive the following fees
for the following services :
Issuing summons and complaint 8 1 25
Making every copy thereof 30
Making every copy thereof, when over two hundred
words, for each hundred words 20 •
Entering sheriff's return, or copy thereof 20
Docketing cause, to be charged but once 25
Entering appearance 20
Filing pleas, demurrer and other pleadings, for each 10
Every order made in court, not otherwise provided for. 30
Making copy thereof 25
Every trial, with or without jury, and its incidents 75
Entering up judgments, or copy thereof. 30
SEC. 3683. (5028). Fees allowed to registers in chancery.—Reg
isters in chancery are entitled to the following fees for the fol
lowing services :
Issuing each subpoena on a bill $ 50
Issuing any other subpoena 40
SEC. 3684. (5029). Fees allowed to clerk of supreme court.
The clerk of the supreme court is entitled to receive the fol
lowing fees for the following services :
Docketing each cause $ 30
Entering each appearance of attorney ■ 30
Each bond 50
Each appeal or writ of error 50
Each order 50
Each continuance 25
Eachjudgment 1 00
Each certificate of default of clerk of lower court to for
ward transcript in criminal cases within twenty-five
days after appeal or writ of error, to be paid by such
clerk and the sureties on his official bond.. 5 00
Each mandate or certificate to the court below 2 00
Each writ of scire facias, certiorari, mandamus, prohi
bition, or other similar writ 1 00
Filing the same with return 20
Each writ of fieri facias 1 00
Taxing costs, copying and entering satisfaction 85
1. Copying opinions, record, or paper in his office, for
each hundred words 15
In each case an additional fee of 6 00
SEC. 3685. (5030). Fees allowed to judges of probate. — Judges
of probate are entitled to the following fees for the following
services :
Services rendered in the incorporation of towns, under
the provisions of this Code, to be paid by the corpo
ration $ 5 00
Each entry of an estray, to be paid by the taker 50
Each record of a mark or brand 25
Filing statement required to be made by foreign life in
surance companies under section 1211 (1447) 5 00
Filing and recording all certificates of incorporation of
religious, ' educational, benevolent and burial societies. 2 00Each certificate given under the chapter in relation to
hospitals, diseases, infection and quarantine 50
Issuing and recording marriage license, together with
consent to the marriage, and certificate of its celebra
tion 1 50
SEC. 3686. (5031). Judge of probate to make itemized account
for services. —It is the duty of the several judges of probate to
make out an itemized account for their official services before
their fees are due and collectible.
SEC. 3687. (5032). Fees allowed to sheriffs. —Sheriffs arc entitled
to receive the following fees for the following services:
Services rendered in the incorporation of towns under
the provisions of this Code, to be paid by the corpor
ation $ 5 00
Serving and returning an application to perpetuate tes
timony, to be paid by the applicant 1 00
Services in proceedings to incorporate railroads under
the laws of this state, such fees as are usually allowed
in civil proceedings.
Services in cases of arbitration under the provisions of
this Code, the customary fees for executing subpoenas,
which must be paid jointly by the parties, unless the
arbitrators otherwise determine.
Services in relation to persons of unsound mind, the
same fees as are allowed for similar services in other
cases, to be paid out of the county treasury, if such
person has no estate.
Levying attachment 1 50
Entering and returning same 25
Summoning garnishee and making return 1 30
Selling property attached, the same as for selling under
execution.
Serving summons and other mesne process, and return
ing the same 1 30
Summoning each witness, and returning subpoena 65
Impaneling a jury, in each case when a jury is sworn.. 75
Executing a writ of possession 2 50
Making a deed to real estate sold 2 50
Serving summons and making return in cases of forcible
entry and detainer and unlawful detainer 1 00
Executing writ of restitution in such cases 2 00
Other services in such cases, the same fees as in circuit
court.
Collecting execution for costs only 1 50
Summoning a jury for any inquisition in the county, or
under a writ of ad quod damnum or dower, and at-
SEC. 3688. Fees allowed coroner. —The coroner is entitled to re
ceive, for services rendered by him in civil cases, the same fees
as are allowed to sheriffs for like services.

SEC. 3689. (5033). Fees allowed justices of the peace. —Justices
of the peace are entitled to receive the following fees for the
following services : \
Services under section 1359 (1581), in relation to taking
up studs and jackasses, to be paid by the owner $ 1 00
Administering the oath to the taker, summoning house
holders to appraise the property, taking bond and
making return to the judge of probate, in relation to
estrays, to be paid by the taker 1 00
Proving property by the owner and issuing order to re
store trie same, in such matter, to be paid by the
owner. 1 00
Issuing order to fence viewers under section 1371 (1593),
one-half to bo paid by each party 50
Making appraisement and summons in proceedings in
relation to " salvage," for each, to be paid by the per
son taking up the property 1 00
Summons and proceedings thereon to judgment, if judg
ment be for less than fifty dollars 50
Same services if judgment be for more than fifty dollars 1 00
Each warrant in a qui tam action, and proceedings
thereon to judgment 1 00
Subpoena, for each witness 15
Execution, and taxing costs thereon 50
Attachment bond and affidavit 1 50
Summoning garnishee and taking examination, in all
cases in which the answer is for not more than fifty
dollars 50
Same services, in all cases in which the answer is for
over fifty dollars 75
Issuing each attachment 50
Each appeal or certiorari, including bond and certificate
of proceedings 1 00
Every other bond 50
Administering an oath, and certifying the same 25
Every necessary certificate not otherwise provided for. 25
Docketing each cause 10
Judgment on forthcoming, stay, or replevin bond 50
CHAPTER 3.
FEES OF JURORS AND WITNESSES.
SEC. 3691. (5049, 5056). Jurors in circuit, city and chancery
courts. —Regular and tales jurors serving in the circuit and city
courts in civil cases, and those serving in the chancery court, are
entitled to the same fees and allowances as provided by law for
criminal cases, to be evidenced and paid in the same manner.
SEC. 3692. (5055). Pay of jurors in trial of right of property be
fore justice. —Jurors in trials of right of property before justices
of the peace are each entitled to fifty cents for their services in
each case tried by them, to be taxed as costs against the unsuc
cessful party.
SEC. 3693. (5052). Pay of jurors in ad quod damnum proceedings.
The viewing jurors in cases of erection of dams and establish
ment of public mills, and all jurors summoned under writs of
ad quod damnun are each entitled to two dollars, to be paid by
the applicant before return of verdict.
SEC. 3694. (5057). Pay of jurors condemning for turnpike. —For
condemning lands for turnpike roads the jurors are entitled to
two dollars a day, to be taxed as costs.
SEC. 3695. (5054). Pay of jurors and witnesses on inquisition of
lunacy.—Jurors and witnesses summoned under the provisions
of this Code to pass upon the soundness of mind of a person,
with a view to the appointment of a guardian, are each entitled
to receive seventy-five cents per day of attendance, to be paid,
unless otherwise provided, out of the estate of the person, if
adjudged of unsound mind, on the certificate of the judge of
firobate, or if there be no estate, out of the county treasury,
f the person be adjudged of sound mind, the fees of jurors and
witnesses shall be taxed as costs against the petitioner.
SEC. 3696. (5064). Pay of jurors and witnesses in probate court.
Jurors and witnesses in the probate court are entitled to the
same pay as in the circuit court, to be taxed as costs, except
that, on the trial of contested will cases, the jurors shall, upon
the certificate of the judge of probate stating the number of
miles traveled and the amount of compensation to which they
are entitled, be paid in the same manner as jurors in the circuit
court.
SEC. 3697. (5058). Fees of witnesses before county commis
sioners. —Witnesses before the court of county commissioners,
or similar court of like jurisdiction, must be compensated as in
the circuit court, to be taxed as costs.

SEC. 3698. (5060). Fees of witnesses in condemnation. —"Wit
nesses summoned in ad quod damnun proceedings, to assess the
damages to real estate from taking land, are entitled to the
same fees and allowances as in the circuit court, to be taxed as
costs.

