§ 2513. (2129) Suits on contracts to pay money brought in name of the
beneﬁcial owner, subject to defenses against payee, (00.; ermption.—Every
action founded upon a. promissory note, bond, or other contract, ex—
press or implied, for the payment of money, must be prosecuted in
the name oi the party really interested, whether he have the legal
title or not, subject to any defense the payer, obligor, or debtor may
have had against the payee, Obligee, or creditor, previous to notice
of the assignment or transfer; but this clause does not apply to bills
of exchange, or instruments payable in bank or at a private bankin€
house; in all other cases the suit must be instituted in the name 0
the person having the legal title. (1)
§ 2524. (2130) Beneﬁciary sole arty on record—In all cases Where
suits are brought in the name 0 the person having the legal right,
for the use of another, the beneﬁciary must be considered as the
sole party on the record. (2)
§ 2525. (2131) Hweband and wife, when joined as plaintiij or defend
ants.—Husba.nd and wife must be joined, either as plaintiffs or de
fendants, when the wife has an interest in the subject-matter of the
suit, unless the suit relate to her separate estate, when she must sue
or be sued alone. (3)
§ 2526. (2132) In/‘am sue by next friend and defend by guardian.—
Infants must sue by their next friend, and be defended by a. guar
dian, to be appointed by the court. (4)
§ 2527. (2132a) Persons non competes mcnl-is, without resident guar
dian, sue by mutt _/'r~ieml.—-‘ Idiots, lunatics, or persons of unsound
mind, having no guardian resident in this state, may sue by their
next friend; and it upon the termination of such suit, any estate or
property is recovered for them, it may be delivered or paid to such
guardian as has been appointed or may afterwards be appointed.
 
§ 2528. (2132b) Guardian may be substituted or suitﬂoceed in name
of person non compos mentis, when restorat—hlf, pen
or that o the next friend; and if the mind of sucli person of un
sound mind be restored, the suit or proceeding may be continued in
his ovm name.
§ 2529. (2133) Unmarried woman may sue for her seduction—An
unmarried female may prosecute as plaintiﬂ' an action for her own
:duction, and may recover such damages as may be assessed in her
vor.
' g the suit or
roceedin , a guardian is appointed, his name ma be substituted
§ 2530. (2134) Suits/'(n' seduction of a child brought either parent.
A father, or in case of his death or desertion of his famii , the mother,
may prosecute as plaintiff for the seduction of the daughter, though
the daughter be not living with or in the service of the laintiﬁ' at
the time of the seduction or afterwards, and there be no oss of ser
vice; but the institution of suit by the daughter is a bar to an action
by the father or mother.
§ 2531. (2135) Parent may sue for injury to a child, and guardian
for injury to a ward—A father, or in case of his death or desertion
of his family, the mother, may maintain an action for an injury to a
mingr child living in the family, and a guardian for an injury to his
war .
§ 2532. (2136) On desertion of husband, wife may sue in any action
in his name—When a husband and father has deserted his family,
the wife and mother may prosecute or defend in his name, any ac
tion which he might have prosecuted or defended, and has the same
powers and rights he might have had. (1)
§ 2533. (2137) State-sues in its own mune, and no aﬂidavit or security
required of it.—The state of Alabama may sue in its own name, and
is entitled to all the remedies provided for the enforcement of rights
between individuals, without giving bond or security, or causing afﬁ
davit to be made, though the same may be required if the action
were between private c1tizens; cand the direction, in writing, of the
executive of the state to the attorney bringing the suit, is a suﬁicient
authority for brin ' g the suit.
§ 2534. (2138) git-ate may be sued by citizens, or dmnestic corporations.
A citizen of this state, or a domestic corporation, may bring suit
against the state of Alabama, in the circuit or dchancery court of the
county in which he resides, or in which such corporation is located,
which must in all respects be governed by the same rules as suits
between individuals.
§ 2535. (2139) Solicitor of circuit (IQ/i ndsfor tlze state—“The so-
licitor of the circuit in which the suit is pending must attend to the
suit on the part of the state, and the governor may, if necessary,
employ assistant counsel, and the judge of the court determine the
com nsation.
§ 536. (2140) Comptroller to pay judgment on certiﬁmte of the
judge and clerk, after six months—If judgment be rendered against
the state, it is the duty of the comptroller, on the certiﬁcate of the
clerk of the court, together with that of the judge who tried the
cause, that the recovery was just, to issue his warrant for the amount,
but no certiﬁcate must issue until six months after the recovery of
judgment.
§ 2537. (2141) Suits not to be bratty/rt against a county until claim
um been presented to the court of county colmnissioners.—No suit can
be brought against a county until the claim or demand has been pre~
sented within the time limited by section 909 (775), to the court of
county cemmissioners, and either disallowed, or reduced by such
court, and refused by the party. (1)
§ 2538. (2142) Suits against partners by service on one and thement binds all ,- or only one may he sued—Two or more persons asso
ciated together as partners in any business or pursuit, who transact
business under a common name, whether it comprise the names of
such persons or not, may be sued by their common name, and the
summons in such case bein served on one or more of the associates,
the judgment in the action inds the joint property of all the asso
ciates, in the same manner as if all had been named defendants, had
been sued upon their joint liabiht , and served with process; any
one of the associates or their legs. representatives may also be sued
for the obligation of all. (2)
§ 2539. (2143) All joint promises or covenants in writing construed
as joint and seventh—When two or more persons are 'ointly bound
by judgment, bond, covenant, or promise in writing of] any descrip
tion whatsoever, the obligation or promise is in law several as well
as joint, and suit may be instituted thereon against the legal repre
sentatives of such as are dead. (3)
§ 2540. (2144) Dry‘endant may deposit money in court, and on aﬁda
vit that another claims it, be discharged—A defendant against whom
an action is pending upon any contract for the payment of money,
may at any time before issue 'oined, make aﬂidavit in writing that a
person not a party to the action, and without collusion with him,
claims the money in controversy, and deposit the money in court,
praying an order that the person so claiming the money be substi
tuted in his place. The court must thereupon direct notice to be
'ven to the claimant of the money, and the plaintiff, and may in its
discretion, after such notice has been served, make the order rayed
for; and thereupon the substituted defendant stands in the p ace of
the original defendant, and the latter is discharged from liability. (4)
§ 2541. (2145) rlfanner of giving notice when claimant is a non-resi
dent—1f the person claiming the money is a non-resident, the court
must direct the manner of giving notice.
§2542. (2146) Actions which in their nature survive, do not abate
by death, ($0., of either party, but may revive in eighteen months—No
action abates by the death or other disability of the plaintiﬂ' or de
fendant, if the cause of action survive or continue; but the same
must, on motion, within eighteen months thereafter, be revived in the
name of or against the legal representative of the deceased, his suc
cessor or part in interest ; or the death of such party may be sug
gested u on e record, and the action proceed in the name of or
against t e survivor. (5)
§2543. (2147) Deathv of nominal plaintiff not to alter the action.—
When suit is brought for the use of another, the death of the nomi
nal plaintiﬁ' does not abate the suit, but it proceeds in the name of
the beneﬁciary ; when the beneﬁciary dies, it must be revived in the
name of his personal representatives, whether the nominal plaintiﬂ'
be living or not.
§ 2544. (2148) On. citation to representative after death of defendant,
jiulgment may he remlered.-When suggestion is made of the death
of a party to the suit, and motion to revive, the legal representative
of such deceased must be cited to appear at the next term and de
fend, and on failure to do so, after service of citation on him, jud -
ment may be rendered against such legal representative, after eig teen
months from the grant of letters, in the same manner as if he
had appeared.
§ 15. (2149) In suits against deﬁmdants, jointly bound, discontin
uance may be entered as to those not served, or alias issued—“men any
suit is instituted against two or more per sons, upon any joint, or
joint and several contract, or upon any joint, or joint and several
cause of action, the plaintiﬁ' may, at his election, sue out an alias
summons, or discontinue as to those on whom the summons is not
served, and proceed to judgment against those on whom it has been
executed.
§ 2546. (2149a) Suits against joint obligm's do not abate on death of
one or {more—'Suits against joint obligors shall not abate or be discontinued
or dismissed as to any 0110 or more of such obligors, who
may die pendin r the same, but may be revived against the represen
tatives of such eceased obligor or obligors ; and the suits may pro
ceed against the survivors and such representatives, but no judgment
must be rendered against such representatives until after the lapse
of eighteen months from the grant of letters. '
§ 2547. (2149b) Judy/"lent rendere/l against s-m'vl'i‘m' and postpmzed
as to rtyn'esenmlire.—‘ In suits against joint obligors, where one dies
pending the suit, judgment may be rendered against the survivor at
the trial term, and the suit be continued as to the representative of
the deceased obligor, and the judgments when rendered, shall be
several as to the survivors and the representatives of the deceased,
and the satisfaction of one judgment shall be the satisfaction of all
the judgments as to principal, interest and damages, except where
the same, bein Y against the principal obligor, is or may be assigned
by the plainti for the beneﬁt of a security under the laws of this
state, authorizing such assignments of judgments in other cases.
§ 2543. ('Zl50) Sui/s by or against unmarried u'omun do not abate by
her marriage, (Eta—Suits brought b ' or against an unmarried woman,
do not abate by her marriage, butt ie marriage bein<r suggested upon
the record, the suit proceeds in her name acquired by the marriage,
and judgment is rendered accordingly. If judgment be rendered
against her, it may be satisﬁed out 0 er separate estate.
§ 2549. (2151) Suits on lost notegtn'II-v of err/range, (f‘c. ; not to au
thorize suits on 10st bani: notes—Suit may be brought on a bond, note,
bill of exchange, or other mercantile instrument, which has been lost,
or destroyed by accident, and if atiidavit is made by the laintiﬁ of
such loss and destruction, and the contents thereof,. an that the
same has not been paid, or otherwise discharged, and accompanies
the complaint, it must be received as presumptive evidence both of
the contents, and loss or destruction of such instrument ; unless the
defendant, by lea, veriﬁed by aﬂidavit, denies the execution of such
bond, note, or ill, or the indorsement, acceptance, or the contents
thereof ; in which case proof of such execution, indorsement, acce t
ancc, or contents, must be made bv the plaintiff; but this section
must not be so construed as to authorize a suit for the recovery of
a note or bill issued by an incorporated bank to pass as money, and
alleged to be lost or destroyed. When the suit is against an execu
tor or administrator, he may controvcrt the oath of the plaintiff of
the loss, (lestruction, or contents of the instrument sued on, by swear~
mg to the best of his knochde and belief. (1)
 
§ 2550. (2152) Erecution not to issue on such judgment till bond and
secur-ilg/ is gz'ven.——When suit is brought under the provisions of the
precedin Y section, to recover upon a bill of exchange or other instru
ment which by the provisions of this Code is declared subject to the
law merchant, and alleged to have been lost or destroyed before the
maturity thereof, no execution must issue on the judgment, until the
plaintiff execute bond payable to the defendant, with surety in twice
the amount of the recovery, with condition to pay all such damages
as he may sustain by reason of the said judgment and the payment
thereof.
§ 2551. (2153) Service on one representative is shﬁieient.—~When
there are two or more executors or administrators of an estate, ser
vice of summonson one is sutﬁcient.
§ 2552. (2154) Person injured may sue in his own name on any Qfﬁ~
cial, guardian’s, or executor's bond—For any breach of any ofﬁcial
bond or undertaking of any oﬁicer of this state, executor, adminis
trator, or guardian, or of any bond or undertaking given in an oﬂi
cial capacity to the state of Alabama, or any otﬁcer thereof, the per
son aggrieved may sue in his own name, assigning the appropriate
breach. (1)
§ 2553. (2155) Any m'h'zen may sue for a penalty imposed by law.
When a penalty is imposed b statute, and no mode is provided
therein for the recove thereo , any citizen of the state may sue for
the game, on behalf 0 himself and the county in which it is insti
tute .
§ 2554. (2156) Plainfg'ff sueihg several, liable to costs to those who east
him—When a suit is instituted against several defendants, whether
sued as partners, or otherwise, the laintiﬁ' may recover against one
or more, but is liable for costs to t ose against whom he does not
obtain judgment.
§ 2555. (2157) Actions survive lo the representative—All actions on
contracts, express or implied, all personal actions, except for inju
ries to the person or reputation, survive in favor of and against the
ersonal representatives.
§ 2556. (2158) Real actions and aclions ~for trespass on lands survive
to or against heir or represmztaI-iurn—Real actions to try the title, or
for the recovery of the possession of lands, and actions for injuries
to lands, survive in favor of heirs, devisees, or personal representa
tives, and against heirs, devisees, tenants, or personal representatives,
according to their respective rights, and the court must direct the
record and judgment to be so framed as to secure their rights and
declare their respective interests. (2)
§ 557. (2159) When. perfornuml‘e of contract is revented by death,
the representative recovers a rateatle com nsation.— hen a party con
tracts for the performance of services y himself for a stipulated pe—
riod of time, and is prevented from the performance of his contract
by death before the expiration of the time, his legal representatives
may recover a rateable compensation for the service actually ren
dered, notwithstanding the contract is entire for the whole period.
§ 2558. (2160) Civil actions oomnmwed by summons—All civil ac
tions in the courts of record of this state for the recovery of real
estate or any interest therein, or for waste or trespass on land, or
for the recovery of money or personal property, or or the recovery
of damages, (except in such cases as are otherwise provided by
this Code,) must be commenced b the service of a summons.
§ 2559. (2161) Summons issued clerk and accompanied by the com
plaint—The summons must be issued by the clerk of the court, and
e accompanied by the complaint of the plaintiff, signed by him, or
his attorney, settin forth the cause of action.
§ 2560. (2162) arm of the summona—The summons must be in
the following form:
The State of Alabama, To any sheriﬂ of the state of Alabama.
county. You are hereby commanded to summon
A. B., to appear at the next term of the circuit court to be held
for said county, at the place of holding the same, then and there to
answer the complaint of C. D.
Witness my hand, this day of —. E. F., clerk.
§ 2561. (2163) Branch summons when there are several defendants in
different counties—When any joint, or joint and several cause of ac
tion exists, and the defendants reside or may be found in different
counties, a summons may issue from the court having jurisdiction of
any one of such defendants, and be executed in any county, which
must be returned and ﬁled in the court from which the process is
sued, and constitute but one suit, in the same manner as if but
one summons had issued against all the defendants; and it is the
duty of the clerk, on issuing such branch summons, to indorse there
on that it is a branch of the original suit, and that all the sum
monses constitute one suit and are for one and the same cause of
action.
§ 2562. (2164) Freeholder-s sued only in their own counties, erupt for
injuries to or recovery of real estate—No freeholder of this state,
having a ermanent residence within it, must be sued out of the
county of his residence, unless the suit be for the recovery of real
property or the possession thereof, or for a trespass thereto, when
the suit must be instituted in the coun where the land lies. Any
summons issuing contrary to the provisions of this section must be
abated on the plea of the defendant.
§ 2563. (‘5164a) Persons residing in new counties not organized sue
and are sued in the old conntz'es.-‘Persons residing in new counties
may sue and are liable to be sued in the counties from which their
residences are taken, until such new counties have elected their oﬂi
cars, and are organized.
1
§ 2564. (2165) SUNHIIOIIS executed by leaving a copy; return—The
summons must be executed by the sheriﬁ' or other ofﬁcer, in any
county in the state, by lowing a copy of the summons and com
plaint with the defendant, which fact he must return with the pr0~
cess.
§ 2565. (2166) Sllllll'llOIbS' {0 he crecm'ed three days before return,
u‘hon rdurmvl, (Pa—The summons must be executed at least three
days before the return day thereof, and be returned to the ofﬁce
whence it issued, on or before the return day; but when the sum
mons has been executed twenty days or more before the return day,
it must he returned ﬁve days after the execution thereof.
§ 2566. (2167) Issued luvs [hon lhre.‘ (lays hqurv return day—Where
the summons is issued less than three days before the term of the
court next thereafter, it must be made returnable to the next suc
ceeding term.
§ 2567. (2168) Return (Ia-y isﬁrsf Joy of {he form—The return day
of the summons is the ﬁrst day of the court to which it is returnable.
§ 2568. (2169) Smnnhms h) vorpomh'on, by mpg [If/7 u'ifh fhe presi
denl, dvu—VVhen the suit is against a corporation, the summons may
be executed by the delivery of a copy of the summons and com
plaint to the president, or other head thereof, secretary, cashier, or
managing agent thereof.
§ 2569. (2170) When officers unknown, summons left with any white
await—If afﬁdavit is made that the oﬁieers named in the preceding
-. v ion are unknown “or reside out of the state, the summons may
2 w owed on any white person in the employ of, or doing business
it , ~11eh corporation.
§ 2570. (2171) l'Vhw crew/hr] by ('0/‘(1111'7‘ 117' special ('IH'I)7?(<‘)‘.——-Ill the
cases provided for by chapter three, title ten, part one, the summons
must be directed to and served by the coroner, or special coroner, as
the case may be.
§ 2571. (2172) Summons hf! 'wz'ih governor when sfrde is sued—
When the state of Alabama is a defendant, the summons must be
executed by leaving a. copy of the summons and complaint with the
g0"t‘d'llor.
§ 2572. (2173) U'hw "WW/de in an adjoining r‘rmnly.-—~When 8.811111
mous issues to tho sheriti‘ of the county in which the defendant r9
sides, he may execute it in adjoining county, if the defendant is there
found.
§ 2573. (2174) S'Ilnmnus I1) (I. would” (’If’vuled (min/lye of prohafer—
When a county is a defendant, the summons must be executed by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the judge of the
probate court.
§ 2574. (2175) Bail, when required in de’i’rultlnt’s ou'n ('ounlg/.—The
defendant may be held to bail in the county of his residence in a
civil action, but the plaintiff or his agent must make aﬁidavit before
the clerk of the court or some judicial Olll("‘l', of the amount of the
indebtedness of the defendant, and in addition thereto make one of
the following oaths in writing:
1. That the defendant is about to abscond.
2. That he has fraudulently disposed of his estate or effects.
3. That he is about fraudulently to dispose of his estate or eﬁ'ects.
4. That he has money ‘or effects liable to the satisfaction of his
deb s, which he fraudulently withholds.
Upon making the above affidavit, with either of the alternate oaths
here recited, and giving security for costs, the clerk must indorse
upon the summons that the sheriff hold the defendant to bail in
double the amount sworn to be due.
§ 2575. (2176) Bad in qui tam or danmf/e suits—“Then the action
is qui lam, or sounds in damages merely, the clerk or judge of the
circuit court in which the suit is instituted, may order the defendant
to be held to bail in such sum as may seem proper, on the aﬂidavit
of the plaintiﬁ or his agent of the facts, and some one of the causes
ciﬁed in the preceding section.
§ 2576. (2177) How required when suit is pcnding.—‘Vhile the suit
is pending, and before ﬁnal judgment, bail may be required in like
manner by the plaintiff, on his making the affidavit prescribed in the
two preceding sections, and 'ving security for costs; and thereupon
the clerk must issue an a ias summons, with an order indorsed
thereon, requiring the sheriﬂ' to hold the defendant to bail.
§ 2577. (2177a) Aim-ending debtor held to bail in any county—"The
defendant in any civil action, who is absconding, maybe held to bail
in any county in the state where he may be arrested, but the plain
tiﬁ' or his agent must give security for the costs, and make aﬁidavit
before the clerk of the court or some judicial officer, of the amount
of the indebtedness of the defendant, and in addition thereto that
the defendant is absconding; and having done so, the Slaintifl' is en
titled to all the rights, powers and privileges conferre
1n the three sections next precedin".
on plaintiffs
§ 2578. (21771;) When bail prams may issue on Sunday—“Process
for bail for the collection of debts may be issued, and the sheriff or
other officer must execute the same on Sunday, if the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, give security for costs as hereinbefore provided;
and in addition to the oath now prescribed for the issue of such pro
cess, make aﬂidavit that the defendapt is absconding, or about to
abscond, or about to remove his property from this state under color
of Sunday, by reason of which the debt will probably be lost, or he
will have to sue for it in another state.
§ 2579. (2178) All bail special bail—All bail.is special bail.
§ 2580. (2179) Condition of the bail bench—The condition of the
bail bond is, that should judgment be rendered against the defend
he will satisfy it or surrender his body, or the bail will do it for
§ 2581. (2180) Payable to plaintg' and retuwzed with the summmw.
The bail bond must be made pa a Is to the laintiﬂ', and returned
to the clerk, with the summons, hy the she ' .
§ 2582. (2181) Shel-if liablefor taking insufﬁcient bath—If the sher
iﬂ' ne lect to take bail, or take insuﬂicient bail, he is responsible to
the p aintiﬁ' as bail; but the plaintiff must notify the sheriff, by
ﬁlling Exceptions at the ﬁrst term of the court, or he will be dis
c arge .
§ 2583. (12182) Mode of oblaim'ng dischargefrom arrest—When the
defend ant as been thus arrested, he may obtain his discharge—
1. B making aﬁidavit before some one qualiﬁed to administer an
oath, t at the paitieular fact sworn to by the plaintiﬂ', to hold him
to bail, is untrue, and that he has no property within the state of
Alabama to satisfy the debt, or any part thereof; “ and that he has
not, since the time of his arrest, conveyed, concealed or removed, or
caused to be removed from the limits of this state any property or
effects, with the intention of defrauding his creditors. Upon the de
livery of this aﬂidavit to the arresting oﬂicer, he must immediately
discharge the defendant from custody, making return thereof, and
return the afﬁdavit with the process to the proper court, ’ if notice
has been given as required in the next section, and the defendant’s
afﬁdavit is not controverted.
2. By rendering a schedule of all his estate, money and effects of
every kind, real and personal, in possession and in expectanc within
the state, subject to levy and sale by execution, and of al thingﬂ
in action in his possession or under lns control, accompanied by an
afﬁdavit made before a justice of the eace, that the schedule ren
dered is true, excepltingl only those artic es exempt from levy and sale
by law, and that e as not conveyed 0r concealed, 'or since the
time of his arrest removed or caused to be removed from the limits
of this state, any thing for his own use, or to defraud his creditors. (1)
§ 2584. (2183) Notice given plainlg'ﬁ", who may contest—The defend
ant must give the laintiﬁ', his a ent or attorney, if resident in the
county, “notice of t e time and p ace of makin such aﬂidavit or of
rendering such schedule, and if the plaintiﬁ‘, his agent or attorney,
hcontroverts the afﬁdavit b swearing, according to the best of 1118
knowledge, information an belief, it is untrue, or controverts the
schedule by swearing that he believes it to be false, ‘s ecifymg
wherein it 1s untrue, it is the duty of the justice immediate y to em
panel a jury of twelve men to try the issue between the arties,
which jurors are liable to challen e as in other cases; Jbut t e jury
shall not try the tmth of the sche ule, except upon the speciﬁcations
made by the plaintiff.
§ 2585. (2184) Verdict of the jury discharges or in: risons the de
fendant—If the ﬁnd the “ oath or schedule to be alse, judgmth
must be rendered against the defendant for the costs of the proceed
ings, and he must be remanded to the custody of the arresting oﬂi
cer; if the 'oath or schedule is found to be correct, jud ent must
be rendered against the plaintiff for cost, and the defen ant be discharged
from custody.
§ 2586. (2185) Appeal to cirmit court ,- Land on appeaL—Either
party may appeal to the circuit court, on entering into bond, with
surety, in suc sum as may be a proved b the justice, with condi
tion on the part of the plamtiﬂ' t at he ' 1 pa all damages which
may accrue to the defendant, and on the part 0 the defendant that
he will appear at such court and abide its judgment.
§ 2587. (2186) Proper? in schedule sold by sheri for plat-nth—
When the defendant is ' charged upon his sche ule, the property
therein described vests in the sheriﬁ", and must be sold by him for
the beneﬁt of the plaintiff, whether the property so rendered con
sists of real or personal estate, or any interest therein, or of things
in action.
§ 2588. (2187) If arrested in more than one suit, the procccds are
ratabl distribute(l.-—If the defendant is arrested in more cases than
one, the proceeds of the sale of the debtor’s effects must, after the
payment of the sheriff ’s and magistrate’s fees, be divided ratably in
proportion to the debts, between the several plaintiffs.
§ 2589. (2188) Bail may arrest and surrender prilmlnat.—The bail
has liberty at any time before ﬁnal judgment against him, to arrest
and surrender his principal, either to the court from which the pro
cess issued, in term time, or to the sheriff in vacation, and such sur
render is a discharge of the bail bond.
§ 2590. (2189) Debtor’s con/incumzt in the penitentiary discharges
the baz'I.-—If the defendant is conﬁned in the penitentiary or common
jail, so that he cannot be delivered 11 ) b the bail, if the bail give
notice in writin to the plaintiff of the act of such imprisonment
and that he desires to surrender his principal, it is in law a surren
der and dischar e of the bond; and on notice being given by the
plaintiff to the jailor or warden of the penitentiary, the defendant
must not be discharged from conﬁnement at the expiration of his
term of imprisonment, but must be delivered up to the sheriff of
the court in which the cause is pending, who must retain him in cus
tod until discharged by due course of law. But if not demanded
within three days after such convict is entitled to his discharge, he
must be set at libert .
§ 2591. (2190) Liability of bail on judgment against principal.—N0
proceeding can be had against the bail to subject him to the pay
ment of the 'udgment against his plincipal, until an execution
against the body of the defendant has been returned “not found,"
and then judgment may be obtained against the bail, by motion to
the court in which the judgment was rendered, ten days notice
thereof, in writin being given ; the motion must state concisely the
grounds upon which the recovery is sought, and judgment thereon
must be given at the ﬁrst term, unless good cause is shown for a con
tinuance.
§ 2592. (2191) When debtor is surrendered bail pays the cos-ts.—
en the principal is surrendered after notice given under the re
ceding section, judgment for cost must be rendered against the iiaiL
§ 2593. (2192) In actions of delinus, the may give bond,
and require the sherg'ﬂ' f0 seize the property, if bond be not given—When
a suit 1s brought for the recovery of personal chattels in specie, if
the laintiﬁ', his agent or attorney make aﬁidavit that the property
sued)for belongs to the plaintiff, and execute a bond in such sum and
with such surety as may be approved by the clerk, with condition
that if the plaintiff fail in the suit, he will ay the defendant all
such costs and damages as he may sustain hy the wrongful com
plaint, it is the duty of the clerk to indorse on the summons that the
sheriff is required to take the property mentioned in the complaint
into his possession, unless the defendant give bond payable to the
plaintiﬁ', with sufﬁcient surety, in double the amount of the value of
the property, with condition that if the defendant is cast in the suit,
he will, within thirty days thereafter, deliver the property to the plain
tiﬂ' and pay all costs and damages which may accrue from the
detention thereof.
§ 2594. (2193) On neglect of defendant to give bond forﬁve days,
property to be delivered. to plaintiff 0nv his giving bond—If the defend
ant neglect for ﬁve days to give such bond, the property sued for must
be delivered to the plaintiff, on his giving bond, with suﬁicient surety,
in double the value of the property, payable to the defendant, with
condition to deliver the roperty to the defendant within thirty days
after judgment, in case e fail in the suit, and to pay damaaes for
the detention of the pro erty and costs of suit. If the plaintiff fail
for ﬁve days to give sue bond, after the expiration of the time al—
lowed the defendant, the property must be returned to the defendant.
§ 2595. (2194) Value of each article to be assessed separately, with
the damages for its detention ; jwhyment in such suits—Upon the trial
of any cause for the recovery of property in specie, the jury must,
if they ﬁnd for the plaintiﬁ‘, if practicable, assess the value of each
article of the property separately, and also assess (lama es for its
detention ; if they ﬁnd for the defendant, the must in ' e manner
assess its value ; and if in the possession of t e laintiﬂ', assess the
damages for its detention. Judgment against eit er arty must be
for the property sued for, or its alternate value, with damages for
the detention to the time of trial. (1)
§ 2596. (2195) On. failure to deliver the property after judgment, ea:
ecuh'nn issues on bond—If either of the arties who are unsuccess
in the suit, fail within thirty days after Judgment to deliver the prop
erty to the sheriff, and return be made thereof b him of the fact,
the bond in either case has the force and eﬁ'eet 0? a judgment, and
execution may issue thereon against all the obligors, for the alter
nate ju 15.11 ant so renlarel as aforesaid, and the damages and
costs. (2)
§ 2597. (2196) Bonds taken by sheriﬁ' 10 be returned in ten days;
penalty for neglect—All bonds taken under sections 2593 (2‘92), and
2594 (2193), must be returned within ten days thereafter to the clerk
of the court in which the suit is pending: and on failure, the sheriﬂ'
is liable to the successful party to the amount of the value of the
property, and the damages for its detention, as assessed by the jury,
with interest thereon from the rendition of the judgment, to be
recovered by motion to the court in which such 'udginent was
rendered, on three days notice; or may be at any time compelled
to make'such return by attachment.
§ 2598. (2197) Delivery compelled by attachment or distrinnas.—Any
party recovering speciﬁc property may compel its restoration, when
practicable, by a writ of distringas, or by moving for an attachment.
CHAPTER 6.
OF REAL ACTIONS.
lac-nos. BENTON.
2599. (2198) Seal not necessary to pass le- 2610. (2209) Statement of demise to plain
gal title to lauds. ﬁn". and ouster by casual e ector
2600. (2190) ()n recovery of land with a omitted, but the law applies Is to
growing crop, PUHNPHUlOn retained to actions of ejectment a plies.
gather Crop, on giving bond for 2611. (2210) Statement of paintiﬁ‘s pos
rcnt. session and description of the land,
2601. (2200) Bond filed with the clerk, and with charge 01' entr by defendant,
has the force of ajtidgnicut. is all that is [‘94 niretl:
2602. (2:101) Snggestiouof adverse posscs- 2612. (2211a) Dcfeminnt may demand ab
sion for three years, to be tried by a stract of plaintiﬁ'h title and must
jury. tender abstract of his own on plain
2608. 512202) If found to be true, the ver- tiﬁ“s demand.
‘ct must show the value of the 2613. (2212) Pica of not guilty admits the
land, the improvements, and the same evidence as in cjcctment.
rent. 2614. (2213) Such plea admits possession;
$60!. (2203) I! value of improvements disclaimer, in whole or part.
greater than the rent, possession ro- 2615. (2214) It'there ln- scvcrs defendants,
tained for one year. damages may be assessed severally.
2605. (2204:) On failure to pay within the 2616. (2215) Tenant not claiming title, lia.
year, the defendant on paying the ble oulv for rent in arrear.
value of the lan , becomes the 2617. (2216) Ycrsons having color of title,
owner. “bona tide," liable only for one year’s
2606. (2205) Landlord made a party on his rent.
motion. 2618. (2217) Verdict for plaintiﬂ' to specify
2607. (2206) Actions for use and occupa- for what art.
tion of land, when sustained. 2619. (2218) Ju gmcntlby default admits
2808. (2207) Damages to the time of the title, but possession to be proved to
verdict. recover costs.
2609. (2208) Rent accrued after judgment 2620. (2219) Two verdicts bar another suit.
recovered on motion. 2621. (2219a) Action of ejectment.
§ 2599. (2198) Seal not neeessm- to pass legal title to kinda—A seal
is not necessary to convey the ega title to land, to enable the
grantee to sue at law. Any instrument in writing, signed by the
prantor, or his agent having a written authority, is etfectual to trans
er the legal title to the grantee, if such was the intention of the
grantor, to be collected from the entire instrument.
§ 2600. (2199) On recovery (y' land with a growing crop, possession
retained to gather cro , on giving bond for rent—In actions for the re
covery of land, or t e possession thereof, if it be made to appear
that the defendant has a crop lanted or growing on the premises,
it the jury ﬁnd for the plaint' , they must also ﬁnd the value of the
remises during the current year, and no writ of possession can be
issued until the expiration of the year, if the defendant executes a
bond in double the amount of the rent, payable to the plaintiff, with
surety to be ap roved by the clerk, with condition to pay the rent
so assessed at t 1e expiration of the year.
§ 2601. (2200) Bondﬁled with the clerk, and has theforce of a judg
ment.--The bond so taken must be ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁce; has the
force and effect of a 'udgment; and if not paid at maturity, the clerk,
on the application oi the plaintiff, must issue execution against all
the obli ors.
§ 260. (2201) Suggestion of adverse possession for three years to be
tried by diary—When a suit is brought to recover land, or the pos
session thereof, the defendant may, at any time before the tﬁal, sug
est upon the record, that he and those whose possession he has, for
511136 years next before the commencement of the suit, had adverse
possession thereof. In such case, if the ﬁnd for the plaintiff,
they must also ascertain by their verdict whether such suggestionbe
true or false.
§ 2603. (2202) If found to be true, the verdict must show the value (f
the land, the improvements, and the rents—If ,they ﬁnd it to be false,
they must return a verdict as in ordinary cases for the damages; if
the ﬁnd it to be true, they must assess the value at the time of the
trial, of the permanent improvements made b the defendant, or
those whose estate he has, and also ascertain y their verdict the
value of the lands and tenements, and of the use and occupation of
the land, not including the increased value thereof by reason of such
improvements; if the value of the use and occupation as assessed,
exceed the value of the permanent improvements made, judgment
must be rendered against the defendant for the excess.
§ 2604. (2203) If value of improvements greater than the rents, pos
session rctaincd for one year.-—If the value of the improvements ex~
ceed the value of the use and occupation, no writ of possession shall
issue for one year after the rendition of the (judgment, unless the
efendant, or deposit
laintiﬂ' or his legal re resentative pay the
with the clerk for Jim, t e excess of the assessed value of the im
provements over the value of the use and occupation.
§ 2605. (2204) If not paid by plaintiffor one year, defendant, on
ayment of value of land, acquires a good title—If the plaintiff, or his
liegal representative, neglect to pay such excess for the term of one
year, and the defendant, or his egal representative, within three
months after the exfpiration of the year, pays to the clerk of the
court, for the use 0 the plaintiff, the value of the lands and tone
ments as assessed by the jury, the plaintiff is forever barred from his
writ of possession, and from maintaining any action'whatever against
the defendant, his heirs or assigns, for the recovery of such lands
and tenements, or the possession thereof.
§ 2606. (2205) Landlord made a party on his motion—When the
suit is against a tenant, the landlord must, on his motion, be made
defendant. _
§ 2607. (2206) Actions for use and occupation of land, when sus
tained—A reasonable satisfaction may be recovered for the use and
occupation of land—
1. When there has been a demise by deed, or by parol, and no
speciﬁc sum aweed on as rent.
2. [Repealed 19th February, 1867, p. 698.]
3. When the tenant has been let into possession upon a supposed
sale of the lands, which from the act of the defendant, has not been
consummated.
4. When the tenant remains on the land by the suﬂ'erance of the
owner; 'and where, after a demise, the tenant havinggisad thirty da 8
previous notice, holds over Without the consent of landlord, 6
shall pay to such landlord double the value of the customary rent of
the property so withheld.
§ 2608. (2207) Damages to time (2f the verdict—Dams es in real
actions, for the possession or use and occupation of lanEd, must be
computed to the time of the verdict.
§ 2609. (2208) Bent accrued after judgment, recovered on motion.—
The plaintiff in a real action may have judgment against the defend
ant for the rent of the premises which accrues after 'udgment, and
before delivery of possession, by motion in the circult court where
the judgment was rendered, ten days notice thereof in writin being
given, unless the judgment is stayed b appeal, and bond given to
supersede the judgment; in_which case e motion may be made after
the aﬂirmance thereof.
§ 2610. (2209) Casual or nominal ejector not named in the proceed
ings, and no lease or demise to be stated—Actions to recover the os
session of land may be brought in the nature of an action of eject
ment, without any statement of any lease or demise to the plaintiff,
or ouster by a casual or nominal ejector; and in such cases, the law
now in force in relation to the action of ejectment, except so far as
relates to the ﬁctitious proceedings therein, or except so far as the
same is changed by this Code, is applicable thereto. (1)
§ 2611. (2210) Statement of the plainlifs claim, and description of
land, with defendant’s unlaai/nl entry, is all that is required—It is suf
ﬁcient for the plaintiff to allege in his complaint, that he was pos
sessed of the premises sued for, describing the same by its designa
tion at the land ofﬁce ; or when that cannot be done, b metes and
bounds, or other a propriate designation ; and that r his'ri ht
accrued, the defendant entered thereupon and unlawfully witth ds
and detains the same.
(2211) [Repealed by act 29th Janiiary, 1867, p. 301, § 2.]
§ 2612. (2211a) Dig/endant may demand abstract Qf'flaintiﬁ’s title,
and must tender abstract of his own on plaintiff’s deman —"In all real
actions the defendant may, by notice in to the plaintiff or his
attorney, not less than ten days before the tria of the cause, demand
an abstract in writing of the title or titles on which he will rely for
a_ recovery, and the laintiﬁ' must be conﬁned to the proof of such
title or titles; and w en such abstract is demanded by the defendant,
he must tender, if demanded by the plaintiff or his attorney, ﬁve
days before the trial, an abstract of the title or titles on which he
will rely for defense, and on the trial shall be conﬁned to such title
or titles. (2)
§ 2613. (2212) Plea qf not guilty as in action of ejectnwnt.—The de
fendant may plead that he is not guilty of unlawfully withholding
the premises claimed b the plaintiff, and upon such plea, may give
the same matter in evidence as upon the p ea of not guilty in the
action of ejectment.
§ 2614. (2213) Plea of not guilty adim'ts possession; disclaimer as to
extent—Such plea is an admission by the defendant that he is in the
possession of the premises sued for, unless he states distinctly upon
the record the extent of his possession, in which case it is an ad
mission of possession to such extent only. (3)
§ 2615. (2214) When there are several defendants, damages may be
assessed severally.—-Where there are more defendants than one, the
Jury may assess damages arising from the detention of the land, and
 
injury thereto, in severalty, against each defendant for distinct dam
a es.
§ 2616. (2215) Tenant daiming under another only liable for rent in
(tween—A tenant in possession, and asserting his right thereto un
der a lease or license from another, is not liable beyond the rent in
arr-ear at the time of suit brovght, and that which may accrue during
the continuance of his possession.
§ 2617. (2216) Persons having color of title bona ﬁde liable only for
a year’s rent—Persons holding possession under color of title, in
good faith, are not responsible for damages or rent for more than
one year before the commencement of the suit. (1)
§ 2618. (2217) Wrdz'ctlfor plm'wh'ﬂ“ to specify whether for whole or
part—If the verdict is for the 1plaintiff, it must specify whether it is
for the whole or a part only 0 the premises, describing such part,
and judgment accordingly.
§ 2619. (2218) Judgment by default admits title, but possession to be
oved {0 recover costs—A judgment by default against a defendant,
is an admission of title in the plaintiff; but to recover costs against
the defendant, the plaintiff must prove possession of the premises,
or some part thereof, at the commencement of the suit.
§ 2620. (2219) Two verdicts bar any other suit—Two judgments
in favor of the defendant in an action of ejectment, or in the nature
of an action of ejectment between the same parties, in which the
same title is put 1n issue, is a bar to any action for the recovery of
the land or any part thereof, between the same parties or their
privies, founded on the same title. (2)
§ 2621. (2219a) Action of e/'echnem.—-°For the recovery of land or
the possession thereof the plaintiff- has his election to procceclb
the action of egectment as established at common law, or by wnt
in the nature 0 an action of ejectment as hereinbefore provided.
CHAPTER 7.
OF DEFAMATION.
Sac-nos. Sscrron.
2622. (2220) Reﬂection on awoman’s chas- 2626. (2224) Words used to be construm
my made actionable. in their ordinary import.
2623. (2221) Refraction of charge received 2627. (2225) True statements as to public
in mitigation of damages. men do not subject the partyto a
2624. (2222) On retraction and tender of prosecution.
compensation, no_ costs recovered 2628. (2226) Truth of the words, or the
unless the verdict 1s larger. ‘ circumstances under which spoken,
2625. (2223) Receipt of the money is a re- &c., evidence under the general il
lease, except as to costs. sue.
§ 2622. (2220) Charge of unchasteness actionable—Any words, writ
ten, spoken or printed, of any female, married or unmarried, falsely
imputin to her a want of chastity, are actionable, without proof of
special amages. (3)
§ 2623. (2221) Retraction of charge to be received in mih'qafz'on 0f
damages—The defendant in an action of libel or slander, may row)
under the general issue, in mitigation of damages, that the c arge
was made by mistake, or through inadvertence, and that he has re
tracted the charge and offered amends before suit. by publishing an
 
apology in a newspa er, where the charge had been thus promul a
ted', or verbally in t e presence of witnesses, where the accusation
was verbal or written, and had offered to certify the same in wri
tin . 1)
§ 2624. (2222) On retrru-Iion and leader of a sum, no costs recovera
ble Hilh's-s the verdict b." lorger.—If the defendant, after or before suit
brought, make the recantation and amends recited in the preceding
section, and also tender to the plaintiff a compensation in money,
and brin the same into court, the plaintiff can recover no costs, if
the jury %elieve and ﬁnd the tender was sufﬁcient.
§ 2625. 2223) Receipt of the much is a release except as to costs in
curred—T e receipt of the mone 'tendered, if before suit brought,
is abar to the action; if after suit, releases the defendant from all
damages and costs, excc t the costs which may have accrued before
the tender and receipt of the money.
§ 2626. (2224) Lang/huge to he ("Ullt'tl'h'Pd by its ordinary import.—
Every accusation of false swearing presumptively imports a charge
of perjury; and every accusation importing the commission of a
crime unishable by indictment, must beheld presumptively to mean
what t 1e language used ordinarily imports.
§ 2627. (2225) Trulh of charges (lg/(Iz'hs'f public m '11 may be proved.—
In prosecutions for publications investigating the conduct of public
men, when the matter published is proper for public information, the
truth of the charge may be given in evidence.
§ 2628. (2226) Trh/h of {he 'll‘m'rl-s', or [hevirr'I/msfanu's under which
spoken, dc, rvz'limu'e under the .1/1 m'ruI {wan—In all actions of slander,
verbal or written, the truth of the words spoken or written, or the
circumstances under which they Were spoken or written, ma be
given in evidence under the general issue, in mitigation of the c am
ages.
§ 2629. All pleadings must be as brief as is consistent with perspicu
ity, and the resentation of the facts or matter to be ut in issue in
an intelligib e form; no objection can be allowed for efect of form,
if facts are so resented that a material issue in law or fact can be
taken by the a verse party thereon. (1)
§ 2630. (2228) Pleadings struck outfor prolixity on motion—If any
pleading is unnecessarily prolix, irrelevant, or frivolous, it may be
stricken out at the cost 0 the part so pleading, on motion of the
adverse arty; and any pleading w 'ch conforms substantially to
the echo ule of forms attached to this part, is sufﬁcient.
§ 2631. (2229) Character of complaint for defamation—No collo
uium or innuendo is necessary in actions for defamation; it is suf
gcient to state in the complaint that defendant falsely and mali
ciously charged the plaintiff with pei‘ury, larceny, or other crime,
as the case may be, in substance as follows, setting it out.
§ 2632. (2230) Consideration of a sealed instrument may be inquired
int0.-—The defendant may by plea impeach or inquire into the con
sideration of a sealed instrument, in the same manner as if it had
not been sealed. (2)
§ 2633. (2231) Assignment of breaches on a )enal bond—In actions
upon any penal bonds or other writing for t e non-performance of
any covenant or agreement contained therein, the plaintiff may as
sign such breaches as he may deem proper, and verdict and judg
ment mag be rendered for such of the breaches as he may rove;
and if ju ment be rendered for the plaintiff on demurrer, or y de
fault, a writ of in uiry of damages must be awarded.
§ 2634. (2232) cm actions on same contract, when new causes arise.
Successive actions may be maintained upon the same contract or
transaction, whenever, after the former actlon, a new cause of action
arises therefrom.
§ 2635. (2233) P-ro/ert of bond, (150., dispensed with, notice may be
given. to produm: it, or items of account—No profert of a sealed instru
ment is required in pleading, but at any time previous to the trial,
the defendant may have inspection of the bond, or other instrument
sued on, upon notice to the attorne of the party; or when an ac
count is the foundation of the suit, a hst of the items composing it. (3)
ARTICLE II.
Of the complaint.
Sacrios. , ' SECTION.
2636. (2234) Complaint to accompany the 2637. (2235) All actions on contracts may
summons, and be signed by plaintiﬂ' be united in one complaint.
or his counsel. 1
§ 2636. (2234) Complaint to accompany the summons, and tobesigned
by the plaintiff or his attorney.—The com Jlaint, which must in all
cases accompany the summons, is in lieu 0i a declaration, and must
be signed b the plaintiff or his attorney. (4)
§ 2637. ( 235) All actions on. contracts maybe united in one suit,—
' 'All actions on contracts, express or implied,for the payment of mo
' ney, whether under seal or not, may be united in the same action. (5)
§ 2638. (2236) Plea to state the-facts relied on as a defense ,- no objec
tion to be made to thejbrm.—The plea. must consist of a succinct state
ment of the facts relied on, in bar or abatement of the suit, and no
objection can be taken thereto, if the facts are so stated that a mu.
terial issue can be taken thereon. (1)
(2237) [Repealed by section 1, act 16 February, 54, p. 60.]
§ 2639. (2237a) Extent of plea of “not guilty” and of he general is.
sue, and when special pleas requzred.—‘That in all actions of defamation,
for injuries to the person, or to real or personal property, the plea of
“not guilty” puts in issue all the material allegations of the com
plamt, and in all suits where the defendant relies on a denial of the
cause of action as set forth by the plaintiﬂ', he may plead the general
Issue, and in all other cases, the efendant must brieﬂy plead spe
cially the matter of defense, and may by leave of the court plead
more pleas than one.
§ 2640. 2238) All pleas in abatement sworn lo; exceptions—All
lens in a atement, (unless it be of matter of record,) pleas which
eny the execution by the defendant, his agent, attorney or partner,
of any instrument in writing the foundation of the suit, or the as
si ment of the same, or which set forth any instrument in writing,
w ether under seal or not, which is alleged to be lost or destroye ,
and pleas since the last continuance, must be veriﬁed by aﬂidavit. (2)
§ 641. (2239) Character of plea, how delermined.—The fact whether
a plea is in bar or abatement, is ascertained by the subject matter
and prayer of the lea.
§ 642. (2240) eta-of allowed in all cases of liquidated 01' unligui
dated demands not sounding in damages—Mutual debts, liquidate or
unliquidated demands not sounding in damages merely, subsisting
between the parties at the time of suit brought, may be set-oﬁ', one
a ainst the other, by the defendant or his personal representative,
yv ether the legal title he in the defendant or not; and such set-oﬂ',
if found for the defendant, extinguishes either in whole or in part, as
the case may be, the laintiﬁ"s demand (3) ; bbut the wages or hire
of any head of a famiinr in this state, not having property liable to
levy and sale under execution, cannot be defeated or abated by any
set-off of a money demand, acquired by the person contracting to
.__
pay such wages by assignment or transfer, unless the parties other
wise agree in writlng?‘
§ 2643. (2241) Judgment for defendant/or excess 1)," Rel-157' and costs.
If the debt or demand so offered to be set-oﬁ‘, exceed the amount of
the laintiﬂ"s demand, the amount of such excess being found by
the jury, judgment must be rendered against the plaintiﬁ' for costs,
and in favor of the defendant for such excess.
§ 2644. (2242) Judy/ments in the same court niay be. set-cf)" on motion.
Judgments in the same court may be set-oﬁ' against each other, by
the court on motion.
§ 2645. (2243) Surety sued alone may set of a debt due the principal.
A co-maker or surety, when sued alone, may, with the consent of his
eo-maker or principal, avail himself by way of Off-set, of a debt or
liquidated demand, due from the plaintiff at the commencement of
the suit, to such co maker or principal.
§ 2646. (2244) Sel-qﬂ' not allmcw' (0 commercial paper, neg/(tinted
be/bre due—The foregoing provisions relating to sets-off, do not ap
plv t0 bills of exchanﬂe or notes payable in bank, or at a private
!, Liking house, which have been in good faith negotiated before ma
tw" itv.
§ 2647. (2244a) Set-cf)" accruing u'ler pirlz'ilfq'st muse of action,
wlfﬂl barred by {he sfufufe cf lili'li/(lflll)/TS.—-r“711811 the defendant
p .11s a set—oﬁ' to the plaintiﬂ"s demand, to which the plaintiff (re
plics] the statute of limitations, the defendant, notwithstanding such
[replication], is entitled to have the beneﬁt of his debt as a set-0E,
where such set-oﬂ was a legal subsisting claim at the time the right
of action accrued to the plaintiff on the claim in suit.
§ 2648. (2245) Tmrler to be mar/e111 mm'f.—A plea of tender of
money, or of a thing in action, must be accompanied by a delivery
of the money, or such thing in action, to the clerk of the court. (1).
§ 2649. (2246) tender (1me be UNI/(e from [ﬁll/f, (be, a readiness
to deliver to be az;erred.—If the tender be of ponderous articles, or
other personal property, the plea must aver a readiness to deliver
them to the plalntiﬁ', and judgment for the defendant upon the plea
vests the title to the thing tendered in the plaintiff, subject to any
claim the defendant may have for his trouble in keeping it.
§ 2650. (2247) [ndorsement of (be mm and ﬁling f0 be plat-ed on all
[JEN-5', and referred for want of -z'.f.—All pleas must be indorsed by the
clerk when ﬁled, with the true date; and for want of such indorse
mlnt may be rejected by the court, on motion, unless sufﬁcient cause
be shown.
§ 2651. (2248) Plea since lust eunfimmnee (b/cs not waive (my former
plea to {be anerifs.-—A plea since the last continuance is not a waiver
of other pleas to the merits previously pleaded.
§ 2652. (2249) General Ireplicalion.—The general replication is,
“the plaintiff joins issue on said lea.”
§ 2653. (2250) Spenial replication—A s ecial replication, like the
plea, is a brief statement in plain intelligi le language, of the facts
relied on as an answer to the plea.
§ 2654. (2251) rlfore than one replication allowed by the court—By
leave of the court, for causes shown, the defendant may ﬁle more
than one replication.
§ 2655. (2252) Rules of this article apply to all subsequent pleadings.
The rules of this chapter in relation to pleas and replications, apply
to all subsequent pleadings.
ARTICLE V.
Of demurrers.
Bzcnon. Ssc'rros.
2656. (2258) Dcmurrer to substance onlv; 2658. (2255) Pleaover after judgment does
must set out speciﬁcally the grounds not waive errors.
relied on. 2659. (2256) Court imposes terms for friv
2657. (2254) Amendments allowed after olous demurrer.
judgment on demurrer.
§ 2656. (2253) Demurrer to matter of substance, and the ground to be
distinctly slated—No demurrer in pleading can be allowed, but to
matter of substance which the arty demurring speciﬁes; and no ob
jection can be taken or allow which is not distinctly stated in the
demurrer. (1)
§ 2657. 2254) Amemlmenfs allowed before 0" after on de
murrer.— ither before or after judgment on demurrer, the court
must permit an amendment of the fpleadings; and such amendment
must cause no dela in the trial 0 the cause, unless injustice will
thereby be done. (27)
§ 2658. (2255) Plea over, (lfli'T'lldf/ﬂlﬂll does not waive errors—The
party against whom a 'udgment on demurrer is rendered, may plead
over as a matter of rig t, without waiving his privilege of assigning
the judgment on demurrer, as error in an appellate court, unless he
has subsequently had the beneﬁt secured by the demurrer, upon the
trial of other equivalent issues. (3)
§ 2659. (2256) Con-r! imposes terms for frivolon demurrer.—If, in
the opinion of the court, a demurrer is interposed without cause,
terms may be imposed, not exceeding the costs of the action or a
continuance of the cause.
 
§ 2660. (2257) Certain causes tried at ﬁrst term if summons ere
outed twenty days previously.—' In actions of detinue, trespass to try
title, ejectment, trial of the right of property, slander, trespass, as
sault and battery, and in actions on contracts made since 25th July,
1865, except upon renewals of contracts existin prior to 25th July,
1865, when the summons is executed twenty days revious to the
return term thereof, (1) the cause must be placed on t e trial docket
and stand for trial at the ﬁrst term, unless good cause is shown for
a continuance; and I’all proceedings for summary judgments 1‘6
scribed in article 1, chapter 3, title 2, art 3, of this Code, an for
summary 'udgments under the revenue awe of this state shall stand
for trial a r giving the prescribed notice, and ’ the time of trial of
cases on appeal and certiorari, from justices, is governed by sec-'
tion 2772 (2368) of this Code, and of cases in admiralty by chapter
8, title 2, part 3, of this Code.
§ 2661. (2257a) The return, appearanm and trial terms.--“ In cases
not mentioned in the precedin section, the ﬁrst term after the com—
mencement of any action, is t e return term; the second term an
appearance or p eading term; and no action shall be tried before
the next term after the appearance term.
§ 2662. (2258) Time for pleading when the term is more than a week
When the term of the court is more than one week, the defendant
must, within the ﬁrst three days of the ‘ appearance term, plead 0r
demur to the com laint, and the replication thereto must be ﬁled
within three days t ereafter unles the time is enlarged by order of
the court, except in the cases mentioned in the ﬁrst section of this
chapter, when he must plead within the ﬁrst three days of the re
turn term.
§ 2663. (2259) Other pleadings ﬁled when ordered by the court.—
Other pleadings may be ﬁled within such time as the court directs
§ 2664. (2260) Plea filed (in two days if court site only a we ¢.-—
7When the term of the court is but one week, the plea must be ﬁled
within the ﬁrst two days rof the ap earance term, and the issue be
made up within the two succeeding ays, unless the time is extended
by the court, except in the cases mentioned in the ﬁrst section of
this chapter, when the plea must be ﬁled within the ﬁrst two days
of the return term, and the pleadings be made up within the two
. succeeding days.
§ 2665. (2261) When term is over a week, causes set for particular
days—The trial causes must be set for particular days, where the
term of the court is more than one week ; to which day the witnesses
must be sub oenaed ; and no cause can be called for trial before the
da for whic it is set, but by consent.
57 2666. (2262) Challenge offourjurors.—Each party has the right
to challenge four of the jury peremptorily.
§ 2667. (2263) Jurors, how drawn, sworn, (ﬁe—Jurors for the trial
of civil causes are drawn, summoned, empanelled, and sworn as
directed by the provisions of chapter 6, title 2, part 4.
§ 2668. (2264) Struck jury, when allowed and how selected.—1n all
civil causes sounding in dama es merely, or where the amountin
controversy exceeds one hundre dollars, either arty may demand
a struck jury, and must thereupon be furnished y the sheriff with
a list of twenty-four jurors, in attendance upon the court, from which
a jury must be obtained by the arties, or their attorneys, striking
alternately one from the list, un ' twelve are stricken oil, the party
' demanding the jury commencing; and the jury thus obtained, must
not be challenged for any cause. (1)
§ 2669. (2265) Two counsel only to argue on one sale—But two
counsel can argue on a side, except by leave of the court.
§ 2670. (2266) Non-suits, when to be taken; two equivalent to a ver
dict.--Non-suits must be taken before the retires, and two non
suits not set aside at the term at which they are suffered, or reversed
on error, are equivalent to a verdict against the party suﬂ'ering them.
§ 2671. (2267) Two new trials granted in a cause._No more than two
new trials on the same side can be granted in any cause.
-
§ 2672. (2268) ()n loss of pleadings a copy may be filed—If an ori
nal pleading be lost, or withheld by any person, the court may or
er a copy to be ﬁled in the place of the original.
§ 2673. (2269) Jury take out written evidenze._All instruments of
evidence and depositions read to the jury, may be taken out by them
on their retirement.
§ 2674. (2270) Court may order wnsolidatimz of suits—Whenever
two or more actions are pending at the same time, between the same
parties, in the same court, and which might have been joined, the
court may order them to be consolidated. .
§ 2675. (2271) Suits, how dismissed in vacation—The. plaintiff may
dismiss his suit in vacation by causing an entry to be made by the
clerk on the docket of the dismissal of the suit. When the summons
has been executed, notice must be given the defendant of the in
tended dismissal.
§ 2676. (2272) When the state, a count or city is interested, the citi
zens are ('onqwtent jurors and witnesses.— actions for the recovery
of penalties, where a part thereof may enure to the state, a county,
or corporate town or city, any citizen of the county, state, town, or
city, is a competent juror or witness.
§ 2677. (2273) Notice in writinq to the attorney is notice to his client.
ritten notice to the attorney of record is as effectual as notice to
the party to be affected by it, and may be executed by the sheriﬁ‘,
whose return of service is evidence of the fact.
§ 2678. (2274) Charge of the court to the jury—The court may
state to the jury the law of the case, and may also state the evidence
where the same is disputed, but shall not charge upon the eﬂ'ect of
the testimony, unless required to do so by one of the parties. (1)
§ 2679. (2275) Interpreters.-—Interpreters may be sworn, truly to
interpret when necessary, ‘and must be paid as witnesses in the
cause.
9
CHAPTER 10.
OF EVIDENCE.
Anrics 1.—Oi' general rules.
2.-0f the mode of procuring testimony by subpoena.
3.-—Ol' procuring testimony by deposition.
4.-Examination of the parties by interrogatories.
5.—Proceedings to perpetuate testimony.
6.-Demurrers to evidence.
Swi'ios.
2680. (2276a) Competency of negroes.
ARTICLE I.
Of general rules.
2681. (2278) Effect of written contract as
evidence 01’ consideration; im
Sscrros.
2693. (2293) Proof of statutes of other
states or United States.
2694. (2294) Authentication b certiﬁcate
of chiei’ of a bureau or apartment.
peached by plea
2682. (2279) Execution 0! notes purporting 2695. (2295) Copies of oﬂicial bonds and
to be signed by defendant, im- other instruments, re uired bylaw
cached only by sworn denial. to be kept by sworn o cer, are ed
2683. 2280) N0 proof required of execu- dence.
tion of notes or assignment, unless 2696. (2295a) Books, maps, and notes of
surveyor general, public archives,
denied on oath.
and certiﬁed co ies, are evidence.
2684. (2281) Partnership not required to
be roved, unless denied on oath. 2697. (2295b) Transcripts of certain books.
2685, ( 2) Releases, receipts, &c., have certiﬁed by prp er custodian, to be
eﬂ'ect as such without seal.
2686. (2283) Compromises of debts for
less sums sustained, without seal or
new consideration.
received in evi once.
2698. (2296) Private acts of state legisla
tures received as evidence, wit out
bein pleaded.
evidence without
2687 (2284) Sheriff may justin under pro
2699. (229 ) Patents
cess re ular on its face. roof.
2688. (2285) ate of interest in other 2700. 2298) Entry bya hysician evidence
states, how proved. of the service, bu value of the ser
2689 (2286) Security made a competent vices must be proved.
witness, by deposit of indemnity in
court.
2690. (2289) One defendant competent
agzainst another.
(
2701. (2209) Prices current evidence of
value of the articles at their date._
2702. (2300) Effect, as evidence, of re is
ters of births, marriages and deat s.
2691. 92) Certiﬁcates of registers of 2703. (2301) Evidence given in open court
land office, &c., how received in evi- on oath; kc.
dence. _ _ 2704. (2302a) Competency as affected by
2692. (2292a) Deeds made and signed in interest.
land oﬂice, received in evidence upon
certiﬁcate of register.
(2276) [Repealed by section 2, 14th Feb., 1867, p. 435.]
§ 2680. (2276/1) Negroes, mmpefeﬂw oﬁ—‘Freedmen, free negrOBS
and mulattoes are competent to testify only in open court, and only
in cases in which freedmen, free negroes and mulattoes are parties.
either plaintiff or defendant, and in civil and criminal cases, for in
{uries in the persons or property of freedmen, free negroes 01' mil
attoes; and in all cases, civd or criminal, in which freedman, free
1. 23 Ala., 17, 835, 548, 591, 626, 622; 24Ala., 71, 241, 463, 651; 25 A111,, 15, 262; 26 Alan
negro or mulatto is a witness against a white person, or a white
erson against a freedman, free negro or mulatto, the parties shall
he competent witnesses, and neither interest in the question or suit,
nor marriage, shall disqualify any witness from testifying in open
court.
(2277) [Repealed b section 2, 14th Feb., 1867, p. 435.]
§ 2681. (2278) ly;/m of written contract as evidence. ,- proof of cor»
sideration impeached by plea.—-Every written contract, the foundation
of the suit, purporting to be executed by the party sought to be
charged, his artner, agent, or attorney in fact, is evidence of the
existence of t e debt, or that the party undertook to perform the
duty for which it was given, and that it was made on sufﬁcient con
sideration; but may be impeached by plea; and when so impeached,
the burthen of roof is on the defendant. (1)
§ 2682. (2279 Execution of notes, (20., purporting to be signed, only
impeached plea under oath—All written instruments, the foundation
of the suit, purporting to be signed by the defendant, his partner,
agent or attorney in fact, must be received in evidence, without proof
0 the execution, unless the execution thereof is denied by plea,
veriﬁed by afﬁdavit; and every assignment of such instrument, on
which suit is brought in the name of the assignee, must be deemed
genuine, unless impeached in like manner, when in either case the
urthen of roof is cast on the plaintiﬂ'. (2)
§ 2683. (2280) Execution or assignment of notes, (20., not proved unless
denied on oath—It is not necessary to rove the execution or assign
ment of any instrument offered in evi ence under the plea of set-off,
or other plea in bar, unless the laintiff put the execution or assign
ment thereof in issue, by a rephcation, veriﬁed by afﬁdavit. (3)
§ 2684. (2281) Partners/up not required to be proved unless denied
on oath—When suit is brought by a ﬁrm, or in the name of a part
nership, the laintiff must not be required to prove the existence of
the ﬁrm, or t 0 individuals composing it, unless the same is denied
by plea, veriﬁed b aﬁidavit.
§ 2685. (2282) eleascs, receipts, (60., to have effect intended, whether
under seal or not—All receipts, releases, and dlschar es in writing,
whether of a debt of record, or a contract under se , or otherwise,
must have effect according to the intention of the parties to the
same.
§ 2686. (2283) Cmnposition of debts for a less sum sustained without
release or raw cons-idm-ulion.—All settlements in writing, made in good
faith for the composition of debts, must be taken as evidence, and
held to operate according to the intention of the parties, though no
release under seal is given, and no new consideratlon has passed.
§ 2687. (2284) Qﬁz'eer may justify under process regular on itsface,
c.-—Whenever it appears that the process is re at on its face,
and is issued b the competent authority, a sheriff or other minis
terial ofﬁcer is Justiﬁed in the execution of the same, whatever may
be the defect in the proceeding on which it was issued. (4)
§ 2688. (2285) Mode q" proving rate of interest in other slates—The
secretary of state must cause to be printed in the pamphlet acts of
each session of the le 'slature, the rate of interest of each of the
states and territories o the United States, which must be received
as presumptive evidence of the rate of interest aforesaid.
 
§ 2689. (2286) Security competent bydeposit of indemnity with court,
A security, though a party to the suit, may be made a competent
witness for his principal, by the deposit in court of the amount of
his supposed liability, and a sufﬁcient sum to cover the probable
o
costs.
(2287) [Repealed by section 2, 14th Feb., 1867, p. 435.]
(2288) [Repealed by section 2, 14th Feb., 1867, p. 435.]
§ 2690. (2289) Defendant competent witness for plaintiff—A defen
dant is a competent witness for the plaintiff a ainst a co-defendant.
(2290) [Repealed, section 2, 14th Fe ruary, 1867, p. 435.]
(2291) [Repealed, section 2, 14th February, 1867, p. 435.]
§ 2691. (2292) Certificates of registers of land ofﬁce, (in, vest title,
and rciei-ved in evidence—All certiﬁcates issued pursuant to any act
of congressyby any board of commissioners, register of a land ofﬁce,
or by any one authorized by law to isssme such certiﬁcate, upon any
warrant or order of survey, or for any donation or pre-emption claim,
vest the legal title in the holder, or his assignee, and must be re
ceived as evidence of such title; 'and all transcripts of any ofﬁcial
book, ofﬁcial entry, or any other document ertaining to any land
ofﬁce in this state, certiﬁed by the register of such land ofﬁce, must
be received as prima facie evrdence of the facts contained in such
transcripts so certiﬁed, in all the courts of this state.
§ 2692. (2292a) Deeds made and signed in land ofﬁce received in. evi
dense, upon certiﬁcate of register.—h Any deed or written instrument
for the conveyance or sale of land purchased or entered at any land
ofﬁce of the United States in this state, which, before the 12th day
of December, 1853, was made or signed in or upon any book or
record of such ofﬁce, may be proved by a cop thereof, certiﬁed by
the register of such land ofﬁce under his ban to be a correct co y,
and such cop shall be received in all courts and proceedings 1m 61‘
the laws of this state, and ma be recorded in the ofﬁce of the pro
bate court of the county in w 'ch the land may be; rand the tran
script of such record in the ofﬁce of the probate court may be certi
ﬁed and used in the same manner and in the same cases as tran
scripts of such records of original deeds may be.
§ 2693. (2293) Statutes of other states or the United States, llvw
proved—Transcripts of acts of congress, or of the statutes of any
state or territory of the United States, certiﬁed by the secretary of
state of this state, as being deposited in his ofﬁce; and public or pri
vate statutes, or the proceedings of an legislative body, urporting
on the face of the book to be riutedl by authority of t e govern
ment, state, or territory, are evi ence without further proof.
§ 2694. (2294) Certiﬁcate of head of a bureau or department sufﬁcient
authentication—The certiﬁcate of the head of any bureau or e art
ment of the general government is a sufﬁcient authentication 0 any
pa er or document appertaining to or belonging to his ofﬁce.
§ 2695. (2295) Copies of oﬂicial bonds, and other instruments required
by hub to be kept by any sworn op'icer, are evidence—Copies of oﬂicial
bonds, or other instruments or papers required to be kept by any
oﬂicer of this state, and transcripts from the books and proceedings
required to be kept by any sworn ofﬁcer of the state, are presump
tive evidence in any civil cause, and have the same effect as if t 6
ori ' al were reduced and proved, upon the certiﬁcate of the cus
todian thereo that it is a true copy of the original; but the court
may, on motion, require the production of the original, if practicable,
when necessary to romote the ends of justice.
§ 2696. (2295a) ooks, maps, and notes of surv or general, public
ooks, maps, all
ﬁeld notes of the late surveyor general of the United States for the
,2 arc/lives, and certiﬁed copies, are evideme.—" The
state of Alabama, de osited in the oﬁice of the secretary of state,
are ublic archives 0 the state, and the secretary of state, upon the
app ication of any person, must furnish certiﬁed copies of the same,
w ch copies, so certiﬁed, must be received in evidence in any of the
courts of the state.
§ 2697. (2295b) Transcripts (y' certain books, certified by proper cus
torlz'an, to be received in evidence—“All transcripts of books required
b law to be ke tin the ofﬁce of the secretary of state, or the oﬁice
oithe comptrol er of public accounts, properly certiﬁed as correct
by the proper custodian of such-books, must be received as evidence
in the courts of this state ; and it is no objection to such transcri t
that the book from which it may be taken is a copy of ofﬁce boo
belonging to the government of the United States. .
§ 2698. (2296) Private acts of this or another state given in evidence.
All private acts of the legislature of this or an other state, may be
given in evidence without being specially ple ed.
§ 2699. 2297) Patents received in evz' ence without prooﬂ—Patents
issued by t e United States, or any state of the United States, must
be received in evidence without further proof. (1)
§ 2700. (2298) Entry in his books by a physician, evidence of service
unless denied on oath; value of service to be proved—The ori ' al en
tries in the books of a physician are evidence for him, in a actions
brought for the recovery of his medical services, that the service was
rendered, unless the defendant in open court deny upon oath the
truth of such entries; but he is required to prove the value of such
services. Where the denial is b a legal representative of the party,
it is suﬁicient for him to swear t at he believes it to be untrue. (2)
§ 2701. (2299) Prices current evidence of the value of articles at the
date, (tn—Prices current and commercial lists printed at any com
mercial mart, are presumptive evidence of the value of any article
of merchandise s eciﬁed therein, at that place, at the date thereof,
and of the rate 0? exchange between that and other places; also of
the rates of insurance, freights, and the times of the arrival and de
parture of ships and other vessels.
§ 2702. (2300) Eﬂeet of registers of births, marriages and deaths.—
Registers of marriages, births, and deaths, kept in pursuance of
law, or by an eccles1astical rule of any religious church or society,
may be certi ed by the custodian thereof, and are presumptive evi
dence of the facts certiﬁed, as well as of the law or rule in virtue
of which such registry was made, and his authority to certify the
same.
§ 2703. (2301) Evidence to be in open court on oath—All testimony,
except as otherwise directed, must be given in open court on the
oath or afﬁrmation of the witness.
(2302) [Repealed by section 2, act 14 February, 67, p. 435.]
§ 2704. (2302a) Competency as aﬂ‘eeted by interest._' In sluts and]
proceedings before any court or officer, other than criminal cases,
there must be no exclusion of any witness, because he is a arty or
interested in the issue tried, except that in suits or procee ings by
or against executors, or administrators, (as to which a different rule
1s not made by the laws of this state,) neither party shall be allowed
to testify against the other, as to any transactlon with, or statement
by the testator, or intestate, unless called to testify thereto by the
opposite party.
§ 2705. (2307i) Sutpwna ismzes when cause is on. trial docket—At the
request of either pmty, his agent or attorney, to any suit which is
then pending, or where the complaint has been executed more than
twenty days before the return day thereof, the clerk of the court
where the suit is pending must issue subpoenas for witnesses, speci
fying therein the time and place for their appearance, the title oi the
suit, and the party at whose instance they are summoned, and com
manding them to a pear in conformity therewith, and 've testimony.
§ 2700. (2304) ‘0 subpoena can issue for witness living one hundred
miles from court without qﬂidavit, (fa—No subpoena can issue for a
witness, residing more than one hundred miles from the place of
trial, computing by the usual travelled route, unless the part sum
moning him make aﬁidavit that the personal attendance of t e wit
ness is necessary to a proper decision of the cause, and that his de
osition would be insuﬂicient for that purpose; which must be in
orsed by the clerk upon the subpoena.
§ 2707. ((2305) How executed, and by whom—The subpoena must
be directe to “ any sheriﬂ' of the state of Alabama,” and may be exe
cuted u on the witness, either personally or by leaving a copy at his
place 0 residence, unless the subpoena is issued during term time,
when it must be executed by personal service.
§ 2708. (2306) Sub menus issued at each term, till case is disposed of.
In civil cases, when t 16 cause is not decided at the ﬁrst term, Wit
nesses must be summoned b the clerk, by the issue of a subpoena
to each term, until the cause 1s determined, unless otherwise directed
by the parties.
§ 2709. (2307) Penal! for default by witness—Any witness who,
after being summoned, ails to attend, pursuant to the mandate of
the subpoena, and remain until his testimony is given, or he is dis
charged by the court or the party summoning him, forfeits one hun
dred dollars for the use of the party summoning him.
§ 2710. (2308) Proceedings to recover penalt .—A conditional judg—
ment must, on motion of such part , be ren ered against such wit
ness, and a notice issued to him tgat such jud out will be made
absolute, unless he appear at the next court an render a good ex
cuse for his default; and on being personally served with a cop of
such notice, ten days before the next or any succeeding term, 1 he
fail to appear and render a satisfactory excuse for his default, such
'udgment may be made absolute, or reduced, as the cOurt may
' set.
§ 2711. (2309) Witness imprisoned for refusal to testify—Any wit
ness refusing to testify, unless privileged by law from testifying in
the cause, must be committed to the jail of the county, there to re
main without bail until he consent to testify.
§ 712. (2310) l'Vitness not discharged without bond to appear and
testify—No witness so imprisoned must be discharged at the ad
journment of the court, or after, until he give bond and security in
an amount to be prescribed by the judge of such court, to be a -
proved by the judge of probate, payable to the state, and condIi
tioned to appear at the next term, and give evidence in the cause.
§ 2713. (2311) Witnesses ewnptfrom arrest in civil cases iii/rile at
tending court, (he—Witnesses are exempt from arrest in civil cases,
whilst attending court in that capacity, or going to or returning
therefrom, allowing one day for every twenty-ﬁve miles travel by
the usual route.
§ 2714. (2312) Witnes'ses’ excuse made in court, by aﬁidavit or oral
emamination.—-“Yitnesses failin for suﬁicient cause to attend court,
may make their excuse by aﬁigavit or visa 72008, in open court, which
the court must hear at any time, unless engaged in the trial of a
cause ; and if the excuse is suﬁlcient, release the party from the ﬁne
imposed, without pa ent of costs.
(2313), (2 14), (2315), (2316) [Bepealed, section 2, 14th
February, 1867, p. 435.]
§ 2715. (2317) Br n-esentalive of boo-rower a competent witness to
prove usury by his Iniief.—‘When usury is relied on as a defense, the
representative of the borrower, having given ten days notice to the
plaintiﬂ', or his attorney, of his intention to do so, is a competent
Witness to rove the usury,by swearing that he believes the contract
to be usurious, if the plaintiﬂ' was the lender, unless the plaintiff
denies on oath in open court the truth of the facts proposed to be
sworn to by the defendant.
ARTICLE III.
Of the procuring testimony by deposition.
BIL'I‘ION. Sscrron.
2716. (2318) Cases in which testimony may 2724. Depositions thus taken, read
be taken by deposition. in evidence. _ h
2717. (2319) Steps taken before issue of 2725. (2327) De ositions, except of fe
commission. males, ta en de bene esse.
2718. (2320) Interrogatories may be ﬁled, 2726. (23270) When the personal attend
of which notice must be given. ance of Witnesses examined by in
2719. (2321) Mode of givin notice when terrogatory, M2,, maybe com cued,
party resides out of tie county. ‘ 2727. (2327b) When testimony may e m
2720. (2322) Duty of the commissioner in taken. _
executin the commission. 2728. (2328) Objections to the whole depo
2721. (2323) E ect of commissioner’s ccr- sition taken before trial, and not af
tiﬁcate and return. terwards. _
2722. (2324) Fine for failure to appear be- 2729. (2328a) Interrogatories to witnesses
fore commissioner ; proceeding to in forei n smts._
recover it. 2730. (2329) see of Witnesses before com
2728. (2325) Commissioner to issue sub- missioner; taxed in the bill of costs.
games for witnesses; default proved
v his certiﬁcate.
1
 
§ 2716. (2318) Cases in which testimo'n may be taken byThe evidence of witnesses may be taken y deposition, in civil cases,
by either party— (1)
1. Where the witness is a female.
2. Where the witness, from age, inﬁrmity, or sickness, is unable to
attend court.
3. Where the witness resides more than one hundred miles from
the place of trial, computing by the route usually travelled, or re~
sides out of, or is absent from t e state.
4. “’here the witness is about to leave the state, and will probably
not return until after the trial.
5. Where the claim or defense, or a material part thereof, depends
exclusively on the evidence of the witness. (1)
6. Where the witness is governor of the state, treasurer, comp
troller, chancellor, judge, clerk, or sheriff of a court of record, pres
ident, director, or other ofﬁcer of a. bank incorporated in this state,
post master, or any other ofﬁcer of the United States, practising
physician or lawyer, or is constantly employed on any steamboat or
other water-craft, or about the engine or other machiner of any
rail road, plank road or manufactory; "or is a superinten ent, sec
retary, treasurer, master of road re airs or conductor of any rail
road; or a teacher of a public or private school, actually engaged in
teaching; “or a minister of the gospel in charge of any diocese, par
ish, church, district or circuit.
§ 717. (2319) Step9 taken before issue of commission—The party
desiring to take such deposition, must make afﬁdavit before a justice
of the peace of the state, or clerk of the court, settin forth some
one or more of the above causes for taking such deposition, and that
the witness is material, which must be ﬁled in the cause, and there
upon the clerk must issue a commission to one or more persons to
take such deposition, and prescribe the notice to be given to the 0g
posite party, or his attorney, of the time and place of taking it. i
the party on whom the notice is to be served resides out of the
county, and has no attorney of record, it is sufﬁcient to ﬁle the same
with the papers in the cause, the length of time prescribed; cbut
when the testimony is desired under the third subdivision of the
preceding section, the testimony must be taken by interrogatories
as prescribed in the next section.
§ 2718. (2320) Inferrogafm'fes maybe ﬁled, of which notice must he
given—The part , after making afﬁdavit, may ﬁle with the clerk in
terrogatories to e propounded to the witness, of which, ‘ and of the
residence of the witness and of the commissioner to be appointed to
take such deposition, he must give the opposite party, or his attor
ney, notice in writing, who has ten days thereafter to ﬁle cross inter
rogatories, to which the party ﬁling the interrogatories may ﬁle re
butting interrogatories. After the expiration of the ten days a com
mission, accompanied b a copy of the interrogatories, cross and
rebutting, if ﬁled, must he issued by the clerk, to take the deposi
tion, which maybe taken at such time and lace as the commisswner
shall appoint; 'on failure to give the notice herein required, of the
residence of the witness and the commissioner, unless the same is
waived by the adverse party, the deposition of such witness must be
suppressed, at the cost of the party taking the same. (2)
§ 2719. (2321) Notice when par/y resides out of the calmly—Ii the
party to whom notice is to be given under the provisions of the
preceding section, resides out of or is absent from, and has no attor
ney of record within the county, notice may be given by ﬁling the
interrogatories in the oﬂice of the clerk for ten days.
§ 271. (2322) Dufy of the commissioner in executing the commissirm.
It is the duty of the commissioner to reduce the answers of the wit
ness to writing, or cause it to be done by the witness himself, 01'
some im artial person, as near as may be in the language of the
witness, aving ﬁrst sworn him to speak the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth; and the deposition, when complete, must
be by him enveloped together with the commission and any docu
ment which may have been deposed to, sealed and directed to the
clerk of the court where the cause is pending, with the title of the
cause indorsed thereon. (1) ,
§ 2721. (2323) Certificate 0 commissioner evidence of'idenfity of un't
ness, and of time and place, 0., of taking (lqnsilion; how returned.—
The certiﬁcate of the commissioner of the manner, time and place of
taking the deposition, and that he has personal knowledge of, or has
had proof made before him of the personal identity of the witness,
shall be presumptive evidence of the facts stated by him, and the
package may be sent by mail or by private conveyance to the
clerk. (2)
§ 2722. (2324) Penalty for negkct to alferul Isl/ore the commissioner;
proceedings to recover it.—Any witness whose testimony is thus re
quired, and who fails on due notice to appear before the commis
sloner and 've evidence, forfeits to the party a grieved the sum of
one hundre dollars, for which judgment maydie rendered by the
court where the cause is pending, ﬁve days notice in writing having
been given him that such motion will be made; and is also liable at
the suit of the party aggrieved to an action for damages; but such
witness may make his excuse as in other cases.
§ 2723. (2325) Commissioner issues suquenas for witnesses, andfm'l
are proved by his certiﬁcate—The commissioner has power to issue
subpoenas for witnesses, which ma be served by the sheriff or any
constable ; and the certiﬁcate of t e commissioner that he failed to
appear, together with the return of the oﬂicer, is proof of the fact.
§ 2721. (2326) Deposit'ions {h'uslaken read in evidence; presumed to
as when sent by the comnnlssioner.—-Any deposition thus taken may
be read in evidence, so far as the same is pertinent to the issue and
legal evidence; and if the package bears no marks of violence or
evrdence of mutilation, must be resumed to be as it came from the
hands of the commissioner, until)the contra is shown.
§ 2725. (2327) Depositiovw, ermpt of fema es, [ah-en dc bene esse—
When the de osition of a witness is taken for an other cause than
being a fema e, the deposition cannot be used ' it appear at the
trial that the cause for which it was taken does not exist, unless
such witness is dead, insane, or resides more than one hundred miles
from the place of trial.
§ 2726. (2327a) When the personal attendance of witnesses examined
upon interrogatories may be com lled.—'When the deposition of an
Witness residing in the county in which any civil cause may be pen
ing, shall have been taken under the rovisions of this article, the
' (Z
court in which the cause may be pending, or the clerk of such court,
if the application is made in vacation, on the application of either
party in said cause, supported by the afﬁdavit of such party, his
agent or attorney, that he believes the personal attendance of the
Witness on the trial of the cause is necessary, may make an order
retaluiring such witness to attend the trial of such cause in person;
an a copy of such order, with a subpoena, must be served upon such
Witness, and on proof of such service, the deposition of such witness
must be suppressed on the trial.
§ 2727. (2327b) lVlzen. testimony may be ‘r'clakmlw—‘Any party against
whom the deposition of a witness has been taken, with or Without
interrogatories in any cause at common law, may retake the deposi
tion of such witness, either with or without interrogatories, in the
manner and under the rules for taking the depositions of witnesses
in other cases-—
1. When no cross examination of such witness has been had.
2. When the cross examination has been imperfectly or insufﬁ
ciently made, from any cause other than wilful neglect of the party
seeking to retake such deposition; and upon a satisfactory showing
by such party, his agent or attomey, upon oath in writing, ﬁled in
open court, or with the clerk in vacation, of suﬁicient excuse for not
having perfected the cross examination before, and that a further
cross examination is necessary to secure justice 11 on the trial of
such cause. Any deposition taken under the provisions of this sec
tion, shall operate in all respects as a cross examination of such wit
ness; and the party taking the deposition of such witness originally
may propound rebutting interrogatories, as in case of original exam
ination.*
§ 2728. (2328) Oly'ecfimzs t0 the whole deposif'z'ml to be taken before
Mint—All objection to the admissibility of the entire de osition in
evidence, must be made before enterin on the trial, an‘ not after,
unless the matter is not disclosed in t e deposition, and appears
after the commencement of the trial. (1)
§ 2729. (2328a) Interrogatories to witnesses in foreign su-its.—“The
provisions of this article to compel witnesses to answer interrogato
ries, and for failure to answer are applicable to parties litigant in the
courts of such states, as have granted similar provisions to citizens
of this state, and proceediuws therefor may be had in the circuit
court of the county, in whic the witness resides. The certiﬁcate
of the person issuing the commission that the state, m which such
suit may be pending, has a statute to compel witnesses to testify in
foreign suits, is prima facic evidence of that fact; but no witness
shall be required to give testimony under such commission, unless
the party desiring such testimony, his agent or attorney shall ﬁrst
deposit with the commissioner, for the Witness, the amount allowed
by law for mileage and per diem to witnesses attending to give evi
dence under commission from the courts of this state, which deposit
may be evidenced by the certiﬁcate of the commissioners or one of
them.
§ 2730. (2329) Fees of witnesses before commissioner taxed in bill of
meta—Witnesses who attend and testify, with or without a subpoena,
are on the certiﬁcate of the commissioner of the distance travelled,
and number of days attendance, &c., entitled to the same compen
sation as other witnesses, and the commissioner to twenty cents for
every hundred words, all of which must be taxed in the bill of costs,
upon the certiﬁcate of the commissioner.
§ 2731. (2330) Interrogalories ﬁled to adverse part on afﬁdavit of
materiality—Either party to an civil suit desiring t e testimony of
his adversary, ma ﬁle with t e clerk interrogatories to be ro~
pounded to him, W1th an aﬂidavit that the answers thereto wi be
material testimony for him in the cause. (1) _
§ 2732. (2331) Interrogalories served on, him, or a non-resident,
commission to issue to examine him—If the party whose testimony is
required resides out of the state, the clerk must issue a commission
to take his testimony, to which a copy of the interrogatories must
be appended; if he resides within the state, the party desiring his
testimony must serve him with a copy of the interrogatories, which
may be executed by the sheriff.
§ 2733. (2332) Answers duly sworn to are evidence—The answers
to the interrogatories, duly sworn to before the clerk or any justice
of the peace, are evidence in the cause, when offered by the party
taking them.
§ 2734. (2333) Impertinmt questions need not be answered—If the
interrogatories are not pertinent to the issue, or matter in dispute
between the parties, there shall be no obligation to answer them;
and if answered, the answers may be suppressed by the court at the
trial.
§ 2735. (2334) Proceedings on failure to answer, or to anszverfully.
answers to the interrogatories are not ﬁled within sixty days after
service of a copy of the interrogatories, or when the answers are
not full or are evasive, the court may either attach the party and
cause him to answer fully in open court, or continue the cause until
full answers are made, or direct a non-suit or judgment by default to
be entered. (2)
§ 2736. (2335) The answer may be contradicted—A resort to this
mode of obtaining evidence does not preclude the party calling for
it from adducing other proof of the same facts, or from contradict
lng it.
§ 2737. (2336) AU pertinent queslions not involving a rosecution
must be answered—Under the provisions of this article, t e party is
bound to answer all pertinent interrogatories, unless by the answer
he subjects himself to a criminal prosecution.
§ 2738. (2337) Testimony may be perpetuated—The testimon of a
witness may be taken conditionally, and perpetuated as provi ed in
this article.
§ 2739. (2338) Aﬁidavit filed specifying grounds—The applicant
must make aﬁidavit before a circuit or probate judge, or register in
chancery, stating—
1. That he is a party, or expects to be a party to a suit, either at
law or in eripity, in a court of this state.
2. That t e testimony of a witness, whose name and place of res
idence are stated, is necessary to the prosecution or defense of such
suit, and generall ' the facts expected to be. proved by such witness.
3. If such suit e not actually commenced, the name of the party
who is expected to be adverse to the party in such suit, and his res
idence, and that he is of full age.
§ 2740. (2339) Order for examination, and notice to mlcerse party.
Such judge or register must thereupon make an order allowing the
examination of the witness, and if the adverse arty, or the party
expected to be adverse to the application, resides in this state, a copy
of such application, and notice of the time and place of the examin
ation, must be given to such adverse or expected adverse party, at
least ten days before such examination.
§ 2741. (2340) a non-resident, notice by publicatimz.—If such ad
verse party, or expected adverse part ', is a non-resident, notice of
such application must be given by pu lication in such paper as may
be directed by the judge or register, for six successive weeks, and a
neWspaper containing such publication sent by mail to the residence
of such adverse party, directed to him, once a week for the ﬁrst
three weeks of the publication. I
§ 2742. (2341) Contents of notice—The notice as published must
contain a copy of the application, and notice of the time and place
of taking the examination, which must not be less than three months
from the time of the ﬁrst publication.
§ 2743. (2342) A gilicant mysfor publication—The applicant must
ay the expenses 0 the pu lication.
§ 2744. (2343) Examination of the witness—U on the ap lication
and notice being returned executed by the sheri , if such a verse or
expected adverse party is a resident of the state, or upon proof of
the notice required by section 2741 2340), if a non-resident, such
judge or register must take the (lepoSltion of the witness at the time
and place ap ointed, and the examination, if necessary, may be con
tinued from ay to day until completed.
§ 2745. (2344) Exam-i nation reduced to writing, eerti/iai andﬁled in
ofﬁce with the other papers—Every question answered, 0r declaration
of the witness, must e taken down, the deposition, when completed,
carefully read to and subscribed by the witness, certiﬁed by the
jud e or register, and immediately thereafter ﬁled in the ofﬁce of the
cler of the circuit court of the county in which it was taken, with
the order for the examination of such witness, the afﬁdavit on which
the same was granted, and the application and notice, with the re
turn of service indorsed thereon by the sheriff, or the afﬁdavit prov
ing the publication and transmission of the papers containing the
same, to such adverse party.
§ 2746. (2335) Return of the sheriﬂ" proves thefaez‘s stated—The re
turn oi the sheriﬁ', or the afﬁdavit so ﬁled, is presumptive evidence
of the facts therein stated, and the clerk must record all the papers
so returned to him.
§ 2747. (2346) Depositions taken evideme in any subsequent trial,the witness be dead or insane—If a trial be had between the persons
in the aﬁidavit described as parties actual or expectant, or their suc
cessors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the wit
ness at the time of suc trial, the deposition, or a certiﬁed copy
thereof, may be given in evidence by either party.
§ 2748. (2347) IgY/ect of such deposilion-s as evidence—The deposi
tion so read in evidence has the same effect as the oral testimony or
the deposition of such witness, and no other; and every objection to
the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to him, or of any
answer made by him, may be made in the same manner as if he was
orally examined on the trial, or as if his deposition had been taken
in the case.
§ 2749. (2348) Fees of the judge of probate, register and she-riff.—
The judge of probate and register are entitled, for copy of applica
tion, and taking questions, recording the same, and answers, to
twenty-ﬁve cents for each hundred words ; for the other duties, one
dollar on each application, to be aid by the applicant. The sheriff,
for serving and returning the app 'cation, one dollar.
ARTICLE VI.
Demurre'r to evidence.
Simon. Sam-10x. ,
2750. (2349) When allowed. 2758. (2352) If judgments be for plaintiff,
2751. (2350) Effect of demurrer to evi- and damages uncertain, the jury
dence. must assess the damages.
2752. (2351) Testimony to be written out,
and becomes part of the record. ,
§ 2750. (2349) Demnrrers to evidence, when allowed—In all actions
upon contracts, when the testimony on both sides is written, either
party may demur thereto; when the testimony on either side is parol,
the o posite party, having offered no parol testimony, may also de
mur t ereto; and the other party must be required by the court to
join in the demurrer.
§ 2751. (2350) Eﬁl'el of a demurrer to evidence—The eﬁ'ect of a
demurrer to evidence is an admission by the party demurring of the
truth of the evidence demurred to, and of every inference or conclu
sion which a jury could legally deduce therefrom; and devolves on
the court the determination of the issue of fact between the parties,
as well as the law.
§ 2752. (2351) Testimony to be written out, and becomesa part of the
reward—Upon a demurrer to evidence being tendered, the court
must reduce the testimony to writing, or cause it to be done; which,
being signed by the judge, constitutes part of the record.
§ 2753. (2352) Ifjudgnwnt befor plaintiff, the jury must assess the
damages—If the court determine the issue for the plaintiﬁ', a jury
must be immediately empanelled to ascertain the damages, if unh
quidated ; or the jury, if one has been empanelled, may be re uired to
assess the damages conditionally, previous to their being dis
charged. (1)
SECTION.
CHAPTER ll.
BILLS OF EXCEPTION.
2754. (2358) Bills of exception taken dur
in the trial.
2755. ( 54) Bill to state the point excep
Sac-nos. ,
2758. (2856) Supreme court hears evidence
as to the point excepted to, when
judge refuses to n a. correct blll.
ed to, and when stated correct y, 2759. (2357) Plaintiﬁ‘ su ering a non-suit
must be signed by the jud 0. may take a bill of exceptions. _
2756. (2355) Charges asked, to e in wri- 2760. (2358) Such bills to be signed during
tin , and iven or refused as asked. court, or, by consent of counsel,
2757. (2 5a) W on charge of judge must within ten days after.
he in writing.
§ 2754. (2353) Bill of exceptions taken during Mich—Either of the
arties in any civil case, durmg the trial of the cause, may reserve,
y bill of exceptions, any charge, 0 inion, or decision of the court,
touchin the cause of action, and w 'ch would not otherwise appear
of recor . (2)
§ 2755. 2354) Bill to state the point an ted to, and if correct, must
be signed, c.—The bill must be tenderoeeg by the party su posing
himself aggrieved, stating the point, charge, opinion, or ecision,
wherein the court is supposed to err, with such a statement of the
facts as is necessary to make it intelligible; and if correctly stated,
it is the duty of the presiding judge to sign the same, which thereby
becomesa art of the record. 3)
§ 2756. 2355) Charges as must be in writing, and given or refused
as asked, and indorsed by the judge as part of the record.-—Charges
moved for b either party must be in writing, and must be given or
refused, in the terms in which they are written; and it is the duty of
the 'udge to write “given,” or “refused,” as the case may be, 011
the ocument, and sign his name thereto; which thereb becomes a
part of the record, and may be taken by the with t em on their
retirement. (4)
§ 2757. (2355a) lVhen charge of judge must be in writing—‘11:civil and criminal cases, the judge must charge the jury in writing, if
the charge is required to be so given by either art , and notice of
such requisition is given after the testimony is c osed, and before the
argument to the jury is commenced.
§ 2758. (2356) Evidence received by supreme court as to refusal (f
judge to sign a correct bill (f (receptions—If the jud e fail or refuse t0
sign a bill of exceptions, the point or decision and the facts being
truly stated, he is guilty of a high misdemeanor in ofﬁce, and the
supreme court must receive such evidence of the facts as may be
deemed by it satisfactory, and proceed to hear the cause, as if the
bill had been signed by the court. (1)
§ 2759. (2357) Plaintiff snﬂ'eringa non-suit may take a bill of extrap
tions.—-When, from any decision of the court on the trial of a cause,
it may become necessary for.the plaintiff to suffer a non-suit, the
facts, point, or decision, may be reserved for the decision of the su
preme court, by bill of exceptions, as in other cases. (2)
§ 2760. 2358) Bill of exceptions to be signed in term time; excep
tions—No ill of exceptions can be signed after the adjournment of
the court during which the exception was taken, unless by consent of
counsel in writing, when it may be signed within ten days thereafter,
except in such cases as is otherwise provided. (3).
Harmon.
CHAPTER 12.
or ran REMOVAL OF THE TRIAL.
2761. (2869) Venue changed once on mo
msz tion of either arty.
Sncnox.
2764. (2362) Change of trial to new county
_ formed where defendant resides.
(2360) Depositrons of the Witnesses 2766. (2363) Clerk’s duty in transmission
in the county taken on such change. of apers in such cases.
2768. (2861) Subpoenas command attend
ance at place of trial.
.
2767. ( ) Pay of messenger carrying
the papers.
§ 2761. (2359) Venue may be changed once on motion of either ' My.
Either of the parties to a civil suit may move the court to clignge
the venue, at an time before ﬁnal trial, and the court is authorized
to direct such 0 ange to the nearest county free from exce tion, as
to either of the arties, to be determined by afﬁdavits; tre party
applying for such) change making afﬁdavit, that he cannot have a
fair and impartial trial, for reasons and causes therein set forth, in
the county where the suit is pendin . The same party can change
the venue but once; ' and the pres1ding judge may require the ap
plicant to give bond and security for costs whenever in his judgment
it will best secure the ends of justice to all parties concerned.
§ 2762. (2360) Depositions of witnesses in the county maybe taken on
change of venrm—When there has been a change of venue, the part
opposed to such change may,in civil cases, take the deposition of a5
Witnesses residing in the county from which the venue has been
changed, under the same rules and regulations as now provided by
law for taking depositions in other cases.
§ 2763. (2361) Subjm'nas command attendance at place of {fiat—It
is the dut of the clerk of the court where the cause was instituted,
or is pen ing, unless otherwise directed, to issue subpoenas to all
witnesses, to attend the place to which the venue is changed.
§ 2764. (2362) Trial removed to new county if dqfem'lant resides in
it—In like manner, where new counties are formed out of old coun
ties, the original papers of all unﬁnished business i=0 the county
where the defendant resided, with a transcript of all orders made in
the cause, must be transmitted to the new county as soon as it is or
ganized.
§ 2765. (2362a) [Repealed by act 8 February, 67, p. 358. See
sections 758, 712, 640, 611).]
§ 2766. (2363) lerlc’s duty on change of venue in transmission pra
pers, (ﬁc.—" When a change of venue is directed, the clerk of the
court must make a transcri t of all the minutes, orders, and pro
ceedings in the cause, with his certiﬁcate, and the seal of his court
annexed, that it is a true copy; which, together with all the original
papers, he shall envelope and secure] seal, with his name wntten
across the seals, together with his certi cate on the back thereof, that
the enclosed papers, numbered from 1 to —, include all the ori ' 81papers in the cause, (namin it ;) which attestation and cerﬁgdlate
must be received as true, mat the contrary is shown. This package
he may deliver himself, or send by a messenger ; and if not mutila
ted or defaced, must be presumed to be as it came from the hands
of the clerk.
§ 2767. (2364) Pa (y' messenger having the pa
's.—-‘ The clerk or
er mile, an tolls and ferriages,
messenger is entitlec to ﬁve cents '
going and returning, which must e aid in advance by the party
app)ying for the change of venue. paid by the opposing party,
to e taxed in the bill of costs against hls adversary.
CHAPTER 13.
I
PROCEEDINGS WHERE SUIT IS BROUGHT OR VERDICT IS RENDERED FOR A
LESS AMOUNT THAN THAT FOR WHI’CH THE COURT HAS JURISDlCTION,
AND CALCULATION OF INTEREST BY THE CLERK.
Sum-10s.
2770. (2366) Calculation of interest, M.
and damages on I bill, on judgment
Queries.
2768. (2865) Non-suit if laintiﬂ' sues or
recovers a verdict or a less amount
than that for which the court has by default.
jurisdiction. 2771. (2367) Jud ment on penal bond only
2769. (2365a) Costs when recovery is re- for amoungdue.
duced because the consideration was
confederate currency.
§ 2768. (2365) Suit dismissed if ﬂaintijf sues for or recovers a less
sum than limit of the court’sjurisdiction ; exceptions—If suit be brought
on any moneyed demand, for a less amount than that of which the
court has jurisdiction, the suit must be dismissed ; or if suit be
brought for such amount, and a less sum be recovered, unless the
amount is reduced below that of which the court has jurisdiction, by
a set-oﬂ' successfully made by the defendant, the judgment must be
set aside and the suit dismissed, unless he, or some one for him,
make afﬁdavit, which must be ﬁled in the cause, that the amount
sued for is actually due, and that a recovery for the true amount was
prevented by failure of proof, the interposition of the statute of lim‘
itations, or some other sufﬁcient cause, to be judged of by the court;
and in that event, he must have judgment for the reduced sum. (1)
§ 2769. (2365a) Costs when recover is reduced because the consider
ation was confederate currency—“When the claim sued upon is in
amount sufﬁcient to give the court jurisdiction thereof, and the sum
is reduced in amount below the jurlsdiction of such court, by reason
of any of the causes mentioned in section 3 of the 26th ordinance
of the state convention, adopted 28th September, 1865, if the plain
tiﬁ' recovers a judgment for any sum, he shall also recover such costs
as he would have been entitled to had the judgment been for an
amount within the jurisdiction of such court.
§ 2770. (2366) Calculation of interest, (20., and damages on a 1an on
judgnwnt by default—In all actions founded on any instrument of
writing, ascertaining the plaintiff ’s demand, if judgment by default,
m'l dictt, or on demurrer be rendered for the plaintrﬁ‘, such judgment
may be entered up by the clerk, under the direction of t e court,
wit out the intervention of a 'ury; and the clerk must com ute the
interest; and in case of a b' of exchange, the damages, ' any be
due thereon. (1)
§ 2771. (2367) Judgments on penal bond only for amount dam—In all
actions which are brought on any penal bond, for the payment of
money, whenever the plaintiff recovers, judgment must e entered
for no more than principal and interest due on the bond.
CHAPTER 14.
APPEALS FROM JUSTICES OF THE PEACE, AND CAUSES REMOVED BY CEB
TIORARI.
Sscnos. Section.
2772. (2368) Appeals and cases by certio- 2776. (2372) On aﬁirmance, judgment ren
rari, when tried. dcred a ainst sureties.
2773. (2369) If for less sum than twenty 2777. (2373) 0t dismissed for defect in
dollars, tried without a jaw. bond ; or, if party is willing and rea
2774. (2370) Damages, if taken for delay. dy to amend it.
2775. (2371) Costs in such cases; discrc- 2778. (2374) Not tried at the ﬁrst term un
tion as to costs. less on notice of ﬁve days.
§ 2772. (2368) Appeals and cases by certiora'rz', when tried.—' Ap-
peals band certioraris from judgments of justices of the peace shall
stand for trial at the term succeeding the term to which such appeal
was taken, and such cases must be tried according to equity and
justice, without regard to any defect in the summons or other pro
ceeding before the justice; but 'ap eals and certioraris from justi-
 
ces in actions of detinue and forcible entry and detainer, and un-lawful detainer, and in an of the actions described in section 2660(2257)
of this Code, must 0 tried at the ﬁrst term, unless good cause
be shown for continuance.
§ 2773. (2369) If for less sum than twenty dollars, tried without a
_ju-ry.—When the sum claimed does not exceed twen dollars, the
cause must be tried by the court, without the intervention of a jury.
When it exceeds twenty dollars, u on an issue to be made up under
the direction of the court and trie by a jury.
§ 774. (2370) Damages if taken for delay—“In the cases men-
tioned in section 2660 (2257), if it appear that the appeal or certio
rari was taken for delay merely, ﬁfteen per cent. damages may be
assessed ; but in other cases, no damages over and above the debt
and interest must in any case be allowe .
§ 2775. (2371) Costs in such casca—If the defendant appeals, or
obtains a writ of certiorari, and the judgment of the circuit court is
for less than the judgment of the justice, the court may tax either
party with the costs, or both parties with any ortion thereof. If
the plaintiff appeals, and does not recover more t an the amount for
which the justice rendered judgment, he must be taxed with the
costs; ’but in no case shall a county tax be charged upon an appeal,
unless the expense of a jury trial is incurred.
54,
§ 2776. (2372) On qﬂirmance, imigment rendered also against sure
ties.—-When the judgment is afﬁrmed, on appeal or certiorari, judg
ment must be rendered b the court against the surety, as well as
the principal, which must include the costs of the inferior and ap
pellate court. .
§ 2777. (2373) Appeals, (80., not dismissedfor defect in bond if party
is willing to amend it.—No appeal or certiorari must be dismissed for
any defect in the appeal bond, or bond given to obtain the certiorari,
if the party is willing to execute a sufﬁcient bond or undertaking.
§ 2778. (2374) Not tried at theﬁrst term unless on notice ofﬁve days.
No appeal or certiorari shall be tried at the ﬁrst term, unless it
appear that ﬁve days notice in writing has been given to the oppo
mte arty, his agent or attorney, but in such case must be continued
un ' the next term.
Swen.
CHAPTER 15.
oos'rs.
Aanons: 1.—Taxatien and retaxation of costs.
2.-—Security for costs.
ARTICLE I.
Taxation and relaxation of costs.
2779. (2375) Costs given to successful
partv.
2780. (2378) In actions for damn es, no
more costs than damages 2. owed,
when verdict is for less than twenty
Samoa.
2792. (2387) Witness fees taxed and col
lected, paid to clerk for the Wit
nesses.
2793. (2388) On refusal of payment after
presenting certiﬁcate, witness may
refuse to attend again.
dollars.
2781. (2377) Defendant proving usury re- 2794. (2389) On abatement by death of de~
covers costs. I _ fondant, plaintiff pays the costs.
2782. (2378) Costs of set-off, if sustained, 2795. (2390) An attorney's fee taxed for
to be recovered by defendant.
2783. (2379 ) Fees of witnesses for mileage
and attendance.
2784. (2380) Certiﬁcates given witnesses
of mileage and attendance.
2785.
2786.
(2381) Attendance, &c., proved in
ﬁve days after adjournment.
2796.
defendants who succeed, when plain
tiﬂ‘ rec0vers against the others.
(2391) If the plaintiff fail as to one
defendant, he recovers his costs 0f
him.
2797. (2392) Only two witnesses charged
or to gave one fact; exception.
(2382) Only one party to be charged 2798. (2398) otion to refuse costs as to
by Witness. _ _ ’ other Witnesses made at trial term
2787. (2383) Beneﬁcial plaintiﬂ' pays the 2799. (2394) Motion to retax the costs for
2788 costs. excess, 6w.
(2384) Costs of transcripts from
2800.
other courts taxed in the bill.
(2395) On ﬁling written exceptions
to cost bill, sheriff ordered not to
2789. (2385) Fees for certiﬁcates, &c., collect them till after the next term,
taxed in the bill. &c.
2790. (2386) Costs on a plea “since the 2801. (2395a) Execution not to is“?
2791 lﬂﬂt continuance? against townships, but to be certi
(2386a) Costs of revenue stamps to
be (“at ﬂed b the clerk to the superintend
ent 0 education.
§ 2779. (2375) Costs given to successful party—The successful
party in all OlVll actions is entitled to full costs, for which judgmth
must be rendered, unless in cases otherwise directed by law; ‘and this
provision is applicable in all cases in which the state is a party in
civil actions, as in cases of individual suitors. ( 1)
§ 2780. (2376) In actions for torts, no more costs than damages re
covered, verdict is for less than twent dollars; exception—In all ac
tions to recover damages for torts, the plaintiff recovers no more
costs than damages, where such damages do not exceed twenty dol
lars, unless the residin jud e certiﬁes that greater damages should
have been awar ed; an on ailure to certify, judgment must be ren
dered ainst the laintiﬂ' for such residue.
§ 278. (2377) efendant proving usury recouers costs.—If it be
made to a pear that usurious interest has been intentionally taken
or reserves, the defendant recovers full costs. (2)
§ 2782. (2378) Costs of set-oi, sustained, to he recovered by de
fendant.——In all actions where a set-off is pleaded and controverfed,
the defendant recovers his costs sustained in establishin the set-off,
though jud ent be rendered for the plaintiff for a resi us. (3)
§ 2783. ( 379) Fees of witness for mileage and attendance—Wit
nesses are allowed one dollar and ﬁfty cents per day in civil cases,
also ﬁve cents per mile for each mile to and from their residence, by
the usual travelled route, and all necessary ferria es, fees of tum
pikes and tell bridges, whether attending under su pcena, or at the
request of the party.
§ 2784. (238 ) Uertiﬁcales given 2m'tncsses of mileage and attendance
After the trial, continuance of the cause, or discharge of the witness,
the clerk must, on his a plication, and upon his oath, give him a
certiﬁcate setting forth t e cause in which he was a witness, the
party by whom he was summoned, the number of da s be attended
as a witness, and the sum to which he is entitled for is attendance,
travel, ferriage, &c., which he must also enter, either upon the sub
poena docket, or book to be kept for that purpose.
§ 2785. (2381) Attendance to be proved injive days after adjourn
ment.-—The witness must prove his attendance within ﬁve days after
the adjournment of court at which the witness attended.
§ 2786. (2382) Only to charge one party.—A witness shall charge
for his attendance, but on one side of the, same cause.
§ 2787. (2383) Costs against bencﬁm'al‘pla'intiﬁl—When judgmentis
rendered against the lamtiﬂ' in any smt brought in the name of a
nominal plaintiff for t e use of another, judgment for costs must be
rendered against the beneﬁciary or his personal representatives.
§ 2788. (2384) Costs of transcript of other court taxed in the bill.—
When the suit is founded on the record of another court, the costs
of the transcript, on proof to the court, must be taxed in the bill of
costs.
§ 2789. (2385) Fees for certiﬁcates, (1%., taxed in the trill—When
either party introduces on the trial any execution, bond, or other
matter of evidence, certiﬁed by any ofﬁcer, or person whose certiﬁ
cate makes the copy thereof evidence, the fees allowed by law to
such ofﬁcer or person, for the transcript thereof and certiﬁcate, must
be allowed as costs.
§ 2790. (2386) Costs on a plea, “ since last continuance."—When the
arty ﬁling a lea “puts darrien continuance,". succeeds thereon, but
ails on the p ea to the merits, previously ﬁled, he must be taxed
with the costs which accrued previous to the ﬁling the last plea.
§ 2791. (2386a) Costs of revenue stam to be (cred—b The revenue
stamps required by federal laws to 0 put upon process in legal
proceedings shall be taxed by the clerks of the different and several
courts of this state, and collected as other costs in the suit.
§ 2792. (2387) Witnessfees taxed and wllected, id to clerk for the
witnesses—Upon the ﬁnal disposition of any ci ' cause, the amount
proved by the witnesses, as hereinbefore provided, must be taxed in
the bill of costs, a ainst the rightful arty, setting forth the name of
each witness, and ghe amount allowed) him, which must be collected
by the sheriff for the use of such witnesses, and be paid to the clerk
issuing the execution, unless the certiﬁcate of such clerk, with the
receipt of the witness thereon, is produced to the sheriff.
§ 2793. (2388) L“ witness, on presenting his certiﬁbate, is refused
payment, he is excused/rem attending again in the cause—The certiﬁ
cate granted as aforesaid, entitles the witness to demand of the party
summoning him the amount therein stated, and is presumptive ev1
dence that such amount is due, in any roceeding instituted for its
recovery; and if in any civil cause, on emand thereof, of the party
summoning him, or his agent, or in the case of his being a non-resi
dent, of his attorney, the same is not paid, the witness is not ob
liged to appear again as a witness in the same cause, until his fees
are an .
§ 794. (2389) On abatement by death of defendant, the, plaintiﬂ'
pays the costs—When a plaintiff brings a suit, which he suffers to
abate, by the death of the defendant, or other cause, judgment for
costs shall be rendered against such laintiﬂ' ; or where the suit
abates by the death of the laintiﬁ', and) his representatives fail to
revive the same, judgment or costs may be rendered against such
re resentative, judgments in both cases must be in the name of the
ogcers of the court, and when against representatives, are paid as
other claims against such estate.
§ 2795. (2390) Attorney’sfee taxed for defendants who swceed when
plaintiﬁ" recovers against others—When judgment is rendered in favor
of one or more defendants, less than the whole number, an attorney’s
fee must be taxed in favor of such defendant, or defendants, against
the plaintiff. -
§ 2796. (2391) Defendant, as to whom plaintiﬁ' fails, recovers costs.
When a plaintiff fails to recover against all of the defendants, the
defendants against whom he fails to recover are entitled to have
their aliquot proportion of the whole costs taxed against the plaintiff,
exce t that prov1ded for in the preceding section.
§ 797. (2392) Only two witnesses charged for to prove oncfact; ex—
oepticn.— 0t more than two witnesses shall be taxed in any bill of
costs, who were called to prove any one matter of fact, or having
been subpmnaed, were not examined, unless the court, upon a mo
tion to retax the costs, should in its discretion consider that the
circumstances of the case warranted the examinin or summoning of
more than two witnesses for the proof of a particular fact; or un
less such witnesses were summoned or examined to assail or defend
the reputation bf a witness for veracity, or to assail or to establish
the character of a arty, when character is put in issue.
§ 2798. (2393) otion to refuse costs when more than two vntnesses
are summoned, made at trial term—If more than two witnesses are
examined in proof of any particular fact, a motion must be made, at
the term at which the cause is tried, for instructions to the clerk as
to the taxation of costs, and cannot be made afterwards.
§ 2799. (2394) le'otion t0 retarc the costs for excess—If the taxation
of costs be excessive, by charging the costs of witnesses who were
not examined, or by charging costs to an improper party, or taxing
costs contrary to law, the party aggrieved may move the court for
a retaxation, setting forth the particulars in which the clerk has
erred.
§ 2800. (2395) On ﬁling written eweeptiom to items of cost bill, clerk
to order sheriﬁ' not to collect such items until the further order of the
court—If execution has issued in any such case, the arty complain
ing thereof, or his attorney, may ﬁle a written a phcation with the
clerk for a retaxation of the costs, setting forth in what the alleged
error consists, and the clerk must issue an order to the sheriﬁ', di
recting him to abstain from the collection of the disputed items of
costs until the further order of the court, to which a motion must be
made, at the ensuin term, for a retaxation thereof.
§ 2801. (2395a) wecution not to issue against townshi , but to be
certiﬁed by the clerk to the superintendent of education.—-° I any town-
ship shall fail to recover in anyl suit brought by it, the clerk of the
\court or justice of the peace 3 all certify the costs to the superin
tendent of education, who shall pay the same out of the fimds of said
township, if any it have.
ARTICLE II.
Security for costs.
Sm'ron. Burton.
2802. (2396) In suits by non-residents, se- 2805. (2399) On judgments {or defendant,
curity for costs required before is- execution against security on mo
sue of summons tion.
2803. (2397) On removal 0! plaintiﬂ', secu- 2806. (2&00) If such suits commenced with
rity required. ’ Out security, clerk and plaintiff 's at
2804. (2898) corporations to give security torney both liable.
before summons.
§ 2802. (2396) In suits by non-residents, security for costs required
before issue of summons ,- costs taxed to attorne .—-All actions com_
menced by or for the use of a non-resident 0 this state, must be
dismissed, on motion, b the court, unless securit for the costs be
endorsed on the complaint, or lodged with the clerk, previous to the
issue of the summons; and the costs which have accrued must be
taxed against the attorney directing the summons to issue; ‘but in
case of attachments, such security may be given to and approved by
the oﬁicer issuin the attachment, or endorsed with his approval upon
the writ of attacilimentf (1)
§ 2803. 2397) If plaintiff removes, security required—If suit be
commence by or for the use of a resident who afterwards removes
from the state, the defendant, by motion to the court in term time,
or by notice to the plaintiff, his a cut or attorney, in vacation, may
rquire security for the costs, an if such security be not 'ven, on
or efore the next term of the court, the suit must be dismissed.
§ 2804. (2398) Car rations must give security for cOsts.—C0rp0m
tions, (“except townslioi s of this state,) before commencing suits,
must give security for t 1e costs, which must be lodged with the clerk,
and on failure to do so, the suit, on motion of the defendant, must
be dismissed. (2) ‘
§ 2805. (2399) Onjudgmentfor defendant, execution against security
on motim2.—If judgment be rendered for the defendant, judgment
 
must, on motion, be rendered against the security, for the costs, as
well as against the plaintiff. (1)
§ 2806. (2400) On suits without security, clerk and attorney are both
liable to defendantfo-r costs—If such suit be commenced without secu
rity being given for the costs, the attorney at law directing the issue of
the summons, and the clerk issuing it, are liable to the defendant, on
motion, for the costs of the suit.
CHAPTER 16.
AMENDMENTS.
Samoa. Secrrou.
2807. (2401) Amendments made by the 2810. (2404) Mistakes of names, dates,
court in three years, if enough ap- sums th., in any summons, ac"
pears of record to amend by. cured by dgment, it correct in
2808. (2402) Summons, com laint, plead- any part o the record. _
mg, &c., not vitiatc by want of 2811. (2405) When complaint contains a
form. cause of action, judgment not set
2809. (2403) Amendments of form allowed
at an time, and parties added or
struc out, &c.
aside for objection not taken below.
§ 2807. (2401) Amendments of errors within three years, if enough
isj'omzd of record to show the error, (ta—The judges of the circuit
courts may, at any time within three years after the rendition of ﬁnal
judgment, u on the application of either party, amend an clerical
error, mista e in the ca. culation of interest, or other mist-a 'e of the
clerk, where there is suﬁicient matter apparent on the record or en
tries of the court to amend by. No cause can be reversed for such
error or defect by the su reme court, unless the court of original
jurisdiction refuses to ma e the amendment (2)
§ 2808. (2402) Summons, complaint, pleading, 420., not vitiated by
want offer-m—No summons, complaint, lea, return, process, judg
ment, or other proceeding, can be arreste , quashed, or reversed, for
any defect or want of form, in any of the courts of this state; but
the courts must proceed and give judgment according to the right
of the cause and matter in law, without regard to any defect or want
of form in the summons, complaint, or other leading. (3)
§ 2809. (2403) Amendments of form allow at any time ; 'rttes
added or struck out, (fa—The courts respectively must, whilpsl;1 the
cause is in progress, amend all and every such imperfection and de
fect of form, on motion of the party, without costs and without de
lay, unless injustice will thereb be done to the opposite party; and
must permit the amendment 0 the complaint by striking out or add
in new parties plaintiff, or by striking out or adding new arties
do endant, upon such terms and conditions as the justice of t e case
may require. (4)
§ 2810. (2404) Mstakes of names, sums, dates, (190., in any sum
mo/ns, (he, (owed lag/judgment, correct in any part of the record—Any
mistake in the christian or surname of either party, sum of money,
quantity of merchandise, day, month, or year, in the summons, com
plaint, or other pleading, (the same being right in any part of the
record or proceedin s,) must, after judgment, be considered as hav
in been amended w ilst the cause was in progress.
§ 2811. (2405) Judgment not set aside for cause not previously shown,
if complaint contain a cause of action—N0 judgment can be arrested,
annulled, or set aside, for any matter not previously objected to, if
the complaint contain a substantial cause of action. (1)
CHAPTER 17.
FOR THE CORRECTION OF ERRORS AFTER JUDGMENT, PREVENTION OF ABUSE
OF PROCESS FOR REHEARINGS 1N CERTAIN CASES, NEW TRIALS, ENTRY
OF BATISFAéTION, AND NOTICE THEREOF.
Burton. Ssc'rros.
2812. (2406) Power of circuit court after 2821. (2415) Bonds taken under this cha
 
jud§ment to correct errors and pre~ ter have the force of judgments.
ven abuse of process. 2822. (2416) Court mav also decide in term
2818. (2407) Receipt found after trial, en- time on the validity of an execution.
titles party to new trial within two 2823. (2417) Questions of fact tried by
years. jury.
2814. (2408) Rehearing applied torin tour 2824. (2417a) Chapter applicable to plain
months if suit or efense was pre- tiﬂ‘s
vented yfraud, &c. 2825. (2417b) New trials, in cases on con
2815. (2409) Contents of petition for re- tracts between ﬁrst of september,
hearing, to whom made, notice, and 1861 and ﬁrst Ma , 1865, ' defense
manner of controvertin . available under or nance of the con
2816. (2410) Supersedeas or ered by the vention. _
judge. 2826. (24170) Proceedings after grant of
2817. (2411) Bond given before issue of new trial.
the supersedeas. 2827. (241711) New trials where judgments
2818. (2412) On denial of petition on oath,
were rendered after 11th January,
snpersedeas dismissed ; tried at ﬁrst 1861, and before 1st January, 1867.
term. 2828. (24l7e) Motion to enter satisfaction,
2819. (2418) Refunding bond required be- and set aside such entry; notice,
fore execution issues. 110" given
2820. (2414) Damages on ﬁnal hearing.
§ 2812. (2406) Power of circuit court, after judgment, to correct er
rors and prevent abuse of process, (Ea—The circuit court has power,
after ﬁnal judgment——
1. To correct any error in fact in the judgment or process, appar
entujion the whole record.
_ 2. 0 secure parties or privies in their ri hts against any oppres
sion or abuse of execution, or upon any re ease, ischarge, or pay‘
ment after judgment.
§ 2813. (2407) Receipt found after trial entitles rig; to a 'new trial
within two years—When a party had arelease or ischarge in writing
0f any claim upon which jud ent has been rendered against him,
Which was lost or mislaid at t e trial, and which such part was una
ble to prove by secondary evidence, but has since been ound, the
circuit court may cause the action to be retried at any time after the
discovery of the release or discharge, within two years after judg
ment. (2)
§ 2814. (2408) Rehearing a iedfor in four months, defense was
prevented by surprise, (fa—W ere a arty has been prevented from
making his defense by surprise, acci ent, mistake, or fraud, without
fault on his art, he may, in like manner, apply for a rehearing, at
any time within four months from the rendition of the judgment. (3)
§ 2815. (2409) Contents of petition for rehearing ,- to whom madg ,
notice and manner of cmztroverting.—In the cases speciﬁed in the two
preceding sections, the proceeding is by etition to a judge of the
circuit court, stating the matter com lained) of, with a prayer for the
appro riate relief. The facts state in the petition must be sworn
to, un see they appear from a transcript of the record, submitted
with the petition, ‘and the petitioner shall give the adverse party or
his attorney, ten days notice of the judge before whom, and the
time when and place where the application will be made, and "also
cause a copy of the petition to be served on such adverse party, ten
days before such application is made ; and the adverse party may
controvert the petition by afﬁdavit in writing.
§ 2816. (2410) Supersedeas ordered by the j ridge—The judge to
whom the application is made must, if satisﬁed that the apphcant
is entitled to the relief sou ht, make the necessar order for a super
sedeas to issue, or in restraint of the issue or co lection of the exe
cution, “and the judge shall have power to impose such terms as he
may think proper for anting an order for the supersedeas.
§ 2817. (2411) Applicant to give bond before issue of the supersedeas.
The supersedeas must not issue, or the execution be suspended, un
less the applicant, or some one for him, give bond in double the
amount of the judgment or execution, or in double the amount
superseded or restrained, payable to the laintiﬁ' in the judgment
or his personal representatives, with su cient sureties, to be ap
proved the clerk and conditioned to pay such judgment or exe
cution w1th interest, and all damages and costs awarded on the trial
of the proceeding against him.
§ 2818. (2412) Petition tried at ﬁrst term; on denial of the petition
on oath szqiersedeas dismissal.—~The facts alleged in the petition must
be tried, or the cause reheard at the ﬁrst term after the granting of
the order, unless for cause the same is continued. When the cause
is not tried or reheard at such ﬁrst term, the court may, on the de
nial on oath b the adverse party of the facts alleged in the petition,
make an inter ocutory order dismissing the supersedeas or dissolving
the restrainin order.
§ 2819. (24 3) Refunding bond required before execution issues.—
In the case provided for b the preceding section, no execution can
issue unless such party, his a ent or attorney, execute a refunding
bond in double the amount 0 the judgment or execution, ayable
to the adverse arty, with sufﬁcient security, to be approve by the
clerk, and con itioned that if the ﬁnal determination of the cause is
ainst him, he will refund the amount collected and interest.
§ 2820. (2414) Damages when tition is ﬁnally decided—1f, on the
ﬁnal hearingl of the cause, it is ecided against the complainant, and
it appears t at the application was not founded on a just or merito
rious cause, the court may award damages not exceeding ten per
cent. on the amount su erseded or restrained.
§ 2821. (2415) B0 taken under this chapter have the force of
judgments—The bonds given under this chapter have the force and
effect of judgments, and executions may issue against an or all the
obligors, either for the amount superseded or restraine , damages
and costs, or the amount collected of the petitioner after the execu
 
tion of the refunding bond, and interest on such amount. (1)
§ 2822. (2416) Court may decide in term time the validity of an ea;
ecution.—-The provisions of this chapter must not be construedprevent the circuit court from deciding, on an application made in
term time, on the validity of any writ of execution.
§ 2823. (2417) Questions of fact tried by a jury.—The court may
direct the trial of all questions of fact by a jury, upon an issue made
up under its direction.
§ 2824. (2417a) Chapter applicable to plaintiﬁs.—“The provisions
contained in the foregoin sections of this chapter are extended to
plaintiffs and those for w ose beneﬁt suits are brought, who must
comply with such provisions so far as a plicable to them before
they are entitled to the relief extended un er the same.
§ 2825. (24171)) New trials in cases on contracts between ﬁrst of
S. tember, 1861, and ﬁrst of dirty, 1865, if (la/ense available under
or {name of the oonvent-ion.——'The courts before which judgments
were rendered before the adoption of this law on the seventh of De-
cember, 1866, on contracts made between the ﬁrst da of Septem
ber, 1861, and the ﬁrst day of May, 1865, may set aside and vacate
such judgments, on motion of the defendants, made within twelve
months from the passage of such law, upon proof made before such
courts that the defendants were by any means deprived of such de
fense as they would have been entitled to under the provisions of
an ordinance entitled "‘an ordinance to ratify certain acts, judg-f
ments, and other proceedings therein mentioned," ado ted by the
state convention on the twenty-eighth of September, 18 5.
§ 2826. (2417c) Proceedings after grant of new tried—“Upon the
\ setting aside 0f the judgment under the precedin section, the court
must grant a new trial, and parol evidence sha be admissible to
prove what was the consideration of the contract, and whether or
not the parties thereto understood or agreed that the same should
be discharged by a payment in confederate currency or treasury
notes, and if so, or if it appears so from the contract, then to show
what was the real or true value of the consideration of the contract,
and what amount the plaintiff is legally, justly and equitably enti
tled to receive, according to the contract, by the judgment of such
court.
§ 2827. (2417(1) New trials where judgments were rendered after 11th
January, 1861, and before lst January, 1867.—"The parties against
whom judgments or decrees were ren ered in courts of record, after
the 11th day of January, 1861, and before the 1st day of January,
1867, are, upon application within one ear from the a proval of
this law on the 11th February, 1867, entit ed to a new trial, upon af
ﬁdavit showing, that the failure to make defense to the suits, in
which such judgments or decrees were rendered, was not owing to
any fault on their part, and that they had no attorney present in
court, when such jud ments or decrees were rendered, rovided that
the court shall be satisﬁed from all the facts, that mayllm submitted
by affidavit by both parties, that a good and meritorious defense ex
ists either in whole or in part. This section applies to plaintiﬁ's as
well as defendants.
§ 2828. (24176) Motion to enter satisfaction and set aside such entry,
notice, how given.~—' When an party to a judgment or decree hereto-
fore rendered, or that may ereafter be rendered by any court in
this state, shall have removed from or reside out of this state, and
the op osite party desires to make any motion to enter satisfaction
of suc judgment or decree, or set aside an entry of satisfaction,
such motion must not be tried until aﬁir avit of such removal
or non-residence is ﬁled, and publication of such motion is made for
six consecutive weeks in a newspaper published in the county where
such motion is made, and in case there is no newspaper in the coun
ty, publication must be made by posting on the court house door of
the county, notice of such intended motion for six weeks, and when
publication has been made as aforesaid, and afﬁdavit ﬁled, such mo~
tion may be tried at any regular term of the court thereafter.
§ 2829. (2418) If execution is issued in a year, others may issue for
ten—When execution has been issued on a judgment within a year
after its rendition, and has not been returned satisﬁed, another exe
cution may be issued at any time within ten years after the test of
the last, without a revival of the judgment.
§ 2830. (2419) Scirefacias and other proceedings when execution did
not issue—‘No execution shall issue on a judgment or decree of the
circuit, chancery, or probate court on which an execution has not
been sued out within one ear after its rendition until the same has
been revived, by scire faclas, if the defendant is a resident of the
state, calling on him to show cause why the laintiﬁ' should not have
execution on his judgment or decree; and w on the defendant is a
non-resident, b the following proceedings: The laintiﬂ' must make
aﬁidavit of such non-residence, and that such 'u gment or decree is
unsatisﬁed, and cause ublication to be made, for thirty days, in
some newspaper publis ed in the county, calling on the defendant
to show cause why the laintiﬁ' should not have execution on his
jud ent or decree, an a co of the newspaper' containing such
pub 'cation must be forwarded)l)y mail to the defendant, if his post
ofﬁce be known. But if ten years have elapsed from the rendition
of the judgment, without the issue of the execution, or if ten years
have elapsed since the date of the last execution issued, the judg
ment must be presumed to be satisﬁed, and the burthen of proving
that it is not satisﬁed is cast on the plaintiff.
§ 2831. (2420) Cases excepted under Code of 1852.—The last clause
of the preceding section is not ap licable to judgments rendered be
fore the adoption of the Code of 852.
§ 2832. (2420a) Certain judgments excepted—“In all cases When
judgments have been rendered in any of the courts of this state
since the 11th day of January, in the year 1861, and prior to the
15th day of December, in the ear 1865, on which no execution has
issued, execution may issue wit out a revival of such 'udgments,b\1t
no lien of any judgment or execution existing at the last mentioned
day, shall in any manner be affected by the provisions of this Sec
tion.
§ 2833. (2421) Scirefam'as barred in twenty years—No scire facias
shall issue to revive a judgment, after the lapse of twenty years from
its rendition.
§ 2834. (2421a) Execution issues in favor of representative Qf 118'
cursed ﬂar'ntg'fﬂ—‘When a laintiﬁ‘ dies after the rendition of a 'udg
ment in his favor, and such judgment is unsatisﬁed, execution t are
on may 1ssue in favor of the ersonal representative of such de
ceased person without a revivall of the same, and in all 08,865.11!
which judgment may be rendered in favor of any executor, adminis
trator, guardian or trustee, who shall die, resign or be rem0ved, ex‘
ecutron may issue on such judgment in favor of the succeeding 9"
ecutor, administrator, guardian or trustee, without a revival thereof,
an law to the contrary notwithstanding.
§ 2835. (2421b) Revi val of judgment GJYPT£I(IZ.TIfl-y,8 deaUz.—-" When
any laintiﬂ' or laintiﬁ‘s, in a judgment, ie, the same may be revive
in favor 0 his re resentative, upon ten days notice to the
defendant or defendants in such judgment; and this may be done in
vacation, and if objection is made to the revival, then an appeal
may be taken to the next term of the court, upon the defendant or
defendants giving bond in twice the amount for which judgment was
rendered. '
§ 2836. (24210) Revival in name of assignee.—'Where anyzplaintiﬁ'
or plaintiﬂ's have, during their life or lives, transferred or assi ed
any judgment, and have, since such transfer or assignment, sized
their transferees or assignees may have such judgment revived in
their own names, as provided for in the preceding section.
CHAPTER 19.
OF EXECUTIONS AND FORTHCOMING nouns.
ARTICLE 1.-Form of, by whom and how issued.
2._Of the levy, sale and return.
8.—Of the property subject to execution.
4.—-Oi' the lieu of executions.
5._Property exempt from execution.
6.-Forthcoming bonds and execution thereon.
ARTICLE I.
Farm of, by whom and when issued.
Suction. Srcrrou.
2837. (2422) Forms of executions to en- 2844. (2429) When directedto and served
force judgments, either for debt, I); coroner, &c.
dams es, &c., or {or recovery of 2845. ( 430) Payment on the judgmentto
s ec' 0 r0 erty. be indorsed on an alias execution.
2838. ( 423) 0 issue as soon as practi- 2846. (2431) If defendant insolvent, axe
cable after judgment of the court. cution against the plaintiff for his
2839. (2424) Time in which they must be own cost.
issued. 2847. (2432) Females exempt from cs. as.
2840. (2425) Bill of costs to be indorsed 2848. (2433) Cs. sa. issued only on sﬂids
on the execution, vit ; discharge from arrest, how ob
2841. (2426)Msyissnebsfore adjournment tained.
on sﬂidavrt, but new trial not waived. 2849. (2434) Person discharged by privi
284.2. (2427) To issue immediately after is e, to surrender after it ceases.
sdjournment on sﬂidsvit, and ca. 2850. ( ) 0n arrest, property received
ss., |f required. in discharge of the person.
2843. (2428) Plaintiff may take out more R!“ 1'"
than one writ on paying costs.
§ 2837. (2422) Forms of executions to enfm-ee judgments, either for
debt, damages“, (to, or for recovery of spemﬁe property—For the satis
faction of judgments, the party 1n whose favor the udgment is ren
dered, whether for debt, damages, or costs, ma wit 1n a year there
after, have either a writ of ﬁen facias against t islands and goods of
the arty against whom the judgment 1s rendered, or a capias ad
satls aciendum a ainst the body. hen the judgment is for s eciﬁc
property or the a ternate value, or for the ossession of Ian , ap
propriate writs of execution, as hereafter escnbed, may issue for
the satisfaction thereof, which must conform substantially to the
lorms hereby prescribed.
§ 2838. (2423) Executions to issue as soon after court adjourns as
practicable—The clerk must issue executions on all judgments in fa
vor of the successful party, as soon after the adjournment of court
as practicable, within the time rescribed by this Code, unless other
wise directed. The writ must e signed by the clerk, and tested on
the day it is issued. (1)
§ 2839. (2424) Time in which exemztions must be issued—When the
court continues in session but one week, the clerk must issue execu
tions within ten days thereafter; when it continues two weeks,
within ﬁfteen days thereafter; and when it continues three or
more weeks, within twenty days after the adjourment of the court.
§ 2840. (2425) Bill of mate to be endorsed—At the foot or on some
part of the execution, the clerk must state the several items com
posin the bill of costs, in intelligible words and ﬁgures.
§ 2841. (2426) Execution issued before adjournment on afﬁdavit,- new
triaI, ($50., not prevented thereby.—Upon the rendition of jud ent,
execution may be issued by leave of the calm, before the a ‘ourn
ment thereof, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing s cient
cause therefor, by afﬁdavit; but the defendant is not prevented
thereby from movin for a new trial or in arrest of judgment, or de
prived of an right e would otherwise have had.
§ 2842. 2Z27) On aﬁdavit after adjournment, execution to issue imme
diately, an ca. so. if required—After the adjournment of the court,
and before the expiration of the time limited b section 2839 (2424),
the clerk must, on aﬁdavit being made and ed in his ofﬁce, that
the defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of, or remove his
property, and that thereb the plaintiff will probably lose his debt,
issue execution against t e roperty of the defendant. And must
also, if required, and the aﬁidhvlt prescribed b section 2574 (2175)
1s made, issue an execution against the body 0 the defendant.
§ 2843. (2428) More than one writ of execution may issue at plain
tgﬁ’s cost—More than one writ of execution may be issued, at the
costs of the plaintiff, though the ﬁrst be not returned, and when a
capias ad sati.§7"(1a'endum is returned not found, aﬁerifam'as may issue.
So when a ﬁeri facias is returned not satisﬁed, or satisﬁed only in
part, an alias ﬁeriE/acias, or ca 'as ad satiq/‘aciend um ma be issued.
§ 2844. (2429) .recutions, 10 en directed to coroner.~— n the cases
provided for by chapter 3, title 10, part 1, the execution must be di
rected to, and executed by the coroner, or special coroner, as the
case may be.
§ 2845. (2430) Credits on thejudgment to be indorsed on alias execu
tion—When a 'udgment has been satisﬁed in art, and an alias exe
cution issued, t e clerk must indorse thereon t e amount which had
been previously made, with the time of its payment or collection by
the sheriff.
§ 2846. (2431) If de/eiztlant insolvent, execution. against the plaintiﬂ'
for his meta—When execution against the defendant is returned “no
propert ' found,” execution may issue against the plaintiff, in the
name 0 the clerk of the court, for all costs created by him in 0b
taining his jud ent.
§ 2847. (243 ) Females exempt from ca. era—The writ of capias ad
satisl'aciendum must not issue to take the body of a female.
§ 2848. (2433) Ca. sa. only issued on davit, (to; how discharged
from arrest—Before a writ of capias satisfaciendum is issued in
any case, the party ap lying for it must make and ﬁle with the clerk
the aﬂidavit required by section 2574 (2175), providing for bail in
civil cases. When an arrest is made under the writ, the defendant
may discharge himself from custody in the mode pointed out for
persons arrested on a bail writ, and the plaintiff, in a1 respects, has
the beneﬁt of the revisions of the law for the discharge of bail,
for the collection 0 his demand
§ 2849. (2434) Person discharged by privilege lo surrender after it
ceases, or be liable as for an escape—Any person taken in execution,
who is delivered out of custody by his privilege as a member of the
legislature, as soon as his privilege ceases, must return himself a
prisoner in execution, or be liable as for an escape.
§ 2850. (2435) On arrests under ca. sa., propert? may be delivered
in dischar e of the person—When a ca ias ad salts aeiend 21m is issued,
the defendant ma tender to the shenﬁ’ property in discharge of the
judgment, which he must receive in lieu of the body of the defend
ant, endorsing the receipt thereof on the writ, and make sale thereof
as in case of a levy by ﬁeri faeias ; if b the sale, a suﬂicient sum
is not raised to satisfy the judgment an costs, an alias ﬁeri facias,
or eapias ad saliafaciendum may issue.
ARTICLE II.
Of the levy, sale and return.
Bxcrros. _ ISlwnon.
2851. (2436) Time of receipt of execution 2862. (2448 Property of principal ﬁrst
to be indorsed, and order of receipt levie on.
if more than one. _ 2868. 2449) Amount collected to be in
2852. (2487) To be executed with dili- orsed, and receipt given to defend
gence, returned, the. Int.
2853. (2488) When returned. 2864. (2450) Other roperty substituted
2854. (2439) Reason for not executing, or that leviedpon.
stated in the return. 2865. (2451) Notice of collection of the
2855. (2440) Sheriﬂ's may make returns to money iven to the lsintiﬂ‘.
other counties mail; money not 2866. (2452) xcess of as es aid defend
to be sent bym ' . ant, or money collects before no
2856. (2442) Custody of live stock levied tice of injunction.
on. D 2867. (2453) When land is sold, the de
2857. (2443) Description of property levied scription and price to be indorsed.
on to be indursed on the execution, 2868. (2451) Order of sale of goods on
and notice given to the owner of hand after return of execution;
land levied on. form of such order.
2858. (2444) Indemnifying bond, when re— 2869. (2454a) When sheriffs must main:
quired. conveyance of lands sold by their
2859. (2145) Lien of execution lost by predecessors.
creditor refusing to indemnify. 2870. (2454b) Sheriﬂ's, registers and com
2860. (2446) Time and place of selling missioners make dcedstolltnd.
pgppert ' levied on.
2861. ( 7) otice of sale, how and when
given.
§ 2851. (2436) Time of receipt of execution to be indorsed, and or
der q" receipt if more than one.— The sheriff, or other oﬂicer re
ceiving an execution must indorse thereon the day, month and year
of its receipt. When more than one execution against the same de
fendant comes to his hands on the same day, if not received at the
same time, he must indorse the order in which they are received.
§ 2852. (2437) To be executed with diligence, and returned, etc.—
He must execute the writ with diligence, and if practicable, erform
the mandate thereof, and make return of his acts to the cler , three
days before the ﬁrst day of the return term of the writ.
§ 2853. (2438) Return term of executiorw.—The return term of the
writ is the term next after its date unless issued less than ﬁfteen
days before court; in which case it is the term next thereafter.
§ 2854. (2439) Reason for not executing sfaled in rclurn.-—If the
writ be not executed, or only executed in part, the reason why it is
not executed, or only executed in part, must be stated in the return.
§ 2855. (2440) Sheriff of another county may make returns by mail,
(he; not to send money by mail—The return of an execution or
other process, by a sheriff of a county other than that from which
the process issued, may be made through the public mail, and the
certiﬁcate of the postmaster that it was placed in his ofﬁce in time
by the usual course of the mail, to reach the court house of the
county where the return has to be made, by the return day of the
writ, shall be presumptive evidence for the sheriﬁ' of the fact. The
sheriﬂ' is not authorized to send money by the mail without the con
sent of the plaintiﬂ' in execution.
(2441) [Inoperative]
§ 2856. (2442) Custody of live stock levied (rm—When live stock is
levied on, and remains in the hands of the oﬂicer, for sale, he must
rovide sustenance for it. It is his duty to hire out or emplo the
orses or other stock, if practicable, for their support; and un
able to do so, must be allowed by the court a reasonable compensa
sation for their support, which he may retain from the proceeds of
the sale.
§ 2857. (2443) Description of property to be i'ndorsed on the execu
tion; notice of levy on land to be given the camera—Where a levy is
made of real or personal roperty, a full description thereof, with
the date of the levy, must e mdorsed upon, or appended to the ex
ecution. Where the levy is of real estate, ersonal notice thereof
must be given to the defendant, or a notice t ereof in writing left at
his residence, if resident in the county; if not, then by putting up a
written notice at the court house door; and the manner of giving
notice must be stated in the return.
§ 2858. (2444) Indemnifying bond, when required—When a reason
able doubt exists, whether roperty levied on belongs to the defend
ant, or whether property a eged to be his is subject to levy and sale,
the sheriff may require of the plaintiﬁ‘, his agent or attorney, a bond
of indemnity; and if it be not given within ten days thereafter, he
ma restore the property to the efendant, if levied upon, or decline
to evy if one has not been made; but may be required to levy and
sell at any time thereafter, on being indemniﬁed.
§ 2859. (2445) If the party having ﬁrst lien refuses to indemnify,
others may do sofor their beneﬁt—If a pa having the rior lien,
refuse to give such indemnity on demand 0 the sheriff, 0 person
having the next lien in order may give such bond, and have the
property sold for his beneﬁt.
§ 2860. 2446) Time and place of selling property levied on.—-Lands,
horses, m es, jacks and jennets, when levied on by execution from
courts of record, must be sold on the ﬁrst Monday in the month, at
the court house of the county; other property may be sold on any
day, except Sunday, either at the court house, the residence of the
efendant, the place where levied, or the neighborhood thereof, as
may be most expedient. The sale may be continued from day to
day, if rendered necessary by the inclemency of the weather, or from
inability to conclude the sale in one day.
§ 2861. (2447) Notice of the sale of property levied on, when and how
given—Ten days notice of the sale of personal propert , and thirty
days notice of the sale of real property, must be given y advertise
ment at the court house door, and also by advertisement in a news
paper, if one is published in the county.
§ 2862. (2448) Property of primipal ﬁrst levied ova—When execu
tion issues against two or more persons, any of whom were sureties
on the contract before judgment, the sheriff must levy on the prop
erty of the principal ﬁrst, if an ' can be found in the county, on the
application of such surety; an may require of the surety afﬁdavit
0 the fact of suretyship, which he must ﬁle with the execution.
§ 2863. (2449) Amount collected to be indorsed, and receipt given to
defendant—When money is collected on an execution, the officer
collecting it must indorse thereon, or append thereto, the amount
collected, specifying the 'udgment, interest thereon, and costs, with
his own commissions, and sign his name thereto. He must also, if
re uired, receipt in like manner to the defendant.
§ 2864. (2450) Other properly substituted for that levied on.—The
debtor has the right, on the day of sale, to substitute other property
of ual value, not covered by any lien, in lieu of that levied upon ;
whilih fact, and a description of the propert substituted, must be
indorsed on or appended to the execution, andythe substituted prop
ert be sold in lieu of that levied upon.
§ 2865. (2451) Notice of collection to be given the plaintiﬁ‘ or hit“ at
.-—When the money, or any art thereof, has been made on an
execution, the ofﬁcer must 've tie plaintiff, his a cut or attorney,
personal notice thereof, within ten days thereafter, 1f resident in the
county. If not resident in the county, and he knows the residence
of them, or either of them, such notice may be sent by mail through
the post office.*
§ 2866. (2452) Execs-9 of sales paid to defendant, or money collected
before notice of injunction—When at an execution sale, the amount of
the sale exceeds the jud cut, interest, and costs, the excess must be
paid to the debtor, or his legal representatives. Or when money is
aid, or collected on an execution, the whole, or any part of which
is enjoined in chance , the same must, on demand, be refunded to
the debtor, or his legs. representatives, if it has not been paid over
to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, without notice of the injunc—
tion.
§ 2867. (2453) The description of land sold under execution, with the
price/or which it sold, must be indorsed on the writ—When land is
sold under execution, a description of the land, and the rice ob
tained for it, must be indorsed on or appended to the writ y the 0f
ﬁcer making such sale.
§ 2868. (2454) Writ for sale of goods remaining in sheriff’s hands
unsold ,- form of such writ—When goods levied on remain in the
hands of the officer unsoldLit is his duty to make return of the fact,
and thereupon the clerk must issue a writ for the sale thereof, in
substance as follows:
The State of Alabama,
county. To the sheriff of said county:
You are hereby commanded to sell these goods and chattels of
 
A. 13., which you ave taken pursuant to our command, and which,
according to your return, remain in your hands unsold, to satisfy G.
D. the sum of dollars recovered by him of the said A. B., by
the judgment of our circuit court held for the county of , on the
day of ~—-, and dollars, costs of suit; and make return
of this writ and the execution thereof, according to law,
Witness my hand, &c. E, F_, clerk,
§ 2869. (24540:) When sheriﬂ's must make conveyance oflands soldtheir predeceas-ov-.s-.—'“’hen any sheriff, authorized by law to sell real
estate, sells said lands, and dies or vacates his ofﬁce before making
a conveyance to the urchaser thereof, the court from which the writ
issued, upon proof 0 the sale and of the a ment of the purchase
money, may order the successor in ofﬁce 0 t e sheriﬁ' makin such
sale to make a conveyance of such lands to the urchaser; an such
conveyance shall relate back to the date of suc sale. If the pur
chaser be the plaintiﬂ' in the judgment, proof that he has credited,
or the fact that he does credit on the record, the defendant with the
amount of the purchase money, less the necessary expenses and
costs, is equivalent to proof of payment of the purchase money.
§ 2870. (2454b) Sheriﬂs, registers and (ommissz'oncrs make deeds to
land—"W‘Vhen real estate, or any interest therein, has been sold by
any sheriﬂ', register in chancery, or commissioner a pointed by any
decree of the chancery or probate court to make sa e of real estate,
or any interest therein, such sheriﬂ', register, or commissioner,
upon compliance by the purchaser with the terms of sale, and the
payment or the tender of the fees for executing the deed therefor,
must execute a deed for such real estate or interest therein sold, and.
deliver the same to the urchaser within ﬁve days after such sale;
and failing to do so on emand, after such time, is ilty of a misde
meanor, and on conviction must be ﬁned not less t an one hundred
dollars; but this rosecution does not affect the ri ht of the pur
chaser to sue suc sheriﬁ', register, or commissionerffyor damages for
such default, or for speciﬁc performance as to making such deed.
ARTICLE III.
Of the property subject to execution.
811611021 2871. (2455) Titles to real property which can be sold under execution; charac
ter of personal property, and interests in mortgaged property.
§ 2871. (2455) Property subject to levy and sale under execution.—
xecutions may be levied—
1. On real property to which the defendant has a legal title, or a
perfect equity, having paid the purchase money, or in which he has
a vested legal interest, in possession, reversion, or remainder,
valiether he has the entire estate, or is entitled to it in common with
0 are.
2. On ersonal pro erty of the defendant, (except things in action,)
whether he has the a solute title thereto or the right only to the pos
session thereof for his own life, the life of another, or any shorter
period. But this does not apply to a possession acquired by a bona
ﬁde hiring of chattels. 1m
3. On an equity of redemption in either land or personal r0 erty.
When any interest less than the absolute title is sold), t e
purchaser is subrogated to all the rights of the defendant, and sub
ject to all his disabilities. (1)
§ 2872. (2456) Fierifacias lien only within the county (£20., how con
tinued—A writ ofﬁem'facias is a lien only within the county in which
it is received by the ofﬁcer, on the lands and personal ro erty of the
defendant, subject to levy and sale, from the time o y that the writ
is received by the sheriff; which lien continues as lon as the writ is
regularly issued and delivered to the sheriﬂ‘ without t a lapse of an
entire term. (1)
§ 2873. (2457) Order of liens of different jwi ments and czecutions.
The liens of executions as between different ju gment creditors, and
between judgment creditors and purchasers from the defendant for
valuable consideration, are hereby declared to be: that if an entire
term elapse between the return 0 an execution and the suing out of
an alias, the lien created by the delivery of the ﬁrst execution to the
sheriﬂ' is lost; but if (an alias be sued out before the lapse of an en
tire term, and delivered to the sheriff before the sale of property
under a junior execution, the lien created by the delivery of the ﬁrst
execution must be referred.
§ 2874. (2458) Lzen destroyed by silvpersedeas or injunctions—The ex
ecution of a bond for an a geal by which the judgment is suspended,
or the execution of a bon y the defendant, upon the proper oﬂicer,
anting an in'unction, supersedeas, or restramin order, destroys
the lien create by the delivery of a ﬁeri facias to t e sheriﬂ'.
§ 2875. (2459) Execution levied after defendant’s death—A writ of
ﬁeri facias issued and reCeived by the sheriff during the life of the
defendant, may be levied after his decease, or an alias issued and
levied, if there has not been the lapse of an entire term, so as to
destroy the lien ori ' ally created.
§ 2876. (2459a) 'e'rlain News 'not repealed or destroyed the Code.
'No lieu of any judgment, decree, or execution, in existence on the
20th day of February, 1866, nor the lieu of any judgment or decree
that may be substituted under the laws authorizmg the substitution
of lost or burnt records, is repealed or destroyed by the adoption of
this Code. _
§ 2877. (2459b) Judgmenls .lzen.—“ Judgments of courts of record
existing at the passage of this law, on the 19th of February, 1867,
and those rendered after that time, are liens on all the property of
the defendants therein, which is subject to levy and sale. (2)
§2878. (2460) Property of tenant on land under lease not subject to
levy unless a year’s rent tendered lo landlord—No execution must be
levied on goods or chattels in possession of and upon the premises
of a tenant held by lease for one or more years, until the rent due
or to fall due during the current Year is paid or tendered to the land
lord or his agent or attorney, am the sheriff executing the writ must
levy and sell, as well for the repayment of the rent so tendered as
for the satisfaction of the execution.
(2461) [Repealed by act February 7th, ’54, p. 69.]
§ 2879. (2461a) Growing crop exempt from levy empt for land
lord’s lien for 1'ent.—-'No execution or other legal process must be
levied upon a growing or ungathered crop of any descri tion, ex-
cept for the urpose of enforcing the lieu of the landlor for rent
as prescribedJ by law.
§ 2880. (2462) Property exempt for the use of every-family—The
following property may be permanently retained for the use of every
family in the state exem t from levy and sale by any legal rocess:
1. Household and kitc 1en furniture of the value of one undred
and ﬁfty dollars, to be selected by the head of the family; ball
necessa and proper wearing apparel of each and eve member of
the fami , not to exceed in value ﬁfty dollars for eadii member of
the family, the value thereof to be assessed by three disinterested
persons, to be selected by the sheriff.
2. All books not kept for sale, all family portraits, one gun, one
loom, two spinning wheels, one man’s and one woman’s saddle.
3. Three cows and calves, twenty head of sheep, twenty head of
hogs, one work horse or mule, or one pair of oxen, one horse or 0x
cart, ‘all poultry on the place, ﬁve hundred pounds of meat, done
hundred bushels of corn, one thousand pounds of fodder, twenty-
ﬁve bushels of wheat, ’one thousand pounds of oats in the sheaf,
twenty-ﬁve bushels of sweet potatoes, all the meal at any time on
hand not kept for sale, 'thirty pounds of wool, or wool rolls, ‘two
hundred ounde of lint cotton for spinning purposes, hone hundred
pounds 0? ginned cotton, or four hundred pounds of seed cotton, all
cloth on hand at any one time not made or kept for sale, all tools
or im laments of any mechanical trade not kept for sale, not to
excee two hundred dollars in value, two ploughs and plough gear,
and two hoes.
4. Such real property as ma be selected by the head of the fam-,
ﬂy to include the homestea , not to exceed ‘three hundred and
twenty acres, and in value not to exceed ﬁve hundred dollars ; kall
burying grounds and lots set apart for the interment of deceased
persons, and the improvements and appurtenances to the same ap
pertaining, are reserved for the use of the families to whom they
respectively belong. (1)
§ 2881. (2463) Value of Izmnestead, how settled—The value of the
real property must be ascertained by three disinterested freeholders,
to be summoned by the sheriff for that purpose, who must be sworn
to make the valuation fairly, and if necessary must set off the land
by metes and bounds, and are entitled to two dollars a day, to be
paid by the defendant in execution.
§ 2882. (24630) Additional property exempt to 1neclzam'es.—‘ In addi
tion to the property hereinbefore exempted, there may be in like
manner exempted, for the use of every mechanic, the head of a fam~
ily in this state, two hundred dollars worth of such stock and ma
terials as may be used by him in the prosecution of his trade.
§ 2883. (2463b) Exemption of wages of head offanzz'ly.—“‘there
any head of a family in this state as not of property exempt b
law from execution more than ﬁve hundred dollars in value, the sa ary
or wages of such head of the family to "an amount equalto one~
half of such wages, in no case to be less than twenty-ﬁve dollars
per month, shall not be subject to any le al process, ° and the value
of the property so exem t and posses by the head of a family
shall be ascertained by tgree disinterested persons summoned by the
sheriff or other ofﬁcer levying the process, who shall be sworn to
make the valuation fairly.
§ 2884. (24630) Additional property exempt—"In addition to the
real and personal pro ert permanently exem ted [by other laws]
from la and sale un er egal process, there siiall be retained by
virtue 0 this section, adopted 19th February, 1867, for the use and
beneﬁt of every family, twelve hundred dollars worth of real estate,
including the homestead and one thousand dollars worth of personal
roperty ; 1provided, that nothing contained in this section shall
have the e ect to exempt any property from levy and sale in satis
faction of any liability incurred by the execution of any ofﬁcial bond
or bonds, or other bond reguired by law. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to a ministrators, guardians, or trustees, or
their sureties on their ofﬁcial bonds, for liabilities incurred in their
representative character. This section shall not operate against
liens of laborers and mechanics.
(2464) [Amended, act of 7th Feb., 1854, p. 69, and re
pealed, act 14th Feb., 1854, . 242.]
§ 2885. (2465) Sherifnot table unless aﬂi'davit of exemption be made.
No sheriff or other oﬁicer levying on roperty exempt from execu
tion, is liable for any damages there or, unless the defendant, or
some other person for him, make aﬁidavit that the property about
to be levied on is exempt from execution, and exhibit the same to
such sheriff or ofﬁcer.
§ 2886. (2466) Property exempt to be returned on claim, (ﬁe—“If
the aﬂidavit prescribed in the receding section is made within ﬁve
days after the levy, such she ' or other ofﬁcer must on such afﬁda
vit being delivered to him, deliver such properx, on demand, to the
defendant. or to his agent, and failin to do so e is, with his secu
rities, liable to the defendant for a]? damages; and the defendant
shall not be liable for the costs and expenses for keeping the pro
erty levied on, if such aﬁidavit is made within ﬁve days aftert e
levy, ' and the plaintiff shall pay the cost of such levy. (1)
§ 2887. (2467) Property restored forthcoming bond is given.—
When personal property 1s levied on by the sheriff, if the defendant
execute bond ayable to the plaintiff in double the amount of the
execution, with) sufﬁcient surety, conditioned to deliver the property
levied on to the proper ofﬁcer by twelve o’clock, noon, of the day,
and at the place appointed for the sale thereof, the sheriff must re
store the property to the defendant.
§ 2888. (2468) Clerk issues exemltio'n on forfeiture of the bond—If
the property is not delivered according to the condition of the bond,
the sheriff must return it forfeited within ﬁve days thereafter to the
clerk’s ofﬁce out of which the execution issued, mdorsing thereon a
forfeiture of the bond; and it is then the dut of the clerk without
delay to issue execution on the forfeited bon , against all the 0in
gors therein, for the judgment and costs, upon which no security of
any kind can be taken, which he must endorse upon the writ.
§ 2889. (2469) Certain persons denied the right to give forthcom'i
bond-a—The two preceding sections do not apply to executions issugd
on judgments against sheriffs, coroners or other officers of court against
whom 'udgment is obtained for failing to pay over mone collected
or paid to them in ofﬁcial capacity; and the clerk must indorse on
all such executions, “no security of any kind to be taken.”
§ 2890. 2470) If the prqnertg/ is destroyed without fault, the value
may be ten cred—When property is restored to the defendant on the
execution of a forthcoming bond, and the same dies or is destroyed
before the day for the delivery thereof, without fault on his part, the
obligors in the bond may tender the value to the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, and if such tender is refused, the obllgors in such bond
may, on petition to the judge of the circuit court, supersede the same.
§ 2891. (2470a) Bonds taken under certain acts valid and lions pre
served—"All bonds taken under the provisions of the following acts,
to-wit: an act “to re late judicial proceedings, and for other ur
poses," approved Fe ruary 8, 1861, and the act explanatory of and
supplemental to said act, approved February 9, 1861, and an act “to
regulate judicial proceedings," approved December 10,.1861, and an
act “to repeal certain acts regulating judicial proceedmgs, and for
other purposes,” approved December 8, 1863, are valid, and may be
enforced according to the rovisions of such acts, or as otherwise
provided by law; and all hens of judgments, decrees and forfeited
bonds, acquired under such acts are preserved.
§ 2892. (2471) On qﬁdavz't creditor that there is no visible prop
erty to pay his debt, garnishment mama—Judgment creditors, their
agents or attorneys, may obtain process of garnishment, against any
person supposed to be indebted to the defendant, in an cause where
execution could issue on the judgment, by making a 'davit before
the clerk of the mint in which the Judgment was rendered, that such
person is supposed to be indebted to, or have effects of the defend
ant in his possession, or under his control, and that he behaves pr0~
cess of garnishment against such person is necessary to obtain sat
isfaction of such judgment, and thereupon the clerk must issue the
process, returnable forthwith, if in term time, or to the next term of
the court, if in vacation ; and such proceedings shall thereon be had
as upon garnishments in original attachments; ‘ and creditors, their
agents or attorne s, may obtain garnishment against any person
supposed to be in ebted to the defendant in any cause when a sum
mons or summons and complaint have issued, by making aﬂidavit
before the justice of the peace, or clerk of the court to which the
, summons is returnable, or hbefore any other oﬁicer authorized to
administer oaths, that such person is supposed to be indebted to, or
have effects of the defendant in his possession, or under his control,
and he believes process of garnishment against such person is neces
sary to obtain satisfaction of such claim; and also making aﬁidavit
to the amount due from the defendant to such creditor, and giving
bond as in attachment cases; and thereupon the justice of the peace
or clerk of the court must issue the process of garnishment, return
able at the same time the summons or summons and complaint are
returnable. (1)
§ 2893. (2472) Garnis/zments to stockholders of corporation on return
of “no roperty" against it.—If a judgment creditor of an existin
corpora 'on, whose execution has been returned “no roperty found,’
his a cut or attorney, make afﬁdavit before the cler or “any ofﬁcer
in this state authorized to administer an oath, that a certain erson
is supposed to be indebted to the co )oration, as stockho der of
the corporation or otherwise, he is entitied to process of garnish
ment, returnable forthwith if in term time, or to the next term if in
vacation; and such proceedings must thereupon be had as in cases
of original attachment. (2)
§ 2894. (2473) Proceedings against {/(ITIIIIHIIGCS, (fro—“The provis
ions of articles ﬁve and six, chapter one, title two, of this part, are
applicable to the preceding sections of this chapter.
§ 2895. (2473a) Garnislmwnt on _/'-udyments against munim'pal corpo
rations, kow served—"Upon all 'udgments and decrees in any court
of this state, the plaintiff shall ave process of garnishment against
any incorporated city, town, or village, or other municipal co ora
tion supposed to be indebted to the defendant, upon his comp ying
with the law now in force in other cases of garnishment; and when
the writ of garnishment is issued, the oﬂicer in whose hands the
same may be placed, shall serve the same on the treasurer of such
corporation, or the person having the custody of the funds of the
same, who shall be required to answer as fully and completely as in
other cases, and according to the same rules, and such answar shall ’
be subject to the same rules and regulations as are now provided b
law in other cases. 'If the treasurer of such incorporated city,
town, or village, is the defendant in the judgment, the said officer
shall execute the writ of garnishment upon the mayor or intendant
of said city, town, or village, who shall answer in the same manner;
and such answer shall be subject to the same rules and regulations
as are now prescribed by law, and judgment rendered and execution
issued as is provided for in other cases.
§ 2896. (2473b) Judgment, how render cab—“If such garnishee answer
indebted to the defendant in the judgment, it shall be lawful
for the court to render judgment against such corporation, for the
amount of indebtedness as in other cases, unless the answer is con
tested, upon which execution may issue.
§ 2897. (24730) Garnishment o/‘private corpmatiorm—h The provisions
of this chapter apply to private corporations, but no person
may answer in behalf of such corporation any garnishment grocess,
unless he shall make afﬁdavit that he is the duly authorize agent
of such corporation to make such answer.
I
CHAPTER 21.
0F LIMITATION or ACTIONS.
Anricu: 1.—Of the time in which suit must be brought.
2.—Genera1 rules.
ARTICLE I.
Of the time within which suits must be brought.
Sse'ncs. ‘Ssc'rion. . _
2898. (2:174) Civil siiits_to be commenced 2901. (2477) Within six years.
Within a certain time, and not alter- 2902. (2473) Within five years.
wards. _ j 2903. (2479) Within four years.
2899. (2475) Suite which must be com- 2904. (2480) Within three years.
menced within twenty years. 2905. (2481) Within one year.
2900. (2476) Suits tobe commenced within
ten years.
§ 2898. (2474) Statute of limitations.—Civil suits must be com
menced after the cause of action has accrued, within the periods
prescribed in this chapter, and not afterwards.
§ 2899. (24:75) Actions to be brought in twenty years.—‘Vithin twen
t ears :
yly- Actions at the suit of the state of Alabama against a citizen
thereof, for the recovery of real or Hersonal property.
2. Actions 11 on a judgment or 801‘66 of any court of the state
of Alabama, 0 the United States, or of any state or territory of
the United States.
§ 2900. (2476) Actions to be brought in ten yeara—Within ten
years :
1. Actions founded upon any contract, or writing under seal.
2. Actions for the recovery of lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
or the possession thereof. (1)
3. Motions, and other actions, against sheriffs, coroners, consta
_
1. as Ala, 59a
bles, and other public oﬁcers, for nonfeasance, misfeasance, or mal
feasance in ofﬁce.
§ 2901. (2477) Actions to be brought in six years.——Within six
years :
1. Actions for a trespass to real or personal property.
2. Actions for the detention or conversion of personal property.
3. Actions founded on a promise in writing not under seal.
4. Actions for the recovery of money, upon a loan, upon a stated
or liquidated account, or for arrears of rent, due upon a pawl de
mise. (1)
5. Actions for the use and occupation of land.
6. Motions, and other actions a ainst the sureties of any sheriff,
coroner, constable, or any public ofﬁcer ; or actions against the sure
ties of executors, administrators, or guardians, for any misfeasance
or malfeasance whatever to their principal ; the time to be computed
from the act done, or omitted by their principal, which ﬁxes the lia
bility of the surety.
7. Motions, and other actions against attorneys at law for failing
to pay over money of their clients, or for neglect or omission of
dut .
8?An action, founded upon any judgment of a justice of the
peace 0 this state.
9. Any action arising from simple contract, or specialty, not herein
speciﬁcally enumerate .
§ 2902. (2478) Actions to be brought in ﬁve years—Within ﬁve
ears :
y 1. All actions founded on e uities of redemption, where lands
have been sold under a decree o the court of chancery, existing in
any person, not a party to the proceedings, who claims under the
mortgagor or grantor, 1n the deed of trust.
§ 2903. (2479) Actions to be brought in four years.—-Within four
ears :
y 1. All actions or motions against any securit to any writ of error,
appeal, replevin, or forthcoming bond, execute in any cause, in any
of the courts of the United States, or in any other state or country
except the state of Alabama.
§ 2904. (2480) Actions to be brought in three years—Within three
ears :
y 1. Actions to recover money due by open or unliquidated account,
the time to be computed from the date of the last item of the ac
count, or from the time when, by contract or usage, the account is
due.
§ 2905. (2481) Actions to be brought in one yarn—Within one year:
1. Actions for assault and battery, false imprisonment, or mali
cious prosecution.
2. Actions for criminal conversation, for the seduction of a female,
or breach of marriage promise.
3. Actions qui- tam, or for a penalty given by statute to the party
aggrieved, unless the statute imposing it prescribes a different limr
tatlon.
4. Actions of libel or slander.
5. Actions against steamboats, and other water-craft, commenced
by attachment.
6. Civil actions, for any injury to the person, or rights of another,
not arising from contract, and not herein speciﬁcally enumerated. (2)
§ 2906. (2482) Entry presumed when the ri ht crisis—When a right
of entry on lands accrues, the entry must e considered as having
been made, and the cause of action as having then accrued;
§ 2907. (2483) Ri ht of entry not taUed by a descent cash—The right
of entry is not tolle by a descent cast.
§ 2908. (2484) Time of absence from the slafe deductedfrom the time
since act-ion accrued—“Then an person is absent from the state,
during the period within which a suit might have been brought
against him, such period or periods of time must not be computed
as a portion of the time necessary to create a bar under this chapter.
§ 2909. (2485) If suit is brought and judgment recovered, and then
reversed, suit ma again be brought within a year.—If suit be brought
in any of the said actions, before the time limited has ex ired, and
judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, and such judgment 9 arrest
ed, or reversed on appeal, the plaintiff, or his legal representatives,
may commence suit again within one year from the reversal or ar
rest of such judgment, thou h the period limited may in the mean
time have expired; and in ' e manner, if more than one jud out
be reversed, or arrested, an action may be recommenced within one
year.
§ 2910. (2486) Three years allowed infants, (130., to bring suits after
removal of disability; restriction.—If any one entitled to bring any
of the actions enumerated in this chapter, or to make an entry on
land, or defense founded on the title to real property, be at the time
such right accrues, within the age of twenty-one years, a married
woman, or insane, or im risoned on a criminal charge, for any term
less than for life, he or s 6 has three years after the termination of
such disability to brin suit, make entry or defense. But no disabil
lty will extend the period of limitation, so as to allow such action to
commenced, entry or defense made, after the lapse of twenty
years from the time of the cause of action, or right accrued, nor
must this exception extend to a married woman, in respect to her
separate estate. (1)
§ 2911. (2487) If the laws of another state bar a suitfor a cause of
action accruing there, it is also barred here—When the statue of limi
tations of another state or foreign count has created a bar to an
action upon a contract or act done in suc state or country, whilst
the party sought to be charged thereby was a resident of such state
or country, the bar thus created is effectual in this state, against any
suit brought thereon, in the same manner it would have been in the
state or country where the act was done or contract made.
§ 2912. (2488) Not to extend to current accounts between merchants.
The limitations herein rovided, do not apply to such actions as con
cern the trade of mere andise between merchants and merchants,
their agents and factors, while the accounts between them are cur
rent.
§ 2913. (2489) Last item of an account is the date from which time
is reckonc(l.—When there are mutual accounts between persons who
are not merchants, the time must be com uted from the date of the
last item, unless the account be liquidate , and a balance struck.
§ 2914. (2490) Partial payment or promise in writing and signed, is
necessary to avoid the ban—No act, promise or acknowledgment is
sufﬁcient to remove the bar to a suit created by. the provlsions of
this chapter, or is evidence of a new or continuing contract, except
a partial payment made upon the contract, by the arty sought to
be charged efore the bar is complete, or an uncon 'tional promise
in writing, signed by the party to be charged thereby. (1)
§ 2915. (2491) When a right is to be matured by demand, before suit
brought, time is computcdfrom the act, and not from the demand—When
a right exists, but a demand is necessary to entitle the party to an
action against any ofﬁcer, agent, or attorne , the limitation com
mences from the commission or omission of t c act giving the right
of action, and not from the date of the demand.
§ 2916. (2492) In actions on account of fraud, the time is computed
from discovery—In actions seeking relief on the ground of fraud,
where the statute has created a bar, the cause of action must not be
considered as having accrued until the discover by the aggrieved
party of the facts constituting the fraud, after w ich he must have
one year within which to prosecute his suit.
§ 2917. (2493) Summons is a commencement of suit—The suing out
of a summons is the commencement of a suit, whether it be executed
or not, if the suit be continued by an alias, or recommenced at the
next term of the court.
§ 2918. (2494) Time between death and grant of letters of (ml/minis
tration not com uted as to six months—The time between the death of
a person and t e grant of letters testamentary or of administration,
not exceeding six months, is not to be taken as any part of the time
limited for the commencement of actions by or against his executors
or administrators. (2)
§ 2919. (2495) Nor the six months n’uriny which executors, (im., are
exem t from suit—The six months which an executor or administra
tor 1s exempt from suit after the ant of letters, is not to be taken
as any art of the time limited or the commencement of action
against im.
§ 2920. (2496) Time of accrual of actionfor liability of a deputy or
agent—“Ten an inj arises from the act or omission of a deputy or
agent, the time for t e limitation of an action by the princi al
against such deputy or agent does not commence to run until the 'a
bility of the principal for the act or omission of such de uty or agent
is ascertaine , by suit of the aggrieved party against the principal.
§ 2921. (2497) Time of injunction not computed—When the com
mencement of an action is stayed by injunction or statutory prohibi
tion, the time of the continuance of the injunction or statute prohibi
tion, is not computed as part of the time.
§ 2922. (2498) If the act once begins to run it is not suspended—A
disability which did not exist when the cause of action accrued,
does not suspend the operation of the limitation, unless the contrary
is expressly provided.
§ 2923. (2499) All disabilities to wase before time begins—“’hen two
or more disabilities coexist at the time the cause of the action accrued,
the limitation does not attach until all are removed.
§ 2924. %500) War susp-nds the art as to citizens of hostﬂe nation.—
When the nited States Is at war with a foreign country, and either
party to a contract is a subject or citizen thereof, the time of the
continuance of the war is not computed as part of the time limited
for the commencement of the suit.
§ 2925. (2501) N0 limitation to actions on notes put in circulation as
money.—-The provisions of this chapter do not apply to actions to en
force payment of bills, notes, or ot er evidences of debt, issued or
put in circulation as money.
(2502) [Repealed by act February 15, 1854, § 1, p. 71.]
§ 2926. (2502a) Operation of chapter limited—"rho rovisions of
this chapter shall apply only to causes of actions accruing, and pos-
session commencing, on or after the 17th day of January, 1853,
when the Code went into operation; and all causes of actions accru
ing and possessions commencing prior thereto, shall be controlled
by the statutes of limitations in force at that time, and such statutes
0 limitations are hereby re-enacted, revived, and continued in full
force, for that purpose only; and the time which has elapsed since
the repeal of said statutes shall be computed in all cases to which
they are hereby made applicable, as though they had never been
repealed.*
 
CHAPTER 1.
ATTACHMENTS AT LAW.
Anncu: 1.—OI the issue of attachments.
2.—In what manner and on what property executed.
8.-Ol attachments for rent.
L—Of the replevy and claim of property.
5.—Proceedings against garnishees.
6.—Collateral issues.
7.—Ancillary attachments.
6.—Judicial attachments.
9.—Of the pleadings in attachmen t.
10.-Attachments against watercraft.
ARTICLE 1.
Of the issue of attachments.
Eamon. Sscrlox.
2927, (2508) For what debts and damages 2935. (2511) State bank has attachment
issued. without bond.
2928. (2504) Cases in which attachments 2986. (2512) Corporations may sue out at—
1ssue. tachments.
2929. (2505) By what ofﬁcers issued for 2937. (2512a) How security for costs by
anv certain money demand. non-resident or corporation may be
2930. (2506) Oath as to the debt and cause given. _
for attachment to be made. 2938. (2518) Against foreign corporation!
2981. (2507) Bond and security also re- 2939. (2514) Form of attachment; no ob
uired. jections taken for want of form.
2982. (5508) Judge or chancellor to require 2940. (2515) Bend and aﬂidavit returnable
sworn statements of facts on appli- with the attachment.
cation for attachment for damaves. 2941. (2515a) When attachment may be
2983. (2509) Attachment bya non-resi -nt issued and executed on Sunday.
against another. 2942. (2515b) Applicable to private corpo
2984. (2510) Notice to a non-resident de- rations.
fendant in attachment.
§ 2927. (2503) For what debts and damages issued—Attachments
may issue—
1. To enforce the collection of a debt, whether it be due or not, at
the time the attachment is taken out.
2. For any moneyed demand, the amount of which can be cer
tainly ascertained.
3. To recover damages for a breach of contract, when the dama
ges are not certain or liquidated.
4. When the action sounds in damages merely. '
§ 2928. (2504) Cases in which attachments issue—And in the fol
lowing cases:
1. When the defendant resides out of the state.
2. When the defendant absconds.
3. “Then the defendant secretes himself so that the ordinary pro
cess of law cannot be served on him.
4. When the defendant is about to remove out of the state.
5. When the defendant is about to remove his propert out of the
state, so that the plaintiff will probably lose his debt, or ave to sue
for it in another state.
6. When the defendant is about fraudulently to dispose of his
propert .
7. When the defendant has fraudulently disposed of his prop
erty.
8. When the defendant has moneys, pro erty, or effects, liable to
satisfy his debts, which he fraudulentl wit olds.
§ 2929. (2505) By what officers issuecfor (my certain money demand.
In the ﬁrst and second cases mentioned in section 2927 (2503), it
may be issued by any judge of the circuit court, returnable to any
county in the state, or by the clerk of the circuit court, judge of the
probate court, or any 'ustice of the peace, within their respective
counties. In the thir and fourth cases, by a judge of the circuit
‘or probate court, or chancellor only, returnable to any county.
§ 2930. (2506) Oath as to the debt and cause of attachment to be
made.-—-The officer, before issuing the attachment in the two ﬁrst
cases mentioned in the last section, must require the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, to make oath of the amount of the debt or de
mand, and that it is justly due; also, that one of the causes enumera
ted in section 2928 (2504) exists, and that the attachment is not sued
out for the p ose of vexing or harassin, the defendant; which
must also be re need to writing, and subscribed by the party.
§ 2931. (2507) Bond and security also required—He must further
require the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, to execute a bond in den
ble the amount claimed to be due, with sufﬁcient surety, payable to
the defendant, with condition that the plaintiff will prosecute the
attachment to effect, and pay the defen ant all such damages as
he may sustain from the wrongful or vexatious suing out such at
tachnient.
§ 2932. (2508) Judge 01' chancellor to require sworn statements of
facts on (1)/nitration for attachments for damages.—VVhen an attach
ment is applied for in the cases provided for in the third and fourth
subdivisions of section 2927 (2503), the judge or chancellor, before
issuing it, must require the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, in addi
tion to the afﬁdavit and bond required in other cases, to make afﬁ
davit in writing, of the s ecial facts and circumstances, so as to en~
able him to determine t e amount for which a levy must be made;
which sum ma , at the discretion of the court, be reduced at the re
turn term of t e attachment, on afﬁdavit of the defendant, and the
levy released to the amount of such reduction.
§ 2933. (2509) Attachment lry a non-resident against another.—-A
non-resident of this state may sue out an attachment against a non
resident for an existing debt, or ascertained liability; but the plain
tiff, his agent, or attorney, is required, in addition to the oath
necessary in other cases, to swear that, according to the best of his
knowledge, information and belief, the defendant has not sufﬁcient
property within the state of his residence, wherefrom to satisfy the
ebt; and must also give bond as in other cases, with surety, resi
dent in this state.
§ 2934. (2510) Notice to a non-resident defendant in attachnwnt.—
When an attachment is sued out against a non-resident, the court,
at the return term of the writ, must direct the clerk to cause a notice
of the attachment, and levy on the defendant’s property, to be
advertised four successive weeks, in some news aper, a copy of
which must be sent by mail to the defendant,i his residence is
known, or can be ascertained, unless he appears and defends. (1)
§ 2935. (2511) State bank has attachment without bond—The com
missioner and trustee of the state bank, his agent or attorney, may
sue out an attachment to recover a debt due the bank, in any county
of the state, u on making afﬁdavit as required in other cases, with
out executin 0nd; and for a wrongful suing out of the attachment
the bank is liable to the defendant in damages, to be ascertained by
a suit against the said commissioner and trustee.
§ 2936. (2512) Uorymrations may sue out attachmmzts.—Corpora
tions, either foreign or domestic, are entitled to process of attachment
for the recovery of the debts, or ascertained demands due them.
The president, cashier of the corporation, or an agent, or attorney
thereof, makin the aﬂidavit and executing bond as in other cases.
§ 2937. (2512a) How security for costs by non- residmzt or corporation
ma be given.—" “’hen an attachment is sued out in favor of a non
resident or a corporation, security for the costs of the suit may be
taken and a roved by the oﬂicer issuing the same, or may be en
dorsed with is approval on the attachment.*
§ 2938. (2513) Attachment against foreign corporations.—Process of
attachment may issue against foreign corporations, having property
in this state, for the recovery of debts, or 0to recover dama es for
a breach of contract when the damages are not certain or liquidated,
or in cases where the action sounds in damages merely, in the same
manner and subject to the same rules as in case of natural persons
residing without this state.
§ 2939. (2514) Form of attachment; no objection taken for want (f
form—The form of attachment must be in substance as follows;
but no objection shall be taken for any defect in form, if the essen
tial matters are set forth:
The State of Alabama, To any sheriff of the state of Alabama:
county. Whereas A. B., (or C. D., as the agent or
attorne of A. 13., as the case may be,) hath complained on oath
to me, . F., 'udge of the circuit court of said state, (or justice of
the peace, or judge of the probate court, or clerk of the circuit court
of said count , or as the case may be,) that G. H. is (or will be, as
the case may e,) justl indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of -————
dollars, and the plain ' having made aﬂidavit and given bond as
required b law, m such cases, you are hereby commanded to attach
so much 0 the estate of G. H. as W111 be of value to satisfy the said
debt and costs, according to the complaint; and such estate, unless
replevied, so to secure that the same may be liable to further pro
ceedings thereon, to be had at the next term of the circuit court for
the county of , to be held at the court house thereof; when and
where you must make known how you have executed this writ.
Witness my hand this, &c. E. F., clerk.
§ 2940. (2515) Bond and aﬁdavit returnable with the attachment.—
The bond and afﬁdavit must be returned by the ofﬁcer issuing the
attachment, to the court to which the attachment is returnable.
§ 294. (2515a) When attachment? may be issued and executed on
Sunday.—‘ Attachment process ma issue and be executed on Sun-
day for the collection of debts, the laintiﬂ' make oath as is
required for the issue of bail process on unday, and give the bond
required in this chapter.*
§ 2942. (2515b) Applicable to private corporatzmis.—-‘The provi-
sions of this chapter are applicable to all private corporations, and
all afﬁdavits or answers required to be made under its PI‘OVISIODS
may be made by the president, cashier, secreta , or any other duly
an orized agent of such corporation; and suc corporations may
do and be dealt with under its prOVisions in the same manner as if
they were natural persons.
ARTICLE II.
In what manner and upon what property executed.
SECTION. ’ BEGIIOI.
2943. (2516) Executed on any property, or 2952. (2525) Attachments may be cxccu
on chases in action b armshment. ted in an count .
2944. (2517) Gsrnishee ci e to appear, 2958. (2525a) hen attachments may be
and answer on oath. executed by a constable.
2945. (2518) Levied on joint estate or in- 2954. (2526) Branch and alias writs of at
terest in partnership. tachment.
2946. (2519) Executors and administra- 2955. (2527) Lion of an attachment from
tors. time of levy or service of garnish.
2947. (2520) Garnishecd for amounts due ment.
lags-tees, distributees, &c. 2956. (2528) Perishable property sold by
2948. _( 21) Money in the hands of sher- order of court.
iﬂ‘s, attorneys, &c., attached. and in 2957. (2529) In case of necessit sold b
y Y
case of oﬂicers of court, is paid into sheriﬂ' before return term.
court“ . 2958. (2530) Amount so received by sher
2949. (2522) Judgments against execu- iﬂ', recovered on one day's notice,
tors, &c., not to be rendered for 2959. (2532) Indemnifying bond, when do.
eighteen months. mended b the sheriﬂ‘.
2950. ( 23) Attachment of money, Atc., 2960. (2532a) hen debt is settled or
in a trustee’s bands. ' Property attached is replcvied, half
2951. (2524) Debts in suit may be at- commissions paid.
tachod.
§ 2943. (2516) Executed on any) property, or on chases in action by
garnishment—Attachments ma e leVied on real estate, whether the
same be a fee simple or any ess legal estate, or personal property
of the defendant; or the same may be executed by summoning an
person indebted to, or havin in his possesszon, or under his controi
property belonging to the de endant_; and the ofﬁcer executing the
wnt, must indorse the levy, or service thereon; and if practicable,
take the r0 erty in his possess1on, unless replevied, as hereinafter
describe . (1
§ 2944. (2517) Garnishee czted to appear and ayswer 0n 0at/2.-Sueh
person is called the garmshee, and. must be cited by the ofﬁcer to
appear at the return term of the writ, and answer upon oath whether
he was indebted to the defendant at the time of the levy of the at
tachment, or at the time of makin his answer, and whether he will
not be indebted in future to him y a contract then exmting; and
whether he has not in possession, or under his control, personal or
real property, or things in action, belonging to the defendant; 0.
copy of which citation he must return executed, together with the
attachment and levy.
§ 2945. (2518) Let-{ed enjoint estate- or interest in partnership—An
attachment may be levied on the joint or se arate estate of joint 0b
ligors, romissors, or partners, whether resident or non-resident.
§ 296. (2519) Executm's and adminz'stratora—Executors and ad
ministrators may be arnisheed for a debt due by the testator, or
intestate to the defen ant, and may commence a suit by attachment
in their representative character.
§ 2947. (2520) Garnisheedfor anwunts due legatees, (listrz'butees, Ltc.
Executors and administrators may be garnisheed for debts due the
legatees, or distributees, but no judgment can be rendered against
them until a settlement of the estate, unless they assent to the lega
c , or admit assets to ay the amount claimed, or some portion
t ereof, out of the distri utive share of the debtor.
§ 2948. (2521) Money in the bands of shear? s, attorneys, (£10., and in
case qf Qlﬁcers qf court, is paid into court.— oney in the hands of an
attorney at law, sheriﬂ', or other ofﬁcer, ma be attached; and in the
case of ofﬁcers of the com't, must be pai into court, to abide the
result, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 2949. (2522) Judgments against executors, eta, not to be rendered
for eightem mmzt/is.—No judgment can be rendered against an execu
tor or administrator upon his answer in attachment, or garnishment,
until the lapse of eighteen months after ant of letters.
§ 2950. (2523) Atlac/nnent of money, r 'c., in a trustee’s hands.—
Money or effects of the defendant in the hands of a trustee, may be
attached and held subject to the validit of the instrument creating
the trust; or the excess remaining in t e trustee’s hands, after the
execution of the trust, it valid; but if the deed be held void, the
trustee, if not ilty of actual fraud, ma retain for a debt due him
self, and must ﬁt: protected so far as he as acted in good faith un
der the trust, before the levy of the attachment. (1)
§ 2951. (2524) Debts in suit may be attached—A debt in suit, in
any of the courts of this state may be attached; and if the suit is
not depending in the same court where the attachment is brou ht,
the court, after judgment, on proof by the garnishee of the pen ' g
attachment, must stay execution, until notiﬁed b the clerk of the
court in which the attachment is instituted, that al judgment has
been rendered; in which case it must make the ap repriate order,
according as the judgment is rendered for the plaintiﬂ' or defendant.
§ 2952. (2525) Attuclnnents may be executed in any wmzty.—-The at
tachment may be executed in any count of the state by the sheriﬁ'
of the county in which the propert ' is ound, or in which any per
son ma be found indebted to the efendant, or having pro erty or
things in action of the defendant in his possession, or underphis con
trol. The sheriff must take and hold the property attached, unless
replevied, subject to the order of the court in which the attachment
is pending.
§ 2953. (2525a) When attachments may be levied a mastable.—_—
“YVhen process of attachment is issued by a justice of the peace, if
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make oath that there is danger
of losing the debt, unless the process is executed by a constable, and
the amount of the debt does not exceed the amount of the consta
ble’s bond, such justice may have such process executed by the con
stable of the beat in which the process issued, and the return of the
service may be made to the court in which the writ is returnable, by
such justice or constable, who shall be subject to all the liabilities
provided by law, for failing to discharge any dutyin relation to such
service or return.
§ 2954. (2526) Branch and alias writa—Branch writs of attach
ment may issue to any county of the state, directed to any sheriff
0f the state of Alabama, to be executed as in the preceding section;
"and if no le , or an insufﬁcient levy shall be made before the re-
turn da of the attachment, the court to which the attachment is
returna 1e, upon the application of the laintiﬁ' or his attorney, must
direct the clerk of the court to issue 'as or luries attachments,
until a sufﬁcient levy is made to satisfy the plaintiff’s demand.
§ 2955. (2527) Lien of an atlaclunentfrom lime Qf levy or ser'mbe of
garnishment—The levy of an attachment creates a lien in favor of
the plaintiff, upon the estate of the defendant so levied on, from the
lev ; and upon the money or effects in the possession of the gar
nis ee, from the service of garnishment.
§ 2956. (2528) Perishable pro rfy sold order of court—If the
property levied on be erishab c, it must 0 sold by order of the
court, on motion of sit or arty, and the proceeds of the sale re
tained b the sheriff to await the decision of the cause, unless the
court 0t erwise direct.
§ 2957. (2529) In case of necessity, sold by she'rg'ﬁ" before 'retm'n le'r'm.
If the property levied on be of so perishinﬁ a nature that it will de
teriorate ‘eatly in value, or be destroyed efore the meeting of the
court, or if the charge of keepin it be ve great, it is the duty of
the sheriff, if not replevied, to se it at pub '0 auction, returning the
facts and the money to the court.
§ 2958. (2530) Amount so received by sllerg'ﬂ' r1 1. 2'6 1"? an ore day's
malice—The sheriﬁ' and his securities, or either of them, may be pro
ceeded against b motion, on one day’s notice, at the instance of the
plaintiﬁ', (or of t 1e defendant, if the plaintiff fail in the action,) for
any money thus received for the sale of perishable property; and
Judgment rendered against him for the amount, and ﬁve per cent. a
month from the time of the demand.
(2531) [Inoperative by reason of emancipation]
§ 2959. (2532) ImlenngII/ing bond, when demanded by (lee sherif—
Wben a doubt exists as to the title of the defendant to personal
property, which the sheriff is required to levy upon, he may demand
mdemulty from the laintiﬂ'.
§ 2960. (2532a) l ’lwn debt is settled or property aﬂaclled is replev
ied, half conmu'ssions paid—"Vt’henever any attachment is levied on
any personal pro erty by any sheriﬂ' or coroner, and the property
so levied on is rep evied, or the cause settled without a sale, the ofﬁcer
making. the [levy] is entitled to one-half commissions upon the
amount of the demands sued for, which are allowed by law to such
ofﬁcers for making the money on execution, to be ai by the party
paying such debt or replevying such propergyn; an if such-demand
1s afterwards collected upon execution and al rocess, the ofﬁcer
collecting the same must collect or receive but alf commissions;
and if the plaintiff fails to obtain judgment, the amount 80 paid 011
the levy and payment and replevy must be taxed in the cost against
the plaintiff, and collected for the beneﬁt of the defendant.
ARTICLE 111.
Of attachments for rent.
Bsc'nos. Scenes.
2961. (2533) Landlord has a lien on the 2963. (2535) Levied on the crop in the
cm for the year’s rent. hands of the tenant, or any one hold
2962. (25 4) Attachment to collect rent. in for him, or purchasers, with no
tice.
§ 2961. (2533) Landlord has a lien on the crop for the I car’s rent.—
A landlord has a lien on the crop grown on rented lan for rent for
the current year, and is entitled to process of attachment for the
recove of the same, to be issued by any one of the ofﬁcers named
in section 2929 (2505), in the followmg cases, whether the rent be
due or not at the time the attachment is sued out:
1. When the tenant is about to remove the crop from the prem
ises without pa 'ng the rent.
2. When he as removed it, or any portion thereof, without the
consent of the landlord.
§ 2962. (2534) Attachment to collect rent—Afﬁdavit in writing being
made of one of these facts b the landlord, his agent or attorney,
also that the amount claime is or will be due for rent, or will be the
value of the portion of the crop agreed to be received as rent, and
bond being given, with suret and with condition as in other cases of
attachment, process of attac ent must issue as in other cases.
§ 2963. (2535) Levied on the crop in the hands of the. tenant, or any
one holding for him, or purchasers, with notice—The attachment may
be levied on the crop in the possession of the tenant, or any one
holding it in his right, or in the possession of a purchaser from him,
with notice of the lieu of the landlord.
ARTICLE IV.
Of the replevy and claim of property.
Bncrron. _ Snc'rrox.
2961. (2536) Replevy of property levied 2966. (2588) Forfeiture of claim on reple
on; replcvy bond. _ vy bond and execution thereon.
2965. (2537) Claims to property levied on, 2967. (2539) It the property is lost or de
and trial of the right of property. egoyed, the value received in d1!
0 arge.
§ 2964. (2536) Replcvy of property levied on; replevy bond—The
defendant in attachment, or m is absence a. stranger, may replevy
the goods or chattels attached, by executing bond with surety, pay
able to the laintiﬂ', in double the amount of the demand, with con
dition that if the defendant fail in the action, he or his sureties will
return the speciﬁc property attached within thirty days after judg
ment, which bond must be returned with the other papers of the
cause. (1)
§ 2965. (2537) Claims to pr t-y levied on, and trial of the right of
pr ,rty.—If pro erty attache be claimed by a person not a party
tootjloiee suit, and a davit and bond be executed as required by law in
cases of trial of right of property, when levied on by a writ of ﬁeri
facias, the pro erty must e elivered to the claimant, and the afﬁ
davit and hen be returned by the sheriff with the attachment, upon
which the same proceedings must be had as in other trials of right
of property, except that the sheriff must return the original attach
ment to the roper county. ' The aﬂidavit herein required may be :
administere b the oﬁicer levying the process.
§ 2966. (253 ) Forfeiture of claim on 'r evy bond, and execution
thereon—“men property re levied, or whic has been delivered to a
claimant, is not delivered Within thirty days after judgment against
such claimant and against the defendant in attachment, it is the duty
of the sheriff to return the bond forfeited, and execution must issue
thereon against the princi a1 and sureties in such bond, for the
amount of the judgment an costs.
§ 2967. (2539) If the property is lost or destroyed, the value received
in discharge—If an Y of the property so re 1ev1ed should die or be
destroyed without salt or negligence on t e part of the person in
possessmn, the case is governe by the provisions of section 2890
(2470).
ARTICLE V.
Proceedings against garnishees.
Stu-ion. Semen.
2908. (2540) Garnishee, how and when ex- ' 2971. (2548) On refusal to deliver it, ex
smined, ecution for the amount of the judg
2969. (2541) Judgment on answer of in- ment.
debtedncss, if not yet due execution 2972. (2544) Relief when failure to deliver
suspended. IS without fault.
2970. (2542) Defendant‘s property con- 2978. (2545) Penalty for failure to answer.
damned on answer admitting its
possession.
§ 2968. (2540) Garnishee, 710w and when examined—The garnishee
must answer 11 on oath according to the terms of the citation, within
the ﬁrst three days of the return term of the attachment, and may,
if required by the plaintiff, be examined orally in the presence of
the court. (1)
§ 2969. (2541) Jud ment on answer of indebtedness ; not yet due,
execution suspended.— f he answer and admit indebtedness to the
defendant, judgment thereon must be rendered against him, after
judgment against the defendant in attachment, for the amount so
admitted, if less than the amount of the jud ment against such de
fendant, if more, or equal thereto, then for t 1e amount thereof. If
the debt he not then payable, execution must be suspended until its
maturity. (2)
§ 2970. (2542) Defendant's property condemned on ansu-er admitting
its possession—If he admit the possessmn of chattels of the defend
ant, judgment of condemnation must be rendered, that they be de
livered up on demand, after the renditlon of Judgment on the at
tachment in favor of the plaintiff, or so much as may be nece
to satisf the judgment, and the sheriff must make sale thereof. (3)
§ 297. (2543) ()n refusal to deliver it, execution for the amount
thejudgment.——If he fail to deliver them to the sheriff on deman ,
he must make return thereof to the clerk, who must thereu on issue
a writ of 'em' fadas against him in favor of the plaint' , for the
amount 0 the jud ment and costs. _ _ I
 
§ 2972. (2544) gelief when failure to delwer as wrthoutfault.-I£ the
failure to deliver pro erty, as provided in the preceding section, is
without fault or neg 'gence on the part of the garnishee, he may
obtain relief by supersedeae, according to the provisions of section
2890 (2470). _
§ 2973. (2545) PenaIJg/forfm'lurc t0 answen—If the garnishee fail
to appear and answer, a conditional judgment must be rendered
against him for the amount of the plaintiﬁ’s claim, as ascertained
by his judment, to be made absolute if he does not appear within
the ﬁrst three days of the next term and answer; a notice of the
judgment must be issued to him by the clerk, to be served on him
as other process by the sheriff ; if he fail to appear at the next term,
after notice executed, or if two notices be returned not found b the
sheriff of the county in which the garnishment was execute , the
judgment must be made absolute. (1)
ARTICLE VI.
Collateral issues.
Samoa. Samoa.
2974. (2546) Issue made to contest gnrni- 2995. (2.357) Proceedings on death of gar
shee’s answer, on denial of its truth nishce.
on oath. ' 2986. (2559 ) J udgment in attachment sus
2975. (2547) Defendant may insist that pended until trial of the collateral
garnishce owes more than he ad- lr‘ﬂllt‘S.
mite, and the question is then tried. 2987. (2559il’ro )crty condemned restored,
2976. (2548) Judgment when the answer is it" pliiiutil rail in his suit.
not sustained. 2998. (2560) Alias writs of attachment
2977. (2549) Garnishce may suggest that and garnishment.
another claims the debt, Mn, and 2989. (2561) Attachment abated, it issued
the claimant then made a party. without bond or aﬁidavit.
2978. (2550) Proceedings to try such 2990. (2592) Attachnu-nt lawliberallycon—
claims. struml for plaintiﬂ', and no ahate~
2979. (2551) When contestant is a non- mentt'or want of bond, kc.,ifplain
tiff will make it.
resident.
2980. (2552) If resident contestant be not 2991. (25613) Judgment condemning debt
found, judgment against the garni- or pro wrty. discharges garnishee;
shee. (lt’it‘lltlllllt nmv up mul.
2981. (2553) Such issues do not change 2992. (23M) Grounds 0 issue not travers
the jurisdiction. _ ‘ able, but unit may he brought for
2982. (2554) Bills of exceptions in such impruperlv suing it out.
cases. 2993. (2563) vindictive damages for me
2983. (2555) Appeals. licious attachments.
2984. (2.356) Garnishee recovers his costs
on a discharge. l
§ 2974. (2546) Issue made to con/cs! {/(n'z/islu'c’s nnmcer, on denial of
its truth on oath—The plaintiff, his agent or attorney, may controvert
the answer of the garnishee by making oath at the term the answer
is made, that he believes it to be untrue; whereupon an issue must
be made up under the direction of the court, in which the plaintiff
must allege in what respect the answer is untrue, and, if required by
either party, a jury) must be impanelled to try the facts.
§ 2975. (2547) efendant may insist that garnislme ours more than
he admits, and the question is than tried—The defendant, upon the
coming in of the answer, may allege that the garnishee is indebted
to him in a larger sum than he has admitted, or that he holds rop
erty of the defendant not admitted by him in his answer, whic be
ing reduced to writing, setting forth particularly in what respect the
answer is deﬁcient, and sworn to, thereupon an issue must be made
up under the direction of the court to try the fact by a jury, if re
quired by either party; but this controversy does not prevent the
plaintiff from taking judgment for the sum admitted to be due by
the garnishee, or for a condemnation of the property admitted to be
in his hands.
§ 2976. (2548) Judgment when the answer is not sustainah—Ii this
issue be found a ainst the garnishee, judgment must be rendered
a ainst him for t e amount of money or propert in his hands not
admitted by him, which must be in favor of the p aintiﬁ', if necessary
to satisfy his claim or judgment against the defendant, or in favor of
the defendant if the judgment has been satisﬁed.
§ 2977. (2549) Garnishee may suggest that another claims the debt,
(Pa, and the claimant then made a part .—When the garnishee b his
answer, or at any time before ﬁnal judgment against him, allyeges
that he has been notiﬁed that anOther erson claims title to, or an
interest in, the debt or property which y his answer he has admit—
ted to be due, or to be in his ossession, the court must suspend
proceedings against the garnis ee, and cause a notice to issue to
such person, to appear at the next term of the court and contest
with the plaintiff the right to the money or proper%.
§ 2978. (2550) Proceedings to try such claims.— he appear, he
must be required to ropound his claim in the dis uted roperty or
debt, in writing, and) make oath thereto, upon w 'ch e laintiﬂ'
must take issue in law or in fact, and the issue in fact must e tried
by a jury, if required by either party. If the issue he formd for the
p aintiﬂ', judgment must be rendered against the garnishee on his
answer; if for the contestant, the garnishee must be discharged.
§ 2979. (2551) When contestant is a rum-resident—If the contestant
be a non-resident, the contest must he stayed six months, and the
same proceedings had as in the case of a non-resident defendant.
§ 2980. (2552) If resident contestant be not found,,/"udgment agaimt
the gm'm'shee.—-If two notices to the resident contestant be returned
“not found," judgment must be rendered against the garnishee on
his answer.
§ 2981. (2553) Such issues do not change thejurisdictz'mz.—The in
terposition of these collateral issues does not affect the jurisdiction
of the court obtained by levy of the attachment.
§ 2982. (2554) Bills of exceptions in such arses—Upon the trial of
these collateral issues, either party may reserve any question b bill
of exceptions, for revision, and judgment for costs must be ren ered
against the unsuccessful party.
§ 2983. (2555) Appeala—An apkpeal lies to the supreme court at
the instance of the plaintiff, the efendant, the garmshee, the con
testant or claimant.
§ 2984. (2556) Gawzishee recovers his costs on a discharge—When
the answer of the garnishee is not controverted, or if controverted
is found for him, he is allowed the pay of a juror during his attend~
ance, and an attorney‘s tax fee may be a lowed to be aid out of
the effects attached, for which execution may issue. If t ere be no
effects, then from the plaintiff, for which he may have judgment and
execution. (1)
§ 2985. (2557) Proceedings on death of garnishee.-If the garnishee
die after he has been summoned as garmshee, and ending the liti~
gation, the proceedings may be revived against his egal re resenta
tives ; so if the contestant die, after notice to appear an contest
with the plaintiff the right to the money or property in the hands of
the garnishee, the suit may be revived in the name of his legal rep
resentatives.
§ 2986. (2558) Judgment in attachment suspended until triaqu the
collateral issues—No judgment can be rendered against the defend
antin attachment, where a claim has been interposed to try the right
of property, where the answer of the garnishee is contested, or a
contest has arisen about the title or interest in the money or goods
attached, until these questions are settled; unless other property or
effects of the defendant be attached, about which no contest has
arisen.
§ 2987. (2559) Property condemned restored, plaintiffa-ils in suit.
If the plaintiff do not obtain judgment against the defendant in at
tachment, all property condemned, where a claim had been inter
posed, must be restored to the claimant at the costs of the plaintiff.
§ 2988. (2560) Alias writs of attachment and garnishment—Alias
writs of attachment, or new writs of garnishment, may be issued by
the clerk, without a renewal of the bond or aﬁidavit, in cases where
no properzlhas been found, or not sufficient to satisfy the debt, or
when, pen ' g the suit, the plaintiff wishes to garnishee other per
sons.*
§ 2989. (2561) Attachment abated, if issued without bond or qﬂidavit.
Attachments issued without afﬁdavit and bond, as herein prescribed,
may be abated on plea of the defendant, ﬁled within the ﬁrst three
days of the return term.
§ 2990. (2562) Attachment law liberally construed for plaintiff, and
no abatement for want of bond, (Era, plaintif will make it.——The at
tachment law must be liberally construed, to advance the manifest
intent of the law, and the plaintiff, before or durin the trial, must
be permitted to amend any defect of form, in the a davit, bond, or
attachment; and no attachment must be dismissed for any defect in,
or want of a bond, if the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, is willing
to give or substitute a sufficient bond.
§ 2991. (2563) Judgment condemning debt or property discharges
ga'rnishee ,- defendant may appeal—The judgment of the circuit court,
condemning the debt or property in the hands of the garnishee, to
the satisfaction of the plaintiff ’s demand, is conclusive as between
the garnishee and the defendant, to the extent of such judgment,
unless the defendant prosecute an appeal from such judgment, which
he may do in his own name; and if such judgment is superseded by
bond, and the garnishee notiﬁed of the fact, he is not permitted to
discharge such judgment pending the appeal.
§ 2992. (2564) Grounds of issue not traversablc, but suit may be
brought/hr improperly suing it out—The defendant must not deny or
put in issue the cause for which the attachment issued, but may at
any time within three years of the suing out of the attachment, be
fore or after the suit is determined, commence suit on the attach
ment bond, and may recover such damages as he has actually sus
tained, if the attachment was wrongfully sued out. (1)
§ 2993. (2565) Vindictiue damages for malicious attachments—If
sued out maliciously, as well as Wrongfully, the jury may, in addi
tion, give vindictive damages.
 
Bscnos.
ARTICLE VII.
Ancillary attachments.
commenced.
Scenes.
2994. (2566) Attachments in suits already
2995. (2567) Same mode of proceeding as
in other attachments.
§ 2994. (2566) Attachments in suits already commenced—When a
summons has been ‘issued, the plaintiﬂ‘, his agent or attorney, may
at any time before judgment, make afﬁdavit before the clerk of the
court in which the suit is pendin , and give bond with security as in
cases of original attachment, an thereupon the clerk must issue an
attachment returnable as in other cases.
§ 2995. (2567) Same mode of proceeding as in other attachments.—
The suit must proceed thereafter, in all respects, as if it had been
commenced originally by attachment.
ARTICLE VIII.
Judicial attachments.
Sscnox. Sacrios.
2996. (2568) Attachment when resident 2997. (2569) Proceedingsmsuch case.
defendant evades service of sum
mons.
§ 2996. (2568) Attachment when res-ident defendant evades service (f
summons—When a summons has been returned “not found,” as to
all or any of the defendants, residents of the county, if the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, make aﬂidavit that the defendant has evaded
the service of the process, the court must direct an attachment to
issue returnable t0 the next term of the court, and the cause must in
all res ects proceed as against such defendant, as if originally com
mence by attachment.
§ 2997. (2569) Proceedings in such case—The plaintiﬂ‘ may, not
. withstanding such judicial attachment, proceed to judgment against
any of the defendants on whom process was served; but a judgment
and satisfaction of the debt or claim, abates the attachment at the
costs of the plaintiff.
Ham-10s. _
ARTICLE IX.
Of the pleadings in attachment.
2998. (2570) Com laint to be ﬁled within
Scenes.
3000. (2572) Proceedings on appearance
oglgefendant, or judgment by de
ﬁrst three ays of term, and tried at
trial term. _ fa . _
2999. (2571) Complaint not ﬁled until ma- 3001. (2573) Execution for part of jmis
turity of the,debt. ment not paid by property attache .
§ 2998. (2570) Compku'nt to be ﬁled within ﬁrst three days of the term,
and tried at trial term—The plaintiﬁ' must, within the ﬁrst three
days of the return term of the attachment, ﬁle his complaint as in
smts commenced by summons, 'and the cause stands for trial as in
other cases.
§ 2999. (2571) Com aint not ﬁled until maturity of the debt—If the
debt is not due, the aintiﬁ‘ is not required to ﬁle his complaint
until the maturity o the debt.
§ 3000. (2572) Proceedings on appearance of defendant, or judgment
by default—If the defendant appear and plead, the cause proceeds
as in suits commenced in the ordina mode. If he make no de
fense, the plaintiff may, at the the tnal term, take jud ent ﬁnal,
by nihzl dicit or default, or execute a writ of inquiry of amages, as
may be necessary.
§ 3001. (2573) Execution for part of jud. ment not paid by property
attached—When the property attached an in the hands of the gar
nishee, is not sufﬁcient to satisfy the judgment of the plaintiff against
the defendant, the clerk must issue execution for the residue, which
may be levied on any property of the defendant.
ARTICLE X.
Attachments against steamboats, (to.
Samoa.
3002. (2574) Lien for injuries caused to
vessels, the, by other vessels, from
negligence, racing, the.
3003. (2575) Afﬁdavit of facts, and bond
 
Scenes. _
3009. (2581) Mode of trial when bond is
filed, and when none.
8010. (2582) On proof of injury, defendant
must prove due diligence.
before issue of writ. 8011. (2583) If bond not executed in sixty
8004. (2576) On ﬁling the afﬁdavit and days, boat sold, kc.
bond, the Oﬁiccr issues the writ. 3012. (2584) Priority of debts when there
8005. (2577) Boat seized and held to sat- are several attachments.
3006 isfpéghe judgment. 8013. (2585) After j'ludglnent,l gxecution
3007. (2579) i R°P1°W “but, m I 3014. (25%) Any other remedy may be
. (1.5 ) . may issue on t e bond ﬂ 6 .
3008. (2580) Payment into court of the pursued.
value of the boat discharges thel 3015. (2586a) Provisionsa plicable to any
bond. I beat, vessel, barge, utboat, or other
water craft.
§ 3002. (2574) Lienfor injuries caused to vessels, the, bi other ves
sels,from negligence, racing, (fie—1f any steamboat, vesse , or water
craft of any description, from the negligence or want of skill of the
master, pilot, engineer, or other ofﬁcer, or whilst racing with another
boat or vessel, rims into, runs foul of, destroys, or injures, any other
boat, vessel, barge, ﬂatboat, or other water craft, by means whereof
the property of any person on board of such boat, or other water
craft is mjured or destroyed, the person so injured has a lien upon
the boat or vessel causing the injury, to the amount of the loss,
which may be enforced as hereinafter provided.
§ 3003. (2575) [lﬁidavz't offacts, and bond before issue of writ.—
The person so injured, his agent or attorney, must make afﬁdavit of
the loss sustained, and the cause thereof, stating the name of the
boat or vessel, before any judge of the circuit court, or judge of pro
bate, clerk of the circuit court, or justice of the peace, and also exe
cute a bond with surety, lpayable to the owners of the boat or ves
sel, by name, if known, ' not, payable to the “owners,” in double
the amount of the value of the property injured or destroyed, with
condition to prosecute the attachment to effect, and to pay the
owners all such costs and damages as may be sustained by the
wrongful 0r vexatious suing out such attachment.
§ 3004. (2576) On ﬁling the aﬁidavit and bond, the oﬁtcer issues the
writ—Upon the execution of such bond and afﬁdavit, the judge,
clerk, or justice must issue an attachment, which may be made re
turnable to any circuit court in the state, directing any sheriff of the
state of Alabama to seize and retain the boat, or other water craft,
her tackle, apparel, and furniture, until discharged by due course of
1a
w.
§ 3005. (2577) Boat seized and heht to satigfj/ the judgment—After
such seizure, the sheriff must retain the boat or vessel in his osses
sion, together with the tackle, a parel, &c., to answer the ju gment
which may be rendered, and ma e return thereof, together with the
afﬁdavit, bond, and attachment, to the court to which the process is
returnable.
§ 3006. (2578) Rejﬂevy of boat, tie—The boat or vessel seized
may be released from custody, by the master or owner of the boat
or vessel, or other person, entering into bond with surety, to be ap
proved by the sheriﬂ', in double the amount of the alleged injury,
payable to the plaintiff, with condition to satisfy the judgment
which may be rendered on the attachment.
§ 3007. (2579) Replevy of boat—Or the master, owner, or some
person for him, may enter into bond with surety, in double the esti
mated value of the boat, tackle, apparel, &c., payable to the plain
tiﬁ', with condition to ay the plaintiff the value of the vessel, or
boat, her tackle, a pare , &c., at the time of the seizure, or so much
thereof as will satisfy the judgment and costs; and for the purpose
of ascertaining the value of the boat, or vessel, her tackle, apparel,
&c., the sheriff may appoint three disinterested persons, to make ap
praisement thereof.
§ 3008. (2580) Payment into court of the value of the boat discharges
the bond—The obligors in the bond last mentioned, ma pay into
court the appraised value of the boat or Vessel, and such payment
is a discharge of the bond.
§ 3009. (2581) 310014: of trial when bond is ﬁled, and when none—If
either of the above bonds be executed, the obligors therein are the
defendants in the attachment. If no bond be executed, to release
the boat or vessel, the afﬁdavit must be received as evidence of the
facts therein stated, and judgment be rendered ex parte, for the de
mand of the plaintiff, which may be at the ﬁrst term after the seiz
ure, if the attachment was executed thirty days previous to the judg
ment.
§ 3010. (2582) On proof of injury, defendant must prove dili ence—
In any trial under th1s article, proof that the loss was cause; by the
boat or vessel attached runnin foul of, or running into, the boat or
water craft in which the plaintiff’s property was, is presumptive evi
dence that the injury was caused by the negligence or. want of skill
of the oﬂicers of such boat; and t e burden of proof is then cast
on the owners of such boat, of provin that the collision was acci
dental, and without the fault of the 0 cars thereof.
§ 3011. (2583) If bond not executed in sixty days, boat sold, the.—
If no bond be executed, for the release of the boat from seizure,
within sixty days thereafter, the sheriff must sell the same for cash,
giving thirty days notice of the time and place of sale, and make
return thereof to the court in which the attachment is ending.
§ 3012. (2584) Priority of debts, when there are sever attachments.
When there are more attachments than one, if the proceeds of the
sale are not sufﬁcient to discharge all the judgments, it must be di
vided amon them ratably, or according to priority. An appeal
from such is osition of the fund must be prosecuted withm six
months thereager.
§ 3013. (2585) {terjudgmenﬂ execution may issue on the bondﬁled.
The bonds require by this article to release the boat from seizure,
must be ﬁled in the clerk’s ofﬁce, and after judgment in favor of the
plaintiff, have the force and effect of 'udgments, upon which execu
tion may issue for the amount of suc judgment and costs.
§ 3014. (2586) Any other remedy may be pursued—The provisions
of this article must not be construed so as to prevent a resort to any
other legal remedy.
§ 301. (2586a) Provisions of this article applicable to an boat, ves
sel, barge,ﬁaf boat, or other water craft.--'The rovisions 0 this arti
cle are applicable to any boat, barge, vessel, at boat or other water
craft. '

CHAPTER 2.
ram or RIGHT or PROPERTY.
Samoa.
3020. (2591) Proceedings when ropertyle
8016. (2587) Property levied on restored
to claimant, upon aﬁidavit of right
of psroperty, and bond given. er county is claimed.
vied on under execution rom anoth
(25
8017. ) On return of such claim by 8021. (2592) Proceedings on forfeiture of
the sheriff, issue is oined between bond in such cases.
laintiﬂ' and claiman . 8022. (2593) Plaintiff may levy on other
8018. 2589) Burthen of proof on the plain- propert .
tit‘l ; dams es for delay. 3028. (2594) laim bond releases actions
3019. (2590) On ailure to deliver the prop- against the sheriff.
erty ifcondemned, execution issues 3024. (2595) Mortgagce of ersonal rop
on the bond. erty ma claim it, bu plaint' may
pay off he debt.
§ 3016. (2587) Proper! levied on realm-ed t0 claimant, upon afﬁdavit
ope-rty, and mud given.—‘ When an execution is levied
on persona. roperty claimed by an person not a party to the writ,
he is entitle to try the right to suc pro ierty, before a sale thereof,
by makin afﬁdavit that he has a 'ust ch
on, and a so executing a bond, paya le to the plainti , in double the
value of the pro erty so levied upon and claimed, (the value thereof
to be determine by the sheriﬂ',) with condition to have the pro erty
forthcoming for the satisfaction of the judgment, if it be foum lia
ble therefor; and also for the payment of such costs and damages
as may be recovered for putting the claim in for delay; thereupon
the pro erty levied on must be delivered to the possession of the
person om whom it was taken.*
§ 3017. (2588) On return of such claim 3?] the sherjﬂ“, issue is joined
between plaintﬂf and claimant—The sheri must return the aﬁidavit
and bond to the next term of the court from Which the execution
issued, when an issue must be made between the laintiﬂ' in execu~
tion and the claimant, in which the former must e re uired to al
lege that the (property levied on is the property of the defendant 1n
execution, an liable to its satisfaction.
§ 3018. (2589) Burthen ofproof on the plaintiff; damges for delay.
U on the trial of the issue, the burthen of proof is upon the plain
tid? in execution, and if the jury subject the property to the ayment
of the execution, they must, as far as practicable, assess t e value
at the time of trial of each article separately. If it be shown that
the claim was intelgposed for delay, they must also assess such dam
ages as the plaint' may be entitled to, not less than ten per centum
on the execution.
aim to the roperty levied
§ 3019. (2590) On failure to deliver the pr rty, if condemned, exe
cution isszws on the bond—If judgment be reddlaered against the claim
ant, and he fail to deliver the property to the sheriff within thirty
days thereafter, to satisfy the execution of the plaintiff, the sheriff
must indorse the bond forfeited ; and the clerk must thereupon issue
an execution against all the obligors therein for the amount of the
judgment of the laintiﬁ', if that is less than the value of the prop
erty as assessed y the jury, or for the amount of such assessed
value, if less than the amount of the judgment; also for the dama
ges, if any were assessed, and the costs of the trial of the right of
ro ert .
§ 3020. (2591) Proceedings when propert levied on under execution
from another county is claimed—When the levy is made in a different
county from that in which the judgment is rendered, if a claim is
interposed to the property, it is the duty of the sheriff to return the
ori vinal execution to the ofﬁce of the clerk from which it issued,
wit 1 his return thereon 0f the interposition of a claim; and make
true copies of the bond and afﬁdavit, which he must return with the
execution. He must also make a true co y of the execution, and
the returns thereon, which, with the aﬂidawt and bond, he must re
turn to the ofﬁce of the clerk of his own county, where the trial of
the right of property is to be had. The copies thus required to be
made, certiﬁed by the sheriff to be true copies of the original, must
be received in lieu of, and have the same effect in all respects as the
originals.
§ 3021. (2592) Proceedings on forfeiture of bond in such cases—If
the pro erty is found liable to the plaintiff ’s execution, and is not
delivere up within thirty days by the claimant to the sheriff of the
county where the trial of the right of pro erty was had, he must
indorse the bond forfeited, and thereu on t e clerk must issue exe
cution as in other cases of trial of rig it of property, except that he
must make the execution for the collection of the judgment, and the
dama es awarded on the trial of the right of property, any,) re
turnagle to the ofﬁce of the clerk of the court whence t e original
execution issued, of which, and the time of its receipt by the sheriff,
he must give the clerk thereof written notice, which is presumptive
proof of the fact against the sheriff, and must also issue a separate
execution for the costs of his own court.
§ 3022. (2593) Plaintiff may levy on other property—The interpo
sition of a claim, and trial of the right of propert , does not prevent
the plaintiff from levying on other property of e defendant in ex
ecution.
§ 3023. (2594. Claim bond releases actions against the sheriﬂ'l—-A
claim interposed for the trial of the ri ht of 1lproperty, is a release
by the claimant, in favor of the sheriff, om a damages for seizing
such property.
§ 324. (2595) Mortgagee of personal property may claim it, but
plaintiff may pay of the debt—“Then personal property mortgaged
to another, is levied on by execution, the mortgagee or his assignee
may try the right of property as herein provi 6( ; but the plaintiff
in execution may discharge the mort age debt, and then it shall be
the duty of the sheriff to proceed an sell, as well for the pa ment
of the mortgage, which must be ﬁrst satisﬁed, as for the satis action
of the execution. (1)
§ 3025. (2596) On notice of motion, judgment rendered summarily
against certain oﬂice-rs.—Judgment may be rendered summarily
against the persons and for the defaults hereinafter stated, upon no
tice in writing by the arty aggrieved, that a motion will be made
for 'udgment, succinct y stating in such notice the cause for which
suc motion will be made, and the term of the court, and county.
§ 3026. (2597) Made by the injured party against thedqfaulter and his
sureties, and judgment against those having notice—The motion may be
made by the party argrieved, or his legal representative, against the
person in default, an his sureties upon his ofﬁcial bond, and judg
ment must be rendered against such of the parties, whether rinci
pal or surety, as may have received notice of the intended motion. (1)
§ 3027. (2598) Entry on the motion doclwl, is notice to an oﬁiwr of
court, and his sureties—A motion entered on the motion docket, in
term time, is sufﬁcient notice to all oﬁicers of the court and their
sureties.
§ 3028. (2599) Court to try the case, unless a jury is demanded, and
the case is trial immediately.-—Unless in cases otherwise directed by
this chapter, the court must hear and determine the motion, and
render jud ment u on the evidence, without a jury, unless an issue
is tendere , and a Jury trial demanded, when a jury must be imme
diately impanelled to try the facts, unless good cause be shown for
a continuance. (2)
§ 3029. (2600) In what court the motion should be made—The sum
mary remedies here given must be enforced in the manner follow
in", except in cases otherwise specially provided in this chapter:
erien the motion is against a sheriff, coroner, clerk, or other oﬂicer
of court, or their sureties, the motion must be made in the circuit
com't of the county in which such ofﬁcer was acting oﬂieially at the
time of the default, or in the court to which the process was return
able, when the default consists in the failure to execute or return
process, or to pay over money collected thereon. In all other cases
not specially provided for, the motion must be' made in the circuit
court of the county in which the erson moved against resides; if
he has no permanent residence, thlen in any county where he may
be found.
§ 3030. (2600a) Protection to qﬂicers on tender in currency received.
“If any suit at law or in equity shall be instituted in any of the courts
of this state, against any attorney, agent, judge, clerk, sheriﬂ', or
other ofﬁcer, for a failure to collect or pay over any money alleged
to have been collected by them, or which they failed to collect, and
if it ap car on trial of any such cause, that such attorney, agent,
judge, c erk, sheriﬁ', or other ofﬁcer, on demand being made of them,
offered to pay the same in Confederate treasury notes, or treasury
notes of this state, previous to the close of the late war, the court
trying such cause must dismiss the same, and must render judg
ment for costs against the plaintiff.
ARTICLE II.
Proceedings against sherifs, coroners, and other executive Qﬂice-rs.
Suc'nox. 1 Sncrrox.
3031. (2601) Judgment on three days no- (2608) Judgment rendered in favor
tice to sheriﬂ‘, or ofﬁcer, who re- of defendant in execution, on three
ceived or executed the writ. days notice in the following cases :
3032. (2602} Penalty for failing to return 3039. (2609) For failure to pay over excess
an execution, or pay ov'cr money 001- received on sales.
lected on one. 3040. (2610) For failure to return execu
3033. (2603) For failure to make the tion wholly or artially satisﬁed.
(2611) For fai urc to refund money
moncy on an execution. 3041.
3034. (2604) For false and fraudulent re
when its collection has been en
joined.
urn.
(2605) For failure to give notice of
3035. 3012. (2612; In favor of clerk of supreme
the collection of money. court on three days notice.
3036. (2606) For failure to indorse on an 3013. (2613) Grounds of such judgment.
execution the true date of its dcliv- 304:4. (2614) Copy of the execution and
cry. certiﬁcate of clerk are evidence, but
3037. (2607) For failure to execute mesne sheriff may deny the receipt or aver
process. the return of an execution on oath.
§ 3031. (2601) Judgment on three days notice to sheriﬂ‘ or aﬁcer,
who received or executed the writ—Judgment must be rendered for
p laintiﬁ' on three days notice, in the following cases, against the
sherﬁi', coroner, or other oﬂicer receiving or executing the writ. (1)
§ 3032. (2602) Penaltyfor failing to return an execution, orpay over
money collected on one.—F01‘ failing to return an execution, twent
per centum on the judgment. For failing to pay over money co -
ected upon an execution, on demand of the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, judgment for the amount so collected, and ﬁve or centum
per month damages from the time such demand was ma e.
§ 3033. (2603) For fail me to make the money on an ea'emztion.——For
failing to make the money on an execution, which by due diligence
could have been made, judgment for the amount of the execution,
mterest, and ten per centum damages. (1)
§ 3034. (2604) Forfalse and fraudulent return—For fraudulently
making a false return, judgment for the amount of the execution, in
terest, and ten per centum damages thereon.
§ 3035. (2605) For failure to give notice of the collection of m .
For failing to notify the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, of theohlgl
lection of money by execution, ﬁve per centum per month, on the
amount collected, from the time when the notice should have been
given, not to exceed twenty-ﬁve dollars a mouth.
§ 3036. (2606) Forfailure to indorse on an execution the true date of
its delivery—For failing to indorse on an execution the true date of
its delivery to him, judgment for ten per centum on the amount of
the execution. The ofﬁcer is also responsible for any injury or loss
which may arise from such omission.
§ 3037. (2607) Forﬁu'lure to wade mesne process.—For failing to
execute a summons, attachment, or other means recess which by
due diligence could have been executed, judgment or a sum not less
than ﬁfty nor more than ﬁve hundred dollars, to be ascertained by
a jur -. This remedy not to preclude the party injured from a resort
to 0t or legal modes of redress.
§ 3038. (2608) Judgment rendered in favor of defendant in execution,
on three days notice, in the following cases.--Judgment must in like
manner be rendered in favor of the defendant in execution, against
the sheriff or coroner, on three days notice:
§ 3039. (2609) For failure to pay over excess received on sales—For
failure to pay over on demand any excess of money which may re
main upon a sale by execution, after the satisfaction thereof and the
costs, judgment for the amount of such excess, and ﬁve per centum
per month after demand.
§3040. (2610) For failure to return execution wholly or partially
satisﬁed—For failing to return an execution wholly or partially sat
isﬁed, twenty-ﬁveper centum on the amount paid.
§3041. (2611) orfailure to refund money when its collection has
been cvy'oinerh—For failin to pay over on demand money paid or col~
lected on an execution, t e whole or any part of which is enjoined
in chancery, jud ent for the amount so enjoined, and ﬁve per
centum er men on the amount from the time of the demand.
§ 3042. (2612) Infavor of clerk of supreme court on three days no
tice—Judgment must in like manner be rendered in favor of the
clerk of the supreme court, against the sheriff or coroner, on three
(is. s notice.
§ 3043. (2613) Grounds of such _}'udgments.-—For failure to return
an execution from the su reme court, for making a false return
thereon, for failing to m e the money when by due diligence it
could have been made, or failing on demand to pay over money col
lected on an execution, judgment for the )enalties herein prescribed
for the same defaults on executions issued from the circuit court.
§ 3044. (2614) Copy of the execution and certiﬁcate of clerk are evi
dence, but sheri may den the receipt or aver the return of an execu
tion on oatt.— n the tria of the motion a copy of the execution
made and certiﬁed by the clerk, with the return thereon, if any was
made, or a statement that no return was made, if such be the fact,
together with his certiﬁcate that the execution was received by the
sheriff, or sent to him by mail, is evidence of the facts so certiﬁed,
without producing a transcri t of the record from the roceedingﬂ
of the supreme court ; and also presumptive evidence that the wnt
was received by the sheriff, unless he states under oath, in writing,
that he never received the writ or returned it according to law.
§ 3045. (2615) Summary judgments in favor of sherg'ﬁ" or coroner,
on three days notice—Judgment must in like manner be rendered
summarily in favor of the sheriﬁ' or coroner, on three days notice
of the pendency of the suit—
1. Against the obligors on bonds given to indemnify the ofﬁcer for
levyin an execution or attachment, or for making sale of property
so lewed on or attached, after jud out against the oﬂicer for
making such levy or sale ; judgment or the same amount rendered
against such ofﬁcer.
2. Against the deputy of the sheriff and his sureties for the
amount of any judgment which ma be rendered against the sheriﬁ
or coroner for the default of such eputy.
ARTICLE IV.
Against clerks of circuit and supreme court.
Swnou. SECTION.
3046. (2616) Judgment against circuit 58. (2622) For failure to return state
clerk and his suretiee, on three days’ ment of ﬁnes for the county.
notice. 8054. (2623) In favor of comptroller on
8047. (2617) For failing to enter oﬂiccr's ten dsye notice.
return on an execution. 3055. (2624) For failure to afﬁx stamp to
8048. (2618) For failing to pay over money seal.
received oﬂicislly. 3056. (2625) For failure to issue execution
3049. (2618a) For failing to give notice of for forfeiture to the state.
the collection of money. 3057. (2626) For ﬁnes received and not
3050. (2619) For failure to issue execu- paid over.
tions. 8058. (2627) Against the clerk of the su
8051. (2620) For failure to pay money de
posited iu court under section 2540
H4
).
3052. (2621) For failure to my over to the
county treasurer fun 5 collected for
the county.
 
prcme court for the amount of the
state tax on suits received and not
accounted for.
§3046. (2616) Judgment against circuit clerk and his sureties, on
three days notice—Jud ent must in like manner be rendered sum
marily against the cler of the circuit court and his sureties, on
three days notice. 1)
§3047. (2617) or failing to enfcr ofﬁcer’s return on an execution.
In favor of the plaintiﬁ' in execution, for failing to enter on the ex
ecution docket the return made upon an execution by the proper
oﬂicer, within three days after the return is made, judgment for
twenty per centum on the amount of the execution, and interest
thereon. '
§ 048. (2618) For failing to pay over money received (ﬁddly.—
For failing on demand to pay over money received by him on any
'udgment, or paid into court on a. plea of tender or other plea, or
y rule of court, judgment for the sum so received by him, with ﬁve
per centum per month on the amount, after demand.
§ 3049. (2618a) For failing to give notice cf the collection (f money.

“The provisions of section 2865 (2451)
ggpl to clerks of the circuit
court, and for failing to notify the plain ' , ' agent or attorne , of
the collection of money upon judgments, such clerks are liab e to
judgment for ﬁve per cent. per month, on the amount collected, from
the time when the notice should have been given, not to exceed
twenty-ﬁve dollars a month. _
§ 3050. (2.619) For failure to issue executiona—For failing to issue
execution as prescribed by sections 2839 (2424) and 2842 (2427),
within the time rescribed by law after the adjournment of the
court, or at any time subsequent, on request of the party interested,
his agent or attorney, or for failure to issue execution within ﬁve
days on all bonds returned forfeited, and upon which execution may
rightfully issue, and upon judgments remanded from the supreme
court, judgment for twenty per centum on the amount of the judg
ment.
§ 305. (2620) For failure to pay money deposited in court under
section 2540 (2144).—In favor of the party entitled thereto, for fail
” on demand to pay over money received by him under section
2540 (2144), judgment for the amount so paid, and ﬁve per centum
(lama es thereon for each month after demand made.
§ 352. (2621) For-failure to pay over to the county treasurer funds
collected/"or the county—In favor of' the county treasurer for failing
to pa over to the county treasurer, on demand, all ﬁnes or forfeitures
or 0t er moneys belonging to the county treasury, judgment for the
amount thereof, and ﬁve per cent. per month on the amount from the
time of the demand. (1)
§ 3053. (2622) Forfeiture to return statement (fﬁnesfor the county.
For failing to return to the county treasurer, within ten days after
the adjournment of court, the statement required by the revisions
(of section 916 (781), of all ﬁnes, forfeitures, and penalties lhelonging
to the county assessed during the previous term, judgment for ﬁfty
dollars, for the use of the county. .
§ 3054. (2623) Infavor of comptrolter on ten days notice—In favor
of the com )troller of public accounts, on ten days notice to the cir
cuit court old at the seat of government, or that of the county in
which the clerk, or any surety proceeded against, resides.
§ 3055. (2624) For failure to afﬁx stam s.—" For failingto afﬁx the
stamps required by the revenue laws 0 this state, ﬁfty dollars for
each offense, one-half to go to the informer; and the solicitor’s fee
shall be ﬁfteen dollars.*
§ 3056. (2625) For failure to issue executionforfor/eitare to the state.
For failure to issue executions for forfeitures belonging to the trea
sury of the state, as required b the provisions of section 2839 (2424),
judgment for the sum of two undred dollars.
§ 3057. (2626) For ﬁnes received and not paid oven—For all ﬁnes,
penalties, or forfeitures belonging to the state treasury, received by
the clerk and not paid into the treasury within one month after their
receipt, judgment for the amount so received, and ten per cent. dam
ages thereon.
§ 3058. (2627) Against the (jerk of the supreme courtfor the ammm/t
of the state. tax on suits receive and not accounted fora—Against the
clerk of the supreme court and his sureties, for failing to make re
turn and payment according to the provisions of, and within the
time prescribed by section 442 (405), for the amount of the state tax
on al cases decided at the regular term of such court“preceding the
regular term referred to in such section, and on all 0 er cases de
cided before such term, on which the state tax has not been paid by
such clerk; to be recovered on motion to be made by the attorney
general, in the name of the comptroller of public accounts, in the
circuit court of the county in which the seat of government is loca
ted, on three days notice; and on failure to produce the dockets of
the supreme court, upon reasonable notice, a perem tory attachment
may issue against such clerk, without any rule to s ow cause.*
ARTICLE V.
Against judges of probate and tax colkctors.
Samoa.
3059. (2628) Judgment in favor of the
com troller in the circuit court on
ten aye notice.
 
Sscrios.
8060. (2632) Against defaulting tax col
lectors, and probate judges.
3061. (2633) Certiﬁcate of the comptroller
evidence of the facts stated.
§3059. (2628) Judgment in favor of the comptroller in the circuit
court on ten days notice—Judgment must in like manner be summa
rily rendered, in favor of the comptroller of public accounts, against
the defaulters hereinafter named, and their sureties, in the circuit
court held at the seat of government, or in that of the county in
which any defaulter or his sureties may reside, on ten days notice. (1)
(2629) [Repealed, chapters 4, 17, act 19th February,
1867, pp. 270, 252; articles 4, 17, chapter 3, title 7, part 1, of this
Code. 1 (2630)
[Repealed See article 17, chapter 3, title 7, part
1, of this Code]
(2631) [Repealed See article 17, chapter 3, title 7, part
1, of this Code]
§ 3060. (2632) Against defaulting tax collectors and probate judges.—
Against defaulting tax collectors and probate judges, for the amount
of taxes collected by them, not paid into the treasury; 'udgment for
the amount not aid into the treasu , interest from t e time such
payment shouldlhave been made, an twenty-ﬁve per cent. damages
thereon. (1)
§ 3061. (2633) Certiﬁcate of the comptroller evidence of the facts
stated—Upon the tria of any motion made by the comptroller, his
certiﬁcate of the act or omission upon which such motion is founded,
and of the amount due the state, is presumptive evidence of the fact.
((2634) [Repealed See article 17, chapter 3, title 7, part
1, of this ‘ode.]
ARTICLE VI.
Against attorneys at law.
'Sncrros. Sacrrou.
3062. (2685) Summary 'udgments for 8063. (2636) Plaintiff to showhis title, and
money collected and not paid over ; attorney’s compensation settled by
proceedings in such cases. the court.
8061. (2637) Personal notice to be given
the attorney.
§ 3062. (2635) Summary judgment for money collected and not paid
over; proceedings in such cases—Judgment may, in like manner, be
rendered against an attorney at law in this state, who fails to pay
over money collecter by him in that capacity, on demand made by
the person entitled thereto, his agent or attorney, for the amount
due, interest thereon, and damages at the rate of ﬁve per cent. per
month, after such demand, on the aggregate amount, in the circuit
court of the county in which such attorney resides, or if he has no
known place of residence in this state, in the circuit court of any
county, on three days notice; but such attorney may, if a doubt ex
ists as to the right of'the person making the demand, or if there be
a dispute as to his compensation, pay the money into court, the ﬁrst
court after receiving notice of such motion, if notice of the same is
given before court; or into the court at which the notice is given, if
Igiven during court, and have such questions there decided, without
eing liable to interest or damages.
§ 3063. (2636) Plaa'ntg'f loslzow his title, and attorney’s compensation
settled by the court—The court may require the party claiming the
money to establish his right thereto, and in determining the ques
tion of compensation, may examine both parties, and give costs in
discretion.
§ 3064. (2637) Personal notice to be given the attorney—In the cases
provided for in the two preceding sections, personal notice is neces
sary.
CHAPTER 4.
PROCEEDINGS BY SURETIES.
Sucrms. Sum-10x.
3065. (2638) Surety on replevin bond may 8073. (2646) Surety not to confess judg
demand indemnity. ment, if principal will defend and in
3066. (2639) Afﬁdavit made of refusal to demnil’ im.
've indemnity. 8074. (2647) urety may require the cred
8067. (2640) Writ of seizure then issues. itor to sue the principal, or other
8068. (2641) If bond is given, it is ﬁled sureties and discharged by failure.
with the original bond. 8075. (2648) his does not apply to bond
3069. (2642) Proceedings on writ of seiz- with collateral conditions, or admin
ure when the property is perishable. istrators' or guardians‘ bonds.
8070. (2643) Judgments rcnderedfor sure- 8076. (2649) These rules apply generally
ties against their princi ale and each to executors and admrmstrators of
other, on motion wit three days sureties.
notice. 3077. (2650) Court to which the motion
8071. 2644) Cases in which they are ren- should be made.
ered for the surety agains the prin- 3078. (26500) On payment by surety, plain
cipal. mill to assign judgment.
8072. (2‘ ) When allowed sureties against
each other.
§ 3065. (2638) Surety on o-eplecin bond may demand indemnity.—
When the principal in any replevin bond is wasting the replevied
property, or is removing, or about to remove himself or property,
out of the state, the surety or sureties to the replevy bond may de
mand of the principal adequate indemnity against loss, by collateral
securit .
§ 3066. (2639) Afﬁdavit made of v'q'usal to give indemnify—If such
security be not given within ﬁve days after demand made, the surety
may make aﬁidavit thereof before the clerk of the circuit court in
which such bond is ﬁled, setting forth the demand of the principal
for collateral security, for some one or more of the causes mentioned
in the preceding section, and that the principal has failed to give
such security.
§ 3067. (2640) Writ of seizure then issues—Thereupon the clerk
must issue a writ directed to the sheriff, commandin him to seize the
replevied property, and hold the same until the decision of the cause
in which it was replevied, or until the principal execute bond with
sufﬁcient surety, in the same penalty as the replevin bond, payable
to the surety, with condition to have the property forthcoming to
abide the decision in the pi incipal cause, or to pay and satisfy the
judgment rendered therein.
§ 3068. (2641) bond is iven, it is ﬁled with the original bond—If
the bond is given, it must e ﬁled with the original replevy bond,
and execution may issue thereon u on a breach of the original re
ple bond, in favor either of the p aintiﬂ' or of the surety.
§ 3069. (2642) Proceedings on writ of seizure when the propert? is
perishabte.—-If bond is not given, and the property is seized, and is
of a wasting or perishable nature, or when the expense of keeping it
would materially aﬁect its value, it must be sold by the sheriff in the
same manner as property levied on by execution, and return thereof
made as upon a writ of fieri jhm'as.
§ 3070. (2643) Judgments rendered for sureties against their prin
ci Is and each other, on motion with three days notice.-—Sureties,
whither bound on the contract or instrument with the principal
debtor as joint, or joint and several obligors or promisors, or as ac
commodation drawers, acceptors, or indorsers of a bill of exchange,
or in an other manner, are entitled to a summary jud ent against
their principal, and between each other, by motion in the circuit
court, on three days notice thereof, in the cases and in the manner
following:
§ 3071. (2644) For the surety against the principal debtor.—Against
the principal debtor—
1. When a judgment has been obtained against the surety which
he has satisﬁed, either wholly or in part, for the amount paid and
interest.
2. \Vhen a surety or sureties are sued without their principal,
upon notice given to the principal of the pending suit, if judgment
is obtained against the surety, judgment for the same amount must
be rendered against the principal in favor of the surety.
3. A surety to a debt payable in bank, which by its charter is
entitled to a summm remedy against its debtors, may upon the
payment by him of the debt to the bank, be entitled to the same
remedy against his principal, in the circuit court of the county in
which the principal resides, or if he be a non-resident or has no ﬁxed
residence, then in the circuit court of an county in the state. The
certiﬁcate of the president or cashier of t e bank, of the payment of
the debt by the surety, is evidence of the fact of payment.
§ 3072. (2645) Judgments between sureties—Between sureties——
1. A surety who has paid the debt of his principal may recover of
each of his co-sureties their aliquot proportion of the debt. If any
of the co-sureties are insolvent, the proportion of such insolvent
must be excluded from the estimate, and judgment be rendered
against the remaining solvent sureties, for t eir proportion of the
debt, as if such insolvent was not a co-surety.
2. When suit is pending against one or more sureties, either in
connection with or without their principal, if the fprincipal is insol
vent 'or dead, the surety so sued may, on notice 0
the pending suit,
recover jud ment against such of the co~sureties as are not sued in
that action or their aliquot proportion of the debt, excluding from
the estimate the proportion of such of the sureties as are insolvent,
as if such insolvent had not been a surety. (1)
§ 3073. (2646) Surely not to confess jurlgmenl, if principal will de~
fend and indermufq him—No surety when sued can confess judgment
or suffer judgment to pass by default, if the principal debtor, on be~
ing notiﬁed of the pending suit, is willing to defend the suit at his
own cost, and gives (good and suﬂicient collateral security to the
surety, to be approve by the court.
§ 3074. (2647) Surely may require the creditor to sue the principal
or other suretiee, or discharged by failure—A surety upon any con
tract for the payment of money, or for the payment or delivery of
personal property, may require the creditor or an one having the
eneﬁcial interest in the contract, by notice in writing, to bring suit
thereon against the principal debtor, or against any co-surety to
such contract; and if suit be not brought thereon pursuant to such
notice, to the ﬁrst court to which suit can be brought after the re
ceipt of such notice, and prosecuted with dili ence according to the
o 'nar course of law, the surety iving suc notice is discharged
from a liability as surety, or his aliquot proportion of the debt, as
the case may be. One surety may give the notice in behalf of his
co-sureties. (2)
§ 3075. (2648) This does not apply to bond with collateral mruiitions,
or adrnz'nietralors’ or guardiarw’ bond-a—The remedy secured by the
preceding section, does not apply to bonds or other contracts with
collateral conditions, or to the bonds of executors, administrators,
ardians or public ofﬁcers.
§ 3076. (2649) These rules apply generally to executors and adminis—
trators of surclies.—All the provisions of this chapter enure to the
beneﬁt of the executors or administrators of the creditor or surety,
band in favor of sureties and co-sureties a ainst the executors or
r g
administrators of the principal or of a surety.
§ 3077. (2650) Court to which the motion should be made—In cases
not otherwise provided for in this cha ter, the motions hereby given
must be made in the circuit court of t e county in which the parties,
or any one of them reside, against whom the motion is made. If
they are non-residents, or have no ﬁxed residence in the state, then
in the circuit court of any county in the state. (3)
§ 3078. (2650a) 0n payment by surety plainliﬁ' to assign judgment.—
°Whenever a judgment is obtained by a creditor on a demand to
which there are one or more sureties, the sureties may pay such de
mand, and the plaintiff in the judgment, his agent or attorney of
record, when the payment is made, must assign such jud ment to
the surety or suretles paying the money, who may collect t e same
with interest and costs in the name of the laintiﬂ‘ for their use, and
may assert in law or equity any lien or right a ainst the princlpal
debtor which the plaintiff could assert, if the ebt had not been
paid; but in every such case the assignee or transferee of the judg
ment is bound to accept and receive payment of it in the same kllld
of currency which he may have paid for it.
§ 3079. (2651) Proceedings to vacate charters, (except municipal char
ters,) instituted either by the state or an individual—An action may be
brought in the name of the state on the information of any person,
for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annulling the existence
pif any corporation, other than municipal, whenever such corpora
on—
1. Oﬂ‘ends against any of the acts creating, altering or renewing
such co oration. '
2. Vio ates the provisions of any law, by which such corporation
forfeits its charter, by abuse of its powers.
3. Whenever it has forfeited its privileges or franchises, by failure
to exercise its powers.
4. Whenever it has done or omitted any act which amounts to a
surrender of its corporate rights, privileges, and franchises.
5 \Vhenever it exercises a franchise or privilege, not conferred on
it by law.
§ 3080. (2652) Solicitor directed to commence proceedings in certain
cases ; but any one may sue on giving securiti/ for costa—The judge of
the circuit, in which such 00 oration is coated, whenever he has
reason to believe that any of t ese acts or omissions can be proved,
and it is necessa for the public good, must direct the solicitor of
such circuit to bring such action; or such action may be brought on
the information of an person, giving security for the costs of the
action, to be approve by the clerk of the court in which the same
is brought.
§ 3081. (2653) Such suits brought in the county of its principal busi
ness—Such actions must be brought in the county in which such
corporation has its principal ofﬁce, or if it has no principal ofﬁce, in
an county in which it does business.
§ 3082. (2654) Action in the name of the state,f0r awn-ping an (Woe
01" franchise, (ﬁe—An action may be brought in the name of the
state against the party offending, in the following cases:
1. When any person usurps, mtrudes into, or unlawfully holds or
exercises any public ofﬁce, civil or military, or any franchise within
this state, or any ofﬁce in a corporation created by the authority of
this state.
2. When any public ofﬁcer, civil or military, has done or suffered
an act, by which, by law, he forfeits his ofﬁce.
3. When any association or number of persons act within this
state as a corporation, without being duly incorporated. (1)
§ 3083. (2655) Judge of the circuit may direct such a suit, or any
one giving .svu'urity for costs may begin it.—A judge of the circuit
court may direct such action to be brought, whenever he believes
these acts can be proved, and it is necessary for the public good;
or it may be brought on the information of any erson giving secu
rity for the costs of the action, to be approved Ihy the clerk of the
court in which such action is brought. ( )
§ 3084. (2656) Brought in the circuit court of the county where
the acts are committed—Such actions must be brought in the cir
cuit court of the county in which the act or acts are done or suf
fered.
§ 3085. (2657) Informant joined as plainttﬂI—Whenev'er an action
is brought under the provisions of this chapter, on the information
of any person, the name of such person must be joined as plaintiff
with the state.
§ 3086. (2658) On death of informant, any one may continue the 00
tion, on giving security for costs—Should such person die, pending
such action, 1t may be continued in the name of the survivin in
formant, or in the name of any erson, who on application is an sti
tuted in his place, having ﬁrst given security for the costs.
§ 3087. (2659) Action abates by death of all the informant.5'.—On the
death of all the informants, if no person is substituted in their place,
the action abates.
§ 3088. (2660) Contents of the complaint in such suit—The com
plaint in any action brought under the rovisions of this chapter,
must concisely and clearly set forth the act or omission com~
lained of.
§ 3089. (2661) Names of the true qﬁicers stated in actions for usur
iation.——“Thenever such action is brought against a person for usurp
mg an ofﬁce, in addition to the statement set forth in the complaint,
the name of the person rightfully entitled to the ofﬁce, with a state
ment of his right thereto, may be added. -
§ 3090. (2662) Jud ment on dlfendant’s right, or in favor of rt
said to be entitled—iii every such case, 'udgment may be rend);
upon the right of the defendant, and aiso upon the ri ht of the
party so alleged to be entitled, or only upon the right of e defend
ant, as 'usticc requires.
§ 3091. (2663) judgment is in favor of party said to be the true
Qgtccr, he may demand the (ﬂee—If the judgment is rendered upon
t e right of the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same is
in favor of such person, he is entitled, after taking the oath of ofﬁce
and executing such oﬁicial bond as may be required, to take upon
himself the execution of the ofﬁce; and it is his duty, immediately
thereafter, to demand of the defendant all the books, pa ers, and
property in his custody, or within his power, belonging to the ofﬁce;
and on refusal or neglect to deliver over the same, he may be pro~
ceeded against as is prescribed by the provisions of article Sixth,
chapter ﬁrst, title ﬁfth, in part ﬁrst of this Code.
§ 3092. (2664) Validity of contested elections not tried in this man
ner.—The validity of any election, which may be contested under this
Code, cannot be tried under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 3093. (2665) Judgment of exdusion from the oﬂice or franchise.
When a defendant, whether a natural person or a corporation, against
whom such action has been brou ht, 1s adjudged guilty of usurping
or intruding into, or unlawfully olding, or exercising an ofﬁce, or
franchise, judgment must be rendered, that such defendhnt be ex
cluded from the ofﬁce or franchise, and that the plaintiff recover
costs against such defendant.
§ 3094. (2666) On udgmcnt of forfeiture, the cooperation is dis
solced.—If it be adjudged that a corporation against which an ac
tion has been brought, pursuant to this chapter, has, b neglect,
abuse, or surrender, forfeited its corporate rights, priv' eges and
franchises, judgment must be rendered that the corporation be ex-
cluded from such corporate rights, privile es or franchises, and be
dissolved; and judgment for costs must e rendered against the
persons claiming to be such corporation, and the directors or man
agers thereof, as established by the testimony.
§ 3095. (2667) Costs against the informant or state—If such action
is at the suit of the state alone, and judgment is for the defendant,
or the defendants are insolvent, the witnesses are paid as in other
state cases; but if a person is joined with the state as informant,
judgment must be rendered against him for the costs, if rendered
for the defendant.
§ 3096. (2668) Costs on abatement.-—On the abatement of the ac
tion, judgment is rendered against the securities of the informant
for the costs.
§ 3097. (2669) Execution against the informant and surcties for
costa—In all cases under this chapter, in which judgment is ren
dered a ainst the informant for costs, execution may issue therefor
against his securities.
§ 3098. (2670) Either party may appeal in ten days—The inform
ant, or defendant, may appeal to the su reme court within ten days
after judgment, on ap lication to the c erk, and giving security for
the costs of the appe ; the names of such securities to be certiﬁed
with the record, to the supreme court; and if the appeal is not
sustained, judgment for costs may be rendered against such secu
rlties.
§ 3099. (2671) If the state sues, judgment for the defendant ﬁnal.—
If the action is brought by the state alone, the judgment in favor of
the defendant is ﬁnal.
§ 3100. (2672) Tax fee of solicitor.—The solicitor, if judgment is
rendered for the plaintiff, is entitled to a fee of twenty dollars.
CHAPTER 6.
MECHANICS’ LIEN.
Swnos. Samoa.
3101. (2678) Character of mechanics’ lien, 3103. (2675) Lien enforced in equity or by
and conditions on which it vests. execution. '
8102. (2674) Lien accrues on estate of the 3104. (2676) Lien lostif not enforced with
party contracting, whether legal or in ninety days.
equitable.
§ 3101. (2673) Character of mechanica’ lien, and conditions on which
it meta—Mechanics and builders have a prior lien u on the tract,
parcel, or lot of land on which buildings are erected y them, and
on the building so erected, for the price agreed on, or compensation
to be paid, and materials used in the construction thereof, unless
surety be given to such builders for the performance of the contract,
or an agreement be made in writing, waiving the lien. The lien is
created upon the following conditions:
1. The contract for the erection of the building must be in writing,
and describe, with suﬁ‘icient certainty to identify it, the tract, lot, or
parcel of land on which the buildin is to be erected; it must state
the price or com ensation to be paid, be signed by the parties, or
their agents, and lie registered in the ofﬁce of the judge of rebate
of the county in which the lands lie, within sixty days after t e date
thereof.
2. The lien is subordinate to any existing mortgage, deed of trust,
or other legal incumbrance, which, if required by law to be recorded,
is re 'stered according to law.
3. e owner of the land may at any time relieve the land from
the lien, by giving the builder good and suﬁ‘icient surety for the pay
ment of the price, or compensation agreed on.
4. A change or modiﬁcation of the contract does not aﬁ'ect the
lien.
§ 3102. (2674) Lien accrues on estate of the party contractingﬂvhether
legal or equitable—The lien hereby created is eﬁ'ectual against the
title or estate of the party contracting for the erection of buildings
on the lands, at the time the contract was made; whether it be a
freehold or less estate, and whether the title be legal or equitable.
§ 3103. $2675) Lien enforced in equity or by execution—The lien
may be en orced in equity; or if the builder obtain a judgment at
law, he ma , by execution, ex ose to sale the land and the build
in s erecte thereon, if the tit e is such as can be sold by execution
at aw, but is not to be precluded from levying his execution upon
an other property of such contracting ar .
§ 3104. (2676) Lien lost if not enfore 101'! zin ninety days.—-N0 lien
under the provisions of this chapter can be enforced, imless pro
ceedings to enforce the same in equity, or an action at law upon the
contract, is commenced within ninety days after the completion of
the work, or supply of materials.
§ 3105. (2677) Partition of properly among persons having Jomt or
common tenancy.-—‘Any property, real, personal or mixed, held by
]omt owners or tenants in common, may be dlwded among them on
the application of the persons entitled thereto, or an one of them,
in writing to the judge of probate of the county in w ich the rop
erty is. hSuch application may be made by the executor or min-
istrator of a deceased person in interest, or by the guardian of a
minor or person of unsound mind.
§ 3106. (2678) Contents of the application for parlition.—° The a plicant
must set forth the names 0 all the persons interested in t e
property, and their residence, the property sought to be divided or
partitioned, the interest of each erson in the same, the number of
shares into which it is to be diwded, and, if the application be for
partition of land, a full and accurate description of such land.
(2679) [Repealed by act 8 February, 58, p. 252.]
§ 3107. (2679a) Notice of day of hearing required, and guardian ad
litem appointed.—-" Upon the ﬁling of such petition, the judge of probate
must appoint a day for hearing the same, not less than thirty
days from its ﬁling; and all parties in interest must have at least
ten days notice of the time and place set for hearing the application,
and in cases where infants or persons of unsound mind are parties,
guardians arl [item must be appointed to represent them. " If any of
the parties in interest are non-residents, t ey may be made parties
in the same manner and to the same extent, as is done when rop
erty in the hands of an executor or administrator is to be divi ed or
distributed.
(2680) [Repealed by act 8 February, 58, p. 252.]
§ 3108. (2680a) If evidence is satisfactory, commissioners appointed
to make partition-J If u on the hearing of the application, the judge f
of probate is satisﬁed, From the roof, that the proper described
in the petition is held and owned) jointly or in common, 9 must do
cree the same to be divided or partitioned among those entitled
thereto, according to their respective interests therein : and to effect
such division or partition, he must appoint suitable commissioners,
not more than ﬁve, any three of whom may act ; “but if the appli-
cation be for partition of lands, and any of the parties interested
are minors, the judge, before granting any application, must he sat
isﬁed by evidence taken as in chancery cases, that it is to the inter
est of such minors that the partition be made.
§ 3109. (2681) Oat/iv 0f cmmnissz'oners and dulz'es as to division.—
The commissioners must be sworn faithfully to execute the trust re
osed in them, and *to make the distribution or artition fairly and
impartially, if the same can be made ; hand the vision or partition
shall be conducted in all res ects as nearl as may be, consistently
with the provisions of this 0 a ter, as is one when pro ert in the
hands of an executor or administrator is to be distribute or 'vided;
and in case of application for partition of lands, the commissioners
must, after examination of the land and survey thereof, if necessary,
proceed without delay to make division thereof into the necessary
number of shares, having regard to the quality of the soil and other
advanta es, so as to make the different shares as nearly equal in value
as practicable ; making a plat and ma thereof, showing the subdi
visions and boundaries of the lots, an numberin them progress
ively, and are authorized to employ a surveyor, c rain bearers, &c.,
if necessary.
§ 3110. (2682) Publication (f {be time of making the division—In
case of partition of land, they must cause publication to be made
not less than three successive weeks in a newspaper published inthe
county, if there be one, if not, in the one nearest thereto, that they
will, on a day designated, attend at the court house of the county to
make division.
§ 3111. (2683) Partition made by lot, and result returned—On the
day designated the commissioners must, in the presence of the jludge
of probate, determine by lot to whom each of the several parce s be
long, and make a statement in writing of the result, setting forth to
whom the several parcels or lots were allotted, together with all the
facts relating to the division and allotment, which must be signed by
them, and attested by the probate judge.
§ 3112. (2684) Papers ﬁled and registered as convey/unwa—The
petition, commission, statement of the commissioners, map and lat,
and all orders made by the probate judge, must be ﬁled in his 0 'ce,
and registered in the book kept by him for the registry of convey
ances of land, which is presumptive evidence of the truth of any
fact therein stated.
§ 3113. (2685) Division so made casts a title in each,- set aside in
chancery for fraud—The division so made vests a title in fee simple
in the persons to whom the several shares are allotted, in as and
ample a manner as if each had conveyed to the others ; but if any
fraud or undue inﬂuence be employer by any of the parties to ob
tain an unfair division or allotment, such division may be annulled
on application to the chancellor, by billinchancery, within ﬁve years
after the allotment.
§ 3114. (2686) Lien against one attaches only to his share-Wh611
there is a lien on an undivided interest of an of the parties, such
lien, if a partition is made, is thenceforth a 0 large only on the Share
assigned to such party ; but such share must ﬁrst be charged WItll
its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such
hen.
§ 3115. (2687) New cmnmissirmers appointed necessary.——If any
of the commissioners die, resign, or neglect or refuse to act, at any
time before the ﬁnal allotment, others may be substituted 111 thelr
stead by the judge of the probate court, and have power to com
plete such division and allotment.
§ 3116. (2688) Fees of judge of probate and commissioners.—The
judge of probate is entitled to two dollars per da for each da he
is engaged in making such division, and to three ollars for ma 'ng
a racer of the proceedings of the commissioners ; the commission
ers to two dollars per day for each day whilst engaged in such divi
sion and allotment, and all expenses they may be at in causing sur
vey to be made, making map, plat, 8:0.
§ 3117. (2689) costs not paid within thirty days, execution against
each art owner for his proportion—The judge of robate must as
certain the costs and ex nses attending the division, and make a
record thereof, stating distinctl each item of costs and expense, and
if the same is not paid within thirty days after the allotment, he may
issue execution against each of the persons to whom the land was
allotted, for their aliquot proportion thereof, which must be directed
to the sheriff, to be levied as other executions, and may be levied on
the land so allotted.
§ 3118. (2690) N0 allotment made, if adverse claim is set 21p.——N0
division or allotment can be made under this chapter, where an ad
verse claim or title is asserted by any one, or brought to the knowl
edge of the commissioners, or judge of probate.
§ 3119. (2691) Other remedies may be used, (ta—The ower hereby
conferred does not prevent a resort to any other lega mode of ob
taining partition of lands.
§ 3120. (26910,) Sale of prlmcrty for distribution among joint ten
ants, che—‘Judges of the probate court may decree and order a sale
of all property, whether real, personal or mixed, held by joint owners
or tenants in common, when the same cannot be equitably par
titioned or divided between such joint owners or tenants in common,
notwithstanding they, or any number of them, are infants, or per
sons of unsound mind. (1)
§ 3121. (2691b) therefor, and day of hearing set byjudge.
I‘Upon the petition or application in writing of any of the parties in
the preceding section mentioned, their guardians or other lawful
representatives, setting forth that such property cannot be equitably
partitioned 0r divided without a sale of the same, the judge of pro
ate must, upon the ﬁlin of such petition, appoint a day for the
hearin of the same, not iss than thirty days from its ﬁling.
§ 312. (26910) Notice to be given of the day of hearing, and guard
ians ad litem amaointed for minors, (ﬁc—‘All parties must have at least
ten days notice of the time and place set for the hearing of such ap
plication; and in cases where infants or persons of unsound mind
are parties, guardians ad litem must be appointed by such court. “‘If
any of the arties in interest are non-residents, they may be made
parties in 0 same manner and to the same extent as is done in
cases where repel-31y in the hands of an executor or administrator
1s to be divi ed or 'stributed.
§ 3123. (2691(1) Evidence, how taken, and what must be revert.—
“Before granting any application under the three rece ing sec
tions, the judge of robate must be satisﬁed by evi ence, taken as
111 chance cases, t at an equitable partition or division cannot be
made; anldywhen the application is by the guardian of any one or
more of the infants or persons of unsound mind, the judge of pro
bate must not only be satisﬁed that such property cannot be equi
tably divided, but that it would be to the interest of such infants or
 
persons of unsound mind, to sell the same-for the purpose of parti
tion and division.
§ 3124. (26910) Decree, appointment of commissioners, and conduct
of sale—"Upon the hearing of such ap lication, if the judge of re
bate shall be satisﬁed from the proo , that the property thus 6
eld
and owned in common cannot be eiuitably partitioned and divided
among all the parties in interest, e must decree the same to be
sold, and make and issue all such orders as may be necessary to ef
fect the sale thereof, appoint suitable commissioners, not more than
ﬁve, any three of whom may act, pand the sale shall be conducted,
the(purchase money collected, conveyance of title made, and all pro
ngs subsequent to the sale conducted in every respect as is
done when propert in the hands of an executor or administrator is
066
to be distributed. ( )
§ 3125. (2691f) Commissioners to pay over money receivedfrom sale,
andjudge to distribute—The commissioners acting under the pro
visions of this cha ter may discharge themselves from allliabllity
roperty sold under this chapter, by
for money receive by them for p
aying over the same into the ands of the judge of
mg deducted therefrom the costs and expenses atten 'ng the sale,
including the same commissions as executors or administrators re
ceive for collecting and disbursing, and such net proceeds must be
dlistributed by such probate judge to the persons respectively enti
t ed.
§ 3126. (26919) Provisions applicable to personal representative of de
ceased tenant, (tc.--' Should any of the parties interested in property,
whether the same be real or personal, held in common, die, then the
all fully apply to his executor or ad
. . .
provisions of this chapter s
ministrator.
robate, hav
§ 3127. (2692) Liens on steamboats, (60., for materials and supplies.
‘A lien is hereb created on all ships, vessels, steamboats, and other
registered, enro ed, or licensed water craft, built, repaired, ﬁtted,
furnished, or victualled within this state, for all debts contracted by
the master, owner, or consignees thereof, for work done or materials
Supplied by any person within this state, for or concerning the build
ing, re airing, ﬁtting, furnishing, equipping, sup lying, or victualling
such s ' , vessel, steamboat, or other water cra t; and for the we es
of the 0 cars, laborers and crew, in preference to other debts no
and owing from the owners thereof, which lien may be asserted in
the manner following: (1)
§ 3128. (2693) Complaint sworn to and ﬁled in the. circuit court; its
contents—The person or persons claiming such lien may ﬁle their
complaint in the circuit court of any county in which the boat or
vessel may be found, or in the city court of Mobile, which must be
sworn to, and must set forth the nature and amount of the debt or
claim, and when due, and pray a seizure of the boat or vessel.
§ 3129. (2694) Writ of seizure then issues—Thereupon the clerk of
the court must issue a writ reciting the complaint, and commanding
the sheriff to seize the boat or vessel, her tackle, a parel, and furni
ture, and hold her until released by due course of aw.
§ 3130. (2695) Boat released on bond stipulating to satigfy the judg
ment—The owner, master of the boat, or any third person, may re
lease the boat from custody at any time before judgment, by enter
ing into bond in double the amount of the claim or claims asserted
against the boat or vessel, with sufﬁcient surety, to be approved by
the sheriﬂ', pa able to the complainant, with a stipulation to pay and
satisfy the u gment which may be rendered in the premises; which
bond must e returned to the court from which the process issued,
by the sheriff, with his return indorsed thereon, and the boat or
vessel be delivered to the stipulators.
§ 3131. (2696) Such proceedings not commencedfor less thanﬁ lg (lol
lars; creditors may Tlnll€.——NO proceedin can be institute under
this chapter, unless the debt or claim is ﬂay dollars or upwards; but
any number of the persons entitled to a lien under the provisions of
this chapter, may jointly unite in a com laint, if the aggregate of
their claims amounts to or exceeds ﬁft ollars.
§ 3132. (2697) All clain to be cause idated, and one judgment ren
dered—Any number of ersons claiming as aforesaid may unite in
the same complaint, andpif more than one complaint be ﬁled against
the same boat or vessel, the court must order them to be consoli
dated, and render but one jud ment, which must com rehend all the
claims established against the oat or vessel, but whic must be con
sidered several as to each complainant.
§ 3133. (2698) When seizure is TIZUll(' twenty day-9 before court, judg
ment rendered at ﬁrst term-If the boat or vessel 1s seized twenty
days previous to the return term of the court, judgment may be ren
dered at the ﬁrst term, unless good cause be shown for a continu
81106.
§ 3134. (2699) Judgment against the parties to the bond, if one isﬁled ,
if not the boat is condemned, and plaintiﬁ' roves his claims his qg‘i
davit.—-If a stipulation be entered into, t e stipulators are defend
ants to the action; and if the claim be established, judgment must
be rendered against them and their sureties. If there be no stipula
tion entered into, the court must proceed and render judgment ea:
parts condemning the boat, its tackle, apparel and furniture, to be
sold for the satisfaction of the claim of the complainants; and the
afﬁdavit of the complainant is presumptive evidence of the justice of
the demand.
§ 3135. (2700) Costs taxed against complainant who fails—If any
complainant fails to establish his claim, judgment must be rendered
against him for the costs in relation thereto.
§ 3136. (2701) N0 notice r aired when bond is; manner of gin
ing notice when no bond is ﬁle .—-If a sti ulation be entered into, no
monition or notice of the complaint an seizure is necessary. If no
stipulation be entered into, within three days after the seizure of any
boat or vessel, the sheriff must cause a notice of the seizure, stating
at whose instance and when made, to be posted up on the boat or
vessel, and at the court house door of the county to which the pro
cess is returnable, which operates as a monition, and is notice of the
seizure and of the pendency of the litigation, to all persons; and his
return thereof is evidence of the fact.
§ 3137. (2702) Court orders sale of boat, if seizure is made less than
twenty days before court—If there be less than twenty days between
the seizure and the return of the process, and no stlpulation be en
tered into, the court must direct a sale of the boat or vessel, her
tackle, ap arel and furniture, for cash, which must be paid into court,
and be he (1 subject to its order.
§ 3138. (2703) Sheriﬁ" advertises and sells after sixty days, if no bond
isffiled—If a seizure be made sixty days, or more, before the return
0 the writ, and no stipulation be entered into within ﬁve days there
after, the sheriﬁ‘ must advertise and sell the boat, or vessel, her tackle,
apparel, and furniture, for cash, in the same manner as upon a levy
by ﬁeri facias, and make return thereof to the next term of the
court.
§ 3139. (2704) Custody of the boat by the sheriff; ('om motion for
care of the boat.——Whilst the boat or vessel remains in t e custody of
the sheriff, he must, as far as practicable, secure it against loss or
injury, and may employ a suita le person, or persons, to take charge
thereof, and must therefor be allowed a suitable compensation, to he
made by the court.
§ 3140. (2705) Any obligation to release the boat is a st-i ulatian.——
Any obligation or contract entered into for the pu ose oi’releasin
the boat or vessel from the custody of the sheri , and in virtue 0
which the boat or vessel is restored to the master or owners, is in
law a stipulation, whatever its form may be, and must charge the
obligors or makers thereof, as stipulators. .
§ 3141. (2706) Lien waived f not asserted in six months—The lien
hereby given, continues only “ six months after the maturity of the
claim or debt, and if not asserted in the mode prescribed in this
chapter within that time, must be held to have been waived or aban
doned.
§ 3142. (2706a) Lienson boatsforfailing todeliverfreight.—°When
ever any steamboat or other watercraft shall receive on board, as a
common carrier, any goods or merchandise, as freight, to be deliv
ered at any speciﬁed place, and shall fail to deliver the same as spe
ciﬁed in the bill of la 'ng, or according to the terms of shipment,
the owner or consignee of such goods, wares, or merchandise, shall
have a lien on such boat, or other water craft, for the loss or damage
done, to be enforced in the same manner and subject to the rules and
regulations rescribed in this chapter in relation to similar liens for
materials, la or, &c., furnished to steamboats and other water crafts.
§ 3143. (2706b) Provisions of chapter applicable to vessels navigating
the Tennessee river, without enrollment.—‘ The liens provided forin
this chapter, may be enforced against any and all vessels, steam
boats, or other water craft, navi ating the Tennessee river and its
tributaries within this state, and such steamboats, vessels, or other
watercraft, are not required to be enrolled, registered, or licensed,
before the liens herein provided for may be enforced. The other
provisions of this chapter are applicable to such vessels, steamboats,
or other water craft.
§ 3144. 2707) Proceedings to enforce lien same as in admiralty courts
of United tutcs, unless otherwise provided—Unless where otherwise
rovided in this chapter, the proceedings for the enforcement of the
lien are the same as in the courts of admiralt of the United States;
but either party may have any question of act decided by a jury,
upon an issue made up under the direction of the court.
§ 3145. (2708) Damagesfor wanton seizure—For an abuse of the
power conferred by this cha tar, b the seizure or sale of an boat
or vessel, either when no debt or c aim existed, or when the (liabt or
claim was not a lien on the boat or vessel, the person or persons su
ing out such process are liable to the owners, by action on the case,
for twice the amount of the damage actually sustained by the seizure,
detention or sale of the boat or vessel.
§ 3146. (2708a) When proceeding against same vessel in both city and
circuit courts of Mobile, either adjudicatea the claim before it.—-‘ When
proceedings to enforce liens against vessels, steamboats, and other li-
censed watercraft, are instituted in both the circuit and city courts
in Mobile county, a ainst the same vessel, steamboat, or other wa
tercraft, each of suc courts must adjudicate the claims brought be
fore it, and render such decrees as may be roper in the premises,
and a lien is created on all steamboats, or other watercraft, and the
admiralt jurisdiction of the courts extends to all debts contracted
in furnis ling, repairing, or running of steamboats and other water
craft, to be enforced as is now provided by law.
§ 3147. (27081)) When an order of sale is made in one court, the clerk
of the other certifies claims.—’ When any vessel, steamboat, or other}
watercraft, is severally libelled in both the courts mentioned in the
precedin section, and is under an order of sale by the prior action
of one 0 such courts, the clerk of the other court must certify the
claimants and the amount of their claims, for which decrees are ren
dered, in his court to the court decreeing such sale ; and the court
to which such claims or decrees are thus certiﬁed must recognize the
same as if originall within its jurisdiction, and allow such certiﬁed
claimants to articipate equally in the proceeds of such sales, or in
case of insuﬂiciency of such proceeds to satisfy; all the decrees
against the condemned vessel, steamboat, or other watercraft, to re
ceive a pro rata share on a distribution of the fund arising from such
ea c.
§ 3148. (2709) Order Qf rq'ererwe to arbitration made on motion of
parties to a suit—It is the duty of all courts to encourage the settle
ment of controversies pending before them, by a reference thereof
to arbitrators chosen by the parties or their attorneys; and, on mo
tion of the parties, must make such order and continue the cause for
award ; but such continuance must not extend beyond one term, un
less ior good cause shown, or by consent. (1)
§ 3149. (2710) Award made under a submission, without order q“
the court, to be entered as a judgment—When no suit is pending, the
parties to any controversy may refer the determination thereof to
the decision of arbitrators, to be chosen by themselves; and the
award made ursuant t0 the provisions of this chapter, must be en
tered up ast e judgment of the proper court, if the award is not
erformed.
§ 3150. (2711) Submission to be in writing, (150.; its contents—The
arties must concisely state in writing, signed by them, the matter
111 dispute between em, and that they desire to leave the determi
nation thereof to certain ersons, naming them, as arbitrators;
which must be delivered to e arbitrators, or one of them, together
with a list of the witnesses either part may desire to examine.
§ 3151. (2712) Proceedings before arbitrators and making the award.
Thereupon it is the duty of the arbitrators to appoint a time and
place for hearing the parties and making their award, of which they
must give the parties three days notice; and if no cause is shown
for a continuance, proceed to hear and determine the matters re
ferred to them, and make their award in writing, which must be
signed by them, and a copy thereof be delivered to each of the par
ties, their agents or attorneys.
§ 3152. (2713) Arbitrator not acting, his place supplied, and major
ity may make an award—1f any of the arbitrators fail to attend at
the time and place desi noted, and the parties appear, they may sub
stitute others in their p ace. It the parties cannot a Tree, the arbi
trators resent may themselves appoint others in their stead, of
which t ey must make a memorandum on the submission. A
majority of the arbitrators chosen by the parties may make an
award. ( 2)
§ 3153. (2714) If award is not performed, returned to the circuit
 
clerk, and has the force of a judgment; for less than ﬁfty dollars, to
a justice—If the award is not performed in ten days after notice,
and delivery of a copy thereof, the successful party may return the
submission and the award to the clerk of the circuit court of the
count in which the award is made, if for the payment of more than
ﬁftydybllars, for the delive of speciﬁc roperty, or to do or omit
to do an particular act. Yf for fty do lars, or less, then to a jus
tice of t 0 peace of the county; and such award has the force and
effect of a judgment at law, upon which execution may issue as in
other cases.
§ 3154. (2715) Performance enforced by attachment—If the award
be for the delivery of property, or to do or omit to do any particu
lar act, on notice, and motion to the court, performance may be en
forced by attachment, or other appropriate writ.
§ 3155. (2716) Oath of the arbitrators—Before making their award
the arbitrators must be sworn impartially to determine the matters
submitted to them, according to the evidence, and the manifest jus
tice and e uity of the case, to the best of their judgment, without
favor or a ection, which oath they may administer to each other.
§ 3156. (2717) They cut 1a zm'tnesses and issue commissimts.—
The arbitrators, or either ofwtliem, have power to subpoena witnesses
at the request of either of the parties, and to admmister all oaths
which may be necessary in the progress of the cause; and must, on
the application of either party, issue commissions to take the depo
sition of any witness residing out of the county, which must be
taken in the same manner as depositions in the circuit court, except
that no oath of the materiality of the witness, or of the cause for
takin the deposition is required.
§ 357. (2718) Parties are eel/zpetent un'tnesees before them—The
parties are competent witnesses, without regard to the amount, or
matter in controversy. I
§ 3158. (2719) Subpmnas executed by shertf or timetable—Subpoe
nas for witnesses may be executed either by the sheriff, by any con
stable of the coun , or by the arties themselves.
§ 3159. (2720) due of del'au ting witness.—VVitnesses duly sum
moned, who fail to attend without sufﬁcient excuse, may be ﬁned ten
dollars, for the use of the county; for the collection of which the ar
bitrators must issue execution. Such defaulting witnesses are also
liable to the part summoning them, for an injury sustained by the
loss of their testimony, to be recovered be ore any court having ju
risdiction.
§ 3160. (2721) Award ﬁnal, unless made through fraud—An award
made substantially in com liance with the provisions of this chap
ter, is conclusive between t e parties thereto, and their privies, as to
the matter submitted, and cannot be inquired into or impeached for
want of form or irregularit , if the award determines the matter, or
controversy submitted; ant is ﬁnal, unless the arbitrators are guilty
of fraud, partiality, or corruption, in making it. (1)
§ 3161. (2722) Arbitration-s as at cmnmon taut—Nothing in this
chapter contained prevents any person or persons from settling any
{nattegi of controversy, by a reference to arbitration, at common
aw. (
§ 3162. (2723) Pay of arbitrators, witnesses, (fro—The arbitrators
are, if demanded by them, entitled each to two dollars per day,
whilst actually engaged in the arbitration ; the witnesses, to one dol
lar per day; and the sheriff and constable, to the customary fees for
executing subpoenas, which must be paid jointly by the parties, un
less the authorities otherwise determine.
§ 3163. (2724) Witness/hes and other charges paid in advance, but
szunesgful arty recovers them as costs—Any witness may refuse to tes
tif until is fees are paid b the party summoning him; and the
arhdtrators may refuse to (deliver copies of the award until all
charges are paid. If paid b a party not liable therefor, he may re~
cover the same by action befiire any court having jurisdiction there
of ; and the receipt of the arbitrators is presumptive evidence of the
fact of payment, and of the liability of the party therefor.
TO APPOINT AND REMOVE TRUSTEES.
Sacrros. SECTION.
8164. (2725) Circuit court may remove a 3168. (2729) Also if he is absent.
trustee; causes for such remoral. 8169. (2730) Tried as other cases in the
3165. (2726) Ap liostion ﬁled with the circuit court.
clerk of t 6 county in which the 8170. (2781) Court instead of removing,
trustee resides. may re uire nd.
3166. (2727) Its contents; notice to trus- 3171. (2732) . ew trustee appointed, and
tee. bond re uired.
8167. (2728) Publication when trustee isa 8172. (2788) osts.
non-resident.
§ 3164. 2725) Circuit court may remove a trustee; causes for such
removal.— he circuit court has the power to remove the trustee of
an express trust, created by will or deed, upon the application of an
party interested in the trust property, when such trustee has violate ,
or threatened to violate his trust, is insolvent, or has removed from
the state.
§ 3165. (2726) AP licutionjiled with the clerk of the county in which
the trustee resides—£11011 application must be ﬁled with the clerk of
the county in which the trustee resides; and if a non-resident, in
the county in which the most valuable portion of the trust property is.
§ 3166. (2727) Its contents ; noti'r to trustee—It must state the
grounds on which the removal is sought; and the trustee must be
served with a copy of such application ten days before the same is
tried.
§ 3167. (2728) Publication when trustee is non-resident.—-If the trus
tee is a non-resident, notice must be given, by publication in such
paper as the clerk may direct, for four successive weeks before the
trial.
§ 3168. (2729) Also if he is absent—If the trustee is a resident,
but absent from the state, the court, on proof thereof, may direct
notice to be given, by publication in some pa er for four successive
weeks, and to be left at his last place of resi once or business.
§ 3169. (2730) Tried as other (uses in the circuit court—The ap
plication must be heard on evidence, and the facts determined as in
other cases in the circuit cOurt.
§ 3170. (2731) Court, instead of removing, may require bond—The
court may, on the trial, instead of removing the trustee, require of
him such bond as will effectually protect the interest of the parties;
which bond must be approved by the judge.
§ 3171. (2732) New trustee appointed, and bond required—If the
trustee is removed, a new trustee may be a pointed, and such bond
required of him as is necessary to protect t e interest of the parties
in the trust property.
§ 3172. (2733) Costa—Costs, or any portion of the same, may be
given against the applicant, or the other party, in the discretion of
the court.
CHAPTER 11.
PRISON BOUNDS AND msonwssr onerous.
Aa'rrcu: 1.-Prison bounds.
2.-—Insolvcnt debtors.
ARTICLE I.
Prison bounds.
Samoa. Section.
3173. (2784) Prison bounds deﬁned; privi- 3176. (2787) Jud ment on the bond for
lege of prison bounds on giving breach of t econdition.
bond, 60. 8177. (2788) Creditor not liable for sup
3I74. (2735) Bond is taken by the sheriff. port of the prisoner in bounds.
3175. (2786) Part; imprisoned for non- 8178. (2739) Prisoners under justice’s pro
payment 0 ﬁne or for contempt of ccss entitled to the privilege.
court, allowed the beneﬁt. 8179. (27:0)dPrivilege continues only for
six y ays.
§ 3173. (2734) Prison bounds deﬁned; privilege of prison bounds on
giving bond, (fa—The boundary of the county re the limit of the
prison bounds; and any person imprisoned in a civil action, may
ave the beneﬁt thereof upon entering into bond, pa able to the
creditor, with suﬁicient surety, in double the amount of the judgment
or debt for which he was imprisoned, with condition to continue a
true prisoner within the prison bounds, as by law established, until
he is thence discharged by due course of law, without committing
any escape in the meantime. (1)
§ 3174. (2735) Bond is taken by the sheriff—The bond must be
taken and approved by the sherrﬁ‘, and be ﬁled by him within ﬁve
days thereafter, in the oﬁice 0f the clerk of the court from which
the execution issued.
§ 3175. (2736) Party imprisoned/or non-payment offing orfor con
tempt (y‘ court, allowed the beneﬁt—Any person impnsoned for the
non-payment of the ﬁne and costs, under the provisions of section
3760 (213) penal code, or for the non-payment of a ﬁne imposed for
contempt, after the s eciﬁc term of his imprisonment, may have the
beneﬁt of the rison ounds, the bond in such case being payable to
the state of Algbama.
§ 3176. (2737) Judgment on the bond for breach of the condition.—
If the debtor is guilty of an escape, by passing be end the prison
bounds, after the execution of such bond, an wit out payment of
the 'udgment, debt, or ﬁne, interest and costs, the obligee in such
bond, his executor or administrator, may have judgment for the same
by motion to the circuit court, against such of the obli ors in the
bond as have ﬁve days notice in writing that $11011 mOtIOD Will be
made ;1)and either party may have the fact of the escape tried by 8.
Jury. (
§ 3177. (2738) Creditor not liable for support of the prisoner in
bounds.—The creditor is not liable for the sustenance or support of
the prisoner after his discharge from close custody, under the pro
visions of this cha ter.
§ 3178. (2739) risoners under justiaa's recess enlilled to the privi
lege—The provisions of this chapter apply to imprisonment under
process from justices of the peace. In such cases the bond for the
prison bounds must be taken b the sheriﬁ', and ﬁled in the ofﬁce of
the clerk of the circuit court 0 his proper county.
§ 3179. (2740) Privilege continues/or only sixty days—No person is
entitled to the beneﬁt of the prison bounds for a lon er term than
sixty days, and failing to surrender himself to the jailor after that
time, must be deemed to have committed an escape. (1)
ARTICLE II.
Insolvent debtors.
Samoa. Queries.
8180. (2741) How discharged from arrest 3185. (2748) Return 0! the schedule bythe
under execution. sheriff.
8181. (2742) Notice of application for dis- 8186. (2747) Notice to debtors on insol
chsrge given plaintiﬂ's. vent‘s schedule to answer as to their
8182. (274-8) And to solicitor on the part indebtedness.
of the state. 8187. (2743) Proceedings to compel ply
8183. (2744) Proceeds of sale of propertv ment, the.
8184.
embraced in the schedule divided 3188. (2741)) Discharge on denial of in—
e ually among the creditors. dcbtedncss.
(2(1145) Pro erty acquired after dis
charge lia le, but debtor not im
prisoned a. second time.
§ 3180. (2741) How discharged from arrest under execulion.—-Any
person imprisoned in virtue of a judgment rendered in any civil ac
tion, or for failing to ay any ﬁne and costs legally imposed, after
the speciﬁed term of is imprisonment for the non-pa ment of such
ﬁne and costs, must be released from custody by making the sched
ule, and givin the notice provided in sections 2583 2182) and 2584
(2183) ; and t e same proceedings must be had as t erein provided
or the discharge of the prisoner, and for the sale of the property
rendered in the schedule.
§ 3181. (2742) Notice of application for discharge given plaintifs.
When the party is imprisoned at the suit of several persons, notice
must be given to each of the plaintiffs, or their agents or attorneys,
if resident in the county, of the intended application.
§ 3182. (2743) And to solicitor on the part of [he state—Where thev
state is the plaintiff, the notice must be given to the solicitor of the
circuit, or the judge of probate of the county in which the personis
4 imprisoned.
§ 3183. (2744) Proceeds of sale of properly embraced in the schedule
divided equally among the credilors.—-After the payment of the sher
iff’s and jail fees, the proceeds of the sale of the effects of the
debtor, rendered in his schedule, must be divided ratany amongst
the plaintiffs by whom he was charged in execution, if there be more
than one.
§ 3184. (2745) Properly acquired afler discharge liable, but debtor
not im risoned a scrond time—An property acquired by such debtor
after is discharge, is liable for the payment of such judgments, but
the debtor must not be imprisoned again for or on account of the
judgment on which he was imprisoned at the time of his discharge.
§ 3185. (2746) Return of the schedule by the slze:‘g'[f.~—The sheriﬁ'
must return the schedule rendered by the defendant, and make re
turn of the sale of the debtor’s eﬁects to the clerk of the circuit
court of his county,-with the amount due to each of the plaintiffs, if
more than one, at whose suit the debtor was imprisoned, which it is
the duty of the clerk to credit on the entry made of the issue of the
execution.
§ 3186. (2747) Notice to debtors on insolvenl’s schedule to answer as
to their indebtedness—“Then an insolvent debtor is discharged, upon
rendering a schedule of his propertv, and returns in such schedule,
debts, money, or propert , due or belonging to him, in the hands
of another person, it is t e dut of the c erk of the circuit court on
the return of the schedule by the sheriff, upon the application of the
plaintiff, to issue a notice to such person, describing the debt, money,
or propert alleged to be due from him to the debtor, or to be in his
hands, an requiring him to appear at the next term of the court,
and answer upon oath as to the correctness thereof.
§ 3187. (2748) Proceedings to compel payment, (Era—If he appear
and admit indebtedness to the debtor or property of the debtor in
his hands, 'udgment must be rendered against him for the amount
so admitted, or of condemnation of any chattel admitted to be in
his hands, as in case of garnishee in attachment. And in like man
ner if he fail after notice to appear and answer, jud ment must be
rendered against him on the schedule, to be made a solute, if after
notice thereof he fails to appear and answer.
§ 3188. (2749) Discharge on denial of indebtedness—If he deny in
debtedness to the debtor, or property in his hands belonging to
him, he must be discharged at the cost of the laintiﬁ', but no at
torney’s fee must be taxed. If a conditional ju gment is set aside
on his answer, he must pay the cost.
CHAPTER 12.
INQUISITION OF LUNACY.
ﬁxer-Ion.
9189. (2750) On ap lication, with affidavit
of (acts, judge of probate to ﬁx a
day to examine into matter of luna
Emma.
3196. (2757) On restoration of mind, the
luardian is discharged on his peti
Ion.
cy or idiocy. 8197. (2758) Ward‘s etition certiﬁed 1)
3190. (2751) Writ of arrest of lunatic, and physicians, to e heard by judge o
commanding a jury to try the luna- probate.
cy, .10., _ 8198. (2759) prctition proved, order made
3191. (2752) Oath of the jurors; vacan- dischar mg the guardian.
cies on the list ﬁlled. 3199. (2760) f his restoration is disputed,
8192. (2753) On verdict of insanity, .10., pa- J jury tries the fact.
pcrs ﬁled and a usrdian appointed. 3200. (2761) Judgment when the verdict
8198. (2754) Rights of the guardian; his sustains the petition.
‘ duties. 3201. (2762) Paupcrlunatics supported by
3194. (2755) Provision for support of the overseen-s of the poor.
ward's family, dzc. 3202. (2763) Fees of judge, sheriﬂ', juror!
3195. (2756) Settlements by guardian, his and witnesses.
duties and responsibility the same
as those of other guardians. '
§ 3189. (2750) On applimtion, with aﬁdavit of facts, judge of pro
bate to ﬁx a day to examine into matter of lunacy or idiocy—Upon
the petition of any of the relations or friends of any person alleged
to be an idiot, lunatic, or person non compos menu's, setting forth the
facts and name, sex, age, and residence, of such alleged idiot or lu
natic, accompanied by an afﬁdavit that the petitioner believes the
facts therein stated to be true, the judge of probate of the county
in which such alleged lunatic, idiot, or person non compos mentis re
sides, must appoint a day not more than ten days from the present
ment of such petition, for the hearing thereof. (1)
§ 3190. (2751) Writ of arrest (y' lunatic, and commanding a jury to
try the lunaty, (ﬁe—He must also issue a writ directed to the sheriff,
commanding him to summon twelve disinterested persons of the
neighborhood for the trial thereof, and also issue subpoenas for wit
nesses as the parties may require, returnable to the time of trial;
he must also issue a writ directed to the sheriff, to take the alleged
insane person or idiot, and if consistent with his health or safety,
have him present at the place of trial.
§ 3191. (2752) Oath of the jurors; vacancies on the list ﬁlled—At
the time set forth in the trial, if good cause be not shown for con
tinuance, the jury must be empanelled, and sworn well and truly
to make in uisition of the facts alleged in the petition, and a true
verdict ren er according to the evidence. If any of the jurors are
excused from sewing, fail to attend, or are set aside from any cause,
their places may be supplied by the by-standers.
§ 3192. (2753) On verdict of insanity, (Ea, pa rs ﬁled and guard
ian appointed—1f the jury ﬁnd by their verdict t at the facts alleged
in the petition are true, and that such person is an idiot, lunatic, or
non compos mentis, the court must cause the petition, and all the pro~
ceedings thereon, to be recorded, and appoint a suitable person
guardian to such idiot, lunatic, or non compos mantis, requiring him
to execute bond as other guardians. (2)
§ 3193. (2754) Rights of the guardian; his duties, dun—The guar
_ dian so appointed is entitled to the custody and control of the per
son and estate of such idiot, lunatic, or non compos mentis; and it is
his duty to provide for his wants, and, by a keeper or otherwise, to
exercise suc supervision over him as to prevent any injury to other
ersons.
§ 3194. (2755) Provision for suﬂiort of ward’sfamily.—If the ward
has a family, the judge of probate must direct what portion of the
estate, or its income, must be appropriated by the guardian for their
support.
§ 3195. (2756) Settlements by guardian; his duties and responsibilities
the same as those of other guardians—Such guardian must be required
to settle annually, or oftener if necessary; may be required to 've
additional surety when necessary; may be removed for suﬂic1ent
cause, as other guardians, and is in all respects subject to the pro
visions made for ordinary guardians.
§ 3196. (2757) On restoration of mind, the guardian is dischargedon
his petition—If at any time after his appointment, the guardian be
comes satisﬁed that his ward has been restored to sani , and is ca
able of managing his estate, and the judge of probate is of opinion
horn the proof and the facts stated, that such representation 1s cor
rect, he must make an order that the guardian be discharged, and
that the estate of the ward be restord to him.
§ 3197. (2758) Ward’s petition, certified by physicians, to be heard by
 
judge of probate—At any time after the ﬁnding of the verdict against
the alleged insane person, he may in person, or by his next friend,
petition the judge of probate, alleging his restoration to sanity,
which must be certiﬁed by two physicians, or other competent per
sons; thereupon the judge of probate must appoint a day, not more
than ten days thereafter, for hearing the same, to which day the
ardian must be cited to appear and show cause against it.
§ 3198. (2759) If petilimi proved, order made discharging the guar—
dian—If the guardian fail to appear and the 'udge of probate is sat
isﬁed the allegations of the petition are true, emust make an order
declaring the fact, that the authority of the guardian has ceased, and
that the ward is entitled to the custody and management of his
estate.
§ 3199. (2760) If his restoration is disputed, a jury tries the fact.—
If the guardian a pear and contest the alle ation of the petition, a
day must be ﬁxe for the trial thereof, to w 'ch time a jury must be
summoned, and the same proceedings be had as upon the original
inquisition. §
§ 3200. (2761) Judgment when the verdict sustains the petition—II
the jury ﬁnd the facts alleged in the petition to be true, judgment
must be rendered that the petitioner be restored to the possessron of
his. estate; from and after which time, the authorit of the ardian
over the estate and person of the ward ceases. T e guar ian may
be taxed with the costs, at the discretion of the judge of probate, for
which execution may issue. If otherwise, the petition to be dismissed
at the costs of the etitioner. d
§ 3201. (2762) an r lunatics 871 is by the overseer 0 the .
If such idiot or insanepleierson, havejngstate, or no personfisto become his guardian, the judge of probate must place him in
charge of the overseer of the poor, who must rovide for his safe
keeping and sustenance, and may call on his re ations to aid in his
support, under the provisions of section 1447 (1212).
§ 3202. (2763) Fees 9/ judge, sheriff, jurors, and witnesses—Upon
any proceeding had under the provisions of this chapter, the sheriff
and judge of probate are entitled to such fees as are allowed by law
for similar services in other cases; and the jury and witnesses, to sev
enty-ﬁve cents per day during their detention, which unless other
wise provided in this chapter, must be paid out of the estate of the
lunatic or idiot, on the certiﬁcate of the judge of probate. If he
have no estate, the same must be paid out of the county treasury.*
CHAPTER 12. (Ah
INJURIES TO TREES AND WATER CRAFT.
Secriox. Eamon.
8202a. Dams es for destruction or remo- 32020. Injuries to water craft.
valo trees. 820241. Limitation of action, where tried
3202b. Destruction or injury of fruit or 0r- &c.
namental trees, 6:0.
§ 3202a. Damagesfor destruction or removal of trees—'Any person
a
p
who cuts down, deadens, girdles or destroys, or takes away, if alrea
dy cut down or fallen, any cypress, pecan, oak, pine, cedar, poplar,
walnut, hickory, 0r cherry tree or sapling, on land not his own, wil
fully and knowingly, without the consent of the owner of the land,
must pay to the owner of such tree or sapling ten dollars for eve such
tree or sapling ; and for every other tree or sapling, not herein efore
described, so cut down, deadened, girdled, destroyed, or taken away
by any person, he must pay to such owner the sum of ﬁve dollars.
§ 32021. Destruction or injury offmu't or orlnanmztal (recs, (fr.—
bAny person who cuts down, digs up, irdles, destroys or mutilates
any fruit tree, or ornamental tree, shru , bush, or lant, which is en
closed on premises not his own, wilfully and kDOWIIlgly, without the
consent of the owner, must pay to such owner ﬁfteen dollars for
every such tree, shrub, bush or plant.
§ 32020. Injuries to water or aft.—° Any erson who, without leave of
the owner thereof, sinks, takes away or estroys any canoe, or other
boat or water craft, must pay to the owner double the value thereof,
if destroyed; or if taken away or loosed, and not returned in as
good condition as when taken away or loosed; or if loosed, sunk or
taken away, and returned not in as good condition as when taken
away or loosed, such person must pay to the owner the sum of twenty
ﬁve dollars and the expense of putting it into such condition.
§ 3202. Limitation of action, where tried, (ﬁe—"Every action for
the speciﬁc penalties given by this chapter ma be brought in any
court of competent jurisdiction, and must be brought within one
year from the time the injury was committed, and not after; and
neither a suit brought nor penalty incurred under the provisions of
this chapter is a bar to any action for further damages, nor to an
criminal proceeding for any offense included in theiacts for which,
such pena ties are herein imposed or connected therewith.
§ 3203. (2764) Time and place of trials by ,7'ustices.—'Justices of
the peace must designate certain days, at least once a month, and
appomt a particular place within their precincts for the trial of civil
causes, but may, in cases of emergency, make their process returna
ble at any other time or place ; and at such times and places, all
ClVll actions cognizable before them, and described in section 2660
(2257 , and roceedin s for summer ud ments under article 1
. g _ Y] s _ ,
chapter 2, tit e 3, part :3, of this Code, must be tried. They must
also deSignate a time and place in their respective precincts, for the
holding 0i semi-annual terms of their courts; and at such semi-an
nual terms, all other civil actions must be tried, and in such cases,
the term to which the process is made returnable is the docket or
appearance term, and the cause shall not stand for trial until the
next ensuing semi-annual term.
§ 3204. (2765) Actions before them brought by the parly realiy inter
ested—All actions brought before Justices of the peace, founded on
any contract, express or implied, must be brought in the name of
the part really interested therein, whether he have the legal title or
not; an all actions for the recovery of speciﬁc property, or for the
recovery of damages merely, in the name of the aggrieved party. (1)
§ 3205. (2766) Sails commenced by summons, and cause of action in
domed thereon ,- form of summons—Civil suits before a justice of the
peace must be commenced by a summons, to be issued by them,
with the cause of action indorsed thereon, in substance as follows:
The State of Alabama, )_
county. j To any constable of the county of —.
Summon A. B. to a pear before me on the day of —— next,
at (designating the ace,) to answer the complaint of C. D., and
there make return 0 this summons. Issued the day of
‘ E. F., justice of the peace.
§ 3206. (2767) Summons executed three days before 'retn'rn day.—
The summons must be executed three days before the return day
thereof, by ersonal service on the defendant.
§ 3207. ( 768) Suit brought in precinct of defendant’s residence, or
where cause of action arose—Unless in cases otherwise rovided for
in this title, no person can be sued out of the precinct 0? his perma
nent residence, or of that in which the debt was created, or cause of
action arose; and if suit be brou ht contrary to the provisions of
this section, it must on motion be dlsmissed by the justice.
§ 3208. (2769) If several defendants, suit brought in either precinct.
Where there are several defendants, the summons may be made re
turnable into any recinct where any one of them resides.
§ 3209. (2770) f there is nojustice in the recinct, or {f justice is in
competent, sm't brought in the next precinct.— there is no justice within
the precinct of the defendant’s residence, or if the justice is from
any cause incompetent to sit upon the trial, the summons must be
issued and the cause tried by the justice of any adjoining precinct
com etent to try the cause.
§ 210. (2771) Bail in suits before justice—If the plaintiff desires
to hold the defendant to bail, the same proceedin s must be had, in
all respects, as provided in chapter 4, title 1, 0 part 3, for arrest
and ball in cases returnable to the circuit court; and upon oath be_
ing made and security given, as there required, the justice must in
dorse on the summons, that bail is required in double the sum sworn
to be due.
§ 3211. (2772) Defendant discharged in the same manner as when held
to bail in other suits—Where the defendant is arrested on a bail sum
mons, he must be discharged from custody, upon his 'ving bail or
tendering to the justice a schedule of his property, in t e mode re
scribed 1n the chapter referred to in the preceding section ; and) all
the revisions therein made for the discharge of the defendants, and
for xing the liability, and for the discharge of the bail, are applica
ble where bail is required in justice’s court.
§ 3212. (2773) Depositions of 1m7tnesses in suits beforejustices.—The
depositions of females, aged, sick, and inﬁrm persons, and non-resi
dents of the county, living ten miles from the place of trial, may be
taken on application to the justice, in the same manner depositions
are taken in the circuit courts; in all other cases, witnesses must be
examined orally before the justice.
§ 3213. (2774) Se Genus—The justice, on the application of either
part , must issue su poenas for witnesses, stating therein the name
of t e parties by whom the witness is summoned, and the time and
place of trial; which must be executed by the constable, in the same
manner as the summons.
§ 3214. (2775) Served in another county, if within ten miles.~—Where
the witness is not a resident of the county, but resides within ten
miles of the place of trial, computing the distance by the usual trav
elled route, the subpoena may be served either by a constable of
the county in which it was issued, or by one in which the witnes
resides; but in the latter case, a justice of such county must certif
that he is an acting constable thereof.
§ 3215. (2776) Conditional fine of defaulting witness; ewmzses.—I
an witness duly summoned fails to attend, a conditional ﬁne of ten
dollars may be entered against him by the justice; which must be
made absolute if the witness, u on notice issued by the justice, and
served three days previous to the trial, fails to make a sufﬁcient ex
cuse, either in person, by some one who knows the facts constituting
the excuse, or by afﬁdavit before some justice of the peace, and pre
sented at the time designated for the trial thereof.
§ 3216. (2777) Execution, ifjine made absolute, and ﬁne paid into
county treasury—If the ﬁne is made absolute, execution must issue
therefor, and the roceeds, when collected, must be paid to the
county treasurer. he witness may also be comielled, by attachment,
to appear and give evidence; and is also lia Is to the party sum
monin him, for an injury caused by the want of his testimony.
§ 3217. (2778) "yitnesses’ﬂea—Witnesses are entitled to ﬁfty cents
per day, while in attendance on the trial, to be taxed in the bill of
costs.
§ 3218. (2779) When the sum in dispute is less than twenty dollars,
either party is a competent witness; either may require the other to tes
tify ; penaltyij- refusal.—Where the matter in controversy, or dama
ges claimed by the complaint, do not exceed twenty dollars, either
party may be a witness in his own behalf. When the matter in con—
troversy, or damages claimed, exceed twent dollars, either party
may be a witness in his own behalf, unless the party against whom
the testimony is offered, swears that the testimony proposed to be
given is untrue; but, in any case, either party may be compelled to
testify at the instance of his adversary; and if he declines to do so,
judgment must be rendered against him. (1)
§ 3219. (2780) Rules of evidence same as in other suits—The rules
in relation to the com etency of witnesses, are the same on trials
before justices, as dec ared by the provisions of article 1, cha ter 10,
title 1, of this .art, except so far as the same may be altere by the
provisions of t is title.
§ 3220. (2781) Terms of courts, and when trial to be had.—" The
term to which an original process, summons, warrant, or complaint
is made returnable, is the docket or appearance term, and the cause
shall stand for trial at the next ensuing term thereafter, and judg
ment must be rendered unless good cause be shown for a continu
ance ; c but acts of forcible entry and detainer are excepted from the
foregoing provisions, and governed as to the time of trial by article
4, chapter 2, title 3, part 3, of this Code; and in the actions men
tioned in section 2660 (2257a) of this Code, the justice must proceed
to render judgment at the return term of the summons, unless cause
be shown for a continuance.
§ 3221. (2782) Judgments in (u‘tio'nsfor sieci/ic property—In actions
for the recovery of speciﬁc property, the justice must ascertain the
value thereof, and render judgment for the speciﬁc property, if to
be had ; if not, then for its value ; and execution must issue accord
mgly.
§ 3222. (2782a) Appeal to jury on giving bond—“Any person dis
satisﬁed with the judgment of the justice, may within ﬁve days
thereafter ap eal to a jury, on giving bond with good and sufﬁcient
security, in ouble the amount of the judgment and costs, condi
tioned for the payment of the eventual condemnation money; and
such justice, his successors in ofﬁce, or an other justices of the peace
in the county may issue subpoenas for a 'witnesses that the parties
in such appeal may desire.
§ 3223. (27821)) Appeal, how tried, and efect of it.—' Such appeals
must be tried before any one or more 'ustices of the peace in the
precinct in which the cause originated, y ﬁve jurors, to be drawn,
sworn, and empanelled, as hereinafter directed; whose verdict shall
be ﬁnal and conclusive between the parties, unless removed by cer
tiorari, or appeal to the next term of the circuit court of the county,
and such jury must be empanelled, sworn, and the trial conducted,
and the evidence admitted in the same manner as in the circuit
courts; such justice must enter up judgment on his docket in ac
cordance with the verdict of such jury, and issue execution thereon
as in other cases before justices of the peace.
§ 3224. (2782c) llIOde of drawing juries.—'The mode of drawing
juries under the preceding section must be as follows: The justices
of the peace in each precinct must once in two years make a list of
all persons liable to serve on juries in the circuit courts, who reside
in such precinct, and must write the name of each person so hable,
on a separate piece of paper, which must be deposited in a box,
marked number one, and must draw therefrom, not less than ﬁve,
nor more than seven of the names so deposited, from time to time,
as may be necessary to try the causes ending in their courts, which
names must be entered in the justice’s dbcket, and deposited in a box
marked number two; and after all the names are drawn from num
ber one, they must commence drawing from number two, and so on
alternately.
§ 3225. (2782(1) Penalty on jurors for failure to attend ,- drj‘iciency,
how supplied.—-‘The justices, or justice of each precinct, ma draw a
jury at any time within ﬁve days after judgment is rendered, should
an appeal be demanded within such period, and any person so drawn,
and summoned by a constable, three da s before court, neglecting
to attend, shall be sub'ect to the same ﬁnes and forfeitures, and he
proceeded against in t e same manner, as witnesses are for failing
to attend justices’ courts ; and the constable, by direction of the jus
tice, must ﬁll and complete such jury from the bystanders, in case
of deﬁciency of jurors; but there must be at least three of the orig
inal panel on such 'ury.
§ 3226. (2782c) IJ’a ijurors.——"Such jurors shall be entitled to
receive ﬁfty cents eac for their attendance, which must be taxed in
the bill of costs.
§ 3227. (2782f) Jurors, how summoned.—‘The justice must is
sue a venire facias for the jury so drawn, returnable to the next
regular term of such court, as provided in section 3203 (2764) of
this Code ; and the constable must, at least three days before court,
summon the jurors so drawn to attend such court.
§ 3228. (27829) Oath 1y" _}'urors.—"The following oath must be ad
ministered to the jury by the justice of the peace, before any cause
is submitted for their consideration: “You, and each of on, do
solemnly swear that you will, well and truly, try all issues su mitted
to you by the court during the day, and a true verdict render, ac
cording to the law and the testimony ; so help you God.”
§ 3229. (278271) Jury trials only at regular term; exception—The
jury trials within the meaning of this chapter must be had on a reg
ular court day, as provided for in section 3203 (2764) of this Code,
unless it becomes necessary to adjourn such court to a stated time,
not beyond ten days, in order to dispose of the causes pending in
such court. .
§ 3230. (2783) If no appeal, execution issues returnable to the next
regular lefﬂL—Aftel‘ the lapse of ﬁve da s, if an appeal is not
taken, the justice must, unless otherwise irected, issue a writ of
ﬁeri facias for the satisfaction of ' the judgment, which must be
signed by him, be dated on the day it is issued, and be returnable
to the regular msemi-annual term next after the rendition of the
judgment.
§ 3231. (2784) Form of the execution—The writ must in substance
be as follows:
State of Alabama,
county. To any constable of the county of ——.
You are hereby commanded, of the goods and chattels of A. B., you
make the sum of dollars, which C. D. recovered before me, of
him, on the day of , besides —, his costs; and make re
 
turn to me, on the day of -— next, at , in your county,
how you have executed this writ. Witness my hand, this — day
of _. E. F., Justice of the peace.
§ 3232. (2785) On aﬁdam't, execution issues immedialcly.——If the
plaintiff, his agent or attorney, make oath in writing before the jus
tice, that the plaintiff is in danger of losing the fruit of his judgment
by delay, the ustice must issue execution thereon immediately.
§ 3233. (2736') Set-off in such suite—The defendant may set-off
an claim or demand, founded on a contract, express or implied, he
he (1 against the plaintiff at the time the suit was instituted, whether
the same was liquidated or not, and if hisclaim is greater than that
of the plaintiff, ma have judgment for the residue, if it does not ex
ceed one hundred ollars.
§ 3234. (2787) If the set-of exceeds one hundred dollars after absmb
ing aintif’s demand—If such residue exceeds one hundred dollars,
an the defendant enters on the docket of the justice a satisfaction
of as much of his claim as the amount of laintiﬂ' s demand, as as
certained by the justice, and tenders the p aintiﬁ' a receipt for the
amount thus set off, judgment must be rendered in favor of the de
fendant for costs.
§ 3235. (2788) Stay ofczrecul'ionon giving securifyfor the debt—The
defendant may at any time before execution issued, stay the issue
thereof for thirty days, if the judgment is for less than twenty dol
lars, and for sixty days if over twent dollars, by executing in wri
ting an undertaking to the plaintiff in double the amount of the
judgment, with surety to be approved by the justice, to pay the judg
ment at the expiration of the stay. If not aid, execution may issue
therefor against all the parties to such un ertaking.
§ 3236. (2789) Ca. 80. ; how discharged/rem custody—A capicw ad
satiq/am'endum may be issued by a justice of the peace upon the
terms and conditions rescribed in section 2574 (2175); and the de
fendant, when arrests , may be discharged from custody in the same
manner as is provided for the discharge of bail in civil cases, in
chapter four, title one, of art third.
§ 3237. (2790) Justice’ejud ment is a bar to other actions—A jud ment
rendered by a justice of] the peace on the merits of the case, is
a bar to any other suit for the same cause of action.
§ 3238. (2791) Certiﬁed etafement of the judgment is evidence of {he
fact—A statement of the judgment rendered by a justice of the
peace, made and certiﬁed by the justice before whom the cause was
tried, or by his successor in possession of his docket, is presumptive
evidence of the fact. ‘
§ 3239. (2792) Completion of unfinished business on vacmwy ofjus
tice’s oﬁce.—-When a justice of the peace dies, resigns, or removes,
the remaining 'ustice of the precinct is authorized to complete the
unﬁnished busmess, in the same manner asif it had been commenced
before him. If there be no other justice in the precinct, then the
nearest 'ustice to his place of residence.
§ 3243. (2793) Constable attends on the courts.—It is the duty of the
constable to attend the regular terms of the justice’s court of his
precinct.
§ 3241. 2794) Property levied on to be sold within the recinct.—He
must sell roperty levied on, at the residence of t e defendant,
or at such other place within the precinct as may be most for the
beneﬁt of the parties, between the hours of eleven in the morning
and four in the afternoon.
(2795) [Inoperative in consequence of emancipation]
§ 3242. (2796) Levy on land, if no personal property is found; pa
12ers then returned to circuit court—If the defendant has no personal
property known to the constable, or if it is insufﬁcient to satisfy the
execution, he must indorse the fact upon the execution, and may
then levy on land of the defendant, describing it in his levy, and
make return thereof to the justice of the peace, whose duty it is to
transmit all the papers in the cause to the next circuit court.
§ 3243. (2797) Notice Qf levy on land—If the defendant whose land
is levied on is a resident of, and within the county, personal notice
of such levy must be given him; otherwise, by posting a notice in a
conspicuous place on the land levied on.
§ 3244. (2798) Motion for sale of land—If the proceedings before
the justice are regular, and establish a 'udgment against the defend
ant, issue of execution and levy on land for want of personal pro -
erty, and notice thereof, and no sufﬁcient objection is made, tliie
court must, on motion of the plaintiff, direct a sale of the land for
the satisfaction of the judgment.
§ 3245. (2799) Proceedings beforejnstice and order of sale to be re
corded by the clerk—The clerk of the circuit court must record all the
proceedings before the justice, together with the return of the con
stable, the motion of the plaintiff, and the order of the court thereon;
and issue a writ directing the sheriff to sell the land for the satisfac
tion of the judgment.
§ 3246. (2800) Forthcoming bond—When a levy is made on per
sonal property, the defendant may retain the possession thereof un
til the day of sale, by executing a forthcoming bond, payable to the
plaintiff, in double the amount of the judgment, with suﬁicient
surety, to be approved by the constable, with condition to have the
property forthcoming at twelve o’clock of the day, and at the place
ap ointed for the sa e. _
§ 3247. (2801) On forfeiture of bond, execution to issue ,' no stay
allowed on such cementum—If the property is not delivered at such
time and place, the constable must return the bond forfeited to the
justice, who must thereupon, without delay, issue execution thereon
for the amount of the judgment and costs, against all the parties
thereto, upon which no further stay of execution must be taken.
§ 3248. (2802) Return of forfeiture of bond taken on an execution
from another county—If property is levied on by a constable under
an execution from another county, and the property is not delivered
on the day of sale according to the forthcoming bond, the constable
must return the bond “forfeited” to any justice of his county, to
gether with a copy of the execution, who must roceed thereon i
the same manner as if judgment had been ren ered by him; an
the constable must then return the execution to the justice that issue
it, with an indorsement, showing the levy and forfeiture of the bond
§ 3249. (2803) Dc/ccts in form of the bond not to alter its lega
eﬂ'ect.——Any undertaking entered into by the parties, with the con
sent of the justice or constable, as a stay of execution, or forthcom
ing bond, and which has the effect to stay execution, or continue th
property levied on in the ossession of the defendant, must b
deemed sufﬁcient, though de cctive in form.
§ 3250. (2804) Execution sent to another county certified by the judg
of probate—Where a defendant against whom judgment has bee
rendered removes to another county, the 'ustice may issue executio
thereon, directed to an ' constable of such county, which executio
must be certiﬁed by t e judge of probate of the county in whic
such justice resides, or by a justice of the county to which it is sent
who has knowledge of the hand- writing of the justice issuing it.
§ 3251. (2805) Return of emecutions.—" The execution must be made
returnable before the justice issuing it, at the next semi-annual term
of his court, if the judgment was rendered on a cause of action tri
able at a semi-annual term; but if upon any other cause of action, i
must be made returnable not less than thirty nor more than sixty
days from the time of its issue, and may be executed by any consta
ble 0f the county to which it is sent, and must be by him returned
to the justice by whom issued.
§ 3252. (2806) Lien of executions. -—Executions issued by justices,
are a lien on the property of the defendant on which they are levied,
from the time of the levy.
§ 3253. (2807) Order of payment if emccutzbns against the some dc
fcndant.—If more than one execution comes to the hands of the con
stable against the same defendant at different times, the ﬁrst re
ceived by him must be ﬁrst satisﬁed. If more than one execution
against the same defendant comes to his hands at the same time, if
all cannot be satisﬁed, each must receive a ratable proportion ; and
it is the duty of the constable to indorse on every execution received
by him, the true date of the receipt thereof.
§ 3254. (2808) Property exempt from levy on such. executions—The
same property is exempt from any levy, attachment, or sale by exe
cution, from a justice, as provided in the ﬁfth article of the nine
teenth cha ter, title ﬁrst, part third ; and the same property subject
to levy and) sale by execution from a justice, as declared by the pro
visions of section 2871 (2455).
§ 3255. (2809) Indemnity bond required in case-Q of doubt—When
a reasonable doubt exists as to the title of the defendant to prop
erty, the constable may refuse to levy, unless indemniﬁed by the
plaintiff". If there are more plaintiffs than one, those having the
oldest lien have the prior right to give such indemnity, and upon his
refusal, the person having the next oldest lien may give the indem
nity, and have the property sold or attached for his beneﬁt.
§ 3256. (2810) Liability of the constable and his suretiea—The con
' stable, and sureties on his bond, are responsible for moneys received
by him, in virtue of his ofﬁce, upon any summons, attachment, or
execution, issued by a justice, whether the same 1s received before
or after jud ent, or before or after the return day of the execution.
§ 3257. (2811) A at; to circuit courts—Any person may appeal
to the circuit comwefrom any judgment rendered against him "in 3
any of the actions coming before a
' ' ' 1
ustlce mentioned 111 the ﬁrst "
clause of section 3203 (2764) of this ode, within ﬁve days after the 6
40
rendition thereof, unless a different time is prescribed in this Code,
and from any other judgment, except when otherwise directed, l’may
appeal or sue out a certiorari to the circuit court at any time after
rendition of judgment, and before payment of the same, “but no
cause must be carried from a justice’s court to the circuit court, by
appeal 01' certiorari, unless the party applying for such certiorari or
appeal ﬁrst executes a bond or obligation, With sufﬁcient security,
ayable to the adverse party conditioned to ay such judgment,
iioth as to debts and costs, as may be rendered liy the circuit court;
and whenever it is made to appear to the circuit court that such
bond is defective, or security insufﬁcient, such court may require a
new bond, or new or additional security within such time as the
jud e may prescribe; and if not given, may dismiss such suit, or
ren or judgment as the circumstances may require.
§ 3258. (2812) Papers and statement of the case to be returned to the
clerk—When an appeal is taken, the justice must return all the ori
ginal papers of the cause, together with a statement signed by him
of the case, and the 'udgment rendered by him, to the clerk of the
circuit court, b the ﬁrst day of the term.
§ 3259. (281% Subpmnas to witnesses on the appeal trial issued by
justice and served by constable—He must also issue such subpoenas as
either party may require, for witnesses to attend on the 'fourth day
of the ' trial term of such cause, in the circuit court, where the term
of such court, as prescribed by law, is for one week only; ‘and on
the tenth day of such trial term, if a longer term than one week is
prescribed by law for the continuance of such court; and in such
subpoena must state at whose instance such witness is summoned,
which must be executed by the constable, and returned on or before
the second day of the next term, to the clerk of the circuit court.*
§ 3260. (2814) Notice of the aW’al to be served on the a pellee.—-The
'ustice must also issue a notice to the appellee, that such appeal has
een taken, which must be executed by ersonal service, ﬁve da s
before the return term of the appeal, an must be returned by tiie
constable to the clerk of the circuit court, on or before the second
day of the term.
§ 3261. (2815) (xi-ecution issues within six months, and is not re
turned satisﬁed, others may issue at anytime within three years—When
an execution has issued within six months after the rendition of judg
ment, and has not been returned “ satisﬁed,” another execution may
be issued thereon at any time within three years thereafter, without
a revival of the judgment.
§ 3262. (2816) 1/' none vu'ere issued, notice to the defendant to show
cause why one should not issue—When execution has not been thus
sued out, no execution can issue until the defendant is notiﬁed to ap
pear, at a time and place designated by the justice, and show cause
why the plaintiff should not have execution of his judgment; but no
judgment can be revived after the lapse of ﬁve years from the ren
dition of judgment, or of the issue of the last execution.
§ 3263. (2817) lg‘ﬂ'el't of the death of either party pending the suit—:
When any of the parties to a suit die during its progress, the suit
abates, unless the cause of action survives; when it ma be revived
within six months thereafter, by live da s notice to the legal repre
sentative, to appear, and prosecute or efend the suit; unless such
legal re resentative voluntarily makes himself a party; and upon
the deat 1 of either party being made known to the justice, he must
continue the cause six months.
 
§ 3264. (2818) No judgment against representatives until eighteen
months qﬂer grant of letters—N0 judgment must be rendered by a
justice of the peace against an executor or administrator, as such,
until eighteen months after the grant of letters testamentary, or of
administration.
§ 3265. (2819) Limitations of suits, and rules ofproceeding in the circuit
court, applicable to suits before, 'ustieea—The prowsions contained in title
1, of part 3, for the regulatlon of suits in the circuit court, and pre
scribing the time within which suits may be brought, so far as the
same are applicable to suits before justices, and not contradicted by
an rovisions contained in this tltle, are hereb declared to be in
to orce, as to the rights of parties, and to sults brought before
justices, as fully as if here repeated. (1)
CHAPTER 2.
SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS BEFORE JUSTICES or THE PEACE.
Armour 1.-8ummary judgments.
2.-Trial of right of property.
8.-Attschments.
4.~—Forcible entry and unlawful detainer.
ARTICLE I.
Summary judgments.
Sermon. Sac-non.
8266. 2820) Summary judgments for one i 8273. (2827) For failure to execute a sum
undred dollars on motion, and ﬁve mons.
days notice before justice in the fol- 3274. (2828) For failure to levy an attach
lowing cases : ment.
3275. (2829) For failure to return, or false
3267. (2821) Against justice; for acting as
return of recess.
such after removal, &c.
3268. (2822) For failure to pay over money. 3276. (2830) In ever of constables on in
8269. (2823) Such motions made before (lemnif'ing bonds.
any justice, within six months. I 3277. (2831) lotions made in county of
3270. (2824) Against constables; for act- residence of defendants.
in after removal, the. 8278. (2832) If the damages, 510., increase
8271. (2525) For failure to make the money the sum beyond one hundred dol
on execution. lure, the motion should be made in
3272. (2826) For failure to pav over money (
the circuit court.
to be made in six months.
collected, but demand and motion
 
l
 
§ 3266. (2820) Summary judgments not exceeding one hundred do!
tars, on motion and ue days notice—Judgments not exceeding “one a.
hundred dollars may be rendered, on motion, by justices, in favor of p'
the party ag rieved, or the other persons herein speciﬁed, against
the persons hereinafter named, ﬁve days notice thereof in writing
being given, specifying the cause for which such motion will be made,
and the time and place.
§ 3267. (2821) Against justice; for acting as such u/‘ter removal, (20.,
forty dollars—Against justices of the peace; for acting in an ofﬁcial
capacity, as such, after their ofﬁce has been vacated by removal from
the precinct for which they were elected, or from any other cause,
judgment for forty dollars, one half to the use of the county, and
the residue to any one who will sue for the same.
§ 3268. (2822) For failure to pay over money—For any money re
ceived or collected by a justice by virtue of his ofﬁce, after demand
made, judgment may be rendered for the amount so received or
collected, with ﬁve per cent. a month thereon.
§ 3269. (2823) Such motions made lie/ore any justice of the county
within six months—The motions authorized by the two receding
sections may be made before any justice of the peace of t e county
in which such justice resides, within six months after the demand of
the money from the justice, or within six months after the act done.
§ 3270. (2824) Against constables, for acting after removalfrom pre
cinct or vacation q" oﬁice,/brty doltars.—"A ainst constables; for act
ting as such after removal from the precinct for which they were
elected, or after their term of ofﬁce has expired, or is vacated from
any cause, judgment for forty dollars, one-half to the use of the
county, and the other half to the use of any person who will sue
for the same.
§ 3271. (2825) Forfailure to make the money on an execution—For
failing to make the money on any execution which by due diligence
mi ht have been made, judgment for the amount of the execution,
an interest, and ﬁve per cent. damages on the amount thereof.
§ 3272. (2826) Forfailure to pay over money collected ,' demand and
motion to be made in six months—For failing to pay over money col
lected or received in virtue of an execution, summons, or attach
ment, on demand by the laintitl? his agent or attorney, judgment
for the amount so received), and ﬁve per cent. per month on such
amount from the time of the demand made; but the demand must
be made, and notice for summary judgment given, within six months
after the receipt of the money.
§ 3273. (2827) Forfail-ure to execute summons—For failing to exe
cute any summons which by proper diligence could have been exe
cuted, judgment for a sum not more than ten nor less than ﬁve d01
lars. 
§ 3274. (2828) For failure to levy an attachment.—F0r failing to
execute process of attachment, which by due diligence could have
been executed, whereby the laintiﬂ' has lost his debt, judgment for
the amount of the debt, an interest.
§ 3275. (2829) Failure to return, or false return cg” process—For
neglecting to make return of a summons, execution, or other r0
cess, or for making a false return, judgment for a sum not more aim
twen nor less than ﬁve dollars.
§ 3276. (2830) Infavor of constables on indemnifying bond—Jud -
ment may in like manner be rendered in favor of the constab e
against the obligors in any bond or promisors in any undertaking
to indemnify him in levying an attachment or execution; judgment
for the same amount which is rendered against the constable for
making such levy, on three day’s notice of the pending motion or
suit against the constable.
§ 3277. (2831) JlIotions made in county of defendant’s rem'denee ;
judgment against the sureties who have notice—The motions authorized
b this article may be made before any justice of the county in
which the parties moved against reside, and jud ents be obtained
against such justice and constable, and such of t e sureties to their
ofﬁcial bond, or either of them, as may be notiﬁed that such motion
will be made.
§ 3278. (2832) If amount, damages, interest, (20., exceed one hundred
dollars, motion made in circuit court—When the amount claimed, by
the accruing interest, or b the addition of the damages, exceeds
the sum of cone hundred ollars, the motion must be made in the
circuit court of the county in which the parties moved against re
side.
ARTICLE II.
Trial of right of property.
iBuriou. Samoa.
8279. (2838) On aﬁidavit of claim 3 a 3282. (2836) Jury sworn to renders just
ersonnotadefsndant, and on 'ng verdict.
end with security, the property 8283. (2837) The value of each article to
levied on to be restored. be assessed separately, and dam
5280. (2834) Proceeding to try the right: ages given if claim is put in for de
jury summoned. y.
3231. (2835) If a. juror do not attend, &c., 3284. (2837a) Pay 0! jurors.
by-standers added.
§ 3279. (2833) Property levied on, and claimed by another person,
delivered to him, on making qlﬁdavit of claim and ﬁling bond—When
an attachment or execution is levied by a constable on personal
property claimed by any erson not a arty to the writ, he maaiyntlrl'ly
the ri ht to such roperty y making a davit, ‘which may be
istere by the ogcer levying the rocess, that he has a just title
thereto, and executing bond in doub e the amount of the plaintiff’s de
mand, payable to the plaintiﬁ', with suﬁicient security, to be approved
by the constable, with condition to have the no erty forthcoming for
the satisfaction of the plaintiﬁ's judgment, ' it e found liable there
for, and for the payment of such costs and damages as may be re
covered for puttmg in the claim for delay; and thereupon the prop
erty must be restored to the person from whom it was taken.
§ 3280. (2834) Proceedings to try the right of properly ; ury sum
moned—The constable must, without delay, return the afﬁdavit and
bond to the 'ustice who issued the process, who must thereupon
issue a writ irected to the constable, commanding him to summon
seven householders of the precinct as jurors, to appear at a time
and place to be by him dealgnated, within the precinct, not less than
ﬁve nor more than ten days from the issue of the writ, for the trial
of the right of property.
§ 3281. (2835) Deﬁcient from non-attendance, (510., of jurors, sup
plied from by-sionde'rs.— any of the jury fail to attend, or are in
competent to serve as jurors, or are challenged for cause, the deﬁ
ciency must be sup lied from the by-standers.
§ 3282. (2836) (£th of jurors ; burthen. of proof on plaintif—
When the is em anelled, the jurors must be sworn well and
truly to inquire into the right of propert so levied on or attached,
and a true verdict render, accordin to t e evidence ; and the bur
then of proof that the property is 'able to the satisfaction of the
execution, or subject to the attachment, is cast on the plaintiﬁ‘.
§ 3283. (2837) Assessment of 80 rate value of each article ; dam
ages, claim is put in for delay.-— f the claim was interposed to a
levy by execution, or if the plaintiﬁ' in attachment has obtained
judgment, the jury must, if they ﬁnd for the plaintiff, ascertain the
value of each article of pro ert separately, as far as practicable,
and if they are of opinion t e c aim was put in for delay, assess the
plamtiﬂ’s damages, not exceedin ﬁfteen er cent. on the amount of
the plaintiff ’s demand ; for whic , and or the costs of the claim
suit, judgment must be rendered for the plaintiff against the defend
ant and his sureties ; and should the property found subject not be
delivered to the constable within ﬁve days thereafter, execution is
sues for the assessed value thereof, against the defendant and his
sureties.
§ 3284. (2837a) Pay of jurors—"Jurors summoned and empanel
led in trials for the right of roperty, before justices of the peace,
are entitled to receive for their services the sum of ﬁfty cents in each
case tried by them, to be taxed in the bill of costs against the un—
successful party.
ARTICLE III.
Attachments.
Swims. Sermon.
3285. (2838) Justices alone issue attach- 3291. (2844) Answer of arnishee to be in
ments for not exceedin one hun- writing, and isevi ence against him
drcd dollars; grounds or issue of on an a pool.
attachment. 3292. (2845) eplcvied profpert tobe de
8286. (2839) Rules as to attachments in livered in ten days a ter udgment;
other courts agplicoble. execution on bond forfeited.
8287. (2840) Form 0 attachments. 3293. (2846) Contents of answers, and col»
8288. (2841) Notice to be given of levy of lateral issues tried without a jury.
attachment on land. 3294. (2847) Execution to issue if the
3289. (2842) Money in oﬂicer‘s hands and re icrty will not pay the debt. _
debts in suit not attached in justice‘s 3295. l) ) Appeals from justice‘s deci-~
court. sions on contents of answers and.
3290. (2843) Sale of property before judg- other collateral issues.
ment in certain cases. 3296. (2849) Amendments permitted in the
bouil or afﬁdavit on the trial on up»
pea .
§ 3285. (2838) Justices have exclusive power to issue attachments not
exceeding one hundred dollars ; grounds (y‘ attachment—Justices have:
the exclusive power to issue attachments, returnable before them
selves, where the amount claimed does not exceed 'one hundred dol~
lars, in the following cases only :
1. To enforce the collection of a debt, whether due or not at the
time the attachment is sued out.
2. To recover damages for the breach of a contract, where the
damages are uncertain or unliquidated.
§ 3286. (2839) Rules as to attachments in olher courts applicable.
The provisions contained in the ﬁrst six articles of chapter ﬁrst,
title second of this part, are applicable to attachments issued by
justices, except as otherwise prov1ded in this article.
§ 3287. (2840) Form of the a”uchmcnl.—The form of the attachment
must be in substance as follows :
State of Alabama,
county. To any constable of said county :
Whereas A. B. (or C. D., as the authorized agent or attorney of
A. B.,) hath complained on oath to me, E. F., a justice of the peace
for the county aforesaid, that G. H. is (or will be) 'usily indebted
to him in the sum of dollars, and has made afﬁdavit, and given
bond as required by law : You are hereby commanded to attach so.
much of the estate of G. H. as will be of value sufﬁcient to satisfy
the complaint and costs, and such estate, unless replevied, so to se
cure that the same may be liable to further proceedings thereon, to
be had before me on the day of , at , when and where
you must make return how you have executed this writ. Witness
my hand, this day of ————.
E. F., justice of the peace.
§ 3288. (2841) Notice Qf levy on real estate, how given—When an
attachment from a justice is levied on real estate, notice must be
given as provided for by section 3243 (2797), and the papers after
judgment against the defendant must be returned to the clerk of the
circuit court b the justice for an order of sale, as in other cases of
levy on lands y constables.
§ 3289. (2842) Money in o 'cers’ hands, or debts in suit in court, not
attached by process returnal before a justite—Money in the hands
of a sheriff or other executive ofﬁcer of the court, cannot be at
tached by process from a justice of the peace, nor a debt in any
court of record of this state, in any casein which the attachment
or process is returnable before the justice.
§ 3290. (2843) Sale of property before judgment in certain cases.—
Property which is perishable, or such that the expense of keeping it
will materially impair its value, must be sold by order of the justice,
when the debt upon which the attachment is sued out is not due,
when the defendant in attachment is a non-resident, or when from
any cause the judgment or sale is postponed, so that the property
attached will materially deteriorate in value, unless the pro erty 1s
replevied, and the proceeds of such sale must be retam in the
hands of the 'ustice to abide the judgment.
§ 3291. (28L!) Answer in writing on oath, and is evidence on appeal.
The garnishee must answer on oath, in writing, or his statement he
reduced to writing b the justice, and if an appeal is taken, the
answer made before t e justice is evidence against the garnishee, in
the circuit court. (1)
§ 3292. (2845) Property replevied to be delivered in ten days after
judgment; execution on bond for/cited—Property replevied must be
delivered to the constable within ten days after judgment against
the defendant, unless an appeal is prosecuted from the 'udgment,
and on failure thereof, the constable must indorse the bon forfeited,
upon which execution must issue against the parties thereto.
§ 3293. (2846) Justice tries contests of answers and collateral issues
without a jury—When the answer of a garnishee is contested, or
when any collateral issues arise from a contest between a transferee
or claimant of the debt attached, and the plaintiff, the question must
be decided by the justice, without the intervention of a jury.
§ 3294. (2847) Execution issues after judgment, if the property does
not pay the debt—“’hen the property attached, or in the hands of
the garnishee is not sufﬁcient to satisfy the judgment, execution may
issue for the residue, and be levied on any other property of the de
fendant.
§ 3295. (2848) Appeals from justice’s decision, on contests of an—
swers or other collateral issues; bonds on such appeals—The plaintiff,
garnishee, or the contestant, upon any collateral issue, ma appeal
to the circuit court from any judgment of the justice, hWithin the
time allowed by law for appeals in chapter one, of this title, by ex-
ecuting an undertaking in writing, with surety, payable to the ad
verse party; the garnishee in double the amount rendered against
him, and the plaintiff and contestant in such sum as the justice may
require, with condition as in other cases of other appeals from a
justice. (2)
§ 3296. (2849) Attachments, not quashed, for defect of form of qﬂi
davit, bond, ((12, on appeal, if party will amend, and no objection heard
which was not made before the justma—No attachment can be quashed
or dismissed in the circuit court, for any defect of form in the aﬂi
attachment or bond, or for want of a bond, if the plaintiff is
and able to execute a sufﬁcient bond ; and no objection can
made in the ap ~ellate court to the regularity of the proceedings,
was not ma e before the justice of the peace.
ARTICLE IV.
Forciblc entry and dctainer, and unlawful detainer.
Sam-ion. SECTION.
3237. (2850) Cognizable before a justice of 3310. (2862) Penalty for failure to execute
the peace of the county. rocess under this article.
8268. (2850a) Courts for such trials always 8311. 2863) Such proceedings no bar to
upon. other remedies.
3299. (2851) Forcible entry and dotainer 3312. (2863a) Damages for detainer after
deﬁned. expiration of lease.
3300. (2s52) Unlawful detainer deﬁned. 3313. (2 64) A peals allowed on iving
3.101. (2‘53) TL‘l‘ln of years and estates of bond an case tried anew in t e cir~
freehold included. cuit court.
3302. (2255)!) Notice to defendant on com~ 3314. (2865) Appeal does not an end the
pluint made ; form of notice. writ of restitution without end for
3303. (28») Notice, where, when, and by the rent.
whom l-M'Ved. 3315. (2866) The bond and other PI era.
3301. (2856) Issue made up, and if defend- returned to the court in case 0 ap
ant does not appear, not guilty en- peal.
tcrvd as his plea. 3316. (2867) On afﬁrmaan of judgment
3305. (2157) If plaintiff succeed, writ of for plaintiff, writ of restitution and
restitution issues, and execution for judgment for the rent.
costs. _ 3317. (2868) Such cases tried by the jus
3306. (2853) If plaintiff fails, he pays the tics of the precinct where the land
or st. lies, and if in a, town, he“ by the
3307. (21559) The estate or merits of the mayor, kc.
title not in issue. 3318. (2869) Detaulting witnesses ﬁned.
3308. (2860) Three years possession is a. 3319. (2870) Judgment for ﬁne not made
bar to any proceeding. absolute until after notice, kc.
3300. (2301) Torsiimull)’; subpienas and 3320. (2871) Fees of witnesses, sheriff or
depositions. constable.
§ 3297. (2850) Cog/nimble before a justice of the county—The forci
ble entry 11 on and detainer, or the unlawful detainer, of lands, ten
ements, an hereditaments, is cognizable before a justice of the peace
of the county where the offense happens.
§ 3298. (2850a) Courts/hr such trials always open.-—‘Courts having
jurisdiction under this article must be held open at all times, for the
. . . . . . . . . .
consideiation and adjudication of uestions arising under this arti
cle, and judgments had thereon wit iout delay.*
§ 3299. (2851) Fonible entry and detainer deﬁned—A forcible entry
and detainer is where one by force or strong band, or by exciting
fear or terror, onteis upon and detains lands or tenements in the pos
session of another; as by breaking open doors, windows, or any
other part of a house, whether any person be within or not; by
threats of violence to the party in possession, or by such words or
actions as have a tendency'lo excite fear or ap rehension of danger;
by putting out of doors or removing the goo s or chattels of the
party in possession ; or by entering peaceably and then, by force or
threats, turning or keepin the party out of possession (1)
§ 3303. (2852) Unlai/f/z. detainer deﬁned—An unlawful detainer is,
where one who has lawfully entered into possession of lands or ten
ements, after the termination of his possessory interest, refuses, on
demand in writing, to deliver the possession thereof to any one law
fully entitled theieto, his agent or attorney. (2)
§ 01. (2855) Estates q/ freehold and less than freehold included.—
The two preceding sections extend to and comprehend terms for
years, and all estates, whether freehold or less than freehold.
§ 3302. (2854) On complaint made, retire issutd to the defendant;
form of notioe.—Upon complaint being made, the justice of the peace
must issue a notice to the party complained of, to the following
effect:
The State of Alabama, To C. D.: You are hereby commanded
—— county, to be and appear before me, at , on the
day of —, to answer to and make defense against a complaint
exhibited to me against on, by A. B., for a forcible entry and de
tainer, (or for an unlan detamer, as the case may be.) Witness
my hand, this day of —-.
E. F., justice of the peace. (1)
§ 3303. (2855) Time and mode qfservirg notice—The notice must
be served on the defendant at least six days before the return day of
the process, and may be served on him any where within the state.
The return of the Service thereof by any sheriff or constable of the
state is sufﬁcient, or proof of the fact may be made before the jus
tice. It is sufﬁcient to leave a copy thereof at his usual place of
abode.
§ 3304. (2856) Issue made between the parties ; if deftndant does not
appear or plead, “not guilty” taken as his plea—If the parties a pear,
an issue must be made between them upon the complaint. if the
defendant, havin been duly cited, does not appear, or appearing,
declines to plead, the cause proceeds as if the defendant had
pleaded not guilty; or for a good cause, the trial may be postponed,
not more than ﬁfteen days, at the cost of the applicant.
§ 3305. (2857) prlaintg'ff succeed, writ of restitution issued, to be ea:
ecuted by the sherjﬁ“; costa—If the justice determine in favor of the
plaintiff, he must record the decision, and render judgment with costs,
Illipon which he must issue a writ of execution, commanding the sher
' to restore the plaintiff to the possession of his lands and tene
ments, according to the complaint; and to levy and sell a sufﬁciency
of the defendant s goods and chattels, lands and tenements, to sat
isfy the costs of the proceeding.
§ 3306. (2858) If plaintiff is cast, he pays the costs, tire—If the jus
tice determine in favor of the defent ant, judgment must he ren
dered in favor of the plaintiff for the costs, upon which an execution
may issue as in other cases; and in either case, the items composing
the bill of costs must be stated at the foot of the execution.
§ 3307. (2859) Title not in {SS'IJBr—Tlle estate, or merits of the ti
tle, cannot be inquired into on the trial of any complaint exhibited
under this article. (2)
§ 3308. (2860) Quiet possession for three years is a bar to any recov
ery, the estate of the defendant is not determined—The uninterrupted
occupation of the remises in controversy by the defendant, for the
space of three entire years preceding t e exhibition of the com
p aint, is, if the estate of the defendant is not determined, a bar to
any roceeding under this article.
§ 309. (2861) Suhptrnas and depositiona—The justice before whom
the complaint is exhibited must issue subpoenas for witnesses, at the
request of either party, which may be served either by the sheriff or
by a constable. Either party may also take the testimony of any
witness living out of the county of the trial, by deposition, as in
other cases before justices of the peace.
 
§ 3310. (2862) Penaltufbrfailure of oﬂioer to execute process under
this articlc.-—Any sheriff 0r constable neglecting or refusing to exe
cute any process placed in his hands by a justice of the peace, in
virtue of the authority conferred by this article, forfeits two hundred
dollars to the party aggrieved, to be recovered by action in the cir
cuit court.
§ 3311. (2863) Proceedings under this article no bar to other remedies.
No proceeding had under this article or judgment rendered, bars or
prevents the part injured from prosecuting an action of trespass, or
other act-ion, against the aggressor or party offending.
§ 3312. (2863a) Damages_ for dctainer after expiration of lease—"Any
person who, having entered into the possession of lands and tene
ments under a contract of lease, forcibly 0r unlawfully retains the
possession thereof after the expiration of his term, or refuses to sur
render the same on the written demand of the lessor, his agent, or
attorney, or legal representative, is liable for double the amount of
the annual rent agreed to be paid under such contract, and for such
other s ecial damages as may be thereby sustained by the party
thus awftu kept out of possession, to be recovered as now pro
vided by law in actions of unlawful detainer, or by an action at law
for damages.
§ 3313. (2864) Ajpealsfrom the judgment on giving bond, and case
tried anew in circuit court—Either party aggrieved by the judgment
rendered in any proceeding instituted under this article, may prose
cute an a peal thereon, within ten days thereafter, to the circuit
court of e roper county, where the cause must be tried anew,
without regar to any defect in the proceedings before the justice;
the party raying the appeal executing bond, payable to the other
party, in t e enalty of treble the amount of the 'udgment for costs,
with approve surety, conditioned to prosecute the a peal to effect,
and ay and satisfy all costs, and the judgment which may be ren
dere by the circmt court.
§ 3314. (2865) Appeal does not susrx'nd the writ of restitution, unless
defendant gives bondfor rent, (ta—An ap eal does not prevent the is
sue of a writ of restitution, unless the ( efendant, in addition to the
bond described in the precedin section, execute a bond with surety,
payable to the other party, in 516 penalty of twice the yearly value
of the rent of the premises, with condition to pay him all such dam
ages as he may sustain by the prosecution of the appeal ; the value
of the yearly rent must be ascertained by the justice.
§ 3315. (2866) All the pa rs, dict, with the bond, returned to the cir
cuit court, as in other appea cocoa—When an appeal is prosecuted, the
justice of the peace must return to the circuit court the appeal bond,
and all the papers and proceedings in the cause, together with his
statement 0 the cause, as in other a peal cases ; and judgment must
be rendered in the circuit court agalnst the principal and sureties in
the appeal bond.
§ 3316. (2867) On qﬁirmmwe o/'_iudgment against defendant, writ qf
restitution and judgmentfor rent—If the appeal is rosecuted by the
defendant below, and the judgment afﬁrmed by t e circuit court, a
writ of restitution must be awarded, and, on motion of the appel
lees, judgment must be rendered a ainst the appellant and his sure
ties, on his bond, for the value of t e rent of the premises, pending
the appeal, and also the costs.
§ 3317. (2868) Tried lu/ justice of precinct in which land is; if in a
city, by the mayor, tic—The complaints rovided for in this article
must be exhibited to, and be tried by a justice of the peace, for the
precinct in which the lands or tenements are situated. If in a city,
or corporate town, before the mayor, intendant, or any justice of the
cues thereof. If the oﬁice is vacated, or such justice, mayor, or
intendant is disqualiﬁed, from any cause, from sitting, then by the
justice of some adjoinin ‘precinct.
§ 3318. (2869) Fine q (faulting witness—A witness duly subpoe
naed and failing to attend, or refusing to testify, may be ﬁned by the
justice of the peace, not exceeding one hundred dollars, for the use
of the county, for which he may issue his execution directed to the
constable.
§ 3319. (2870) Notice to witness before judgment is made absolute.—
The 'udgment speciﬁed in the preceding section must not be made
abso ute, until ten days after service of a written notice on such wit
ness, informing him of the rendition of such judgment.
§ 3320. (2871) Fees of witnesses, sherry/Is- and timetables—To wit
nesses, the same fees as allowed by law in the circuit court; to the
sheriffs, for serving summons and return, one dollar; for executing
writ of restitution, two dollars; for making money on execution,
serving sub oenas, &c., same fees as in cases in the circuit court; to
the constab e, same fees as in other cases.
 
§ 3321. (2872) Jurisdiction Qf courts cf chancei'yr-Courts of chan
cery must take cognizance of cases in equity—
1. When the defendants reside in this state.
2. Against non-residents, when the object of the suit concerns an
estate of, lien or charge upon lands, or the disposition thereof, or
any interest in, title to, or incumbrance on, personal properi within
this state; or where the cause of action arose, or the act on w 'ch the
suit is predicated, was to have been performed in this state.
3. In such other cases as such courts are by law required to take
jurisdiction of. .
§ 3322. (2873) Joint demand may be
When the plaintiﬂ has a joint deman , he may roceed against one
or more of the parties thereto, without joining t no others.
§ 3323. (2873a) The state may bring suit in chancel-y and be defend
ant therein.—
osecutal against one defendant.
'The state may sue and be sued, by a citizen of the state,
or domestic corporation, in chancery, and the suit is governed by the
same rules as suits between individuals.
The solicitor of the circuit
in which the suit is pending must attend to the same on the part of
the state, and the overnor may employ assistant counsel if he deem
it necessary, and t e chancellor may determine the amount of com
pensation; and if unsuccessful, the state is liable for costs as indi
vidual suitors are.
The direction of the executive of the state, in
writing, is suﬂicient authority to the attorney for bringing such suit.*
§ 3324. (28731)) How persons of unsound mind may sue.—-" Persons
non compos mantis may sue by next friend, and guardians may be sub
stituted; and upon restoration to sanity, the suit may proceed in
their own names, in the same manner as prescribed in sections 2527
(2l32a) and 2528 (2132b).
§ 3325. (2874) Suits commenced by bill, and addressed 10 clmnwllor.
The mode of commencing the suit in chancery is by bill, addressed
to the chancellor of the division in which the same is ﬁled.
§ 3326. (2875) In what districts to be ﬁled—It must be ﬁled in the
district in which the defendants, or a material defendant, resides;
and if to enjoin proceedings on
ﬁled in the district in which suc
Lu
dgments in other courts, it may be
proceedings are pending, or judg
ment rendered: and in case of non-residents, in the distiict where
the subject of the suit, or any portion of the same, is, where the
cause of action arose, or the act on which the suit is predicated was
to be performed. (1)
§ 3327. (2876) Bill to contain only a statement of facts and a prayer
for relic/I—It must contain a clear and orderl statement of the facts
on which the suit is founded, without rohxit or repetition, and
conclude with a prayer for the appropriate relief, without averring
any combination or confederacy tween the defendants, or others,
the insuﬂiciency of the remedy at law, or charging pretences by the
defendants ; and it is the duty of the courts to discountenance pro
lix statements, and unnecessary and false allegation, in all chancery
pleadings. (1)
§ 3328. (2877) Complainant may waive. oath to answer ; its weight
as evidence—When a bill is ﬁled for any other purpose than discov
ery only, the plaintiff may waive in, or upon the bill, the answer
being made on the oath of the defendants, or either of them, and in
such case the answer is entitled to no more weight as evidence than
the bill. (2)
§ 3329. (2878) Summons issued, and copy served on each defendant.
Upon the ﬁling of the bill, the register must forthwith issue a sum
mons and copy for each defendant, against whom publication is not
shown to be necessary; requiring him to appear, and plead to or
answer the bill within thirty days after service.
§ 3330. (2879) Sheriﬂ‘ to serve the copies on defendants—A copy of
such summons must be personally served by the sheriﬂ', if the de
fendant is to be found in his county, his return indorsed on the ori
ginal, and returned to the register within ﬁve days after service.
§3331. (2880) Each defendant may demand a copy of the bill; one
served on the governor.——It is not necessary to serve the defendants
with a copy of the bill ; but each defendant is, on application to the
register, entitled to a co y, unless otherwise rovided by law, which
must be charged in the ill of costs; cbut w en the state is a party
defendant, a co y of the bill must be served upon the governor.
§ 3332. (2881 Summons executed in another county returned
math—Where the summons is executed in any other count than the
one in which the court, from which the same issues, is he d, the re
turn may be made by mail, directed to the register ; the title of the
suit being indorsed on the envelope, and the word “summons” writ
ten against the same.
§ 3333. (2882) lllaz'led within ﬁve days—“Then the return is by
mail, the summons directed, and indorsed according to the provis
ions of the preceding section, must be deposited in a post ofﬁce of
the county in which the same is executed, within ﬁve days after the
execution.
(2883) [Repealed by section 2, act 8th Feb., ’58, p. 230.]
§ 3334. (2883a) How parties of unsound mind may be made de
ﬁ=ndam‘s.—‘l When a party to a suit or other roceedings in chancery
is alleged to be of unsound mind, and to ave no legal guardian,
such party may be brought into court by service of process person
ally upon him ; and a guardian ad litem appointed for such person,
as in case of infants over fourteen years of age, who fail to select or
nominate a guardian ad litem.
§ 3335. (2884) Publication as to non-residents, (Ea—If an defend
ant is shown to be a non-resident, or if his residence is an own, or
If being a resident he has been absent from the state more than six
months from the ﬁlin of the bill, or conceals himself so that pro
cess cannot be serve on him, the register must on proof thereof,
supported by aﬁidavit, make out and superintend the execution of
the appropriate order of publication. (3)
§ 3336. (2885) Fee for publication, to be deposited with the register.
In all cases in which an order of publication is necessary, a sufﬁ
cient amount of money must be deposited with the register to cover
the expense of such publication, and the bill may be dismissed on
thirty days notice to the plaintiff, or his solicitor, on failure to make
such deposit within that time.
§ 3337. (2886) Copy q” bill delivered each defendant, and taxed as
costs—Any defendant, after service of a summons, or after being
brought into court by ublication, may, on ap lication to the regis
ter, obtain a copy of t e bill to be taxed as 0t 1er costs.
§ 3338. (2887) Security required of non-resident plaintive, (ﬁe.—
When any plaintiff is a non-resident, security for such costs as may
be decreed against him must be given, to be approved by the regis~
ter ; and if not given within thirty days after notice to such plaintiff,
or his solicitor, the bill may be dismissed, and the solicitor taxed
with the costs.
§ 3339. (2888) Orders of publication to conform to rules of court.—
Orders of ublication must conform to the rules now in force in the
courts of c ancery in this state, and to those which may hereafter
be made.
§ 3340. (2889) Publication and proceedings against defendants whose
names are 'll’Illﬂw’Llf'n.—In cases where it is necessary to make any per
sons defendants to a bill, and the names of all, or any of them, are
unknown to the plaintiff, and cannot be ascertained on diligent in
quiry, and he annexes to his bill an afﬁdavit that the names of such
persons are unknown, that he has made diligent inquiry to ascertain
the same, and that their residence as he beheves is not in this state,
proceedings may be had, and a decree be rendered against them,
without naming them ; and the register must make publication as in
case of non-residents, in such paper as he thinks roper, describin
such unknown parties as near as may be, by the clharacter in whic
they are sued, and with reference to their title or interest in the sub
ject matter. '
§ 3341. (2890) Defendant (0 answer in Uzi-rly days, or deci'ee' 7'0
confesso passed—A defendant may answer at any time after the ill
is ﬁled, and must answer within thirty days after the service of the
summons, 'or within tln'rty days after the period speciﬁed in the or
der of publication to answer, if the publication required by the or
der has been perfected, or obtain further time, or a decree Pro can
esso may be passed.
§ 3342. (2891) Answerf'rom residents compelled attachment—An
swers from resident defendants may be compelled by attachment.
§ 3343. (2892) Arrest under attachment, and discharge on bond being
given to answer.—Such attachments are served by the arrest of the
defendant, and bringing him before a chancellor, circuit judge, or
register, who may dischar e him on his giving bond and securlty, in
such sum as may be ﬁxed y such chancellor, circuit judge, or regis
ter, to be approved by the arresting ofﬁcer, payable to the register
of the court in which the bill is ﬁled, and conditioned, that he will
ﬁle a full answer to the bill, within a time to be rescribed by the
ofﬁcer before whom such defendant is brought; w ich bond must be
returned with the attachment, within the same time after service,
and in the same manner, if by mail, as a summons is required to be
returned under the provisions of this chapter.
(2893) [Repealed by act, section 2, 8th Feb, ’58, p. 230.]
§ 3344. (2894) Suit on forfeiture of (be a-Hac/mzcnt boncl.—Upon the
forfeiture of the bond, the chancellor may direct the same to be
sued, and the whole, or such part of the penalty thereof as he di
rects, may be recovered against any or all of the obligors, having
ten days notice, by motion in the circuit court of the county in
which the court issuing the attachment is held; and on the trial of
such motion, the indorsement by the register of forfeiture, is pre
sumptive eﬁdence of the fact.
§ 3345. (2895) Defendant imprisoned until hejiles an answer or band.
In case a defendant refuses or neglects to give such bond, he must
be committed to jail by the sheriff, and there kept until he ﬁles a
full and suﬁicient answer with the register.
§ 3346. (2896) Oath to answer: by whom administered—When an
answer is required to be sworn to, t e oath may be administered by
any judge of any court of record, chancellor, judge of the United
States, or either of them; by a commissioner appointed by the reg
ister, notary public, commissioner of this state, or by any justice of
the eace or register in chancery in this state.
§ 347. (2897) Defendant may protect himself from answering full .
A defendant ma in his answer protect himself from furnishing a ﬁg]
answer to the a] egations of the bill.
§ 3348. (2898) A 1 tit-ation to answer specially granted only on notice
to adverse party— ere a party offers to answer specially, and ap
plies for leave to do so, the ground of such application may be con
tested, and the application must only be granted upon reasonable
notice.
§ 3349. (2899) All defenses may be set up in the answer.—~A defend
ant may incorporate all matters of defense in his answer, and is not
required to plead specially in any case.
§ 3350. (2900) Ground of demurrer to be set out specially—A de
murrer to the bill must set forth the ground of demurrer specially,
and otherwise must not be heard.
§ 3351. (2901) No 'replication.—-N0 replication is necessary to an
answer.
§ 3352. (2902) If heard on bill and answer, answer taken as true so
far as responsive—When the cause is heard on bill and answer with
out testimony, the answer must be taken to be true, so far as it is
responsive to the allegations of the bill, except in those cases where
the complainant has waived the oath of the defendant to the an
swer. -
§ 3353. (2902a) Complainant may dismiss his bill in vacation on mo
tion.—' Any complainant in a suit in chancery, may, on application
e
to the register in vacation, dismiss his suit, giving the
who have pleaded, answered 0r demurred, ﬁve days notice of such
application; on such dismissal, the register may issue execution
against such complainant for all costs accruing to the time thereof.
endants
§ 3354. (2903) Amendments before mwwer.~Amendments to bills
before answers, lens, or demurrers ﬁled, are allowable as of course,
and without notice, and amendments to any summons may be made
before service thereof.
§ 3355. (2904) Amendment obtained offer copy of bill isj/urm'shed defend
ant by paying for the copy.—-After a defendant has obtained a copy'oi
the bill from the register, and before answer, plea, or demurrer, amend
ments to the bill may be made without notice, upon payment of tllt
costs of furnishing a cop of the amendment to such defendants a:
have obtained a copy 0? the bill; and amendments may also bl
made after demurrer and before argument, on the same terms.
§ 3356. (2901”) Amendment bqurc dccrec on lerms imposed by chan
ccllor.—"Amendments to bills must be allowed, at any time before
ﬁnal decree, by striking out or adding new parties, or to meet any
state of evidence which will authorize relief; and amendments to
answers must be allowed any time before ﬁnal decree, so as to set
up any, matter of defense; but such amendments to bills and an
swers must be allowed on such terms as the chancellor may impose,
not extending be ‘ond the payment of all the costs ; and if an amend
ment be allowed at the hearing to bill or answer, the party against
whom the amendment is allowed shall be entitled to a. continuance
as a matter of right, and if the cause is continued, both parties shall
have the right to take additional testimony; and if an amendment
be allowed in vacation, both parties shall have the right to take ad
ditional testimony without a special application.
§ 3357. (2905) Reyrts'ier may allow umcudnwnls qfter annum—The
register may, on notice to the opposing party, allow amendments to
bills after answer, and amendments to answers, but only on pay
ment of the costs of the amendment by the party making the app '—
cation.
(2906) [Repealed by section 2, act 8 February, 58, p. 230.]
§ 3358. (2907) Answer to anwndment ﬁled in thirty days—In all
cases where an amendment of the bill is made after answer ﬁled,
and an answer thereto is necessary, the defendants are allowed thirty
days after notice of the amendment to answer the same, and failing
so to do, or to obtain further time, the matter of the amendment
may be taken as confessed; but such defendant may, at any time
before the cause is set for hearing, obtain leave to set aside the or
der pro confesso on ﬁling a full and sufﬁcient answer to the matter
of amendment, on such terms as may be imposed by the chancellor
or register.
§ 3359. (2908) Objedionfor want of parties, orjoinder of improper
parties, setfor separate hearing—When an objection is made to a ill
or want of parties, or joinder of im r0 er parties, it ma be set for
hearin on that ob'ection only; and not set for hearm on that
oun , the court, i the objection prevail on the ﬁnal hearing, must
'smiss the bill.
§ 3360. (2909) Decree when objection for improper parties, or want
of parties, ﬁrst taken at the hearing.—If the defendant, at the hearing
of a cause, take an ob'ection for want of parties, not having by plea
or answer taken the o jection, the court may render a decree savin
the ri hts of parties not before it, or it may grant leave to amen
the bill, on terms not extending beyond the payment of costs.
§ 3361. (2910) Pleading-s indorsed with date of ﬁling.—All bills, an
swers, and other papers ﬁled in any cause, must be indorsed by the
register, with the true date on which they were ﬁled.
§ 3362. (2911) Notice of motion, (60., served on solim'tor.—Notice in
relation to any supplemental bill, amendment, decree, motion, or
other proceeding in the court of chancery, served on the solicitor of
the part , is vahd.
§ 3363. (2912) Notice to parties in default, (ha—When parties are
in default, for want of an answer or other cause, the notices may be
entered on the order book of the register, and such entries for such
time as is ﬁxed by the register, are suﬁicientin cases of amendments,
supplemental bills, and of other orders in the cause.
§ 3364. (2913) Exceptions to answers when made; notice of hearing
them—Exceptions to answers must be made within sixty days after
the same are ﬁled, and notice must be given by the register of the
day of hearing of the same.
§ 3365. (2914) Defendant may examine the complainant on oath—If
the defendant wishes to examine the complainant touching the sub
jectmatter of the bill, or his defense, he may, after ﬁling his an
swer, exhibit interrogatories to the complainant, and call u on him
to answer the same; and on his failing to answer them wit in such
time as may be prescribed b the register, his bill must be dismissed
with costs, unless such time is extended.
§ 3366. (2915) Exceptions to such infcrrogatorias.—Exceptions may
be taken to such interrogatories, and heard before the register at
such time as he may prescribe, on reasonable notice to the defend
ant or his solicitor, subject to an appeal to the chancellor.
§ 3367. (2916) Defendant may obtain relief by setting npfacts in his
answer.—-The defendant may obtain relief against the complainant
for any cause connected with or growing out of the subject-matter
0f the bill, by alleging in his answer, and as a part thereof, the facts
upon which such rellef is prayed, and require the complaith to
answer the some n on oath.
§ 3368. (2917) his defense in the nature of a cross lull—The mat
ter thus put in issue must be considered in the nature of a cross bill,
and be heard at the same time as the original bill.
§ 3369. (2918) Answer to such new matter on oath may be waived and
answer no evidence unless, (fa—The defendant ma waive the answer
of the complainant to such new matter being 111 0 upon oath, which
waiver must be made in or upon the answer; and in such case the
answer of the complainant to such new matter is not evidence, un
less the defendant use it as such.
§ 3370. (2919) Answers to such matters ﬁled as other answers—The
complainant must ﬁle his answer to such new matter under the rules
and regulations provided in this title for the answers of defendants
to original bills.
CHAPTER 3.
EVIDENCE IN CHANCERY.
Eamon. Snorios.
3371. (2920) Tcstimon taken by interrog- 3378. (2926) Notice 'ven to non—resident
stories under ru es of the court, kc. b ' ﬁling them in the register‘s oﬂice.
3872. (2921) Rules of evidence as to com- 3379. (2927) RebuttingL interrogatories
etency same as at law. ﬁled in ﬁve days, '0.
3373. $2922) Testimony, when to be taken. I 3380. (2927a) Register may act as com—
3374. (2923) Exhibits proved by atiidavit missioner unless objected to.
before re ister. 3381. (2928) Limitation of suits in chan
3375. (2923a) \ hen evidence of witness corv.
may be retaken. 3382. (2929) Filing of bill is the commence
 
3376. (2924) Commissioners to take testi- ment of suit. _
mony. 3388. (2930) Attendance of Witnesses be
3377. (2925) Interrogatorios served ten fore commissioners.
3384. (2931) Defaulting witnmaees.
days before issue of commission. ,
§ 3371. (2920) Testimony taken by inter-rogatorim—Testimony in
chancery causes must be taken by interro atories, under the rules
now in force, or such as may hereafter be a opted.
§ 3372. (2921) Rules of evidence as to competency, same as at com
mon {aux—The rules of evidence as to the competenc of witnesses
in courts of chancery, are the same as those declare by this Code
in courts of law, except so far as the same are altered by any provi
sion of this title.
§ 3373. (2922) Zhsfz'mony, when i(lke7l.—Th6 plaintiﬁ may take tes
timony at any time after answer, or after a decree pro confesso, and
the defendant at any time after ﬁling his answer.
§ 3374. (2923) Exhibits proved by qg‘idavil before the regimen—Ex
hibits to bills and answers may be proven by aﬁidavits ﬁled with the
exhibits in the register’s oﬁice, thirty days before the hearing.
§ 3375. (2923(1) When evidence of nit-new mm]; be. refaken.-—'The
party arrainst whom the deposition of a witness as been taken may
retahe the testimony of such witness, under the provisions of sec
1
tion 2727 (2329b), and the provisions of said section apply to such
testimony when taken.
§ 3376. (2924) Commissions to take Ie.s’lir:2rnzjl/.—All commissions for
the taking of testimony must be directed to one or more commis
sioners, to be appointed by the register, and made returnable with
all convenient speed.
§ 3377. (2925) Inferregulories served ten days before issue of 00m
1m'ssion.-No commission to take testimony must issue, until the ad
verse party or his solicitor, if either of them reside in the district,
has been served with a copy of the interrogatories for ten days.
§ 3378. (2926i adverse pay-(y a now-resident, (tn—If such ad
verse party or his solicitor do not reside in the district, this notice
may be given by ﬁling interrogatories in the ofﬁce of the register
for ten days.
§ 3379. (2927) Rchuﬂing in[erroga-Iories ﬁled in ﬁve (Inga—After
such notice has been given, if cross interrogatories are. ﬁled, the
party has ﬁve days to ﬁle rebuttin interrogatories, but this time
may be extended, on a plication to t e register, without notice.
§ 3380. (2927a) Register may act as commissioner unless objected to.
I
t’W’hen interrogatories are ﬁled in the chancery court for the purpose
of taking the de osition of a witness in an cause pending in such
court, and the solicitor ﬁling the same sha appoint the register, in
writing indorsed on the interrogatories, as the commissioner to take
the same, the register may proceed to take the testimon of the
witness s eciﬁed in the interrogatories, under the rules an regula
tions app ying to the taking of such testimony, by commissioners
appointed by such register, unless the opposite party, within ten
days after such interrogatories are ﬁled, ﬁles an objection in writing,
when the appointment of a commissioner must be made as usual.
§ 3381. (2928) Lz'mi'latz'on of suits in chancery.-—The provisions of
chapter 21, title 1, part 3, apply to suits commenced by bill in chan
ce .
§ 3382. (2929) Filing of bills commencement of suit—The ﬁling of
the bill is the commencement of the suit, if prosecuted, whether
the defendant is brought into court by personal service or by publi
cation.
§ 3383. (2930) Attendame of witnesses before mmmissioners.-—The
attendance of a witness may be enforced by commissioners in chan
cery causes, in the same mode, and their attendance proved and cer
tiﬁed to the register in all respects the same as in the execution of
commissions from courts of law.
§ 3384. (2931) Default of witness—If the witness fails to attend
before the commissioner, being served with a subpoena so to do, the
commissioner must indorse on the subpoena that the witness failed
to attend, and return the same to the clerk of the circuit court of
the county, who must enter the case on the docket, and such pro
ceedings may be had as in the case of defaulting witnesses in such
circuit court; the indorsement on the subpoena being presumptive
evidence of the default of such witness.
CHAPTER 4.
REFERENCES TO THE REGISTER.
Swims. Queries.
3385. (2932) Proceedings before register (2936) Evidence in the cause used
on a reference. before the register.
3386. (2933) Notice of day for hearinggiv- 3889. {2937) Exceptions to the decision
on by the register. _ of the register.
3387. (2934) Authority of the register on
a reference.
§ 3385. (2932) Proceedings before register on a rq’erence.—When
ever a reference is made to the register, the party at whose instance,
or for whose beneﬁt the reference is made, must cause such matter
to be presented to the register within the time limited for the hear
ing; and if no time is limited, within three months after the refer
ence is made; and if such party omit to do so, the adverse party may
cause proceedings to be had before the register, at the costs of the
party procuring the reference. _ _ ‘
§ 3386. (2933) Notice git-en by'reg'zsler q/ (qu for bearing, (20.—
Upon any such reference, the register must assign a time and lace
for proceeding therein, and give reasonable notice to each 0 the
parties, or their solicitors; and if either party fail to appear at the
time and place appointed, the register may proceed as parts, or in
his discretion adjourn the examination to another day, giving notice
to the adverse party or his counsel, of such adjournment.
§ 3387. (2934) Authority of the register on a reference—The re ' -
ter, in all matters referred, must proceed with the least practica le
delay, and has authority-—
1. To examine the parties on oath, as to all the items of reference
not exceeding twenty dollars in amount.
2. To require the production of all books, papers, writings, vouch
ers, and documents, in relation to such matters.
3. To examine on oath, viva voce, all witnesses produced by the
parties before him.
4. To hear the depositions of witnesses taken under a commission,
as in other chancery cases.
5. To do all other acts, and direct all other inquiries and proceed
ings in the matters before him, which may be necessary, subject at
all times to the revision and control of the chancellor.
(2935) [Repealed by section 2, 14th Feb., ’67, p. 435.]
§ 3388. (2936) Evidence in cause used Ire/ore register, (ta—All aﬂi
davits, depositions, and documents, which have been made or ﬁled in
the cause, may be used on reference before the register.
§ 3389. (2937) Exceptions to regz'ster’s decisions—Either party may
reserve, in writing, any question arising on a reference, for the re
vision of the chancellor.
ARTICLE DEGREES PRO CONFESSO.
Samoa. Sscnon. . .
3390. (2988) Decree pro confesso, on fail- 3398. (2946) Decree set aside on petitlon
lire to answer, plead, &c., for thirty of such defendants, within eighteen
aye. months, and defence on the merits
3391. (2939) On such decree allegations of ermitted.
bill taken as admitted. 3399. 2947) The testimony on ﬁle used by
8392. (2940) Case not to be heard on the either arty.
dav of such decree. 3400. (2948) giights and liabilities of ar
3393. (2941) Decree mav be contested, or ties without notice, extend to t 611‘
ap earance made before register on re resentatives. ,
re erence. _ 9401 (2849) Execution against parties 17
3394. (2942) Decree set aside on delend- publication of decrees so obtains .
ant‘s ﬁling answer and avin costs. on giving refundin bond.
8395. (2943) Decree against efeii ant as 3402. (2950) On serviceo copy, decree be
to_whom publication was made, set comes conclusive in six months,1
aside on answer and payment of petition to set it aside is not ﬁled. _
costs. 8403. (2951) Preceding section not appli
8396. (2944) Chancellor may allow answer cable to infants or married women,
after pubhcation of testimony. except as to their separate estate!
3397. (2915) Decree a ainst defendants
without persona service not abso
lute for eighteen months; copy of
decree to be sent.
§ 3390. (2938) Decrees pro cmy’esso on failure to answer, (£10., for
tlnrtg days—Decrees pro confe-sso may be taken before the register,
on t e failure of the defendant to answer or plead to the bill Within
thirty days after service of the summons, “or thirty days after the
period speciﬁed in the order of publication, to answer, if the publi
cation required by the order has been erfected, unless the time fOI'
answering Or pleading has been exten ed; in which case, a decree
pro confes-s‘o may be passed at the expiration of such time.
§ 3391. (2939) On decrees allegations of bill taken as admitted;
“(Winona—In all cases in which decrees pro confesso are lawfully
taken, the allegations of the bill are to be regarded as admitted, ex
cept in the case of infant defendants, lunatics, executors, adminis
trators, and bills for divorce.
§ 3392. (2940) -'ot to be heard on day of taking decree—No cause
in which a decree pro wig/mo is taken, must be heard on the same
day; but the cause may be set for hearing on an subsequent day.
§ 3393. (2941) Dryendunt may contest adecree ont e merits, oramiear
on a reference—A defendant against whom a decree pro oonfesso is
taken, can a pear and contest a decree on the merits of the bill, or
may appear store the register on a reference.
§ 3394. (2942) Decree set aside, 470., on making full answer, (fa,
defendant served with mama—A defendant who has been served wit
a summons, may at any time before publication of the testimony, on
making a pro r ShOWng, obtain leave from the chancellor or regis
ter to set asi e such decree, upon ﬁling a full and sufﬁcient answer,
° and u on such terms, not extending beyond full costs, as the chan—
cellor diaems proper; and the defendant may also plead or demur
upon such terms as the chancellor ma order.
§ 3395. 2943) By defendant, on 21 Ill-(1111.072, on certain terms—A
defendant rought into court b pu lication, against whom a decree
pro wig/e880 has been rendere , may also, before publication of the
testimony, set aside such decree on application to the chancellor or
register, on ﬁling a full and sufﬁcient answer, and such other terms,
not extending beyond the (payment of costs to the time of the ap
plication, as may be impose .
§ 3396. (2944) Chancellor may allow answer after hlieation of tes
timony.—The permission to e an answer after t e publication of
the testimony, rests in the sound discretion of the chancellor.
§ 3397. (2945) Decree against dq/endant u‘ithout personal service, not
(absolutefor eiqhteen months ,- eopy of decree sent him.-—A decree made
against a defendant, without personal service, who does not a pear,
is not absolute for eighteen months from the rendition thereo ; and
in such case, the court must direct a copy of the decree to be sent
to such defendant, or in case of infants, or lunatics, or married
women, (unless the suit or matter determined concerns their separate
estates,) to their guardians or husbands, if their residences can be
ascertained.
§ 3398. (2946) Petition to set aside decree and defend on the merits.
Such defendants may ﬁle a petition to set aside such decree and to
defend the suit on the merits, at any time within such eighteen
months; and u on sufﬁcient cause' shown, the chancellor has full
power to open t e decree and to hear the cause, as if no decree had
een rendered.
§ 3399. (2947) Testimony on file used ln either party.—In the case
provided for in the preceding section, eit ier party can use the testi
mony of witnesses on ﬁle in the cause, who have died or removed
from the state, after the decree was rendered.
§ 3400. (2948) Rights and liabilities of mrties without ser vice extend
to re esentatit'es.—The rights and liabilities of any plaintiff or de~
fen ant on bills taken pro eon/esso, without personal service, extend
to the personal representatives of any deceased plaintiff or defend
ant; and with reference to the altered state of the parties, and any
new interest acquired, the chancellor may, on petition, upon due no
tice bein given and sustained by proof, permit any party to ﬁle such
bills 8.1K? adopt such proceedings as the circumstances of the case
ma require, for having the matter of the decree duly considered,
an the ri hts of the parties interested therein duly ascertained and
determined.
§ 3401. (2949) Execution of decrees on bills taken pro confesso, with
out service, on giving bond to indemnify in case decree is set aside—It is
no objection to the execution of a decree rendered against a defend
ant, that it was founded on a bill taken pro confesso without personal
service ; but before the execution of such decree, the laintiﬁ' or
party interested, must give bond with two sureties, paya 10 to and
approved by the register, in a penalty to be prescribed by the chan
cellor or such register, conditioned to pay the pecuniary value of the
personal property which may be disposed of, or placed beyond the
control 0 the court or party, by t e execution of the decree, and
interest thereon from the time such property is so disposed of or
placed beyond such control; and to account for the value, rents and
proﬁts of any real estate transferred by the 0 eration of such de
cree; and further to abide and perform such ecree, as the court
ma render, if the decree taken on the bill pro confesso is set aside;
an the chancellor may, if such decree is set aside, rendera ﬁnal
decree against all the parties to such bond.
§ 3402. (2950) On service of copy of decree, it is conclusive in six
months, if no petition is made to set it aside—Where ersonal service
of a decree rendered under the provisions of this c apter, is made
by serving the defendant with a copy of such decree, the same is
conclusive and binding on him, if the petition to set aside such de
cree is not made within six months from such service.
§ 3403. (2951) Not applimble to infants, &c., or to married women,
but in respect of their separate estate—The provisions of the preceding
section do not apply to infants, lunatics, or to married women, (un
less the suit or matter determined concerns their separate estate);
and such persons are allowed twelve months from the termination of
their respective disabilities, to show cause against such decrees.
CHAPTER 6.
BILLS OF REVIEW, NE EXEAT, EQUITABLE ATTACBHUJNTS, AND OTHER WRITS
0F SEIZURE.
SECTION. Sam-ion.
 
3404. (2952) Decree may be suspended till 3415. (2963) Writs of no exeat and attach
bill of review heard. ment, by whom issued. I
8405. (2953) Application to ﬁle, made with- 3416. (2964) Issued also in aid of any and
in three wars. already commenced.
8406. (2954) Ne 0X04", and equitable at- 3417. (2965) Afﬁdavit to be made by the
tachrnents issued on equitable de- plaintiff. _
mands. 3418. (2966) Property restored on givmg
3407. (2955) Answers in such cases exam- replevy bond.
ined in vacation and levy or bail dis- 3419. (2367) If no bond is given by de
charged, on notice to complainant. fendant after ﬁve days, it is deliv
8408. (2956) Attachments also issued on ered to laintiﬂ' on his giving bond.
legal demands to reach equitable as- 3420. (2968) \ 'rits, bonds, &c., to be re
sets. turned to the register.
3409. (2957) Equitable attachments issue 3421. (2960) Decree when plaintiﬂ sus
bel'ore judgments. tains his claim. _
3410. (2958) Such attachments to specify 3122. (2974)) Liability of plaintiff and his
the pro erty to be subjected. sureties if cant. .
3411. (2959) eplcvy of property, &c., at- 3423. (2970a) Equitable attachment to 19
taehed. sue for beneﬁt of surety, &c., m.
3412. (2960) Replevv bond to be returned. written contracts.
3413. (2961) Lien of such attachmente. B424. (2970(1) When such attachments to

replevy bond. favor of surety.
§ 3404. (2952) Suspension of decree on presenting a bill of review.—
When a decree has been rendered, and a bill of review is presented,
the chancellor may direct the proceedings on such decree to be sus
pended, until a decree is rendered on such bill of review, or until
the further order of the court; requiring such bond of the plaintiff
as will effectually protect the interest of the arties interested in the
decree rendered; on which bond the chance or may render a ﬁnal
decree for any portion or the whole of the penalty.
§ 3405. (2953) Application to ﬁle such bills, when maria—Application
to ﬁle bills of review, must be made within three years after the ren
dition of the decree, exce t in cases of infants, or married women,
(unless the matter of the ecree relates to their separate estate,) and
lunatics, who ma a ply within three years after the termination of
their respective ( 'sa llities.
§ 3406. (2954) Ne eaceat, and equitable altaehments issue an equitable
(tarantula—Writs of ne exeat, and e uitable attachments, may issue
on equitable debts and demands, un er the same circumstances, and
courts must observe, in the issue of such writs, the provisions of
courts of law in relation to bail and attachment writs, except so far
as the same are altered by this Code. (1)
§ 3407. (2955) Chancellors may examine answers in such cases in va
cation—Chancellors may in vacation examine all answers in relation
to writs of ne sweat, and attachments returnable into chancery, and
other writs of seizure, discharge or reduce any bail taken, or levy
made, on ap lication and reasonable notice to the adverse party.
§ 3408. 2 56) Attachmentsf'rom chancery on legal demands to sub
ject equitable ffeds.—OOIII1ZS of chancery may also issue writs of at
tachment on legal demands, founded on any judgment or contract,
express or implied, in such cases as attachments may issue from
courts of law; which attachments operate only on the effects of the
defendant held by an equitable title or_ on demands owing by other
persons to which the defendant against whom the attachment issues
is in e uity entitled, whether due or not. (2)
§ 9. (2957) Equitable attachments issue before judgment for the
debt, (Era—To authorize the issue of e uitable attachments, it is not
necessary that the demand of the plaintiff should be reduced to a
judgment, but the court may render a decree for the amount proved,
and execution may issue to enforce the same as from courts of law.
§ 3410. (2958) Such attachments must specify the roperty, (ta, to
be subjected—Equitable attachments must specify the property, ef
fects or demands on which the are intended to operate ; and a copy
of the bill must in such cases e served with the summons.
§ 3411. (2959) Replery of property, (in, alta<-hed.-Any property
levied on by an equitable attachment, may be replevied b the de
fendant, or any one for him, on giving bond and security in double
the value of the roperty levied on, to be ap roved b the sheriff,
payable to the p aintiﬁ‘, and conditioned as rep evy bomle on attach
ments from courts of law.
§ 3412. (2960) Replevy bond to be returned—“men property levied
on by an equitable attachment is replevied, the bond must be re
turned with the attachment.
§ 3413. (2961) Lien of such attach-men18.—Equitable attachments
are a lien upon the property or debts attached, from the service of
the attachment.
§ 3414. (2962) If property not delivered, execution issues on the re
plevy bond—If a decree is rendered in a case in which an equitable
attachment has been levied, and the property replevied is not forth'
coming within such time as the court may direct, to be proven by the
afﬁdavit of the party before the register, the replevin bond in such
case has the force of a judgment, and execution may issue thereon
for the whole or any portion of the penalty, as the court may direct,
against any or all of the parties thereto.
§ 3415. (2963) Writs of ne exeat and attachment, by whom issued.—
Chancellors, circuit 'udges, and registers of the court in which the
bill is ﬁled, may ma e all necessary orders for the issuing of writs of
ne est-eat and equitable attachments, and for the sale of personal
property levied on, as in like cases from courts of law; the money
arismg from such sale to be paid to the register. (1)
§ 3416. (2964) Such writs also issued in aid of (my suit commenced
in cham-ery.—Writs may also issue from the courts of chancery on an
original bill, or in aid of a suit pending in such court, by the order
of any chancellor, judge of the circuit court, or register, for the seiz
ure of ersona] property where the same is claimed under an equi
table tltle, or where a decree is sought against the same, and it is in
danger of being wasted, carried beyond the jurisdiction of the court,
or otherwise disposed of.
§ 3417. (2965) Aﬁda'vit to be made by the ptaintgﬂl—The plaintiff in
such case must sustain his claim by afﬁdavit, and give bond with se
curity, payable to the defendant, in double the value of the property,
to be approved by the register, conditioned to pay all damages the
defendant may sustain by the wrongful or vexatious suing out of
such writ.
§ 3418. (2966) Property restored on giving bomb—The oﬁcer exe
cuting such writ must restore the propert seized to the defendant,
on his giving bond in double the value 0 the same, with securit ,
to be approved b such ofﬁcer, payable to the plaintiff, and con '
tioned to have suc property forthcoming to answer the decree of the
court.
§ 3119. (2967) If bond is 'not given inﬁ've da 8, the property is deliv
ered to the plaintiff, on giving his band—If the defendant neglects for
ﬁve days after the seizure of such property to give such bond, the
sheriﬂ‘ must deliver the same to the plaintiff, on his giving bond and
security in double the value of such property, to be approved by the
sheriff, payable to the defendant, conditioned if unsuccessful in his
suit, to return such property within thirty days after its determi
nation.
§ 3420. (2968) Writ a, bonds, (60., to be returned to the rcgister.——Such
writs, with the proper return thereon, and the bonds taken under the
provisions of either of the last two sections, must be returned to the
register of the court from which the writ issues.
§ 21. (2969) Decree when ptaintiﬁ'sustains his claim—If the claim
of the plaintiff is sustained, the court may direct that if its decree in
relation to such property is not erformed within a speciﬁed time,
execution may issue on the hon of the defendant for all, or such
portion of its penalty as the court may determine, under all the cir
cumstances.
§ 3422. (2970) Liability of gotaz'ntiﬁv and his sureties, he is castr—
If the plaintiff is unsuccessful and fails to deliver the property to the
defendant within thirty days after the determination of the suit, he
and his sureties are liable to an action, and in case of a recovery to
datmages not exceeding ﬁfty per centum on the value of the prop
er y.
§ 3423. (29700) Equitable attachment to issue for beneﬁt of surety in
writ/en contracts.—‘A writ of attachment may be issued out of the

 
court of chancery, on the application of any surety, indorser, ac
commodation drawer, acceptor, or maker, of any bond, bill, or note,
or other contract in writing, against the principal debtor, to be lev
ied on the property or eﬂ'ects of the defendant, whether held by a
legal or equitable title, whenever such surety, indorser, acceptor,
maker, or drawer, could sue out an attachment at law, if he was a
creditor of such rincipal debtor; and the rovisions in reference to
attachments at aw must be observed in t e issue of such attach-
ments, and bsuch writ of attachment may be granted by the register
. in chancery.
§ 3424. (29701)) When such attachments may be dissolved.---c When
such attachments are sued out by any indorser, surety, acceptor, p
maker, or drawer, of any bond, bill, note, or other contract in wri
ting, not due and payable, such attachment must be dissolved, on
application to the chancellor, in vacation or term time, or “by the
register in vacation, on the principal debtor furnishing the complainant
complete indemnity against his liability, and paying all
costs which may have accrued on such attachment.
§ 3425. (29700) When decree may be rendered in favor surety.—
‘No decree must be rendered in favor of the com lainant in such at- e
tachment, until he has paid the debt for which e is liable as the
surety, indorser, accommodation maker, drawer, or acceptor, of the
defendant.
CHAPTER 7.
OF INJUNCTIONS, AND THE APPOINTMENT or RECEIVERS.
Bncl'ros. Samoa.
3426. (2971) By whom granted. 3431. (2979) Damages for delay on disso
8427. (2972) Injunction of ajudgrnent isa lutiun of injunction.
release of errors. 3435. (29:10) The bond, on dissolution of
3428. (2973) Bond and security required an injunction, has the force of a
on injunction of judgments. judgment ; execution issues.
3429. (2974) On rant of in'unction after 8436. (29“) Execution for costs.
recovery otsland, hon and security 3437. (2982) If injunction of ajndginent is
required. dissolved pending the slut, u. refund
3430. (2975) In other cases, bond for the ing bond is required.
damages required. 3488. (2933) MUIIOII_ to dissolve may be
8431. (2976) Application for in'unction re- made in vacation.
fused, how renewed, an when refu- 3439. (2934) Ap cal to the supreme court
sal ﬁnal. on order issolving injunctions, and
8482. (2977 ) Application not to be made to heard at ﬁrst term. _ ‘ _
supreme courtjudge in the ﬁrst in- 8440. (2985) Notice of an injunction of a
stance. judglmeut served on the attorney, is
3433. (2978) Refusal to grant injunction to vali . _
be indorsed on the bill. 3441. (2966) Receivers _app01ntcd by the
chancellor or register.
§ 3426. (2971) By whom g-rante(I.—Injunctions may be granted
‘returnable into any of the courts of chancery in this state, by the
judges of the supreme and circuit courts, chancellors, and no other
oﬂicers. (1)
§ 3427. (2972) Injunction of judgment is a release of errors.—An in
junction obtained by a defendant to a judgment at law, to stay pro
ceedings thereon, operates as a release of errors as to such defendant.
§ 3428. (2973) On injunction of judgment, bend and security re
quired—No injunction must issue to stay proceedings after judg
ment, in a personal action, until the art at whose application the
writ issues, gives bond and secm'ity in cubic the amount of such
i. as an, 546.
judgment, payable to and approved by the register, conditioned on
the dissolution of such injunction, to pay the amount of the judg
ment enjoined, with interest, and also such damages and costs as
may be decreed against such party. (1)
§ 3429. (2974) On. grant of injunction after recovery of land9,l10nd
and security re.w aired—No injunction must issue to sta proceedings
at law after judgment, in any action for the recovery oiylands, unless
the party give bond and security, payable to and approved by the
register, in such sum as the ofﬁcer anting the a phcation directs,
conditioned for the ayment of the dhmaves in sudh judgment if en
joined, and also all amages and costs which the plaintiﬁ‘ in such
judgment sustains, by the suing out such injunction, if the same is
dissolved. an;
§ 3430. (2975) In other cases, bond to pay the damages incurred is re
quired—In other cases, the party must give bond with securit in
such sum as the ofﬁcer granting the ap lication directs, a ablb to
and approved by the register, and conditioned to pay all) damages
which any person may sustain, by the suing out of such injunction,
if the same is dissolved.
§ 3431. (2976) Application for injunction refused, how renewed, and
when refusal_ﬁ-nal.- any application is made to a circuit judge for
an injunction, and refused, no other circuit judge can act on the ap
plication, but the application may be made to a chancellor, or judge
of the supreme court; if refused by a chancellor, it may be renewed
to a judge of the supreme court, but no other ofﬁcer; and if refused
by a judge of the supreme court, cannot be renewed.
§ 3432. (2977) Application not made to supreme court judge, unless
refused by another.—No application must be made to a judge of the
supreme court, for an injunction or other equitable process, which
may be granted by any other judge or ofﬁcer, unless the same has
been made to sue
other judge or ofﬁcer, and refused by him.
§ 3433. (2978) Refusal to grant injunction to be indorsed on the bill.
When an application for an injunction is refused, the ofﬁcer to whom
the same is made must indorse his refusal on the bill, and sign his
name thereto; and any one erasing such indorsement is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof must be ﬁned not less than
ﬁve hundred dollars.
§ 3434. (2979) On dissolution. of injunction damage-s grantedfor delay.
Whenever an injunction to sta proceedings in an action is dissolved,
on a ﬁnal hearing, the chance lor may decree six per centum dama
es on the amount of money for which such judgment was enjoined,
if of opinion that the injunction was obtained for delay.
§ 3435. (2980) Effect of bond on dissolution of injunction of a judg
ment; exenntion on such bonds—A bond to enjoin roceedings at law
on a judgment for money, upon the dissolution thereof, in whole or
in art, either upon an interlocutory or ﬁnal decree, has the force
and) effect of a judgment; and being certiﬁed by the register to the
clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered, execution
may issue against any or all the obligors thereto, for the amount of
such judgment which has been enjoined, interest and the damages
decreed.
§ 3436. (2981) Execution for costa—The register may also issue
execution for costs, if decreed against the party obtaining the in
junction, against any or all the parties to the bond.
§ 3437. (2982) If injunction ot' a judgment is dissolved pending the
suit, refunding bond required.-——Whenever an interlocutory decree ls
 
made dissolving an injunction to sta proceedings on a judgment at
law, the chancellor must require of t e defendant a refunding bond,
in double the amount of the sum enjoined, ayable to and to be ap
proved by the register, conditioned to refund) t 0 money and interest
e may collect on the judgment, if the same is on the ﬁnal hearin
of the bill perpetually enjoined; and the court may render a ﬁna
decree on such bond against any or all the parties thereto.
§ 3438. (2983) Motion to dissolve in vacation—A defendant may
move to dissolve an injunction in vacation, before the chancellor of
the division in which the bill is ﬁled, either for want of equity or on
the coming in of the answer, to be heard on certiﬁed copies of the
bill and answer; but ten days notice of such application must be
given to the plaintiﬂ‘ or his solicitor.
§ 3439. (2984) Appeals may be taken to the supreme court on sm-h
orders.——An appeal lies to the su reme court on all interlocutory or
ders, in term time or vacation, dissolving injunctions, which must be
heard and determined at the ﬁrst term after the appeal is taken.
§ 3440. (2985) Notice of injunction to stay a judgment served on
the attorney is valid.-Notices of injunctions, or other restraining
process, staying proceedings in suits or on judgments at law, serve
upon the attorney of the party on whom such injunction or process
is to operate, are valid.
§ 3441. (2986) Receivers ap 'nted by chancellor or regr'sten—Re
ceivers may be appointed byt e chancellor in term time or vacation,
and " by the register in vacation, upon application in writing; and
when the application is made in vacation, reasonable notice of the
time of such application, and the person to whom it will be submitted,
must be given, or a good reason shown to the chancellor or register
for the failure to give the same.*
CHAPTER 8.
CREDITORS’ BILLS.
Szcrlon. ' Szcnon.
3442. (2987) Creditors’ hills, when and by 3445. (2990) Answers not evidence on an
whom ﬁled. indictment for fraud.
8443. (2958) Bills for discovery of fraudn- 3446. (2990(1) Creditor without lien may
lent conveyances, or collusive judg- subject property fraudulently trans
mcnts. terred, 'c.
3444. (2989) Answers to such bills com
pulled.
§ 3442. (2987) Creditors’ bills to enforce collection of udgmenta—
hen an execution for money from any court has been issued against
a defendant, and is not satisﬁed, the plaintiff, or the person for whose
beneﬁt such execution is sued out, may ﬁle a bill in chancery against
such defendant, to compel the discovery of any property belonging
to him, or held in trust for him ; and to prevent the transfer, pay
ment, or deliver thereof to such defendant, except when the trust
has been create by or proceeded from some other person than the
defendant himself ; and the court may bring any other arty before
it, and decree such roperty, or the interest of the defen ant therein,
to the satisfaction l) the sum due the plaintiff. (1)
 
§ 3443. (2988) Bill for discovery cy" collusive judqments or fraudu
l6??fCOtl'U€_1/Cl7l(l€8.—A bill for discovery may be ﬁled, and the defend
ant compelled to answer such bill, when the defendant is charged
with having confessed or suﬁ'ered a jud ent, where no ﬂirtion, or
a part onlfyr7 of such judgment is due, wit the intent to ' der, de
lay, or de aud' creditors, or with having conveyed his property with
the like intent.
§ 3444. (2989) Answers to such bills compelled—A defendant may
be compelled to answer a bill in chancery, charging him with any
fraud aﬂ'ecting the rights or property of others.
§ 3445. (2990) Not evidence on indictment for fraud—No answer
made to a bill under the provisions of the two preceding sections
can be read in evidence against the defendant, on an indictment for
any fraud charged in the bill.
§ 3446. (2990a) Creditor without lien may subject propertyfraudu
lcntly trans/erred, etc—'A creditor, without a lien, may ﬁle a bill in
chancery, to subject to the pafyment of his debt, any property which
has been fraudulently trans erred, or attempted to e audulently
conveyed by his debtor.
CHAPTER 9.
or THE APPOINTMENT, RESIGNATION, DEATH, AND REMOVAL or TRUSTEES.
Samoa. 3301108
3447. (2991) Trustee-of express trust'may 3455. (2999) Causes of removal of trustee,
resign ona )plication to the re ister. on petition, 6m, to the chancery
3448. (2992) Notice of the apphcation by court.
advertisement. 34.56. (3000) New trustee appointed by the
8449. (2993) Trustee to account and settle court in such cases.
before resignation. _ 8457. (3000a) Trustee appointed to receive
3450- (299-1) Accounts not COHCIIIBWB; trust- property in another state and
ayments valid. _ remove to this state.
8451. (2995) New trustee appointed;bond, 3458. (3000b) Day of hearing appointh
it necessary. I and notice given by register.
3452. (2996) On eath of trustce,_register 3459. (30000) Trustee appointtd by regise
appoints another; bond in such tor.
cases. _ _ 8460. (300011) Bond of trustee.
9453. (2097) Notice of the apphcation to 3461. (3000c) Fees of register, by whom
appoint. _ ‘ paid; how refunded.
3454. (2908) Guardians for infants, kc., in 3462. (3000f) Sections applicable to trim
such cases. tees.
§ 3447. (2991) Trustee of express trust may resign on application to
{lie register—When any express trust is created by will or deed, the
trustee may resign on application to the register of the district
where the trust property, or the most valuable portion of the same,
is, or of the district in which the trustee resided when he was ap
ointed trustee.
§ 3448. (2992) Notice of the application by advertisement—Notice 0f
the a plication must be given in such paper as the register may di
rect, or six successive weeks.
§ 3449. (2993) Trustee to account and settle before resignation-The
trustee must render a full account, and pay over to the parties enti
tled to the same, or to the register, all moneys due by him.
§ 3450. (2994) Accounts not condusive, payments valid—No account
so taken is conclusive on any of the parties interested in the trust;
but the trustee may be required to account up to the time of grant
ing the application, in the same manner as if no proceedings had
been had ; except that he is entitled to the beneﬁt of all payments
made by him under the provisions of the preceding section.
§ 3451. (2995) New trustee appointed; bond, newssary.—The reg
ister, on the granting of such application, may appoint a trustee,
and, if necessary to protect the parties interested in the trust prop
erty, may require the necessary 0nd of such trustee.
§ 3452. (2996) On death of trustee, register appm'nts another ; bond
in such cases.—Up0n the death of the trustee of such express trust,
the re 'ster of the district in which the trust property, or the most
valuab e portion of the same is, may, on the application of any
part in interest, appoint a trustee, and may also require of him a
0nd: as under the receding section.
§ 3453. (2997) ctive of the application. to appoint—All the parties
interested in such trust roperty must have ten da s personal notice
of such application, or By publication for thirty ays in such paper
as the register may direct.
§ 3454. (2998) Guardians for infants, (90., in such cases—In any
proceeding to appoint a trustee before the register, he has authority,
where minors or lunatics are interested, to appoint guardians for
their defense, and to protect their interest.
§ 3455. (2999) Causes of removal of trustee, on petition, (he, to the
chancery mm't.—Up0n the petition or bill of any person interestedin
the execution of a trust, the court of chancery may remove an
trustee who has violated or threatened to violate his trust; who 1s
insolvent, or whose insolvency there is good reason to apprehend;
who has removed from the state, or who, for any other cause, is an
unsuitable person to execute the trust; or the court may require
such bonds as will eﬂ'ectually protect the interest of the parties.
§ 3456. (3000) New trustee appointed by the court in such case.—
Such court has authority to appoint a new trustee in the place of a
trustee removed, or may cause the trust to be executed by one of its
own oﬁicers.
§ 3457. (3000a) Trustee appointed to receive trust property in another
state and remove to this state—“Where there is trust propert in an
other state, held under deed, will, marriage settlement, or otherwise,
and the beneﬁcia owning the entire interest in such trust property
has removed to th1s state, and desires that his property may also be
removed to this state, such beneﬁciary may, if of age, or by his next
friend, if a minor or married woman, make application to the regis
ter of the chancery court of the district in which such beneﬁciary re
sides, to appoint a trustee to receive such trust property and remove
the same to this state.
§ 3458. (3000b) Day of hearing appointed and notice given. by regis
ter._° The register in chancery must appoint a day for hearing such
application, and notice thereof must be given by advertisement in
some paper published in the district for three successive weeks; or
if no paper is published in such district, by postin such notice at
the court house door of the county in which the c ancery court of
the district is held, and at three other places in the district, three
weeks before the day appointed for hearing the application; and a
copy of such notice must be sent to the non-resident trustee of such
trust estate, if there be one, and such non-resident trustee’s place of
residence be known.
§ 3459. (30001) Trustee ap 'nted try regrlster.-—~' Upon the hearing
of such application, if there ﬁno good and sufﬁcient reason to the
contrary, such register must appoint a trustee living in the district
wherein such beneﬁciary resides, to receive and remove the trust
property to such district.
§ 3460. (3000d) Bond of t-ruatee—d Such trustee, before he enters
on the discharge of the duties of such trust, must give bond and
good and sufﬁcient security, payable to the register of such chan
cery court, in double the amount of the supposed value of such trust
estate, conditioned that he will faithfully execute the trust.
§ 3461. (30006) Fees 9}" register, by whom paid: how refunded.—
'Such register in chancer must be allowed ﬁve dollars as a fee for
his services rendered un er the provisions of the four preceding sec
tions, to be paid by the art makin the application; and such
party may be reimbursed or t is and ail other expenses owing out
of such application, from such trust fund, when received y the trus
tee appointed by such register.
§ 3462. (3000f) Provisions applicable to ti'ustees—‘The rovisions of
sections 2132 (1800e), 2133 (1800f), 2134 (1800g), and 2l)35 (18001:),
are applicable to trustees, in the same manner and to the same ex
tent, as to executors and administrators.*
CHAPTER 10.
OF ISSUES OUT OF CHANCERY.
SECTION.
3468. (8001) Issues of fact tried 6 ' ajury
before the chancellor, or be ore any
circuit court.
3464. (3002) Evidence in such trials; par
ties examine . I
Swnos.
3465. (3003) Proceedings to summon l ju
ry before the chancellor to try such
issues, &c.
3466. (3003a) Practice in partition suite.
3467. (3003b) Pay of jurors, and how taxed.
§ 3463. (3001) Issues of fact tried by a jury, before the chanceﬂoror
before any circuit court—Whenever it is necessary for any fact to be
tried by a jury, the court must direct an issue to be made up, setting
forth clearly the true question of fact to be tried; and such issue
may be tried before the chancellor in any county in his division, or
ma be sent to a circuit court in the district for trial. (1)
§ 3464. (3002) Evidence in such trials; parties examined—Such is
sue must be tried u on the like evidence as a suit at law, together with
such parts of the bill, answers, depositions, and other proceedingsin
the cause, as the court may order; and the court may also order the
examination of the parties to the suit, allowing the other party to
impeach or contradict such evidence.
§ 65. (3003) Proceedings to summon jury and witnesses before the
chancellor to try such issues, (ho—If such issue is to be tried before
the chancellor, he may make the necessary order for a jury to be
summoned, and witnesses to be subpoenaed by the register of the
district in which the trial is to be had; and render judgments condi
tional, and absolute, as the law directs.
§ 3466. (3003a) Practice in partition suits—in all suits for parti
tion of lands or real estate, commenced in any court of chancery in
this state, if the defendant denies by his answer the title of the com
plainant, the chancellor need not dismiss the bill or delay the suit
until a trial can be instituted and had at law, but in such case the
issue between the dplartics as to the title of the complainant may, if
the chancellor so 'rects, be tried as other issues out of chancery,
according to the provisions of the three sections of this Code next
preceding. (1)
§ 3467: (3003b) Pay ofjurors, and how taxed.~"1n all cases in
which jurors are summoned to attend upon the chancery courts of
this state, they must be allowed the same compensation as jurors
attending upon the circuit courts, to be taxed and collected as other
costs in the case in which they are called to serve as jurors.
CHAPTER 11.
OF THE RENDITION, LIEN, EFFECTZ: ENFORCEMENT OF DEGREES AND
Swrlos. Burton.
3468. (3004) Rules as to liens and priority 3475. (3010) Attachment on sﬂltlavit of
of doctors same as those applied to failure to perform.
judgments. 3476. (3011) If attachment not executed,
3469. (3005) Decrees for conveyances re- sc nest-ration follows.
leases, 6.0., operate as such, and the 3477. (30(l2) Decrees enforced by chsncery
court may order them to be execu- writs or common law process.
ted by s commissioner. 3478. (3013) Return day of such process.
8470. (3006) Decrees to be in writing, and 3479. (3013a) Executions to issue on de
rendered during the term ; in diﬁi- crees or foreclosure of mortgages.
cult cases, decrees rendered in va- 8480. (3013b) Eﬂ'cct of such executions.
cation. 3481. (30130) Register or commissioner
8471. (3007) Costs at the discretion of the ma take forthcoming‘ bond.
chancellor. 3482. (80 3d) Eﬂ'ect of forfeiture.
3472. (3007a) Begister's commissions in
88105 of property.
3473. (3008) Decrees, &c., enforced by
attachment or sequestration.
8474. (3009) Decrees for performance of
some act to prescribe the time, the.
4
I
3483 (3014) Sheriff liable for failure to
collect money, kc.
3484. (3015) Rules of the supreme court
conﬁrmed, and power to make rules
extended.
§ 3468. (3004) Rules as to liens and priority of decrees same as those
“Wired to judgments—Executions issued on decrees of a court of
0 (nicely for payment, or recovery of money, are liens u on real and
person property subject to execution, from their de 've to the
oﬁicer, in the same manner, and to the same extent, and t e rules
a? lto the priority of liens from such court, are the same as in courts
0 aw.
§ 3469. (3005) Decreesfor conveyances, releases, cite, operate as such,
and the court may order them to be executed by a wmmissiuner.—When
8- decree is made for a. conveyance, release, or acquittence, and the
Earty against whom the decree is made does not execute the same
y the time speciﬁed in the decree, such decree operates in all re
gects as fully as if the conveyance, release, or ac uittance was made.
I the court may decree, in efault of the execution of such convey
ance, release or acquittance, the same to be executed by a. commis
moner, in the name of the party; and the conveyance, release, or
ﬁmttance, when so executed, is as valid in all respects as if execu
by the part .
§ 3470. (300i?) Decrees to be in writim , and rendered durim the
term ; in difﬁcult cases decrees may be rendered in vacatz'm1.—The c an
eellor must, when practicable, render his decrees in writing during
the session of the court at which the cause is heard; he may, howev
er, 1n diﬁicult cases, render a. decree in vacation within six months
after the hearing.
§ 3471. (3007) Costs at the dism'etimt of the chancellor—Costs may
be apportioned at the discretion of the chancellor; and in all cases
where costs are decreed against any party who has given security
for the costs. execution may issue against such security.
§ 3472. (3007a) Register’s commissions on sales of property.—‘ The
commissions on sales made under decrees of the chancery courts
shall be as prescribed in section 3515 (3044) of this Code.
§ 3473. (3008) Decrees, (ha, enforced by attachment or sequestration.
Courts of chancery may also enforce thelr decrees, orders, and rules,
by process of attachment against the party or officer in contempt, or
by process of sequestration against his property.
§ 3474. (3009) Decreefor the per/brmance of some act, to prescribe
the time, (Ea—If a decree is for the execution of a conveyance, the
delivery of deeds, or any other s eciﬁed act, the decree must in all
such cases prescribe the time W1thin which such act is to be performed.
§ 3475. (3010) Attachment on afﬁdavit o,t'_fail1/re t0 perform—Upon
an afﬁdavit being ﬁled with the register by the party entitled to have
such act done, his agent or solicitor, stating that the decree of
the court has not been performed, the register must issue an attach-
ment against the'delinquent party, upon which he may be arrested
and committed to jail until he performs such act, or he 1s discharged
by a special order of the chancellor, extending the time for the performance;
and if such act is not performed within the time as ex-
tended, another attachment may issue on the afﬁdavit of the party,
his agent or solicitor.
§ 3476. (3011) If attachment not executed, sequestrationfollows.—Up0n
the issue of an attachment, if the delinquent cannot be found, a writ
of sec ue-stration may issue against the estate of such party to com-
pel 0 edience to the decree.
§ 3477. (3012) Decrees enforced by chancery writs or common law
process—Courts of chancery are authorized to issue such process,
mesne and ﬁnal, as has been used in such courts; and all writs for
the collection of money, to obtain the possession of land or personal
property, in use in the common law courts, are to be adapted to the
execution of decrees in the courts of chancery.
§ 3478. (3013) Return (lay of such process—Writs from the court
of chancery for the collection of money, or to obtain the possession
of lands or fpersonal property, may be made returnable on the ﬁrst
Mondays o a month, to be speciﬁed in the writ. All other process
183 the chancellor or register may direct, unless the return is ﬁxed by
aw.
§ 3479. (3013a) Executions to issue on decrees for foreclosure of
mortgages, (tic—"there bills are ﬁled or are now pending in any of
the chancery courts of this state, for the foreclosure of mortgages,
or the enforcement of vendors’ liens upon any speciﬁc property, real
or personal, and in all cases where an account is taken between the
parties, and the amount of indebtedness between them ascertained
y the decree of such chancery court, such decrees shall have the
force and effect of judgments, and executions thereon may be issued
by the registers, against the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of
the parties against whom such decrees ma have been rendered;but no execution must issue on decrees for t 1e foreclosure of mortages,
or the enforcement of e uitable lien, until the propert 01"
dered to sale shall have been sold, and the sale conﬁrmed, an the
balance due ascertained by the decree of such court, when execution
must issue for the balance which may be found due.
§ 3480. (3013b) lifeet of such e.reeutimzs.—"All executions issued
under the preceding section shall have the force and effect of execu-
tions issued from the circuit courts, and shall be levied, collected,
and returned in the same manner.
§ 3481. (30130) Register or commissioner may fake/brtlzcoming bond.
dWhen the sale of any personal property is directed by a decree of
any chancery court, the register, or other person directed to make
such sale, may take from the defendant a forthcomin bond, in
double the amount of the decree, for the delivery of suc property
on the day of sale.
§ 3482. (3013:!) Efect of forfeiture—“If the property is not delivered,
such register, or person directed to make such sale, must re
turn the bond “forfeited,” in which case the bond shall have the
force of a judgment, and execution may issue against all the obligors
of such bond.
§ 3483. (3014) Sheriﬂ‘ liable for failure to collect money, (ﬁe—For
failing to collect money on any execution from the court of chance
ry, the sheriff and his securities, or any or either of them, are liable
to the same penalties, to be recovered in the same manner as on
failure to collect execution from the law courts. The motion to be
made by the laintiﬂ', in the circuit court of the county in which the
court from w ich the execution issues is held.
§ 3484. (3015) Rules of the supreme court conﬁrmed, and power to
make rules extended—All the rules now in force, which have been
adopted by the supreme court, not contrary to the provisions of this
title, are recognized; and power is granted to such court to adopt
such other rules to regulate the practice of the court of chancery,
or such modiﬁcations of the existm rules as they may deem proper,
and also to furnish forms of procee ing, to mould the rocess of the
chancery court, and to prescribe rules of evidence int e same, from
time to time, as experience ma determine, that the existing rules do
not fully meet the ends of pub ic justice.
§ 3485. (3016) A abs allowed to supreme court on allﬁnal,judgments,
as matter of right—pl;me any ﬁnal judgment or decree of the chan
cery, circuit, or probate courts, except in such cases as are otherwise
directed by law, an appeal lies to the supreme court, for the exami
nation thereof, as matter of right, on the application of either arty,
or their personal re resentatives, and the clerk, register, or jud) e of
probate, must certi the fact, that such appeal was taken an the
time when, as part of the record, which gives the supreme court ju
risdiction of the case. (1)
§ 3486. (3016a) Appeals from certain interlocutory judgments and
decrees allou‘ed.—'An appeal to the supreme court may be taken be
fore the ﬁnal determination of the cause, from any judgment or de
cree, overruling a motion to dismiss a bill for want of equity, or
overruling a motion to dismiss or quash an attachment, or sustain
ing a demurrer to a plea in abatement to an attachment, or sustain—
ing an attachment against matters set up in abatement of it, either
in the way of an agreed case, or by plea or otherwise; but such ap
eal shall be taken only after the consent of the opposite party or
's attorney is obtaine to its being taken; and on the trial of such
appeal, there shall not be a reversal, if the supreme court discovers
that the defect or error, alleged or insisted on, can be removed or
remedied by amendment under existing laws.
§ 3487. (3017) A] als taken by the state operate as superscdeas with
out bond—When ju gment has been rendered against the state, un
less such judgment is ﬁnal in favor of a citizen, the solicitor shall, if
he thinks it proper, take an appeal to the su reme court, which op
erates as a supersedeas of the judgment, wit out bond and surely;
but no damages can be given against the state on aﬁirmance.
§ 3488. (3018) Adverse party to have notice. of appeal—The regis
ter, clerk of the circuit court, and judge of probate, must, on the
application of either of the parties, their agent or attorney, after
.ﬁnal judgment or decree in any cause, upon an appeal being taken,
issue a citation returnable to the next term of the supreme court, to
the opposite part ', which must be served by the sheriff on him or
his attorney, ten ays before the term of the court to which the ap
peal is taken. (2)
§ 3489. (3019) Appeal not to supersede era-ut-itm without bond talcm
and amn'oved.-The ap eal does not operate as a .w/[wsedeas of the
judgment, unless bon be given by the appellant, in double the
amount of the judgment, payable to the appellee, with sufﬁcient
sureties and with condition to prosecute the appeal to effect, and to
satisfy such judgment as the supreme court may render in the prem
ises. (3)
§ 3490. (3020) If the decree be for the performance of an act other
(than the payment of money, the chancellor or register ﬁxes the band.—
When the decree rendered is for the performance of any other act
than the payment of money, (except in cases otherwise provided b
this Code,) the party wishing to supersede the execution of suc
decree, must app y to the chancellor, or register, either in term time
(or vacation, who must direct the amount and the condition of the
appeal bond.
§ 3491. (3021) Liability/for taking insuﬂicient security onappeal bond.
For taking insufﬁcient security the clerk, register, or judge of pro
bate, is liable to the appellee for the damages thereby sustained, un
less the surety was enerally reputed good for the amount, when he
was received ; but the clerk, register, or judge of probate is not re
quired to receive any one as surety, who refuses to answer on oath
as to his sufﬁciency.
§ 3492. (3022) Appellant to have a transcript of the record, and a
certgicaie of the appeal, citation, (fa—The register, clerk, and judge of
pro ate must also, on the application of the appellant or his attor
ney, make and deliver to him, in time to be returned to the next term
of the supreme court, a full and complete transcript of the record
and proceedings in the cause, together with his certiﬁcate that the
appeal was taken, and the time when, and the citation and a. copy
0 the appeal bond if an was given, with his certiﬁcate, that it is a
complete transcript of a the roceedings in the cause, and envelop
and seal up the whole in a pac age directed to the clerk of the su
preme court, or deliver it to the attorney applying for the same. (1)
§ 3493. (3023) Penalty of bond on appeal of rtui'mant in the trial if
the right of property—“then an a peal is sued out by the claimant
on a judgment against him on tnal of right of property, and the
party desires to supersede the judgment, the bond must be taken in
cable the amount of the plaintiff’s judgment, if that with the in
terest is less than the valuation b the jmy of the property levied
on, and in double the amount of e assessed value, if less than the
judgment of the plaintiﬁ'.
§ 3494. (3024) Dam es, when such judgment is afﬁrmed—When an
ap al is taken by the Ziaimant on the trial of the right of property,
an the judgment superseded, if the a pellate court afﬁrms the judg
ment of the court below, it must ren er judgment of ten per cent.
on the assessed value of such property, if less than the amount of
the execution against the defendant; ' such value exceeds such ex
ecution, ten per cent. on the amount thereof against the obligors in
the appeal bond.
(3025) and (3026) [Inoperative by reason of emancipation.]
§ 3495. (3027) Damages on aﬁirmance of judgment in definite.—
Upon the aﬂirmance of an a peal on a judgment for the recovery
of chattels in specie, which 1has been superseded, the court must
render judgment for ten per cent. damages upon the assessed value
 
of the chattels, and upon the damages on the detention thereof.
§ 3496. (3028) Liability of the clerkfor delay in furnishing transcri t,
orfor imperfection in the record—If by reason of ne ligence, or e
lay of the clerk, the transcri t be not delivered to t e appellant or
his attorney, in time to be ed, or if the transcript be so defective
that the supreme court cannot proceed thereon, the clerk forfeits to
the party aggrieved the sum of two hundred dollars, and is further
hab e to him, in an action on the case, for all damages sustained by
lJJS neglect or delay.
§ 3497. (3029) Certiﬁcate cf appeal given a pellee—When an appeal
is taken, the clerk, register, or judge of pro ate, must, on the a pli
cation of the appellee, make and deliver to him a certiﬁcate 0 the
judgment or decree upon which the appeal has been taken, specify—
mg particularly the jud ment or decree, the amount of the same, if
for money), the parties t 1ereto, and when rendered, and that an ap
peal has
een taken thereon, with a statement of the obligors in the
0nd to supersede the judgment or decree, if one has been given.
§ 3498. (3030) Transcript to be ﬁled in the supreme court in three
days after court meets—The transcript of the record and the certiﬁ
cate must be ﬁled with the clerk of the supreme court, on or before
the third day of the term to which the appeal is taken, and the
cause must be tried at the ﬁrst term, unless good cause be shown
for a continuance.
If the citation has not been executed on the ap
pellee ten days before the commencement of the court, the cause
will not stand for trial until the next succeeding term. (1)
§ 3499. (3031) Judgment aﬁirmed on certiﬁcate record is notﬁled.
If an ajilpeal is taken, and the transcript of the record is not ﬁled
within t
e ﬁrst three days of the court, it is the duty of the court,
on the motion of the appellee, to aﬂirm the judgment or decree of
the court below, upon the production by him of the certiﬁcate of
the register, clerk, or judge of the probate court, that an appeal has
been taken to the supreme court. For good cause shown, the court
may reinstate the cause during the term, on payment of costs.
§ 3500. (3032) bond is ﬁled, ten per cent. damages on afﬁrmmwe.
“When bond with surety has been executed on an appeal, and the
judgment thereby suspended, if the supreme court aﬁirms the judg
ment of the court below, it must also render judgment against all
or any of the obligors in the bond, for the amount of the aﬁirmed
judgment, ten per cent. damages thereon, and the costs of the su
preme court. (2)
§ 3501. (3033) Damages in all cases of money judgments—The pre
ceding section applies to all cases where a judgment or decree is
rendered for money, whether debt or damages.
§ 3502. (3034) Judgment or decree, if reversed, may be rendered, or
cause remanded b2 the court—The supreme court may, upon the re
versal of any ju gment or decree, remand the same for further pro
ceedings, or render such judgment or decree as the court below
should have rendered, when the record enables them to do so. (3)
§ 3503. (3035) Notice to a idles when non-reclama-When the ap
pellee is a non-resident, an
has no attorney or agent within the
state to receive notice of the appeal, oath in writing being made of
the fact, the supreme court may direct notice to be given by publi
cation, which is as effectual as actual notice.
§ 3504. (3036) Confession of judgment releases errors—A confession
of judgment is in law a release of errors.
§ 3505. (3037) Clerical errors corrected at appellant’s cast—No cause
must be reversed by the supreme court for an miscalculation of in
terest, or other clerical mistake in entering ju gment, but on motion
of, and at the costs of the appellant.
§ 3506. (3038) On death of either party, cause revived as to his rep
resentative—Upon the death of either party to an appeal being sug
gested, if the cause cannot proceed without new parties, the cause
may be revived either for or a ainst such party, on the production
of letters testamentary or of a
inistration; but citation must issue
from the appellate court to all who are thus made defendants, unless
they appear and waive it.
§ 3507. (3039) Appeals on dealh of eilber rfy aflerjudgmcnt—
“When either party to a judgment or decree ies after judgment or
decree rendered, and before appeal taken thereon, an appeal ma be
prosecuted in the name of, or against the legal representative 0 the
eceased, on producing satisfacto ' evidence to the clerk, judge of
probate, or register, of the death 0 the party, and grant of letters
testamentary or of administration.
§ 3508. (3040) Appeal barred if not taken in two years—Appeals
under this title, except in such cases as a different time is prescribed,
must be taken within two years from the rendition of the judgment
or decree; but the provisions of this section do not apply to existing
judgments or decrees. (1)
§ 3509. (3041) Securily/or costs required when appeal bond not given.
No ap eal can be taken without giving bond to supersede the execu
tion ofthe judgment or decree, unless the appellant give security for
the costs of such a pea], to be approved by the clerk, re ' ter, or
judge of probate; the names of such securities to be cert' ed with
the record to the appellate court, and execution may issue against
such securities for the costs in such court, and the costs of the tran
script, if decided against the appellant. (2)
§ 3510. (3041a) Judgment in supreme court not restricted by former
'1"uli/ngs.—-c When any cause shall be tried in the supreme court of
this state, which had at any former term thereof been tried and re-
mended, such court, in deciding the law of the case, must be gov
erned by what, in the opinion of such court, is the law at .the time
of the delivery of the opinion of the court, without regard to any
former ruling of the law in such case, if there should be a conﬂict be
tween the former rulin and the then present opinion of the court.*
§ 3511. (3041b) Cleric of inferior courts may issue execuliovw for
00818 unpaid—“Clerks of the circuit court, registers in chancery,
judges of probate, and the clerks of all other in
state, when cases have been taken from their respective courts to the
erior courts in this
su reme court, by appeal or other lawful mode, and been there de
ci ed,if the costs accruing in such lower courts for transcripts or
otherwise, be not paid by the parties against whom they were ad
judged in the supreme court, may issue executions for such costs,
returnable into the court in which such costs accrued.
§ 3512. 30410) No discontinuame, unless molionjbr it is made by ap
pellant.—‘ o undecided appeal, taken before or after the passage of
this law, on the 18th February, 1867, to the supreme court, must be
deemed or treated as discontmued, or as having otherwise lost its
force, unless the ap ellant shall duly move for a discontinuance,
after legal cause for 'scontinuance has occurred. (3)
