JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS AT COMMON
LAW.—Ib07.
Note. —The Ordinance of the Congress of (he United States, passed on the
lath day of July, 1787, for the Government of the Territory northwest of the
River Ohio, the provisions of which were in the year 1798 extended to the
Mississippi Territory, contains the following clause :
<• The inhabitants of the said Territory shall always be entitled to the benefits
Of the writ of habeas corpus, and of the trial by jury, of a proportionate repre
sentation of the people in the legislature, and of judicial proceedings according
to the course of the common law." A considerable part of the provisions relating
to judicial proceedings which are contained in the Digest of 1807 have been
superseded by subsequent laws. Those which remain in force are the follow
ing; excepting those which naturally fall uud r other titles, as Attachments,
Courts, Bills of Exchange, Promissory Motes, Executions, and Joint Obligors.
CHAPTER I.
An Act establishing Superior Courts, and declaring the Powers of the Territo
rial Judges. —Passed February, 1807.
Notbw—Host of the preceding sections of this law will be found under the
title of " Courts Superior," chapter 1.
Sec. 30. And be it further enacted, That the clerk issuing
process shall mark thereon the day on which the same shall be
issued, and the sheriff or other officer receiving the same in
order to execute, shall in like manner mark on every process
the day on which he shall have received it : and every clerk,
sheriff, or other officer, neglecting so to do, shall forfeit and pay
the sum of two hundred dollars, to be recovered by auction of
debt, in any court of record having cognizance thereof, with
costs, by any person who shall sue for the same.
Sec. 31. And be it Jurther enacted, That the time of serving
and executing writs, and process, returnable into any cir-
cuit court, or into the supreme or superior courts aforesaid,
shall be as prescribed* by the act establishing county courts;
and hereafter it shall not be necessary that any declaration or
copy thereof, accompany such writ or process, but a copy of
such writ shall be left with the defendant, at the time of ser
ving, and by the officer serving the same. And it shall be the
duty of the clerk, or plaintiff's attorney, to endorse on the back
of the writ, the cause of the action, the nature of the spe
cialty, or the other grounds on which the action is founded :
And the sheriff, on executing the writ, shall deliver to the de
fendant, together with a copy of the writ, a copy of the said
endorsement.
Sec. 32. And be it further enacted, That all writs and other
process, original as well as mesne, in civil causes, (subpoenas
for witnesses excepted, which may be made returnable imme
diately) shall be returnable on the first day of the term suo
• i. e. Five days before the first day of the next term, See title " Courts"
ceeding the issuing of such writs or process ; and if the
sheriff or other officer shall neglect to return any process on
the first day of such term, he shall be liable as is usual on the
expiration of a rule for the return of the same. Any process,
warrant, or precept, issued by any judge, justice, or clerk, on
any criminal prosecution, on behilf of the government, may
be issued at any time, and made returnable on any day of the
term.*
Sec. 33. And be it further enacted. That the defendant in any
cause, may plead as many several matters as he may judge ne
cessary to his defence: Provided he be not admitted to plead
and demur to the whole : And provided also, that no plea of
non est factum shall be admitted to be pleaded, but when ac
companied with an affidavit of its truth.
Sec. 34. And be it further enacted, That no plea in abate
ment shall be received in any court, except accompanied witb
an affidavit of the truth of such plea, or the truth of it other
wise appear.
Sec. 35. And be it further enacted, That in all other cases,
in civil actions, the party in whose favour judgment shall be
given, or in cass of nonsuit, dismission, or discontinuance, the
defendant shall be entitled to full costs, except when it is or
may be otherwise directed by law.
Sec. 36. And be it further enacted, That no summons, writ,
declaration, return, process, judgment, or other proceedings,
in any of the i-ourls of this territory, shall be abated, arrested,
quashed, or reversed, for any defect or want of form ; but the
said courts respectively, shall proceed and give judgment, ac
cording as the right of the cause and matter in law shall appear
unto them, without regarding any imperfections, defects, or
want of form, in such writ, declaration, or other pleading, re-
turn, process, judgment, or course of proceeding whatsoever,
except those only in cases of demurrer, which the party de
murring shall specially set down and express, together with
his demurrer as the cause thereof; and the said courts respect
ively, shall and may, by virtue of this act, from time to time
ameud all and every such imperfections, defects, and want of
form, (other than those which the party demurring shall express
as aforesaid) or any mistake in the christian name or surname
of either party, sum of money, quantity of merchandise, day,
month, or year, in the declaration or pleading, the name, sum,
or quantity, or time, being right in any part of the record or
proceedings, and may at any time permit either of the parties
to amend any defect in the process or pleadings, upon such
conditions as the said courts respectively shall, in their discre
tion, and by their rules, prescribe. t
Sec. 37. And be it further enacted, That every person or
persons desirous of suffering a nonsuit on trial, shal'. be barred
therefrom, unless he or they do so before the jury retire from
the bar: and no more than two new trials shall be granted in
the same cause ; and two nonsuits shall be considered equal to
a verdict against the part) suffering the same.
Sec. 38. And be it further enactid That in all judgments on
demurrer, contessioii, non sum mjonnatus. or by detault, in acUons
of debt for a sum certain, the said courts are authorized
to issue executions for the sums of such judgments, with such
interest by way of damages, as may be legally due, and costs
of suit; and in all interlocutory judgments, a writ of inquiry
shall be awarded, and such writ of inquiry may be executed at
the next succeeding term, and the damages assessed by a jury
attending the court in which they were awarded, except they
be awarded in the supreme court ; then to be executed at the
next circuit court in which the suit was instituted.
Sec. 38. And be it further enacted, That no court, nor any
proceedings. therein, shall be discontinued by the death of any
of the judges or justices thereof, or by their non-attendance at
any term; but in such cases, all actions and suits, matters and
things depending therein, shall stand continued, of course, to
the next succeeding term.
CHAPTER II.
Extract* from an Act regulating the Mode of summoning Juries, and lor other
purposes.—Paatd February 6, 1807.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That when any demur
rer to evidence, demurrer to the declaration or plea in any
cause depending before the several courts in this territory,
shall appear frivolous and intended for delay, it shall be lawful
for the court where the cause is depending, to reject such de
murrer on motion, and proceed to trial as if the same had not
been offered.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted. That when any process
shall issue from any of the courts of this territory, by the direc-
tions of any attorney, for any person or persons residing out of
this territory, against any person or persons residing within the
same, the person or persons suing for such process, or prose
cuting such suit at the return of such process, or at any time
thereafter when required, shall, upon motion, be ruled to give
sufficient security for all costs accruing in such action or suit ;
and if such attorney shall fail to give such security, being there
to required, the suit shall be in fact dismissed, and execution
may issue against such attorney for all such i
CHAPTER III.
Extracts from an Act establishing the Fees of the several Officers therein named
Pasted February 6, 1807.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That every action at
common law, or suit in chancery, commenced in the name of
any pereon residing out of this territory, shall be dismissed if
security be not given with the clerk of the court from whence
the process shall issue, or wherein it shall be depending, within
sixty days after notice shall, at any time during such non-resi
dence, have been given to the plaintiff or his attorney by some
person interested, that such security is required for the payment
of the costs which may be awarded to the defendant, and also
of the fees that are or may become due to the officers of die
court ; and after security shall be so given, and the fees not
paid at the time the same become due, it shall and may be law
ful for the court in which the cause was commenced, to enter
UP judgment on motion against such security, and award execution
accordingly.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the sheriff to summon three constables to attend each circuit
court, who shall attend accordingly, or pay a fine at the discre
tion of the said court, not exceeding ten dollars.
CHAPTER IV.
Extracts from an Act regulating Judicial Proceedings, kc. —Pasted December
18, 1811.
Sec. 8. *e ** furt^er enacted, That if any person resi-
dent in this territory, shall institute any suit, whether at common
law or in chancery, in any of the courts of this territory,
and sna" after the institution thereof remove out of this terri
tory, such person shal I be bound to give security for the cost of such
suit, in the same manner and under the same restrictions pointed
out for non-resident plaintiffs, in the ninth section of the act,
entitled " An Act establishing the Fees of the several Officers
therein named, and for other purposes," passed the sixth day
of February, one thousand eight hundred and seven.
CHAPTER V.
An Act concerning Defalcation.' —Passed t'tbruary -2£, 17W-
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That if two or more, dealing together, be indebted to
each other upon bonds, bills, bargains, promises, accounts, or the
like, and one of them commence an action in any court, if the
defendant cannot gainsay the deed, bargain, or assumption, upon
which he is sued, it shall be lawful for such defendant to plead
payment of all or part of the debt, or sum demanded ; and give
any bond, bill, receipt, or account in evidence : and if it shall
appear that the defendant hath fully paid or satisfied the debt
or sum demanded, the jury shall find for the defendant : and
judgment shall be entered, that the plaintiff shall take nothing
by his writ, and shall pay the costs. And if it shall appear that
any part of the sum demanded be paid, then so much as is found
to be paid shall be defalked and deducted out of the plaintiff's
demands: and the plaintiff shall have judgment for the residue
only, with costs of suit. But if it appear to the jury that the
plaintiff is overpaid, then they shall give in their verdict for the
defendant, and withal, certify to the court, how much they find
the plaintifffo be indebted, or in arrear to the defendant, more
than will answer the debt or sum demanded. And the sum or
sums so certified, shall be recorded with the verdict, and shall be
deemed a debt of record : and if the plaintiff refuse to pay the
same, the defendant, for the recovery thereof, shall have a scire
facias against the plaintiff in the said action, and have execu
tion for the same, with the costs of that action. Provided al
ways, That in all cases where a tender shall be made, and full
payment be offered by discount or otherwise, in such specie as
the party by contract or agreement ought to do, and the party
to whom such tender shall be made doth refuse the same, and
yet afterward will sue for the debt or goods so tendered, the
plaintiff shall not recover any costs in such suit. Provided also,
That in all cases where the plaintiff and defendant having ac
counts to produce one against another, shall by themselves, or
attorneys or agents, consent to a rule of court, for referring the
adjustment thereof to certain persons mutually chosen by them,
in open court, (the award or report of such referees being
made according to the submission of the parties, approved of
by the court, and entered upon the record, or roll,) shall have
the same effect, and be deemed and taken to be as available in
law, as a verdict given by twelve men. And the party to whom
any sum or sums of money are thereby awarded to be paid,
shall have judgment or a scire facias, for the recovery thereof,
as the case may require, and as is herein before directed, con
cerning sums found and settled by a jury.
CHAPTER VI.
\n Act to prevent Suits from abating on the Death of either Party.—Paved
May 13, 1802.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That when any suit shall be depending in any court
in this territory, and either of the parties shall die before final
judgment, the executor or administrator of such deceased, who
was plaintiff, petitioner, or defendant, shall have full power, (in
case the cause of action by law survive) to prosecute or defend
such action until final judgment : and the defendant is hereby
obliged to answer thereto accordingly. And the court before
whom such cause may be depending, is hereby empowered and
directed to hear and determine the same; and to render judg
ment for or against such executor or administrator, as the cas»
may require : and if such executor or administrator, having been
duly served with a scire facias, or citation from the office of the
clerk of the court, where such suit is depending, fifteen days
before the meeting thereof, shall neglect or refuse to become a
party to the suit, the court may render judgment against the
estate of the deceased party, in the same manner as if the ex
ecutor or administrator had voluntarily made himself a party to
the suit ; and the executor or administrator, who shall become
a party as aforesaid, shall, upon motion to the co'urt where the
suit is depending, be entitled to a continuation of the same un
til the next term, or time of holding the court.
CHAPTER VII..
An Act for the Limitation of Actions, and for avoiding vexatious Law Suits. —
Passed February 2, 1802.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House
of Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assetn-
bly convened, That all actions of trespass, quare clauswn fregit,
a}| actions of trespass, detinue, trover, and replevin, for taking
away of goods and chattels ; all actions of debt, founded upon
any lending, or contract, without specialty, or for arrearages of
rent due on a parole demise, and all actions of account, and
upon the case, except actions for slander, and except also such
actions as concern the trade of merchandise, between merchant
and merchant, their factors or agents, shall be commenced with
in six years next after the cause of such actions shall have ac
crued, and not after.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That all actions of trespass
for assault, menace, battery, wounding, and imprisonment, or
any of them, shall be commenced and sued within two years
next after the cause of such actions shall have accrued, and not
after.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That every action upon
the case for words, shall be commenced and sued within on
year next after the words spoke, and not after : Provide
always, that if any person or persons, who is, are, or shall be
entitled to any of tbe actions herein before specified, is, are
or shall be at the time of any such cause of action, accruing,
within the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, or insane, then
such person or persons may institute such action, so that the
same be instituted within such time as is before limited, after
his, her, or their coming to. or being of full age, discovert, or
of sane memory.
Sec. 4. Provided, that no prosecution, had or commenced,
upon bonds given by any sheriff or clerk, and his securities
should in any wise operate against, or affect the said securities
named and bound in either of the said bonds, unless such pro
secution shall be commenced within five years after the date
of such bond, and not after, but this section was repealed in
December, 1800.]
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That every action of debt,
or covenant for rent or arrearages of rent, founded upon any
lease under seal, and every action of debt upon any single or
penal bill, for the payment of money only, or upon any obliga
tion, with condition for the payment of money only, or upon
any award under the hands and seals of arbitrators, for the
payment of money only, shall be commenced and sued within
sixteen years after the cause of such action shall have accrued,
and not after : but if any payment shall have been made on
any such lease, specialty or award, within or after the said
period of sixteen years, then an action, instituted on such lease,
specialty or award, within sixteen years after such payment,
shall be good and effectual in law, and not after : Provided
always, that the time, during which the person, who is or shall
be entitled to any of the actions specified in this section, shall
have been within the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, or
insane, shall not be taken or computed as part of the said
limited period of sixteen years.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That judgment in any court
of record in this territory, may be revived by scire facias, or an
action of debt may be brought thereon within twenty years
next after the date of such judgment, and not after : Provi
ded, that the time during which the person, who is or shall be
entitled to the benefit of such judgment, shall have been under
the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, or insane, shall not be
taken or computed as part of the said limited period of twenty
years.
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That no person, who
now hath, or hereafter may have, any right or title of entry unto
any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall make an entry
therein, but within twenty years next after such right or title
shall have accrued, and such person shall be. barred from any
entry aftcrwnrd : Provided always, that the time during which
the person who hath or shall have such right or title of entry,
'hall have, been under the age of twenty-one years, feme covert.
or insane, shall not be taken or computed as part of the same
limited period of twenty years.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That if any person or
persons again5t whom there is or shall be any cause of action,
as is specified in the preceding sections of this act, is, or are ,
or shall be out of this territory, at the time of the cause of such
action accruing, or any time during which a suit might be
sustained on such cause of action, then the person or per
sons, who is or shall be entitled to such action, shall be at
liberty to bring the same against such person or persons, after
his, her, or their return into this Territory : and the time of
such person's absence shall not be accounted or taken as a part
of the time limited by this act.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That from and after the
passage of this act, every real, possessory, ancestral, mixed, or
other action, for any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall
be brought and instituted within thirty years next after the right
or title thereto, or cause of such action accrued, and not after :
provided always, That the time during which the person who
hath, or shall have such right or title, or cause of action, shall
have been under the age of twenty-one years, feme covert, or
insane, shall not be taken or computed part of the said limited
period : Providedalso, that nothing in this act contained, shall be
so construed, as in any wise to alfect or interfere with the pri
mary disposal of the vacant lands of the United States within
this territory.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That if in any of the said
actions specified in any of the preceding sections of this act,
judgment be given for the plaintiff, and the same be reversed by
writ of error ; or if a verdict pass for the plaintiff, and upon mat
ter alleged in arrest of judgment, the judgment be given against
the plaintiff, then the said plaintiff, his or her heirs, executors,
or administrators, as the case shall require, may commence a
new action within one year after such judgment reversed or
given against the plaintiff, and not after.
CHAPTER VIII.
An Act to prevent Frauds and Perjuries.—Passed November 18, 1803.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, and it is hereby enacted by the authority aforesaid, That
4 no action shall be brought whereby to charge any executor or
administrator upon any special promise, to answer any debt or
damage out of his own estate ; or whereby to charge the detenant
upon any special promise to answer for the debt, default,
or miscarriage of another person; or to charge any person, upon
any agreement made upon consideration of marriage; or upon
any contract for the sale of lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
or the making any lease thereof for a larger term than one
year; or upon any agreement which is not to be performed
within the space of one year from the making thereof, unless the
promise or agreement upon which such action shall be brought,
or some memorandum or note thereof shall be in writing, and
signed by the party to be charged therewith, or some other
person by him thereunto lawfully authorized.

CHAPTER IX.
An Act to assist Poor persons in their Suits, and to enable Infants to sue bv
their nest Friends —Paatd March, 1807.
Whereas it is intended that impartial justice should be had
and administered to all citizens of this territory, as well to the
poor as to the rich: And whereas poor citizens are not of abi
lity or power to sue, according to the laws of this land, for
redress of injuries and wrongs to them daily done, as well con
cerning their persons and their inheritance as other causes :—
for remedy thereof, in behalf of the poor persons of this land,
not able to sue for their relief after the course of the law :
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That every poor person who shall have cause of
action against any person within this territory, shall have, by
the discretion of the court, before whom he would sue, writ or
writs original, and writs of subpoena, according to the nature of
his cause, nothing paying for the same ; and that the said court
shall direct their clerk to issue the necessary process : shall
assign to him counsel learned in the laws, and appoint all other
officers requisite and necessary to be had for the speed of the
said suit, who shall do their duties without any reward for their
counsels, help, and business in the same.
Sec. 2. Beit further enacted, That in every case, where per
sons who are within age may sue, their next friends shall be ad
mitted to sue for them.
CHAPTER X.
An Act regulating Judicial Proceedings in certain cases, and for other
purposes.—Patstd December 18, 1811.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
JZcpresenlaiives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That on the return of a capias ad respondendum,
against any person or persons legally liable to be sued in the
court from which such writ may issue, that the defendant or
defendants is or are not to be found, in addition to the provi
sions already made by law, the plaintiff or plaintiffs may have a
testatum capias, or judicial attachment to any other county,
which process shall be executed according to its commands,
and returned to the court from which the same issued, as in
other cases : Provided, nothing in this section shall extend to
any but such actions as are termed in law local actions,
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That before any superior
or county court, the clerks of the said courts shall enter in a
particular docket all such causes, (and those only) in which an
jssue is to be tried, or inquiry of damages to be made, or a
. , , . ' ■ / , o , »
special verdict, or case agreed, or demurrer, or other matter of
law is to be argued, in the same order as they stand in the
course of proceeding, setting as near as may be, an equal
 
number of causes to each day, and no cause shall be taken up
for trial or hearing, at a day previous to that for which it mav
be set ; and the clerk shall issue subpoenas for witnesses to
attend on the days on which the causes stand for trial, and that
no witness shall be bound to attend in any cause, unless spe-
cially summoned to each term; and it shall be the duty of the
clerk to keep a regular subpoena docket, and to issue subpoenas
before every term of the court, for all the witnesses, in every
cause, that either party may at any time have directed to be
summoned.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That whenever any suit
shall be commenced in any of the courts of this territory, having
jurisdiction thereof, founded on any writing, whether the same
be under seal or not, the court before whom the same is depending
shall receive such writing as evidence of the debt or
^ wnjcn jt was j,;ven . an(j jt shall not be lawful for the
defendant or defendants in any such suit, to deny the execution
of such writing, unless it be by plea, supported by the affidavit
of the party putting in such plea, which affidavit shall accom
pany such plea, and be filed therewith, at the time such plea is
filed ; which affidavit may be made before any justice of the
peace, or before the clerk of the court where such suit may be
depending.
Sec. 4. And be itfurther enacted, That whensoever any suit is
depending in any of the courts of this territory, founded on any
writing, under the seal of the person to be charged therewith, it
shall and may be lawful for the defendant or defendants therein,
by a special plea to impeach, or go into the consideration of
such bond, in the same manner as if the said writing had not
been sealed, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.
[Sections five and six relate to bail, and will be found under
that title.]
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That it may be lawful for
any justice of the peace, upon complaint to him made by any
person or persons, to issue attachments, under the rules and
regulations prescribed and required by law, and make the same
returnable to any court where the same is cognizable.
[Section the eighth relates to security for costs, and has been
inserted under this title, Chapter I.J
Sec. 0. And be it further enacted, That the clerks of the
several courts within this territory shall have power and autho-
. . . . * ■ . . . . t/r
ritv. in any case they may deem proper, to require the plaintilt
to give security for costs at the time of the commencement of
the soit.
K«te.—The power here given is limited to the case of non-reaidenU, by the
act of 1812, making further regulations in judicial proceedings. 
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That all private acts of
■
assembly maj be given in evidence, without being specially
pleaded, and as printed with the general acts of the Legislature.
Sec. II. And be it further enacted, That papers read in
evidence to the jury on the trial of any cause, though not under
seaJ, may be carried from the bar by the jury.
Sac. 12. And be it further enacted, That judgment on con
fession shall amount to a release of errors.
Sec 13. And be it further enacted, That interpreters may be
sworn truly to interpret, when necessary.
Sec. 14. And be it further enacted, That after issue joined,
in an ejectment on the title only, no exception to form or substance
shall be taken to the declaration in any court.
Sec. 15. And be it further enacted, That the law of costs
shall not he interpreted as penal laws.

Sec. 19. And be it further enacted, That the action of trover
shall, and is hereby declared to survive for and against execu-
tors and administrators, with the same effect, that it might or
could have had or maintained against any testator or intestate ;
any law, usage, or custom to the contrary in any wise notwith
standing.
Sec. 20. And be it further enacted, That so much of the
forty-seventh section of the act, entitled " An Act establishing
Superior Courts, and declaring the Powers of the Territorial
Judges," as authorizes either of the territorial judges to hold
to bail any defendant or defendants in suits in chancery, be,
and the same is hereby repealed.*
Sec. 21. And be it further enacted, That no executor or
administrator shall be liable, out of their individual estate, for
not pleading, mispleading, or false pleading in, or to any action
whatever, which may be brought against them as such.
Sec. 22. And be it further enacted, That whenever any person
may be committed to the jail of any county within this
territory, in any civil suit, whether upon original, mesne, or
final process, the jailer of such county shall be entitled to de-
mand and receive of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, weekly, all fees
that may become due to him, as well as for finding sustenance
for such prisoner, and in case of failure on the part of the
plaintiff or plaintiffs to pay the same, such jailer shall be autho-
rized to discharge such prisoner out of jail : Provided, That
the jailer shall have given to such plaintiff or plaintiffs, his or
their agent or attorney, ten days previous notice thereof t Pro
vided also, that such discharge shall not go to exonerate any
defendant, so discharged out of custody, from the debt for
which he had been confined, but the same shall be as if the
defendant had never been committed to jail.
Sec. 24. ~^nd °e it further enacted, That in all actions, which
shall be brought upon any penal bond or bonds, for the payment
of money, wherein the plaintiff shall recover, judgment shall
be entered for no more than the principal, and interest due on
said bond.
Sec. 25. And be it further enacted, That when partial pay-
ments are made on bonds, contracts, or assurances for the payment
Qf money or property that bear interest, agreeably to the
laws of this territory, the interest that has accrued shall be first
credited, and the balance of such partial payment shall be
placed to the payment of the principal.
Sec* 26. And be ** further enacted, That all debts, due by the
judgment, sentence, or decree of any court, shall hereafter bear
interest in the same manner as other debts.
Sec. 27. And be it further enacted, That where any person
now is, or hereafter may be in custody, upon original or mesne
process, such person shall be entitled to the benefit of the pro
visions of the act, entitled " An Act concerning Executions,
and for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors,'' in the same manner
as is therein provided for persons charged in execution : Pro
vided nevertheless, That no plaintiff in any suit against any per
son, who may have availed himself or herself of the provisions
of the aforesaid act, and who shall not have obtained final
judgment against such defendant taking the benefit of the
aforesaid act, shall receive any part of the proceeds of the estate
of such prisoner, in the distribution thereof to the prejudice of
any person who may have charged the same prisoner in custody
upon execution.
Sec. 28. And be it further enacted, That the judges of the
superior courts of law and equity, shall have power in vacation,
to examine all answers to bills in chancery, and if any defendant
or defendants have been held to bail, any judge, on application,
may, and he is hereby authorized to reduce or discharge such
bail, so taken as aforesaid.
Sec. 29. Obsolete.
Sec. 30. Relates to the compensation of witnesses, and wilf
be found under the title " Witnesses."

CHAPTER XI.
An Act concerning tbe Assignment of Bonds, Notes, be. and for otber purpo
ses.— Pasted Dtctmber 18, 1512.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That in all actions founded
on- any writing ascertaining the plaintiff's demand, or sum sued
for, if judgment bj default, nihil dicit, or by nontum informatus,
or on demurrer entered therein, the court where the same action
shall be pending, shall and may lawfully enter judgment for the
debt or demand, and interest thereon, to be calculated by the
clerk of such court, up to the time of rendering judgment,
without the intervention of a jury, to inquire of the damages,
and award execution thereon, as in other cases.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That where any person or
persons shall institute any suit in the name of any other person
or persons, for his or their own use and benefit, that the death
of such person or persons in whose name or names the suit or
baits are instituted, shall not abate such suit, but the same shall
progress, and be tried, in the same manner as though such suit
was actually brought in the name of the person or persons, fo
whose use the same was instituted.

CHAPTER XII.
An Act making further Regulations in Judicial Proceedings.—Patscd Dtttminr
24, 1812.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House o
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That no judgment shall be entered against any she rif
or other officer, upon any suit brought upon the escape of any
debtor in his or their custody, unless the jury who shall try the
issue in the cause shall expressly find that such debtor or pri-
soner did escape, with the consent, or through the negligence
of such sheriff or other officer, or officers, or that such prisoner
might have been retaken, and the sheriff and his officers neg
lected to make immediate pursuit.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That in all actions where
bail is required, and where any original process in such cases
returned, executed, and if the defendant shall fail to appear
according to the commands thereof, the bail in such action may
defend the suit, and shall be subject to the same judgment and
recovery, as the defendant might or would have been subject
to; and in actions of detinue the bail shall be subject to the
restitution of the thing sued for, whether animate or inanimate.
or the alternate value according to the judgment of the court,
and the bail-piece shall be so altered in such cases as to autho
rize the bail, in addition to the privileges already allowed him
by law, to restore the thing sued for ; and if the sheriff in such
cases shall not take or return bail as required of him, or the bail
returned shall be judged to be insufficient by the court, and the
defendant shall fail to appear and give bail, in such case, the
sheriff, in addition to the privileges already allowed him by law,
shall have the like liberty of defending such action, and shall
be subject to the same recovery as is provided above for the
bail; and if the sheriff depart this life before judgment be con
firmed against him, in such case, the judgment shall be confirm
ed against his executors or administrators, or in case there
be no executors or administrators, or no certificate of probate
or administration granted, then judgment may be confirmed
against his estate, and a writ offierifacias may in either case be
issued in the name of such deceased sheriff as if he were living,
and be levied on his estate.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the true intent
_ . , i* a ■ , • r -ij
and meaning of the fifth and seventh sections of an act, entitled
" An Act concerning Bail in Civil Cases," published in the digest
of the laws of this territory, as to the privilege of the bail in
surrendering his or their principal is, and shall be construed to
be, that the bail shall have liberty at any time before final judg
ment obtained against him on a scire facias, to surrender to the
court from which such process issued, or to the sheriff return
ing such process during the sitting of such court, or to the sheriff
in the recess of such court, the principal in discharge of him
self: and the bail in any action shall have a right to plead in
bar to any scire facias against him, her, or them, the death of
the principal at any time previous thereto ; and if on the trial
of any such issue, it shall be found that the principal is not
living, judgment shall be given in favour of the defendant to
such scire facias.
Sec. 4. And be il further enacted, That in all cases where,
by the division of any county, new counties have been esta-
Wished, and in the establishment of all future counties, all unfi
nished business in the courts of such county previous to such
division, which would be properly cognizable in the courts of
such newly established county, whether of suits, probate of mat
ters, or other business, shall be transferred to the proper court
of such new counties, to be there acted on and determined as if
they had therein originated.
CHAPTER XIII.
Ad Actto amend an Act, entitled " An Act to regulate n)e several Courts in thi
Territory . and create a Supreme Court of Errors and Appeals."" —Paasrd Deamber
22, 1814.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That so much of the fifth section of the said act as
prevents an allowance of a writ of error, unless the judge
granting the same shall be of opinion, from the inspection of
the record of the judgment or decree, that there is good cause
to reconsider the same, be, and the same is hereby repealed.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the security rcquired
by the fifth section of the act, entitled " An Act to re-
gulate the several Courts in this Territory, and to create a Supertor
Court of Errors and Appeals," may be given in the
clerk's office, and be approved by the clerk of the court to
whom said writ of error is directed, and no writ of error shall
operate as & supersedeas until security be given with such clerk,
or given according to the provisions of the act above recited,
and the said clerk shall send an attested copy of the bond to
the said supreme court, with the transcript of the record.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That when any judgment
shall be affirmed on a writ of error, in the said supreme court
of errors and appeals, the said court shall render judgment
against the principal and security in said bond.
CHAPTER XIV.
Extracts from an Act passed December 24, 1812, entitled '-' An Act making
further Regulations in Judicial Proceedings."
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That the ninth section of
the act passed the eighteenth day of December, one thousand
eight hundred and eleven, entitled " An Act regulating Judicial
Proceedings in certain cases, and for other purposes,''t be,
and the same is hereby repealed : Provided nevertheless, That
any clerk may, and he is hereby authorized to require security
for costs of non-residents before he issues any writ.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That the courts of equity
shall hereafter have jurisdiction in all cases of gambling con
sideration, so far as to sustain a bill for discovery, or to enjoin
judgments at law.
CHAPTER XV.
An Act additional to nn Act, entitled "An Act making further Regulations in
Judicial Proceedings."—Pasted December 23, 1818.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That in all actions of ejectment hereafter tried in
any of the courts of this territory, if it shall be made appear to
the satisfaction of the jury trying such cause, that the defendant
has a crop then planted or growing upon the premises in ques
tion, shall, if they find the defendant guilty of the trespass and
ejectment complained of, assess at the same time such rent as
shall be reasonable and just for the plaintiff to have and receive
lor the use of said premises during such time, as shall be in
their opinion sufficient to enable the defendant to gather and
secure his crop from off said premises: and no writ of Habere,
facias posscssionumshaW issue upon any such verdict until the ex
piration of the time determined by the jury, if the defendant
in such action shall enter into bond at any time during the term
of the court before whom such cause is tried, with sufficient
security, to be approved of by the said court, in the penalty
of double the amount of the rent assessed by the jury, payable
to the plaintiff, conditioned for the payment of the rent so as
sessed, at the expiration of the time fixed by the jury, for the
defendant to hold possession of the said premises.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That all bonds taken in
virtue of this act shall be filed in the clerk's office of the proper
court, and shall have the force and effect of a judgment ; and
if the same be not discharged according to the condition there
of, execution shall issue thereon against the principal and his
security, for the sum therein mentioned, as upon other judg
ments in said court.
CHAPTER XVI.
An Actio regulate Judicial Proceedings.—Patted December 27 , 1815.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That it shall be the duty of the clerks of the supe-
rior courts in this territory to keep a trial docket, and to assign
not less than fifteen causes ready for trial each day of the term,
commencing on the first day and continuing until the docket
be gone through. And it shall not he lawful to take up any
cause out of the order in which it shall stand upon the trial
docket unless by consent of parties.
Sec S. And be it further enacted, That the bond required
by law to be given by the plaintiff in error by the fifth section
of the act, entitled '* An Act to regulate the several Courts of
'his Territory, and to create a Supreme Court of Errors and Ap
peals," passed the twentieth day of January, eighteen hundred
and fourteen, shall in all cases be on condition that such plain
tiff shall prosecute his or their appeal to effect, and to pay and
satisfy such judgment as shall be rendered on such appeal, and
in case of dismission or discontinuance of the cause, the su
preme court shall render judgment against the principal and
security in the bond.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the clerks of the
several courts of this territory shall endorse on all executions
by them issued, the several items contained in the bill of costs
in intelligible words and figures.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That the fee of attorneys
in each cause in the supreme court shall be ten dollars ; and
hereafter the party prevailing in any suit which may be brought
in any of the courts in this territory, shall be considered as enti
tled to the tax fee allowed the attorney, and recover the same
against the party cast in the suit.
Sec. 5. Ana be it further enacted, That no writ of error
shall issue to reverse or set aside any judgment or decree,
which may be rendered in any of the courts of this territory,
after the expiration of two years from the rendition of such
judgment or decree.
CHAPTER XVII.
An Act concerning Writs of Error.—Paued December 12, 1816.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by tlie Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That when either plaintiff or defendant, in any matter
or cause determined in any of the superior courts of this ter-
ritory, shall wish to have the judgment rendered in said courts,
examined in the supreme court of errors and appeals of this
territory, and shall in person, or by his attorney, apply to the
'Jerk of the court in which the judgment shall have been ren-
dered, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the said court to issue
a writ of error, returnable to the first day of the next term of
the said supreme court ; and also to issue a citation, which
shall be served upon the opposite party or his attorney, by the
proper officer of the court, at least fifteen days previously to
the commencement of the next term of the supreme court;
which citation shall be returned to the office of said clerk, when
ever served, whether in vacation or term time, and shall be
sealed up with the copy of the record in the cause and the
assignment of errors, and be delivered to the party applying
tor the writ of error, or his attorney, to be by him or them
returned to the first day of the next term of the said supreme
c°urt ; and in case the copy of the record in the cause below,
should not be delivered to the clerk of the said supreme court
«>n or before the third day of the term of the said supreme court,
to which the writ of error shall be returnable, it shall be law
ful for the said supreme court, on motion of the defendant in
error or his attorney, on producing a copy of the citation served
uP°n the defendant, to dismiss the cause at the costs of the
plaintiff in error ; but the cause may be reinstated on the
docket at any time during the term to which the writ shall be
made returnable, upon showing sufficient cause to the said su
preme court.
Sec. 1. *^n^ ^e '* furt^er «w«c<erf, That it shall be the duty
of the clerk of the said supreme court to enter on a docket to
be kept for that purpose, a list of all causes brought by writ of
error into the said court according to priority ; and the errors
assigned shall be tried by the said supreme court at the return
term, unless for sufficient reason the cause should be continued,
Whenever a final judgment shall be rendered by the said su-
preme court in any cause, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
■ j* • * j
the said supreme court to certify the judgment of the said court,
t0 tne clerk of the court from which the cause came, together
with a bill of the costs accruing in the said supreme court; and
it shall be the duty of the clerk below, immediately upon the*
receipt of the said certificate, to issue execution if judgment be
rendered for the plaintiff in the original cause, for all the money,
together with all the costs of the suit in the court below, and
supreme court, which by the judgment of the said supreme court
may be due from the said defendant lo the said plaintiff ; but if
judgment be rendered for the defendant in the original cause,
then against the plaintiff in the original cause, for all the said
costs of suit, returnable to the first day of the next term of the
said court below.
And it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court below to
transmit to the clerk of the said supreme court upon the return
0f (ne said execution satisfied, all costs which may have ac'
. i
crued in the same cause in the said supreme court. Whenever
a writ of error shall be filed in the clerk's office of any of the
superior courts of this territory, in any cause or matter finally
determined in the said courts, and bond and security be given
according to law, it shall operate as a supersedeas.
CHAPTER XVIII.
An Act regulating Judicial Proceedings in certain real and possessory Actions,
and for other purposes. —Passed December 13, 1816.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives ofthe Mississippi Territory, in general assembly convened,
That in allactions real or possessory, hereafter brought or
prosecuted in any court in this territory, for any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, against any person or persons, body politic
or corporate, deriving title to such lands, tenements, or heredi-
tAtnents, by, from, or under the United States, or by, from, or
under any Spanish grant, or order of survey recognized or con
firmed by the United States' board of commissioners east or
west of Pearl river, the person or persons prosecuting any such
action against any person or persons, body politic or corporate.
claiming and deriving title under the United States, or by,
from, or under any Spanish grant, or order of survey recognized
and confirmed by either of the said boards of commissioners,
and recovering judgment for any lands, tenements, and heredita
ments, from any person or persons, body politic or corporate,
having derived title by, from, under, or through the United
Slates, or any Spanish grant, or order of survey recognized and
confirmed as aforesaid, the person or persons so obtaining judg
ment, shall not have any writ of possession or seizin, nor obtain
possession or seizin of such' lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
until he, she, or they shall have first paid to the person or per
sons, body politic or corporate, possessing the title thereto, de
rived from or under the United States, or by, from, or under any
Spanish grant, or order of survey recognized and confirmed as
aforesaid, the full value of all improvements made thereon, aS
the same shall be estimated, valued, and ascertained, on oath,
by five appraisers, which appraisers shall be, by rule for that
purpose appointed by the court in which such judgment shall
have been obtained, unless the parties shall agree on the value
of such improvements, or agree on and submit to appraisers to
value the same : Provided always, That this act shall not extend
and be so construed, as to compel any plaintiff or plaintiffs in
any of the said actions to pay for any improvement or improve
ments, not needful and necessary, which may be made on the
premises, after the service of the writ or declaration in eject
ment.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That if any person or persons,
body politic or corporate, deriving title to any lands, tene-
ments, or hereditaments, by, from, or under the United States, or
under any Spanish grant, or order of survey recognized and con
firmed as aforesaid, be disseized, ousted, or turned out of posses
sion of said lands, tenements, or hereditaments, by any person or
persons claiming or pretending to claim title to such lands, te
nements, or hereditaments, and on a trial in due course of law, a
judgment should be rendered in favour of the title of said per
son or persons, ousting, dispossessing, or disseizing the person or
persons, body politic or corporate, derivin;- title by or under the
United States, or by order of any Spanish grant, or order of
survey recognized and confirmed as aforesaid, it shall and may
be lawful for the person or persons, body politic or corporate,
so disseized, ousted, or turned out of possession, to recover
from the person or persons so ousting, dispossessing, or disseizing,
the full value of all improvements made on said lands, tene
ments, or hereditaments, together with double damages and
costs, in any court having jurisdiction of the same.
CHAPTER XIX.
An Act to amend an Act, entitled " An Act for the Limitation of Actions, ami
for avoiding vexatious Law Suits."—Patted December 13, 1816.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That no person or persons, body politic or corporate,
who now have, or shall, or may hereafter have any estate, right, title, claim, or demand, by virtue of any title which has not
been confirmed by either of the boards of commissioners of the
United States, appointed for settling and adjusting land claims
in the Mississippi territory, and not recognized or confirmed by
any act of congress, in or to any lands, tenements, or heredita
ments in this territory, shall after the expiration of three years,
from and after the passage of this act, have, prosecute, or main
tain any action or suit at law for the recovery thereof, in any
court in this territory : Provided, That this act shall not extend
to claims in that part of this territory formerly a part of West
Florida, which have been registered and not acted on by con
gress : Provided also, that if any person or persons who is, arc,
or shall be entitled to sue or prosecute such suit or action, or
who hath, have, or shall have such right or title, shall he within
the age of twenty-one years,/eme covert, or insane, within the
time limited by this act, then such person or persons, his, her,
or their heirs or assigns, shall and may, at any time within
three years next after his, her, or their coming to full age, of
sound mind, or discovert, bring, sue, and prosecute such suit or
action, and at no time thereafter.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That no action shall here
after be brought to recover any money due by open account
in cases hereafter contracted, after the expiration of three
years from the accruing of the cause of action, or after the pas
sage of this act in cases heretofore contracted : Provided, that
nothing in this act shall apply to the trade of merchandise be
tween merchant and merchant, their factors or agents.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That any person or per
sons that is or shall be entitled to any of the personal actions
enumerated and mentioned in this act, and in (tie act for the
limitation of actions, and for avoiding vexatious law suits, be, or
shall be, at the time of any such cause of action given or ac
crued, fallen or come, within the age of twenty-one years,
feme covert, non compos mentis, that then such person or persons
shall be at liberty to bring the same actions, so as they take the
same within such times as are before limited, after their coming
to or being of full age, discovert, or of sane memory, as othei
persons having no such impediment should have done.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That nothing in this act
shall operate so as to revive any claim or demand, already bar
red by the provisions of any law or statute of limitation of this
territory, and when any such claim or demand so barred, is, or
shall be sued for, a plea or pleas to that effect shall be sustained
in the same manner as if this act had not passed.
CHAPTER XX.
An Act concerning Writs of Error.—Passed February 10, 1818.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Alabama Territory, in general assembly
convened, That whenever a writ of error shall have issued from
the clerk's office of any of the superior courts of this territory,
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court from which it shall
have ifj-ued, to give the defendant in error, or to his attorney
on application, a certificate stating that a writ of error has
issued ; and it shall be the duty of the general court, on motion
of the said defendant, and on his producing the said certificate,
to dismiss any cause in which the transcript of the record
shall not have been returned on or before the third day of the
term to which the writ shall have been made returnable.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That whenever any cause
shall be dismissed for want of a return of the transcript of the
record, and the judgment below shall have been superseded, it
shall be the duty of said general court to affirm the judgment of.
the court below, with damages, interest, and costs, unless the
plaintiff in error, or some other person, shall make affidavit that
the transcript of the record could not be procured from the
clerk of the court below.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That from and after the
passage of this act, no writ of error shall issue to reverse or set
aside any judgment or decree which may be rendered in any of
the courts of this territory, after the expiration of twelve months
from the rendition of such judgment or decree, any law to the
contrary notwithstanding.
CHAPTER XXI.
An Act concerning the Style of Writs.—Passed February 13, 1818.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House' of
Representatives of the Alabama Territory, in general assembly
convened, That all writs hereafter issued from any of the courts
of this territory, shall run in the name of the Alabama Terri
tory, and shall bear teste in the name of, and be signed by the
clerk of the court from which they may be issued.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That in all cases respecting
the rights, interest, and duties of the territory or its officers,
whenever the word Mississippi occurs, or is required to be used,
it shall be supplied by the word " Alabama."

CHAPTER XXII.
An Aet to authorize the change of Venue in Real Actions. —Paati Ftbruary
13, 1818.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Alabama Territory, in general assembly
convened, That hereafter it shall and may be lawful for the
several courts within this territory, when any real action may
be instituted, or pending in such courts, to order the change of
venue in such action to any adjacent county, on the party
wishing such change making affidavit, that he, she, or they,
verily believe that justice cannol be done in the county where
sucn smt mav kc Pend'ng : Provided, That the party opposed
to such change of venue, shall have the right to take the testimony
of aged or infirm witnesses, in all cases where a change
of venue may be prayed, by dedimus potestatum, to be directed
to any justice of the quorum, or of the peace, in the county
from whence the said venue may be changed ; the party wish
ing such dedimus previously making an application for that pur
pose, to the judge who may preside in the judicial district
where such suit may be pending, and giving the opposite party
sufficient notice of the time and place of taking such testimony,
which testimony, in form aforesaid taken, together with the
dedimus, shall be sealed up by the person by whom the said
testimony may be taken, and be directed to the clerk of the
court to which the venue may be changed, and shall be read in
evidence in the case in which it may be taken, subject to such
restrictions and formalities as are now prescribed by law.
Sec. 2. ^nd oe *' further enacted, That when the venue has
Deen changed in auy real action, and judgment had and render
ed in favour of the plaintiff, it may be lawful, and it is hereby
required, that the clerk of the court where such judgment shall
be rendered, shall issue the writ of habere facias possessionem,
in favour of the plaintiff, directed to the sheriff of the county
where the action originated, any law, usage, or custom, to the
contrary notwithstanding.
CHAPTER XXIII.
An Act supplemental to the Laws now governing Judicial Proceedings.—Posted
Jfotember 21, 1818.
 1, 2, 3, and 4, under title " Executions."]
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That all judgments shall
hereafter bear interest from their date, at the rale established
by law for contracts specifying no ratesSec
6. And be it further enacted, That there shall be ap-
pointed in each county, two justices of the quorum, in addition
to the number now authorized and required by law : Provided,
that any three justices of the quorum shall be authorized to
hold a county or orphans' court
 
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That when a writ or other
process shall issue to the sheriff of the county where the defendant
resides, service of such writ or other process shall be
good and valid, if the said sheriff shall execute the said writ or
other process in any ad jacent county, or in lands to which the
Indian title has not been extinguished, and return the same to
the court from which the writ or other process issued.
Sec. 0. And be it further enacted. That any person or per-
sons may be sued in the county in which he, she, or they may
be found, without regard to his, her, or their residence, if oath
be made before the clerk issuing the writ, or any justice of the
peace, that such person or persons hath or have gone from the
county of his, her, or their residence, for the purpose of avoid
ing service of process in their proper county.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That when a witness
whose testimony may be material in any action or suit pending
before any of the justices of the quorum or of the peace of this
territory, resides at such a distance from the county wherein such
suit may originate, as to render the obtaining of his testimony
doubtful, according to the ordinary mode of procedure ; or shall
reside without the limits of the Alabama territory, it shall and
may be lawful for such justices of the quorum or of the peace,
before whom such suit may be pending, on the affidavit of the
party desirous of availing himself of the testimony of such absent
witness, stating the materiality of the testimony, to grant and to
issue a dedimus potestatum, to be directed to one or more persons
resident in the county where such absent witness resides, re
quiring him or them to execute such dedimus ; which dedimus
shall be subject to the same regulations and be governed by the
same restrictions and provisions as are already provided by law
for cases originating in the superior courts of law of this terri
tory, and to stay all proceedings pending before him or them,
until a sufficient length of time to execute such dedimus shall
have elapsed, any law or provision to the contrary notwithstanding.
Sec 10. And be it further enacted. That in all cases pending
before any of the courts of record in this territory, written notice
to the attorney of record of litigant parties in any suit or suits
pending as aforesaid, shall be as valid and legal, to all intents
and purposes, as if served on the party in person.
CHAPTER XXIV.
An Act to egulate tbe Proceedings in the Courts of Law and Equity in this
State.—Passed December 14, 1819.
Note —The preceding Sections of this Act wilt be found under the Title of
" Courts, Superior," Chapter 6.
Sec. 4. Be it further enacted, That where any circuit judge
shall fail to attend on the first day of any term, the business
tberof shall stand adjourned until the second day ; and if the judge
shall fail to attend on the second day, the business shall stand
adjourned until the third day ; and if the judge does not attend
before the hour of three o'clock in the evening of the third day,
i! shall be the duty of the sheriff to adjourn all suit*, causes, and
prosecutions therein depending, to the next succeeding terra of
the circuit court ; and the clerk of such court shall enter on
h'8 docket a continuance of all such suits and causes, and shall
bind over all witnesses on behalf of the state, to appear at the
next term of the said court, unless previously bound over : Provi
ded, That nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to
Prevent tne parties from making up their pleadings on the
appearance causes,
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That the clerk or attorney
issuing process, shall mark thereon the day on which such
process issued ; and the sheriff, or other officer receiving the
same, in order to execute, shall in like manner mark on each
process the day on which he received it ; and every clerk,
a^orney^ shcrifl"( or other officer, neglecting so to do, shall forfeit
and pay the sum of one hundred dollars, to be recovered by ac
tion of debt in any court of record having cognizance thereof,
by any person who will sue for the same, with costs,
Sec. 6. Jlnd be it enacted, That all writs and other process,
(except subpoenas for witnesses, returnable immediately,)
returned the first day of the term, to which the same
shall be returnable ; and shall be executed at least five days
before the beginning of such term ; and if any original or mesne
process shall be taken out, within five days before the beginning
of any term, such process shall be made returnable to the term
next succeeding that, which shall commence within five days
after taking out such process, and not otherwise : and all proCeSS
made returnable at any other term, or executed at any
0(ner time, or in any other manner, than by this act is directed ;
shall be adjudged void, upon the plea of the defendant : Pro-
tided nevertheless, That nothing herein contained shall bo
construed to invalidate or vacate any process, warrant, or pre-
cept, to be issued by any of the judges of the said court, or any
justice of the peace, or clerk of any court, on any original
prosecution in behalf of the state ; but, that the same may be
issued at any time, and made returnable to any day of the term :
and lne n'{e proceedings on criminal suits and prosecutions,
shall be agreeable to the practice heretofore in use in the ter
ritorial government, except where the same is, or may be
otherwise directed, by this or some other act.
Sec. 7. Andbeit further enacted, That the following rules and
regulations shall be observed in the said courts until otherwise
j; . j ... i _• . nil .!/r __ !_• i. I
directed by law, viz. : That every plaintiff or his attorney when
employed in any suit, in any of the circuit courts of this state,
ehali file his declaration in the clerk's office, any time within
the first three days of the term, to which the writ is made re
turnable ; and on failure thereof such suit shall be dismissed by
the court, at the cost of the plaintiff : Provided nevertheless,
That the judge on good cause shown, may grant a longer time,
which costs being paid by the plaintiff to the clerk of said court,
he or they, paying such cost in consequence of a declaration
not being filed in due time, as aforesaid, may warrant such
attorney for all such cost paid by him as aforesaid, and the
receipt of the clerk shall, and maybe evidence in support of
such claim, and the justice before whom such warrant shall be
tried, may give judgment and issue execution thereon, and such
attorney shall be further liable to the action of such plaintiff,
» ' ...» '
for such damages as he or they may have sustained, in conse-
qoence of such declaration not having been tiled as aforesaid,
The defendant shall appear and plead or demur, within the
three first days after the time allowed for filing declaration,
otherwise the plaintiff may have judgment by default, which in
actions of debt, shall be final, unless where damages are suggested
on the roll ; and in that case, and in all others not herein
specially provided for, when the recovery shall be in damages,
a writ of inquiry shall be executed at the next succeeding
term : Provided, That where the nature of the actions require
special pleading, the time for pleading may be enlarged, where
the defendant pleads specially, the plaintiff shall reply or
demur, within three days after the time allowed for filing the
declaration, or a non pros, may be entered by the defendant
and if the plaintiff replies, and in his replication tenders an
issue, the defendant shall join issue or demur in three days,
otherwise the plaintiff may have judgment ; and where the
defendant rejoins to the plaintiff's replication, he shall file his
rejoinder within three days, or judgment shall go against him,
unless the term for pleading shall be enlarged as aforesaid, and
the same time shall be given, and rules observed, through the
whole course of the proceedings : Provided, That in every case
the pleadings shall be made up during thu term to which the pro
cess is returned, unless the time be extended by the consent o
parties, their attorneys, or by direction of the court, where a
special verdict shall be found, a case agreed, a demurrer filed
or a bill of exceptions to the evidence tendered, the court may,
for a good cause shown, continue the same until the next term,
for argument. For the better preservation of the records of
the courts, where any cause is finally determined, the clerk o
each court shall enter all the proceedings therein, in a book
bound, and make an entire and perfect record thereof. All jury
causes shall be first tried; all motions in arrest of judgment,
shall be argued within the three last days of the term, in which
the issue shall be tried ; the defendant's attorney first servin
the plaintiff's attorney, with a copy of the reasons in arrest o
judgment, the day immediately following that on which such
motion shall be made : arguments on writs of error, special
verdicts, cases agreed, demurrers, petitions for legacies, and dis
tributions of intestate estates shall be heard during the four las
days of the term.
When a plea in abatement, shall be pleaded, and upon argument
the same shall be adjudged insufficient, the plaintiff shall
recover against the defendant full costs to the time of over
ruling such plea, including the costs of court; and a defendant
in any action may plead as many several matters as may be
necessary for his defence, so that he be not admitted to plead
and demur to the whole.
CHAPTER XXV.
Ad Act to regulate tbe in Suits at <
30, 1820.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the Stale of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
when any person or persons holding a bond or note for the
direct payment of money, may desire to bring suit thereon, he
or they may do so, by filing such bond or note with the clerk of
any court having jurisdiction thereof, with a petition purporting
as follows: " State of Alabama, Circuit or County, ss. A. B.
Elaintiff states that he holds a bond or note (as the case may
e) on the defendant C. D. in substance as followeth, (here
insert a copy of the bond or note) yet the said debt remains
unpaid, wherefore he prays judgment for his debt, and damages
for the detention of tbe same, together with his costs, &c. A. p."
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That if such bond or note
is held by an assignee or endorsee, then, after reciting the bond
or note, " on which is the following assignment or endorse
ment, (recite the assignment or endorsement) whereby the
plaintiff hath become the proprietor thereof, of which the de
fendant hath had due notice."
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That a copy of the petition
with a summons annexed thereto, requiring the defendant to
appear and answer the demand on the first day of the next
succeeding term, which shall be issued by the clerk, and served
by the sheriff by delivering a copy of the petition and summons
to the defendant, and each of the defendants, if there be more
than one.
Sec. 4. J^n<* oe furtner enacted. That the sheriff in his
return shall note the day on which it shall have been executed,
and whenever it shall appear therefrom that it has been exe
cuted five days or more before the return day, judgment may
be rendered the first term, subject however to be continued for
cause shown ; but if the process be not executed five days be
fore the return day thereof, a continuance shall be entered,
unless a trial shall be had by consent of parties.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That the petition shall
stand in the place of a declaration, and the defendant may
appear and plead thereto as in an action of debt, and issue be
joined accordingly ; which issue shall stand over to, and be tried
at, the next term of the court in which such suit may be insti
tuted, unless a trial is had at the first term by consent of the
parties, but if the defendant does not appear and plead, judg
ment may be taken by default.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful
in all actions of debt, assumpsit, and covenant, to take judgment
at the return term thereof, but the defendant may upon filing a
plea to the merits, have the suit continued.
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That in all cases when
judgment passes against the defendant at tbe first term, such
judgment from the date thereof shall be a lien on the estate of
the defendant ; but execution shall not issue thereon, until the
expiration of sixty days after the end of said term.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That if the defendant shall,
before execution issues on such judgment, tender to the clerk
of the court where the judgment was rendered good and suffi
cient security, to be approved of by the said clerk, for the
amount of the judgment, interest, and costs of suit, the clerk
shall take a recognizance to the effect following : —" Whereas
A. B. plaintiff at the term of court, obtained a
judgment against C. D. defendant, for the sum of debt
1 interest or damage (as the case may be) and costs of
suit : or if the judgment be in damages therefor, the sum of
damages and costs of suit ; and whereas the said C. D. hath
tendered E. F. to be bound with him to the said A. B. for the
amount of the said judgment, interest, and costs, I, G. H.
clerk of the said court, do hereby accept for the said A. B. the
following recognizances, to wit : We the said C. D. and E. F.
hereby acknowledge ourselves to be bound to the said A. B. in
the said sum of debt interest or damage and costs
of suit ; or damages and costs of suit (as the case may
be) and the further sum of for taking this recognizance, to
be paid to the said A. B. six months after the date hereof, with
interest thereon from the date of said judgment ; and if we
shall delay payment thereof for the space of sixty days after
the said term of six months, then execution is to issue against
our estates or bodies, as the said A. B. may direct, for the
amount of this recognizance with interest as aforesaid. Signed,
sealed, and delivered in the presence of the said G. II. clerk of
■ C. D. I.s. E. F. I. s." Which recognizance shall have
the force and effect of a judgment, and execution may issue
thereon as upon other judgments. But after the execution of
the recognizance as aforesaid, the lien created by the judgment
shall cease.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That the said recognizance
may be satisfied and discharged by the payment of the amount
thereof to the clerk of said court, at any time before execution
issues thereon, and by paying one half per centum thereon to
said clerk for his trouble in collecting and securing the money.
And upon the payment thereof, the clerk shall in the presence
of the said defendant, his agent or attorney, enter on said re
cognizance satisfaction in full, and carefully tile and preserve
the same among the papers of the suit. And he shall also exe
cute to the defendant a receipt in full upon such payment.
Sec 10. And be it further enacted, That if any clerk shall
fail to pay over to the plaintiff money received as aforesaid
when required, he shall pay the same with six per cent, per
month thereon, to be recovered by motion, upon ten days
notice thereof before said court, with such costs as may be
awarded against him.
Sec. 11. And be it further enacted, That nothing in this act
contained, shall be so construed as to take away any remedy
or defence heretofore allowed by law, nor shall this act he
otherwise construed than as a remedial statute,
Sec. 12. And be it further enacted, That the clerk shall be
allowed for issuing a summons and copying the petition fifty
cents, and for taking recognizance under this act, fifty cents, and
for receiving and paying over money to the plaintiff, one half
per centum thereon, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Sec. 1. Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened,
That it shall be the duty of the clerks of the circuit courts in
this state respectively, on the application of the party against
whom any final judgment shall have been rendered, or on the
application of the attorney of the said party, to issue a writ of
e/ror returnable to the first day of the next term of the supreme
coart, and also to issue a citation which shall be served upon
he opposite party or his attorney, by the proper officer of the
court, at least ten days previous to the commencement of the
next term of the supreme court, which citation shall be re
turned to the office of the clerk from which it issued, whenever
served, whether in vacation or term time, and shall, together
with a transcript of the record in the cause, be delivered to the
party applying for the writ of error, or his, her, or their
attorney, to be by him, or her, or them returned to the first day
of the next term of the supreme court, and in case the trans
cript of the record in the cause below, should not be delivered
to the clerk of the supreme court, on or before the third day
of the term to which the writ of error shall be returnable, it
shaU be lawful for the supreme court at that term, or at any
term thereafter, on motion of the defendant in error or his at
torney, and on producing a copy of the citation served upon
the defendant, certified by the sheriff, or on producing a cer
tificate from the clerk of the court from which the writ of error
issued, showing the time at which it issued, and amount for
which judgment was rendered, and at what term of the court
below, to affirm the judgment of the circuit court with costs
of suit.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That whenever a final
judgment shall be rendered by the supreme court in any cause,
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court to certify
the judgment of the said court to the clerk of the court from
which the cause came, together with a bill of the costs accruing
in the supreme court ; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of
the court below, immediately on the receipt of the said certifi
cate, to issue execution, if judgment be rendered for the plaintiffin
the original cause, for all the money, together with all the
costs of the suit in the court below, and supreme court, which
by the judgment of the supreme court may be due from the
defendant to the plaintiff, or to issue such an execution as may
be directed by the supreme court ; but if judgment be rendered
for the defendant in the original cause, then against the plaintiff
in the original cause, for all the said costs of suit, or such other
execution as may be directed by the supreme court, returnable
to the next term of the court below. And it shall be the duty
of the clerk of the court below to transmit to the clerk of the
supreme court, upon the return of the said execution satisfied,
all the costs which may have accrued in the same cause in the
supreme coart.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That no judgment of the
circuit court in this state shall be suspended, unless the party
applying for such writ of error shall execute in the clerk's
office a bond with sufficient security, to be approved by the
clerk, conditioned for prosecuting the writ of error to effect,
and to pay and satisfy the judgment which shall be rendered it
the said cause by the supreme court.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the supreme court to decide all the causes which may be
returned to the said court at the return term thereof, unless for
good cause the same shall be continued, and in all cases de
cided in the supreme court, the successful party shall be entitled
to the same fee which is now allowed in chancery causes in the
circuit court.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That it shall not hereafter
be lawful for any circuit court to refer to the supreme court any
question of law, except such as may be novel and difficult, and
arise in a criminal cause,
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That the supreme court
s^a" not hereafter render judgment against the security in the
bond given by the party upon obtaining a writ of error or ap
peal, but it shall be the duty of the clerk of the court from
which the cause came, immediately upon the receipt of the
certificate of affirmance in the supreme court, on the applica
tion of the obligee, to issue a scire facias to the security or secu
rities in the said bond, to appear at the next circuit court, and
show cause, if any he, she, or they have, why judgment should
not be rendered against him. If no cause, or an insufficient
cause be shown, it shall be the duty of the said court to ren
der judgment against the security or securities for the amount
of the judgment of the supreme court, together with the da
mage, interest, and costs allowed by law.
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That a writ of error may
issue to reverse any final judgment in the circuit court, at any
time within three years after the rendition of the judgment, and
not afterward.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That any judge of the
circuit courts, on an inspection of the records or the transcript
thereof, of any cause in which final judgment shall have been
rendered, may, if he shall be of opinion that any material mis
take or error has been committed by a ministerial officer after
the rendition of judgment, grant a writ of error coram vobis,
returnable to the next term of the circuit court in which such
judgment shall have been rendered, and may direct the said writ
to operate as a supersedeas on the party applying for the same,
entering into bond and security in the clerk's office, to be ap
proved by the judge granting the same, conditioned for prose
cuting the said writ of error to effect, and pay and satisfy the
judgment of the court.
Sec. 9. And be itfurther enacted, That it shall be the duty °f
the court to which the writ of error coram vobis fhall be return-
ed, to try the same at the return term, and in all cases of affirm
ance judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff in error,
and his, her, or their security, for the amount of judgment which
shall have been suspended, together with five per cent, da
mages, interest, and costs.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful
for any judge of the supreme court, who shall not have given an
opinion in the case below, to set in the trial of the said cause
in the supreme court.
Sec. 11. And be it further enacted, That whenever thejudgment
of a circuit court shall, on appeal or writ of error to the
supreme court, be affirmed, ten per cent, damages shall be
allowed, and not more : Provided, That no damages shall be
allowed in any cause in the supreme court, unless the judg
ment of the court below shall have been suspended.
CHAPTER XXVII.
An Act giving Jurisdiction over Water Course*.—Poised December 20, 1820
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened,
That the jurisdiction over all rivers not included in the bounds
of any county in this state, is hereby given to the county or
counties whose jurisdiction now extends to the margin thereof.
And it shall be lawful for the proper officer to execute any pro
cess to him directed, on the body or property of the defendant
therein named, as well on said river as in other parts of such
county or counties. All process thus executed, shall be as
valid as if executed in the body of the county. This act shall
commence and be in force from and after the passage thereof.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
An Act to abolish the Fictitious Proceedings in Ejectment, and for other pur
poses therein mentioned.—Passed December 17, 1821.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
the fictitious proceedings in the action of ejectment be, and the
same are hereby abolished ; and that hereafter the mode of
trying the right and title to lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
shall be by action of trespass, in which the plaintiff shall en
dorse on his writ and copy writ, that the action is brought as
"well to try titles as to recover damages.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the laws now in force
in relation to the action of ejectment, except as far as relates to
fictitious proceedings therein, shall be applied to the action of
trespass, to try titles as aforesaid.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That if the plaintiff in the
aforesaid action of trespass recover, he shall be entitled to an
.. , . « ii /> , 13
execution for possession, as well as for costs and damages.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That it shall not be neces
sary to file the original note, bond, or paper sued on, with the
clerk, but that a copy thereof shall be sufficient.
Note.—An Act passed in December, eighteen hundred and twenty, gives a
right of peremptory challenge of four of the jury ; provides for the compensa
tion of jurors ; and enacts that it shall be lawful to try offenders by indictment
in all cases where the law required that they should be tried on presentment.
CHAPTER XXIX.
An Act the better to secure Debts upon Writs of Error.—Pasted December 12,
1822.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
if any clerk of the circuit court, upon issuing any writ of error,
shall take security which shall be insufficient at the time of
taking the same, he shall be liable to an action of trespass on the
case in favour of the party aggrieved : Provided, That nothing
in this act contained, shall be so construed as to subject any clerk
of the court aforesaid to a recovery in the action aforesaid, for
taking as security for any writ of error, any person who was
generally reputed sufficient for the sum for which he became
bound as security at the time he was taken as security.
CHAPTER XXX.
As Act to prevent frivolous and vexatious Law Suits.—Passed December.
1S22.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened,
That in all suits which may be hereafter brought in this state,
to recover damages for slander or trespass, assault and battery,
the plaintiff shall not recover more costs than damages, if the
damages do not exceed five dollars ; unless the judge before
whom the suit was tried shall certify that more damages ought
to have been awarded by the jury.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That this act shall com
mence and be in force from and after the first day of January
next.
CHAPTER XXXI.
An Act to enforce the Payment of Moneys collected by Officers of Courts.—
Passtd December 28, 1822.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
whenever a motion shall be made against any officer of any of
the courts of this state for not paying over any money received
by him in his official capacity, and the receipt of the same shall
not appear by the record or any paper filed in the clerk's office,
 
it shall be the duty of the court to cause an issue to be
up and tried by the jury attending the court; and in case it
shall be found by the jury that the same has been received by
the officer against whom the motion shall be made, judgment
shall be rendered by the court against the said officer, for the
principal, interest, and such damages as are now in such cases
directed by law.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That in case any clerk of
any of the courts of this state shall fail to enter on the execu-
tion docket, any return of any execution which shall be made
by the proper officer of the court, within three days after the
said return shall be made, it shall be the duty of the court, on
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in execution, or his or her
to render judgment against the said clerk, and his
or either, or any of them, for the amount of the exe
cution, together with interest and costs : Provided, That those
against whom the judgment shall be rendered shall have one
day's notice of the motion, and that any fact which shall be
contested by the said clerk and securities, or any or either of
them, shall be tried by a jury.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty
of the clerks of the several courts in this state, to keep in the
court-house, on the clerk's table, the execution docket, during
the whole term of the session of the court ; and that if any
clerk shall fail so to do, he shall be guilty of a contempt of
court, and be punished accordingly ; and shall also be liable to
any person aggrieved, in an action of trespass on the case.
CHAPTER XXXII.
An Act concerning Inquiry of Damages.— Passtd December 19, 1822.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened,
That whenever the demurrer to the declaration in an action
of covenant, trespass, or trespass on the case, shall be overruled,
and an inquiry of damages directed by the court, it shall
be lawful for the inquiry thereof to be had at the same term at
which such demurrer shall be overruled, any law to the contrary
notwithstanding : Provided, That nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to authorize the said inquiry of damages to
be made at the term to which the writ in said actions may be
made returnable.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That in all actions of cove
nant, case, trespass, and assumpsit, when the declaration is
tiled in due time, and the defendant has failed to plead, a judg
ment by default may be taken either in vacation, or at the next
succeeding term, and a writ of inquiry executed at said term.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
Ad Act concerning Writs of Error, Coram Vobis.—Passed December 30, 1822.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
no writs of error, coram vobis, shall be granted, unless the de
fendant shall pay the amount of principal and interest actually
due, before obtaining the same ; unless otherwise ordered by
the judge granting the said writ : Provided, That no security
shall be required of the defendant under this act.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That all laws and parts
of laws contrary to the provisions of this act, be, and the same
are hereby repealed.
CHAPTER XXXIV.
An Act for the Relief of John P. Hickman and Richard Kllis. —Passed De
cember 14, 1822.
Sec. 1. Beit enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the Stale of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
it shall be the duty of the clerk of the circuit court of Madison
county, to make out a full and complete transcript of the record
and proceedings, in a suit instituted on the third of August,
1819, in the Fate superior court of said county, by John P.
Hickman against Richard Ellis, and deliver the same to the
clerk of the county court of Madison county, who shall place
the same on the trial docket, at the term next succeeding its
reception into his office.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the said county court to take jurisdiction of said cause, and to
try the same as if it had originated in the said county court.
Sec 3. And be it further enacted, That the clerk of said
county court, at the time of receiving said transcript, shall
issue a notice, in writing, to the attorney of said Ellis, apprizing
him of the transfer of said case, which said notice shall be served
by the sheriff of said county.
Sec. A. And be it further enacted, That on the decision of
said cause, in said county court, a writ of error, or appeal, shall
lie immediately to the supreme court, and not to the circuit
court ; and that the rules and regulations applicable to appeals
and writs of error, from the circuit court, shall govern this
case.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That the costs which have
accrued, and may hereafter accrue in said cause, shall abide its
ultimate decision, and shall be paid by the party against whom
it may be decided.
CHAPTER JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS IN CHANCERY.—
1807.
Note.—The ordinance passed by the Congress of the United States for the
government of their territories, provided that there should be a court to consist
of three judges, any two of whom should form a court, and should " have a
common taw jurisdiction." A government in the Mississippi Territory was
erected in the year 1798, but the courts of the territory exercised no powers but
those which appertain to courts of common law, until the year 1802, when the
territorial legislature passed " an Act for giving equity jurisdiction to the su
perior courts." That Act was repealed in 1805, by " an Act establishing certain
courts therein named, and regulating Judicial Proceedings in this territory ;"
but its provisions were at the same time substantially retained in the last men
tioned Act; and were afterward incorporated in the Digest of 1807, in the Act
from which the following extracts are made, the greater part of which will be
found under the title " Courts."
CHAPTER I.
Extracts from " an Act establishing Superior Courts, and declaring Powers
of the Territorial Judges." —Pautd February 10, 1807.
Sec. 43. And be it further enacted, That the said supreme
court and the said superior court for the district of Washington,
shall also be and act as courts in chancery in said counties of
Wilkinson, Adams, Jefferson, and Claiborne, and in the district of
Washington, respectively, and shall have and exercise all the
power, authority, and jurisdiction incident to courts of chancery,
and may ordain and establish all necessary rules for the orderly
conducting of business in equity, and for hearing and taking
orders on interlocutory matters in vacation. And the clerks of
said courts shall keep the rolls, records, and proceedings in
equity, separate and distinct from the proceedings in law in the
said courts.
Sec. 44. And be it further enacted, That the said courts of
chancery may direct an issue in fact to be tried whenever they
judge it necessary ; and such issue shall be tried in the same
manner, and by the same jury, and the same mode of proceed
ings observed in the trial thereof in every respect, as if it were
an issue in fact joined in a suit in law in the same court.
Sec. 45. And be it further enacted, That each of the territorial
judges shall have power and authority to issue writs of injunc-
tion and of ne exeat when the case may require it, but every
person shall be discharged from a writ of ne exeat, on giving
good and sufficient security, and for that purpose the judge or
court granting such writ shall endorse thereon the sum and
number of securities required.
Sec. 46. And be it further enacted, That said courts sitting in
chancery shall have power and authority to order and issue all
process as hath usually belonged to courts of chancery, and in
cases where decrees shall be passed for a sum of money, it shall
be lawful for execution to issue thereon agaiust the defendant's
goods and chattels, lands and tenements, or against the defend-
ant's body, to satisfy such decree and costs, in like manner, and
with the same force and effect as executions may issue on judg
ments obtained at law in the supreme court of this territory.*
Sec. 47. And be it further enacted, That on the complainant's
filiug his bill in the clerk's office in term time, or vacation, it
s'lal' De *ne duty of the clerk to issue a subpoeua as is usual in
cases of chancery, returnable to the next succeeding term ; but
in case either of the territorial judges shall give special order
to hold the defendant or defendants to bail (which shall be done
only on affidavit of the truth of the bill and damages sustained)
it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue a writ to the sheriff of
the proper county, together with a copy of the bill, which writ
shall be in the following form, to wit : " Mississippi territory of
the United States, To the sheriff of the county of greet
ing : We command you to take A. B. if he be found in your
county, and him safely keep, so that you have his body before
the judges (or judge) of the court sitting in chancery,
at on the Monday of next ensuing, to
answer a bill in chancery preferred against him in our said
court, by C. D. a copy of which bill, accompanying this writ,
you will deliver to the said A. B. Hereof fail not, and have you
there at that time this writ. Witness Esquire, judge of
the court aforesaid, on the day of , in the year of
our Lord , and of American Independence the
And the clerk shall endorse on such writ the sum in which the
defendant is ordered by the judge to be held to bail. And the
sheriff shall, by virtue of such writ, arrest the defendant, who
shall not be discharged from such arrest until he enter into a
bail bond, with good and sufficient security, in double the sum
endorsed on such writ, conditioned to appear and answer the
said bill : —and such bail bond shall be taken and assigned in
the same manner, and have the same force and effect, and be
liable to the same recovery as bail bonds taken in actions at
law; and the sheriff is hereby required, at the time of serving
such writ in chancery, to deliver to the defendant a copy of the
' defendant shall fail to appear according to the
rules and practice of the court, after due service and return of
such writ, and plead, answer, or demur to the plaintiff's biJi,
tne same may be taken pro confesso.
Sec. 48. Be furt^er enacted, That costs in equity shall
ke ^ either party, at the discretion of the court.
Note.—The 47th Section was partially repealed by an Act passed Decem
ber 18, 1811, entitled " An Act regulating Judicial Proceedings in certa"
and for other purposes," in the following words.
Sec. 20. And be it further enacted, That so much of the
47th section of the Act, entitled " An Act, establishing Superior
Courts, and declaring the Powers of the TerritorialJudges," as
authorizes either of the territorial judges to hold to bail any
defendant or defendants in suits in chancery, be, and the same
are hereby repealed.
Sec. 28. And be it further enacted, That the judges of the
superior courts of law and equity shall have power in vacation to
examine all answers to bills in chancery: and if any defendant
or defendants have been held to bail; any judge, on applica
tion may, and he is hereby authorized to reduce or discharge
such bail so taken as aforesaid.]
CHAPTER II.
/
[The following Act was originally passed with the title under which it now
appears, on the 1st February, 1805.
In the Digest of 1S07, it was blended with the attachment law, and made the
16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20lh Sections, of " An Act directing the Method of
Proceeding in Courts of Common Law and Equity, against Absconding Debtors
and other Absent Defendants "]
An Act empowering Courts of Equity to proceed against absent Defendants.—
Passed February 1, 1805.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That if the defendant in any suit in equity, against
whom subpoena or other process may issue, shall not cause an
appearance to be entered within such time and in such manner
as by the rules of the court the same ought to have been enter-
ed in case such subpeena or other process had been duly served,
and affidavit being made that such defendant resides beyond the
limits of the territory, or that upon inquiry at his usual place
of abode, he could not be found so as to be served with such
7
process, and that there is just cause to believe that such defendant
is gone out of the limits of the territory, or otherwise ab
sconded to avoid being served with such subpoena or other
process, then in either case, the court may make an order
directing such defendant to appear at a certain day therein
named ; a copy of which order shall be published within forty
days thereafter in some gazette regularly published in this
territory, for such space of time as the court shall direct, and
shall within the time aforesaid, be posted up at the door of the
court-house where made; and said court may, at their discre-
tion, direct such order to be published in any gazette in the
United States, and for such space of time as they may deem
reasonable ; and if the defendant do not appear within the time
limited by such order, or within such further time as the court
shall appoint, then, on due proof of publication as aforesaid, the
court may order the plaintiff's bill to be taken pro confesso, and
make decree thereon, and carry such decree into full effect as
in other cases : Provided, that proceedings in equity against
absent defendants, and decrees made on such proceedings,
shall be subject to the restrictions, limitations, and provisos,
herein after mentioned.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the complainant sKall,
hefore obtaining any decree by virtue of the foregoing section
°f this act give good and sufficient security in such sum as
the court may direct, to abide such order, touching the
P2
restitution of the estate or effects to be effected by such decree
as the court may make concerning the same, on the ap-
pearance and petition of the defendant to have said cause reheard
; and if any decree shall be made in pursuance of this
ac' a§a'ns' a person residing beyond the limits of the territory,
at the time of pronouncing such decree, and such person
shall, within two years after making the same, reside within
the territory, or become publicly visible therein, then such de-
Pendant shall be served with a copy of such decree in a reasonable
time after such residence or public appearance shall
be known to the complainant, and in case such defendant depart
this life within two years after making such decree, and
Defbre the service of such copy, then if the heir of such de
fendant shall have any real estate, whereof possession shall
have been given to the complainant, and such heir may be
found, or if such heir be a feme covert, infant, or person nan
compos mentis, the husband or guardian of such heir, or if the
personal estate of such defendant shall have been levied
or possession thereof given to the complainant; then th
cutor or administrator, if any such there be, shall ben
with a copy of such decree, within a reasonable time after the
death of the defendant, and his heirs, executors, or administra
tors in this territory shall be known to the complainant.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That if any person or
persons served with a copy of such decree shall not within
'we've months thereafter appear and petition to have the
cause reheard, such decree made as aforesaid shall stand absolutely
confirmed against the person or persons served with a
copy as aforesaid, his, her, or their heirs, executors, or admi
nistrators, and all persons claiming under him, her, or them, by
virtue of any act done after the commencement of the suit.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That if any person served
w'*ha copy of such decree as aforesaid, shall, within twelve
months thereafter, or if any person, not so served, shall, within
three years after pronouncing such decree, appear and petition
to be heard touching the matter of such decree, and pay the
cost °^ smt' 8uch person or persons, his, her, or their representative,
or any person claiming under him, her, or them, by vir
tue of any act done before the commencement of the suit, may
be admitted to answer the bill, and such proceedings had, aa if
no decree had passed,
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That if any person or persons
aga'nst whom such decree shall be made, bis, her, or their
heirs, executors, or administrators, shall not within three years
next after making such decree, appear and petition to have such
cause reheard, and pay costs of suit as aforesaid, such decree
made as aforesaid shall stand absolutely confirmed against the
defendant or defendants, his, her, or their heirs, executors, and
administrators, and against all persons claiming or to claim by,
from, or under him,her, or tbem, or any of them, by virtue of any
act done or to be done subsequent to the commencement of such
snit. Provided* this act stroll not he so construed »s to authorize
proceedings against persons residing out of the Territory, un
less the ground or cause of action, or the transaction on which
the bill may be brought, took place within the territory.
CHAPTER III.
Extract from an Act passed 24tb December, y>12, entitled " An Act making
farther Regulations in Judicial Proceedings."
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That the courts of equity
shall hereafter have jurisdiction in all cases of gambling con
sideration, so far as to sustain a bill for discovery, or to enjoin
judgment at law.
."Vote.— The Act concerning Wills, originally passed March 12, 1803, section
65, provides that within five years from the time of the first probate of any will,
any person interested in such will may, by bill in chancery, contest the validity
of the same, and that tho court of chancery may thereupon direct an issue or
issues in fact, to be tried by a jury as in other cases. It also gives the right oi
appeal from the orphans' court, to the supreme or superior court in chancery.
In like manner the " Act concerning Divorce and Alimony," passed March 10,
1803, provides that the supreme or superior courts of the territory having equity
jurisdiction, should have jurisdiction of all cases of divorce, provided the par
ties were inhabitants of the territory. See titles " Wills" and " Diverce and
Alimony."
CHAPTER IV.
An Act concerning Injunctions.—Passed Dtctmier 12, 1816.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That hereafter no injunction shall be granted to stay
an execution of a judgment at law, unless the party applying
for such injunction, or to be benefited thereby, shall first sign and
seal a release of errors in such judgment at law, and file the same
in the office of the clerk of the court, in which such judgment
shall have been obtained, and whenever an injunction shall be
dissolved, damages after the rate of six per centum shall be
added to the amount of the judgment : Provided, The court be*
of opinion that the injunction was obtained for delay.
CHAPTER V.
Extract from an Act passed February 7, 1818, " for the belter Regulation of
Judicial Proceedings."
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That the superior courts of
this territory sitting in chancery, shall in all cases where a bill
is pending or may be hereafter filed to compel the specific per
formance of a contract, have power to make a decree, vesting title to any property, real or personal, in the complainant, as
fully and effectually, as if conveyed by the defendant, in con
formity with the contract on which such bill and decree are
founded : and a writ shall issue to the sheriff or other officer,
commanding him forthwith to put such complainant in pos<
session.
CHAPTER VI.
Extract: from an Act, passed 14th Dec. 1819, entitled "An Act to regulate the
Proceedings in the Courts of Law and Equity in this State."
Sec. 17. And be it further enacted, That the equity juris
diction heretofore belonging to the superior courts of law and
equity in the territorial government, shall be, and hereby is
vested in the circuit court of this state.
Sec. 18. And be it further enacted, That the said court, when
a bill praying a review of the proceedings, in which a decree
shall have been pronounced, shall be presented, may, upon such
bill and the circumstances of the case, as the same shall appear
satisfactory, direct the proceedings on such decree to be stayed
until a decree on the said bill of review shall be made, or until
further order of the said court ; or the said court may refuse to
grant a stay of proceedings in that case as may seem right :
Provided, That the said court may, in either of the said cases,
direct such security to be given, and in such places, as is usual
in cases of injunction, or such other security as may seem,
reasonable : Provided, That no bill of review shall be brought
on motion made therefor, except it be within three years from
the time of pronouncing such decree, saving to infanti,/mc
coverts, persons non compos mentis, persons imprisoned or be
yond seas, a right to move a bill of review, withiu three years
after such disability shall have been removed. .
CHAPTER VII.
An Act to regulate Proceedings in Chancery Suits.—Pasted January 1, 1823.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of liepresentalives
of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
the mode of commencing suits in equity or chancery shall be
by filing a bill with the clerk of the circuit court of the county
in which the suit is instituted, wherein the clerk shall issue a
subpoena ad respondendum, with a copy of the bill, which shall
be served by the sheriff of the county where the defendant re
sides, or may be found, and returned to the first day of the next
term.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the defendant shall
file his answer or demurrer within thirty days after the service
„f t]le subpoena, unless within that period he shall obtain fur
ther time from the clerk of the said court, or from a circuit
judge, on reasonable cause shown, which further time shall not
extend beyond the first day of the next term, otherwise the bill
shall be taken pro confesso, and the complainant, if he deems it
necessary, may take an attachment to compel an answer.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That no plea or special
demurrer shall be filed to any bill or answer, but it shall be
lawful for the defendant to embrace all the matter of his plea
and demurrer, either general or special, in his answer, and shall
have the same benefit thereof as if the same had been plead'
ed : Provided, That the defendant may demur generally to the
bill, which, if overruled, he shall pay costs thereon, file a suffi
cient answer, and go to trial forthwith if the complainant re
quires it, otherwise the bill shall be taken pro confesso, and an
attachment may issue to compel an answer.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That at the time of filing
his answer, the defendant shall also file his exceptions, if he
chooses to except to the bill, for scandalous or impertinent
matter; and the complainant also, on or before the first day of
the term next after the filing of the answer, shall file his excep
tions thereto, if he chooses to except for scandal, impertinence,
or insufficiency : —All exceptions shall be heard and determined
by the presiding judge, in open court, the first term after they
are filed, and if filed on the first day of the term, they shall be
heard and determined during that term : —If any of the excep
tions are sustained, the party filing them shall be entitled to
his cost thereon, and a continuance of the suit to the next term
if he prays it, if all the exceptions are overruled, the oppo
site party shall be entitled to his costs thereon, and a continu
ance if he prays it: Provided, That where exceptions filed to
the insufficiency of an answer are sustained, the defendant
shall forthwith file a sufficient answer, and come to trial imme
diately, if the complainant prays it, unless the court for good
cause grant further time, otherwise the bill shall be taken pro
confesso as to the insufficient matter, and an attachment may
issue to compel a sufficient answer: And provided also, That at
any time before the hearing of the cause, the court may grant
cither party leave to amend his bill or answer, whether excep
tions are taken or not.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That it shall not be re-
quired to file a replication to an answer, and that in all cases
where the answer is filed ten days before the sitting of the
court, or the bill is taken pro confesso, for want of an answer,
the cause shall be heard and determined at that term, if prac
ticable, unless on good cause shown, either party continue the
same.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That before a decree is
pronounced on'a bill taken pro confesso, the court shall be satis-
tied, by sufficient evidence, of the justice of the complainant's
claim or demand ; but in all cases, before the hearing of the
cause, the defendant shall have leave to set aside the order pro
confesso, by filing a full and complete answer, and that where
an attachment may issue for want of an answer, or sufficient
answer, or for not obeying the order, or performing the decree
of the court, or for disobedience to its process, the defendant
shall be discharged therefrom by a compliance at or before the
next term.
Sec. 7. And be it further enacted, That the presiding judgr
shall render his decree in writing, on or before the adjournment
of the court, unless in weighty and difficult cases, in which he
may be indulged to the ensuing term.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That all answers and bilk
fQr jnjunction3) an(j for writs of ne exeat, shall be sworn to be
fore any clerk of a circuit court, judge or justice of the peace,
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That the complainant
shall cause a copy of bis bill for an injunction to be served on
the defendant, with notice of at least ten days, of the time and
place when and where he intends to apply for an injunction ;
And that it shall be lawful to grant writs of ne exeat, not only
in cases where a sum of money is due, but also where the com
plainant has an equitable claim or demand against the defend
ant : Provided, That all writs of injunction and ne exeat may
be dissolved at the next term after they were granted, on good
cause shown.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That when it is necessary
to tne justice of the case to have a reference of matters of
account, the court in its decree shall order the same to be
referred to the clerk, to ascertain and report thereon, at or
before the next term ; and from which either party may appeal
to the court, having given the opposite party ten days notice
thereof, with the grounds of appeal distinctly set forth, and if
the party appealing does not prevail, he shall pay cost thereon;
but if a decree cannot be given on the merits of the case, until
matters of account between the parties are referred, then the
same shall be referred and ascertained before the hearing,
under such rules as the court may prescribe. In ascertaining
and adjusting accounts, sums and items, not exceeding ten dol
lars each, shall be allowed on the party's oath, unless disproved
by sufficient testimony ; and that sums and items above tea
dollars each, shall be proved by sufficient vouchers or evidence.
CHAPTER VIII.
An Act to authorize a Change of Venue in Chancery Causes in certain Cases. —
Patted i
31, 1822.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
it shall be lawful from and after the passage of this act for any
plaintiff or defendant in any suit in chancery, in any of the
circuit courts in this state, to change the venue of such suit in
chancery, where it shall appear to the court that the judge
of the circuit in which such suit in chancery is pending,
has at any time previous to his appointment as judge of said
circuit, been employed in the suit so pending by either plaintiff
or defendant, as counsel in the said suit; or where it shall
appear to the court, that the judge of the circuit is connected
to the parties interested in such suit by affinity or consan
guinity.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That when a change of
venue under the provisions of this act shall be allowed for the
reasons above set forth, the judge of the circuit, where such
suit is pending, shall, on application, change the venue thereof
to an adjoining circuit free from the like exceptions ; and the
clerk of the circuit court where such suit was instituted, shall
transmit, without delay, to the clerk of the circuit court to
which such suit may be changed, a full transcript of all orders,
motions, and records entered on his books in relation to the
snit so pending, with all the original papers and proceedings in
lhe case, and all bonds and recognizances, and all other matters
in relation to the cause in controversy, shall be as valid to all
intents and purposes, as they would have been had such change
of venue not have been made ; and the suit so changed shall
be placed in the same situation in the court to which it shall be
changed, as if the same had been instituted in said court.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That the decrees, orders,
and other proceedings in the case shall be as binding on the
parties concerned in such suit, as if the same had been deter
mined in the court where the suit originated ; in every respect
whatever.
CHAPTER NOTICE TO THE READER.
Many legislative provisions which might have been brought under the general
head of " Judicial Proceedings," have, for the sake of greater distinctness and
convenience, been placed under the following Titles.
Attachments.
Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes.
Executions.
Joint Obligors and Securities.
JURIES.— 1807.
CHAPTER I.
An Act concerning Juries.—Paaed February 11, 1807.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That no person under the
age of twenty-one years, or above the age of sixty, nor any
person continually sick, or who may be diseased at the time of the
summons ; or any person who has been convicted of any felony,
perjury, forgery, cheat, or conspiracy, or offence, shall be sum
moned on a jury.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That it shall be lawful for
the court to fine any talesmen, who being present when they
are called, do not appear in court; or who after appearance,
wilfully withdraw themselves during the same day.
Sec 4. And be it further enacted, That when any special
court for the trial of criminal causes is about to be held, it shall
be the duty of the clerk of such court to issue a precept to the
sheriff, to return the same number of jurors as are required for
'«<*h conrt at its ordinary session : and the sheriff shall draw
them by lot, as in other cases ; except that he shall take a part
out of each box, proportioned to the number in each box re
spectively.

CHAPTER II.
An Act regulating the Mode of Drawing and Summoning Jurors—Pasted
December 7, 1811.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That the sheriff ef every county within this territory,
shall on or before the first day of the next superior and county
courts of their respective counties, and every two years thereafter,
furnish to the clerks of said courts severally, a list of the
freeholders and householders within his county ; which list
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the court to which the
same is furnished ; and the names so returned, shall be put in a
box to be kept by the clerk for that purpose.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That there shall be drawn
by tne clerk and sheriff of the superior and county courts within
this territory, in open court, one by one, after the names are
shaken together by the clerk for each of the superior courts,
thirty-six jurors, and for each of the county courts, fifteen jurors,
which shall be entered on the minutes of said court ; and the
clerk shall issue a venire facias for the jurors so drawn, return
able to the next term of said court ; and it shall be the duty of
the sheriff, at least five days before the term, to summon the
jurors so drawn, either by summoning them personally, or
leaving a written notice at their usual place of abode, to attend
accordingly ; and every juror who being summoned as afore
said, and who shall not attend, shall be liable to a fine, not
exceeding twenty dollars, unless a good cause for his nonattendance
be shown on or before the first day of the next
regular term of the court, after such non-attendance : Provided
good cause be shown by such delinquent juror, the fine imposed
shall be remitted without the payment of costs.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That from the whole num
ber of jurors attending the superior court of any county, and
summoned as aforesaid, there shall be drawn by lot, not less
than thirteen, nor more than eighteen, who shall constitute the
grand jury for the term of the court to which they are sum
moned, and the residue shall serve as traverse jurors during such
term : Provided, That traverse jurors where the title of land is
in issue,* shall be composed of freeholders ; and that when
from challenges or other causes, there shall be defect ofjurors,
the sheriff shall, by order of the court, return a sufficient num
ber of qualified by-standers to complete the pannel ; but, if the
sheriff be interested, the return of qualified by-standers shall be
made by such disinterested person as the court shall appoint.
Sec. 4. And be it further enacted, That after they have
drawn from the jury box the number of jurors required by this
act, the names so drawn shall be put into another box, to be
kept by the clerk of the court for that purpose, where they shall
remain until the whole of the names are drawn out of the jury
box first mentioned, when they shall again be put in the box
from which they were drawn ; and if the clerk or sheriff shall
use any fraud, collusion, or partiality in drawing jurors, such
clerk or sheriff shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be punished accordingly.
Sec. 5. And be it further enacted. That the jury boxes afore-
said, shall be furnished by the different clerks, and secured with
sufficient locks, to which no person but the clerk and sheriff in
drawing the jury shall have access, and the same shall be a county
charge.
Sec. 6. And be it further enacted, That whenever any superior
or county court shall not have been holden in any county
in this territory, as required by law, or if when held, they
should neglect to draw the number of jurors required, the
sheriff* and clerk of the court where such failure may happen,
shall, in presence of one of the justices of the quorum, at least
thirty days previous to the next term of said court, proceed to
draw one by one from the jury box, the number ofjurors required
for said court ; and if any justice of the quorum shall refuse or
neglect to attend for the aforesaid purpose, having been by the
sheriff thereunto required, that then it shall be the duty of the
clerk and sheriff to draw the same, and the clerk shall issue a
venire facias for the jurors so drawn, as if the same had been
done in open court.
Sec. 7. And be itfurther enacted, That if at the time any jurors
are drawn by lot from the jury box as directed by this act, it
shall satisfactorily appear to the officers drawing the same, that
the persons drawn, or any of them, have removed from the
county, or are deceased since the jury list was made out, then,
in such cases the tickets so drawn shall not be included in the
number of jurors directed by this act to be drawn, but they
shall proceed to draw other jurors until the number is complete,
as directed by law.
Sec. 8. And be it further enacted, That all persons who have
made the first payment on purchase of lands from the United
States, together with donation and pre-emption claimants, shall
be deemed, and held to all the purposes of this act, Free
holders.
Sec. 9. And be it further enacted, That the provisions of this
act shall not be construed to prevent from serving at the neit
superior court of any county within this territory, jurors alread?
drawn, or who may be drawn pursuant to the several acts now in
force, nor to prevent jurors for the next county courts of the
several counties, being summoned as heretofore, but that jurors
summoned as aforesaid for the next superior courts and county
courts respectively, shall serve in the same manner as if this
act had not passed.
Sec. 10. And be it further enacted. That the eighteenth section of an act, entitled " An Act for the Appointment of
Justices of the Peace, and the Establishment of County Courts,"
an act, entitled " An Act to amend an Act regulating the
mode of summoning Juries, and for other purposes," the first.,
fifth, and sixth sections of the act, entitled ''An Act concerning
Jurors," the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, tenth, and ele
venth sections of the act, entitled " An Act regulating the
mode of summoning Juries, and for other purposes,'' also, so
much of the seventh section of the last mentioned act as allows
a special jury in Washington district, together with all other
acts and parts of acts, which come within the purview and
meaning of this act be, and hereby are repealed-*"
CHAPTER III.
An Act concerning Jurors, and for other purposes.—Parsed January 22, 1914.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House of
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembly
convened, That from and after the passage of this act, the clerks
of the superior courts shall, on the first day of each term,
administer the following oath to the traverse jurors, who shall
be attending on said court, to wit : You and each of you do
solemnly swear, (or affirm as the case may be,) that you will
well and truly try all issues which shall be submitted to you
and left to your decision(by the court, during the present term,
and true verdicts give according to the evidence : So help
you God. Which oath or affirmation shall authorize the said
jury to try all issues that may be submitted to them during that
term of the said court, and talesmen, if any be summoned, shall
in like manner take an oath to try all issues which may be
submitted to them during the day.
CHAPTER IV.
Au Act concerning Jurors, and for other purposes. —Passed December 20, 1816
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Legislative Council and House o
Representatives of the Mississippi Territory, in general assembl
convened, That each and every petit and grand juror, of th
original venire, shall be allowed the sum of one dollar for eac
and every day he shall attend in any court as a juror, to b
paid out of any money in the county treasury not otherwis
appropriated, on the certificate of the clerk of said court, i
which shall be stated the number of days which such perso
attended as a juror, and the sum to which he is entitled ; whic
certificate the clerk of said court is hereby required to issu
accordingly, and the same shall be received in payment o
county taxes.

CHAPTER V.
An Act to alter and enlarge the Terms of certain Circuit Courts in this State —
Passed December 21, 1820.

Sec. 10. And be it further enacted, That in all jury trials eithe
party may and shall hare the rights to a peremptory challenge
of four of the jury.
Note.—I can find no provision as to mileage but in the case of special juries
under the act in the Digest of 1807, page 174, by which special juries were entitled to the same travelling expenses as witnesses, who were then allowed fou
cents per mile in going and coming, and necessary ferriages.
CHAPTER VI.
Extract from the Act to form a Sixth Judicial Circuit.—Passed December 13
1821.
Sec. 6. And beit further enacted, That it shall be the duty of
the clerk of the circuit court of Madison county, to draw the
names of twenty persons for jurors in addition to the number,
and in the same manner now required by law, and he shall issue
a venire facias to the sheriff of said county, requiring him to
summon the persons whose names shall be so drawn, to attend
on the third Monday of the next term of said court, and until
the end of the term, who shall be entitled to the same com
pensation now allowed to jurors, and who shall serve as petit
jurors from the time at which they are so summoned to appear,
until the end of the term. And it shall be the duty of the
presiding judge to discharge those jurors who may be sumrooned
to appear on the first day of the term, except such as
may be drawn as grand jurors, on the second Saturday of the
term.

CHAPTER VII.
An Act concerning Jurors, and for other Purposes.—Pasted December 17, 1822.
Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives
of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened, That
hereafter it shall be lawful for any defaulting juror, on a scire
facias made known to him, to make his excuse in writing, on
oath, at the return term of said scire facias, on any day of the
term, and if it shall appear to the court a sufficient excuse is
rendered, the defaulting juror shall be discharged without pay
ment of costs.
Sec 2. And be it further enacted, That nothing in this act
shall be so construed as to prevent any defaulting juror from
giving testimony viva voce, in open court, touching his excuse
for non-attendance.

CHAPTER VIII.
An Act to provide for drawing Petit Jurors to serve in the Circuit Courts of the
County of Dallas.—Pasted January V 1823.
Sec. 1. Be if enacted by the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the State of Alabama, in general assembly convened.
That from and after the passage of this act, there shall be
drawn in the same mode now prescribed by law, twenty jurors
to attend the circuit courts of the county of Dallas, whose
names shall be incorporated in the venire; and they shall be
summoned by the sheriff of said county to appear on the first
day of the second week of the term of said court, to serve
six days on the original pannel, as petit jurors.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted, That the persons who
are returned on the original pannel, and drawn as petit jurors on
the first day of the term of said court, shall, after the expira
tion of six days of said term, be discharged from further atten
dance as petit jurors, during the term of said court.
