An Act to simplify Procedure in Civil Causes,
and to unite Legal and Equitable Remedies in
the same Action.

SECTION. PAGE. Sncrron. Plies:
1. Pleadings: complaint: pleas. 1 18. New parties to counter-claims. 5
2. Demurrers to be special. 2 19. Change of parties not to impair at8. Answer. 2 tachments, &c. 5
4. Reply. 2 20. Mesne process. 6
5. Counter-claim: set-otf. 2 21. Attachment of body. 6
6. Union of legal and equitable reme- 22. Jury cases: court docket. 6
dies and detenses. 3 23. Jury trial of certain issues. 7
7 J Olnder of causes of action. 8 24. Priority of trial on different issues. 7
8. Amendments on justice appeals. 4 25. Waiving proof of documents. 7

9. Mode of pleading: uncertainty. 4 26. Extraordinary remedies,_in ordinary
10. Untrue pleading: mispleadiug: actions. 7
co~ ts. 4 27. Errors. 8

11. J oinder of plaintims. 4 28. Present rules of practice retained,

12. J oiuder of defendants. 5 unless changed. 8

13. Parties too numerous to join. 5 29. Repealing clause. 8

14. Executors, administrators, and 30, Amendments of the General stat.

trustees. 5 utes. 8

15. Bringing in new parties. ' 5 81. Account and hook-debt. 9

16. Misjoinder and nonjoiuder of 32. Excepted actions. 9

parties. 5 33. Rules of Court. 9
17. Substituted plaintiti’. 5 34. Act, when to take etfect. 9

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives, in General
Assembly convened:

SECTION 1. There shall be hereafter but one form of civil action, 3
and the pleadings therein shall be as follows : ‘

The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff shall be known asc
the complaint, and shall contain a statement of the facts consti.
tuting the cause of action, and a demand for the relief to which
he supposes himself to be entitled.

If the defendant desires to plead to the jurisdiction, or in abatement, or both, he shall take such exceptions in one plea, substantially in the following form :

“ The defendant pleads in abatement, because

[Here state all the particular exceptions to the jurisdiction, and causes of
abatement, and how the plaintiff might, or should, have brought his action, in
order to avoid them, if they are such as could have been avoided]

And therefore he prays judgment.
‘ By A. B., his attorney.”

All defenses, other than those to the jurisdiction or in abatement, shall be made by an answer, or by a demurrer.

SEC. 2. All demurrers shall distinctly specify the reasons why
the pleading demurred to is insuflicient.

SEC. 3. The defendant in his answer shall specially deny such
allegations of the complaint as he intends to controvert, admitting
the truth of the other allegations, unless he intends, in good faith,
to controvert all the allegations, in which case he may deny them
generally, as follows :

‘- The defendant denies the truth of the matters contained in the
plaintiff ’s complaint."

He, may also in his answer state special matters of defense, and
shall not give in evidence matter in avoidance, or of defense, consistent with the truth of the material allegations of the complaint,
unless in his answer he states such matter specially. Under a
general denial the plaintiff shall be bound to prove the material
facts alleged in the complaint. If the defendant intends to controvert the right of the plaintiff to sue as executor, or as trustee, or
in any other representative capacity, or as a corporation, or the
execution or delivery of any written instrument or recognizance
sued upon, he shall deny the same in his answer specifically.

SEC. 4. The plaintiff may demur or reply to the answer ; and,
in such reply, he may admit some and deny other of the allega.
tions; or by a general denial of the defendant’s answer, where
the answer is special, put the defendant upon proof of all material
facts in the answer alleged; but, under such general denial, he
may not give in evidence any matter in avoidance, unless it be
specially replied.

Further pleadings, subsequent in their nature, may be had, if
necessary, by leave of the court.

SEC. 5. In cases where the defendant has either in law, or in
equity, or in both, a counter claim, or right of set-ofI', against the
plaintiff ’s demand, he may have the benefit of any such set offs or
countenclaims by pleading the same, as such, in his answer,
and demanding judgment accordingly; and the same shall be

pleaded and replied to, according to the rules governing complaints and answers; provided that no counter-claim, set.oif, or
defense, merely equitable, shall be available in actions before justices of the peace.

SEC. 6. All courts, which are vested with jurisdiction both at‘
law and in equity, may hereafter,'to the full extent of their‘
respective jurisdictions, administer legal and equitable rights, and‘;
apply legal and equitable remedies, in favor of either party, in one
and the same suit, so that legal and equitable rights of the parties
may be enforced and protected in one action ; provided that
Wherever there is any variance between the rules of equity and
the rules of the common law, in the reference to the same matter,
the rules of equity shall prevail.

SEC. 7. In every civil action, not brought before a justice of
the peace, the plaintiff may include in his complaint both legal
and equitable rights and causes of action, and demand both legal
and equitable remedies; but Where several causes of action are
united in the same complaint they must all be brought to recover,
either ‘

(1) Upon contract, express or implied, or

(2) For injuries, With or Without force, to person and property,
or either, including a conversion of property to the defendant’s
use, or

(3) For injuries to character, or

(4) Upon claims to recover real property, With or Without dam.
ages, for the withholding thereof, and the rents and profits of the
same, or

(5) Upon claims to recover personal property specidcally, with
or Without damages, for the Withholding thereof, or

(6) Claims, arising by virtue of a contract or by operation of
law, in favor of or against a party, in some representative or fiduciary capacity, or

(7) Upon claims, Whether in contract, or tort, or both, arising
out of the same transaction, or transactions connected With the
same subject-of action. ‘

The several causes of action so united must all belong to one of
these classes, and, except in actions for the foreclosure of mortgages or liens, must affect all the parties to the action, and not
require different places of trial, and must be separately stated;
and in all cases Where several causes of action are joined in the
same complaint, or as matter of counter-claim, or set-off, in the

answer, if it appear to the court that they cannot all be conveniently
heard together, the court may order separate trials of any such
‘causes of action, or may direct that any one or more of them be
expunged from the complaint or answer.
SE0. 8. In civil actions appealed from the judgment of a jusutice of the peace, either party may, during the first term of the

appellate court, amend his pleadings by introducing any equitable .

right, cause of action, defensé, set-off, or counter-claim, as the case
may be, and the same shall be considered in determining the
appeal, subject, however, to the rules as to joinder of causes of
action, prescribed in the foregoing section.

SE0. 9. All pleadings shall contain a plain and concise statement of the material facts, on which the pleader relies, but not of
the evidence by which they are to be proved; such statement
being divided into paragraphs numbered consecutively, each containing, as nearly as may be, a separate allegation. Where the
pleadings do not fully disclose the ground of claim or defense, the
court may order fuller and more particular statements ; and if, in
the opinion of the court, the.pleadings do not suliiciently define
the issues in dispute, it may direct the parties to prepare other
issues, and such issues shall, if the parties diifer, be settled by the
court. '

SEC. 10. Allegations or denials, made without reasonable cause,
and found untrue, shall subject the party pleading the same to the
payment of such reasonable expenses, to be taxed by the court, as
may have been necessarily incurred by the other party, by reason
of such untrue pleading; provided that no expenses for counsel
fees shall be taxed exceding ten dollars, for any one offense.

Unnecessary repetition, prolixity, scandal, impertinence, obscurity, or uncertainty in any p1eading, shall be ground for a
motion to expunge or otherwise correct such pleading. Such
motion shall be in writing, and specify the particular exceptions,
and a copy thereof shall be left with, or at the oflice of the
attorney of the adverse party, at least two days before the same
shall be brought ‘to the attention of the court. The costs upon
any such motion, whether granted or not, shall be at the discretion of the court.

SEC. 11. All persons having an interest in the subject of the
action, and in obtaining the judgment demanded, may be joined
as plaintiffs, except as otherwise expressly provided; and if one
who ought to be joined ‘as plaintiff declines to join, he may be

made a defendant, the reason therefor being stated in the complaint.

SEC. 12. Any person may be made a defendant who has or:
claims an interest in the controversy or any part thereof, adverse‘
to the plaintiff, or whom it is necessary, for a complete determination or settlement of any questions involved therein, to make a
party.

SEC. 13; Wherever the persons who might be made parties:
are very numerous, soithat it would be impracticable or unrea-l
sonably expensive to make them all parties, one or more may sue
or be sued, or may be authorized by the court to defend, for the
benefit of all.

SEC. 14. An executor, administrator, or trustee of an express
trust may sue or be sued, without joining the persons represented
by him and beneficially interested in the suit.

SEC. 15. - The court may determine the controversy as between
_the parties before it, where it can do so without prejudice to the
rights of others; but where a complete determination cannot be
had without the presence of other parties, the court may direct
them to be brought in. And where a person, not a party, has an.
interest or title which the judgment will affect, the court, on his
application, shall direct him to be made a party.

SEC. 16. No action shall be defeated by the non-joinder or
mis.joinder of parties. New parties may be added and sum-u
moned in, and parties mis-joined may be dropped, by order of ‘the
court, at any stage of the cause, as it may deem the interests of
justice to require.

SEC. 17. When any action has been commenced in the name
of the wrong person as plaintiff, the court may, if satisfied that
it has been so commenced through mistake, and that it is necessary for the determination of the real matter in dispute so to do,
allow any other person to be substituted or added as plaintiff.

SEC. 18. When a counter-claim raises questions affecting the
interests of third parties, the defendant may, . and, if required
by the court, shall, cause such parties to be summoned in, as parties
to said cause.

", SEC. 19. N 0 change in parties, made by order of court, shall
impair any previous attachment of the estate or body of any person remaining a defendant in the action, nor impair bonds or
recognizances of any person remaining a party, either as against
himself or his sureties, nor impair receipts to the officer for property attached ; and, when parties are changed, the court may order
new bonds, if such new bonds are deemed necessary. Orders of
court concerning change in parties may be upon terms, as to costs
or otherwise, at the discretion of the court.

SEC. 20. Mesne process in civil actions shall be a writ of summons or attachment," describing the parties, the court to which
it is returnable, and the time and place of appearance. All such
writs shall be signed by a justice of the peace, commissioner of
the Superior Court, or a judge or clerk of the court to which it
is returnable, and may run into any county. Attachments may
be granted upon all complaints containing a money demand,
against the estate of the defendant, both real and personal, and
for want thereof against his body, when not exempt from imprisonment on the execution in the suit. The forms of mesne process
may be the same as now used and authorized, substituting for the
words in said forms “in a plea of” the words “in a civil action,
wherein the plaintiff complains and says,” or other equivalent’
words I; and substituting for the words “to show cause, if any he
have, why the prayer of the foregoing petition should not be
granted,” the words “then and there to answer unto C. D. of
in a civil action, wherein the plaintiff complains and says.”

SEC. 2]. No attachment shall be granted against the body,
unless each cause of action in the complaint be such that execution may issue against the body of the defendant, upon a judgment founded thereon. Any defendant arrested on mesne process may apply to any judge of the court to which the writ upon
which he has been arrested is returnable, giving reasonable notice
of the time and place of the application to the plaintiif or his
attorney, for a discharge from arrest; and said judge may, if he is

satisfied that such attachment of the defendant’s body is unjustifiable, discharge him from arrest.

SEC. 22. Section 2 of Chapter IX of Title 19 of the General
Statutes (page 428) is hereby amended, so as to read as follows:

“In the Superior Court, Court of Common Pleas, District Court,
and City Courts, separate dockets shall be kept of jury cases and
court cases. The following named classes of cases shall be
entered on the jury docket, at the request of either party, made
to the clerk during the first term, to wit: appeals from probate,
involving the validity of a will, or paper purporting to be such;
appeals from the doings of commissioners on insolvent estates;
and (except as hereinafter provided) civil actions involving such

an issue of fact as, prior to the passage of this Act, would not present a question properly cognizable in equity. Where, in any of
the above named classes of cases, an issue of fact is joined after
the first term, the case may, within three weeks from such joinder,
be entered in the jury docket for the trial of such issue, upon
request of either party made to the clerk; and any of such cases
may at any time be entered in the jury docket by consent of both
parties, or by order of the court. All cases not entered in the,
jury docket under the foregoing provisions, including actions
wherein the plaintiff sues for a debt due by book to balance book
accounts, actions wherein an account is demanded and judgment
rendered that the defendant do account, writs of habeas corpus,
prohibition, and ne exeat, petitions for divorce, and all other special
statutory proceedings which, prior to the passage of this Act. were
not triable by jury, shall be entered on the court docket, and shall,
together with all issues of law and issues of fact other than those
above specified, which may be joined in actions entered on the
jury docket, be disposed of as court cases.”

‘SEC. 23. If more than one issue of fact be joined in a cause;
upon the jury docket, either party may, and the party placing itl
there shall, within three weeks after the issues are joined, file with‘
the clerk a Written notice, stating whether he desires all such
issues to be tried to the jury, and, if not, which of them he desires
to be so tried. All issues which either party desires tried to the
jury, and which are specified in such notice or notices. shall be so
tried, provided they are such as, under the foregoing provisions,
are properly triable by jury; but any other issues in the cause
shall be tried as the court may direct, by the court, the jury, or
a committee.

SEO. 24. In all cases, whether upon the jury or the court:
docket, the court may order that one or more of the issues joined:
be tried before the others. ‘

SEC. 25. Either party may, by a written notice, call upon the!
other to admit the existence and due execution of any document,l
material to the issue, saving all just exceptions; and in case of
refusal or neglect to make such admission, within a reasonable
time after the receipt of such notice, the costs of proving such document shall be paid by the party so neglecting or refusing, whatever may be the result of the action; unless the court find that
said neglect or refusal was reasonable.

SEC. 26. Any court having cognizance of writs of habeas corpus,

mandamus, guo warranto, prohibition, or ne exeat, may, in any
action pending before it, make any order, interlocutory or final,
in the nature of such writs, or any of them, to the extent of its
jurisdiction, so far as it may appear to be an appropriate form of
relief.

SEC. 27. If several issues are presented by the pleadings, and,
on the trial of one or more of said issues, an error or ground for
a new trial intervenes, which does not affect the legality of the
trial or disposition of the other issue, or issues, judgment shall not
be arrested or reversed, nor a new trial granted, except so far as
relates to the particular issue or issues in the trial of which such
error, or ground for a new trial, intervened.

SEC. 28. Wherever the words “declaration” or “petition” or
“bill in equity” occur in any statute. the word “complaint” shall
be substituted therefor; and all existing statutes and rules of law,
or of practice, which relate to civil actions. or to suits, or to certain

forms of action, shall be construed as applicable to proceedings'by ’

complaint for the subject matter of such action or suit; and all
existing statutes and rules of law, or of practice, which relate to
the defendant's plea shall be construed as applicable to the answer
required ‘by this Act; and all rights which under existing laws
may be enforced by any form of action or suit, may be enforced
under this Act by complaint; and all defenses by way of the statute of limitations, or otherwise, available in any form of action, or
suit, shall be available in like manner and to the same extent
against the complaint founded on the proper subject-matter of
such action; provided that all the provisions of this section shall be
subject to such exceptions, modifications, and amendments as are
made in this Act. a "

SEC. 29. The following sections of Title nineteen of the General
Statutes are hereby repealed:

Section one of Chapter I (page 396); sections five and six of

Chapter IV (pages 413, 414); and sections three, four, five, seven,

nine, ten, and nineteen, of Chapter VII (pages 423, 424, and 426).

SEC. 30. Title nineteen of the General Statutes is hereby
amended as follows:

Section eleven of Chapter VII (page 424), by striking out the first
three lines, and inserting in lieu thereof the following words: “ If
any matter set up in the answer shall, upon demurrer.”

Section ten of Chapter XIII (page 444), shall be so amended as
to read as follows: “ All courts shall keep a record of their proceedings, and cause the facts, on which they found their final
judgments and decrees, to appear on the record; and such finding,
if requested by any party, shall specially set forth such facts.” ’

Section eight of Chapter XIV (page 445), by substituting for the]
Words “action at law,” in the first line, the words “civil action, in
which equitable relief was not properly demandable; ” and by substituting for the words “actions of tort,” in the fifth line, the
words “actions founded on a tort.”

SEC. 31. The provisions of Part 1, of Chapter XVII, of Title.
nineteen (page 466), of the General Statutes, shall be applicable]
to complaints where an account is demanded and the subjectmatter is such that an action of account would be an appropriate
remedy under the existing law.

The provisions of Part IV of said Chapter (page 471), shall be
applicable to complaints for the recovery of a debt due the plaintiff
by book, to balance book accounts. 33 ' SEC. 3‘.’.. Sections one, three, four, five, six. seven, eight, twenty, 1
twenty-one, and twenty-eight of this Act shall not affect flowage:
petitions, or proceedings of bastardy, replevin, summary process,
habeas corpus, mandamus, prohibition, ne caveat, qua warmnto, or in
the nature of qua warranto, forcible entry and detainer, peaceable
entry and forcible detainer, or for paying rewards, under Part
sixteen, of Chapter XVII, of Title nineteen of the General Statutes.

SEC. 33. The judges of the Superior Court shall have power;
at their annual meeting, or other meeting called for that purpose, ‘
to make all such orders and rules as shall be necessary and proper
to give full effect to the provisions of this Act, including suitable
forms of procedure under the same; and said judges, on or before
October 1, 1879, shall prepare orders and rules, as above author.
ized, which they shall transmit to the Secretary of this State, who
shall cause the same forthwith to be printed and distributed to all
attorneys within the State; and all rules and orders thereafter
adopted shall be in like manner printed and distributed.

SEC. 34. This Act, excepting section thirty-three, which shall.

‘take effect upon the rising of the General Assembly, shall take
effect on the first day of January, 1880, but shall not affect any‘
suits pending on the last day of December, 187 9.

Approved, March 28th, 1879. .

I.

Joinder of parties.

SECTION 1. In suits on a joint contract, whether partnership
or otherwise, the personal representatives of a deceased co-contractor may join, as plaintiffs, and be joined, as defendants, with the
survivor; provided that, where the estate of the decedent is in set.
tlement in this State, as an insolvent estate, his personal representatives cannot be joined, as defendants. .

SEC. 2. Persons severally and immediately liable on the same
obligation or instrument, including parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, and indorsers, guarantors, and sureties,
Whether on the same or by a separate instrument, may all, or any
of them, be joined as defendants, and a joint judgment may be
rendered against those so joined. But where the cause of action
against one person is not complete until after suit against another,
such’ persons cannot be joined as defendants.

SE0. 3. Persons may be joined as defendants, against Whom the
right to relief is alleged to exist -in the alternative, although a
right to relief against one may be inconsistent with a right to
relief against the other.

SEC. 4. The term “trustee of an express trust” in Section 14‘
of the Practice Act shall be construed to include any person with‘
whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of
another.

SEC. 5. If a part interest in a contract obligation be assigned, .
the assignor (retaining the remaining interest), and assignee may]
join as plaintiffs.

SEC. 6. If, pending the action, the plaintiff assign the cause of i
action, the assignee, on his written application, may either be joined 1'
as a co-plaintiff, or substituted as a sole plaintiff, as the Court may
order ; provided the same shall in no manner prejudice the defense

to the action, as it stood before such change of parties.

SEC. 7. Where the plaintiff may, at his option, join several as

defendants, or sue them separately, judgment Without satisfaction
against one shall not bar a suit against another.

SE0. 8. In all cases Where there are several defendants, the

Court may make such order as it may deem just, to prevent any

defendant from being embarrassed, or put to expense, by being required to attend to any proceedings in the action in which he may
have no interest; and no costs shall be taxed against any defendant with Which he is not justly chargeable.

II.

Complaints.

SECTION. 1. The form of complaint hereinafter provided, and
denominated “The common counts,” may be used for the commencement of an action, when any of these counts is an appropriate general statement of the causeof action; but the defendant shall not
be required to plead, nor "shall any default be taken, until the plaintiff has filed a proper bill of particulars, or such further statement
by Way either of a substituted complaint, or of amendment, as may
be necessary to show his cause of action as fully as is required in
other cases ; and such statement, Where the demand is founded on
an express contract, whether executory or executed, shall set forth
the terms of the contract. Where a bill of particulars only is filed,
all the counts not applicable thereto shall be struck out by amendment.

SEC. 2. Where the defendant has wrongfully sold personal
property of the plaintiff, the latter may Waive the tort, affirm the
sale, and sue for the proceeds. But in the case of a Wrongful conversion of property, Without a sale, the plaintiff cannot Waive the
tort and declare as on a contract. _

SEC. 3. In an action for goods sold at a reasonable price, if the
proof is that they were sold at an agreed price, the plaintiff shall
not be precluded, on the ground of a variance, from recovering
such agreed price, and in an action for goods sold at an agreed
price, he may recover a different or a reasonable price, if the proof
fail to establish the price alleged ; and the like rule shall prevail
in actions for Work done, or materials furnished.

SEC. 4. Where separate and distinct causes of action (as distinguished from separate and distinct claims for relief, founded on

the/mme cause of action or transaction), are joined, the statement
T the second shall be prefaced by the Words Second Count, and so

on, for the others ; and the several paragraphs of each count shall

be numbered separately, beginning in each count with the number
one. ’ '
SEO. 5. Injuries to character, within the meaning of Section 
of the Act, may embrace libel, slander, and malicious prosecution.

SEC. 6. In a complaint of replevin no other cause of action shall?
be joined. . _

SEC. 7. Where several torts are committed simultaneously,
against the plaintiff (as a battery accompanied by slanderous Words), 
they may be joined, as causes of action arising out of the same
transaction, notwithstanding they may belong to different classes
of torts.

SEC. 8. A cause of action for legal relief for breach of contract‘
may be joined with another cause of action for equitable relief:
growing out of another contract, although such contracts are in no:
Way related to each other. '

SEC. 9. The plaintiff may claim alternative relief, based upon
an alternative construction of his cause of action. '

SEC. 10. All matters heretofore within the jurisdiction of a‘
Court of Equity, Whether directly or as incident to other mattersi
before it, may be heard and decided by the Court without a‘
jury, in the manner heretofore practiced in Courts of Equity ; but
a party seeking equitable relief shall specifically demand it, as such,
unless the nature of the demand itself indicates that the relief
sought is equitable relief.

SEC. 11. In a complaint demanding specific equitable relief, and <
also damages, as equitable relief, incident thereto, (as for thei
reformation of a policy of insurance, and the payment of a loss:
under the same, as reformed,) if the plaintiff fail to make out a case
for specific relief, the defendant shall have a reasonable opportunity to have the claim for damages tried to the jury.

SEC. 12. If in a complaint. on a penal bond the condition isi
not noticed, the plaintiff shall file, at the first opening of the Court
to which his Writ is returnable, an amendment to the complaint,
referring to the condition, and specifying the breaches on which
he relies.

SEC. 13. Where the plaintiff desires to make a copy of any«
document a part of his complaint, he may, Without reciting or an-]
nexing it, refer to it as Exhibit A, B, C, etc., as fully as if he had

set it out at length ; but, in such case, shall file such exhibit or exhibits on the first opening of the Court to which the writ is returnable.
Where such copy or copies exceed, in all, two pages in length, if
the plaintiff annexes them to, or incorporates them in his complaint, at full length, he shall not be allowed in his costs for such
part of the fees of the officer for copies of such complaint left in
service, as are chargeable for copying such_ instrument or instruments, except to the extent of two pages.

III.
General Rules of Pleading.

SECTION 1. Acts and contracts may be stated according to their
’legal effect, but in so doing the pleading should be such as fairly
to apprise the adverse party of the state of facts which it is intended
to prove. Thus an act or promise by a principal (other than a
corporation), if in fact proceeding from an agent known to the
pleader, should be so stated; and the obligation of a husband to
pay for necessaries furnished to his wife, whom he has driven
from his house, should be stated according to the facts.

SEC. 2. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in any
'pleading the items of an account therein alleged, or to describe the
particular articles of any quantity of goods [as_. for instance, the
stock of merchandise in a certain store, or the furniture in a certain house], as to which a conversion, asportation, lien, or other
matter is alleged ; but in such case a particular description of the
various items or articles shall, unless the court otherwise order, be
filed before any default is taken, or the adverse party required to
answer.

SEC. 3. Interest and costs need not be specifically claimed in the
demand for relief, in order to recover them.

SEC. 4. N o formal profert need be made in any pleading.

SEC. 5. It is unnecessary to allege any promise or duty which
the law implies from the facts pleaded.

SE0. 6. In all cases of any material variance between allegation
and proof, an amendment shall be permitted at any stage of the
trial. If such allegation was made without reasonable excuse, or
if the adverse party was actually misled thereby to his prejudice,
in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits, and this is
shown to the satisfaction of the court, such amendment shall be

made only upon payment of costs, and such other terms as the
court may deem proper ; but in any other case without costs.
- Immaterial variances shall be wholly disregarded.

SEC. 7. Transactions connected with the same subject of actionj
may include any transactions which grow out of the subject:
matter in regard to which the controversy has arisen ; as fori
instance, the failure of a bailee to use the goods bailed for the
purpose agreed, and also an injury to them by his fault or neglect ;
the breach of a covenant for quiet enjoyment by the entry of the
lessor, and also a trespass to goods, committed in the course of the
entry.

SEC. 8. Supplemental pleadings, showing matters arising since:
the ‘original pleading, may be filed by either party; and cross~f
complaints, of the nature of cross-bills in equity, touching matters?
in question in the original complaint, may be filed by the defendant in any action, whether such action be for legal or equitable
relief, and additional parties summoned in to answer the same, if

necessary.

IV.
Pleadings Subsequent to the Complaint.

SECTION 1. In every civil action in the Superior Court, Court
of Common Pleas, and District Court, the defendant, if he does
not plead in abatement, shall answer or demur, within thirty days
from the return day of the writ, and thereafter the pleadings in
the action shall advance at least one step, at the expiration of
each successive period of twenty days, until the same shall be
closed. But this rule shall not be applied to causes which are
continued, on account of the absence of the defendant from the
State, nor, during July and August, to causes pending in the
Superior Court in Hartford, New Haven, or Fairfield County;
nor shall it be construed to prevent the Court from varying the
progress of the pleadings in any cause, on motion.

The bill of particulars, substituted complaint, or amendment,
provided for by Rule II, Sec. 1, and Rule III, Sec. 2, must be
filed in each of said courts, within ten days after the return day
of the writ, unless otherwise agreed by both parties, or ordered by
the court; and the thirty days within which the adverse party
is required to plead shall run from the day when the same is filed ;
but in actions before justices of the peace, such bill of particulars,

substituted complaint, or amendment must be filed at or before
the hour named in the writ for the appearance of the defendant,
unless it be otherwise agreed by the parties, or ordered by the
court.

If any party fail to plead, agreeably to this rule, or the order
of the court, he shall recover no costs for the time during which
he remains in default, even if he eventually obtain judgment, and
the court may, on motion of the other party, order a nonsuit,
default, or judgment on a cross.complaint, counterclaim, or set-off,
as the case may be. ‘

SEC. 2. All pleas shall be filed with and kept by the clerk of
the court, who shall indorse upon each plea the time when it is filed,
and make a like entry on his docket. It shall be the duty of the
party to see that the proper indorsement and entry are made, at
the time of filing his plea. ‘

SEC. 3. When any pleading is amended, the adverse party

shall answer or reply, or. if he has already pleaded, alter his plea

if he so desires, within ten days after such amendment, or such
other time as these rules, or the court, may prescribe.

SEC. 4. Every material allegation in any pleading, which is not
denied by the adverse party, shall be deemed to be admitted,
unless he avers that he has not any knowledge or information
thereof sufhcient to form a belief.

SEC. 5. Pleading a general denial, when there is any material
allegation in the complaint which the defendant either knew was
true, or did not believe to be untrue, shall subject the party to
the , payments provided for in Section 10 of the Practice Act.
Counsel fees, taxable under said section, shall not be less than
five dollars.

SEC. 6. No facts can be proved under either a general orspecial
denial, exhept such as show that the plaintiffs statements of fact
are untrue. Facts which are consistent with such statements,
but show, notwithstanding,’ that he has no cause of action, must
be specially alleged. Thus, accord and satisfaction, arbitrament
and award, coverture,‘ duress, fraud, illegality not apparent on
the face of the pleadings, infancy, that the defendant was non
compos mantis, payment, release, and the statute of limitations
must be specially pleaded; while advantage may be taken, under
a simple denial,. of such defenses as contributory negligence,
the statute of frauds, or title in a third person to what. the
plaintiff sues upon, or alleges to be his own.

SEC. 7. Denials must fairly meet the substance of the allegation;
denied. Thus, when the payment of a certain sum is alleged, and,
in fact, a less sum was paid, the defendant cannot simply deny
the payment generally, but must set forth how much was paid
to him; and where any matter of fact is alleged with divers circumstances, some of which are untruly stated, it shall not be
sufiicient to deny it, as alleged, but so much as is true and
material should’ be stated or admitted, and the rest, only, denied.

SE0. 8. Wliere several matters of defense are pleaded, each must:
-be stated separately, and must refer to the cause of action whichj
it is intended to answer. Where the complaint is for more than
one cause of action, set forth in several counts, each separate
matter of defense should be preceded by a designation of the
cause of action which it is designed to meet, in this manner:
First defense to yirst count, Second defense to first count, First defense
to second count, and so on. Any statement of a matter of defense,
resting in part upon facts pleaded in any preceding statement in
the same answer, may refer to those facts as thus recited without
otherwise repeating them.

SEO. 9. A reply may contain two or more distinct avoidances:
of the same defense or counter-claim; but they must be separately
stated and numbered.

SEC. 10. Pleas in abatement, _ demurrers, answers, and replies;
may be to the whole or to a part only of the pleading of the adverse‘
party, but when they apply only to a part thereof, it must be so
stated, and such part clearly indicated.

SEC. 11. Where any relief demanded by the plaintiff cannot;
properly be demanded upon the allegations of the complaint,:
although these may be sufficient to call for some other relief, the
defend ant may demur to the relief so improperly demanded.

-SEC. 12. N 0 issue need be joined on a demurrer, nor need any:
pleadings be formally closed either to the court or to the jury,
but the denial of any material allegation shall constitute an issue
of fact.

SEC. 13. Any exception for misjoinder of causes of action,;
whether in the same or separate counts, must be taken by de-i
rnurrer, and if not so taken, will be deemed to be waived, and‘
cannot constitute any cause for a new trial or proceedings in
error.

V.

Counter-Cla/(Ems and Cross-Complaints.

SEC. 1. Counter-claims for equitable relief, of the nature of
cross-bills in equity, may be pleaded by themselves, and may be
known as Cross-complaints.

SEC. 2. Where a co-defendant is made a party defendant to a
cross-complaint or counter-claim, a copy thereof shall be delivered
to him or his attorney within ten days after the same is filed.

SEC. 3. The Withdrawal of an action, after a cross-complaint or
counter-claim, Whether for legal or equitable relief, has been filed
therein, shall not impair the right of the defendant to prosecute
such cross-complaint or counter-claim, as fully as if said action
had not been Withdrawn.

SEC. 4. If in a suit pending before any court having a limited
pecuniary jurisdiction, a cross-complaint or counter-claim is legally
filed for an amount exceeding the limit of the jurisdiction of the
court, the same proceedings may be had as are provided in the
case of pleas, by section 15, page 425 of the General Statutes.

SEC. 5. N 0 costs shall be taxed in favor of a defendant recovering judgment on a counter-claim or set-off, which accrued before
the same was filed or pleaded.

VI.

Awzendments.

SE0. 1. Complaints for breach of contract may be amended so
as to set forth, instead, a cause of action founded on a tort, arising
from the same transaction, or subject of action; and complaints
founded on a tort may be amended so as to set forth, instead, a
cause of action for a breach of contract, arising out of the same
transaction, or subject of action.

SEC. 2. If on the trial, Whether upon an issue of fact, or of law,
of a cause wherein equitable relief is demanded, it appears that the
plaintiff is not entitled to such relief, but may be entitled to legal
relief, the courtmay permit the complaint to be amended, so as
to present a proper case for the latter relief; and in like manner a
complaint demanding legal relief may be so amended as to entitle
the plaintiff to equitable relief.

SEC. 3. If any complaint be so amended as to call for legal relief, 4
instead of equitable, the Court shall not proceed to judgment until
the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to put the issue or
issues, on which the new claim for relief may be based, on the jury
docket.

SEC. 4. In all actions not brought before justices of the peace, the 4
complaint may be amended without costs during the first thirty
days after the return day of the writ, but, after such time, only on
payment of costs, unless the Court otherwise direct. '

VII.
Motions and notices.

SEC. 1. All interlocutory orders which may be made by the«
Court, under the Practice Act, may be applied for orally, by]
motion, except where it is otherwise expressly provided.

SEC. 2. Where the pleadings do not fully disclose the ground of:
claim or defense, and the adverse party desires an order for fuller:
and more particular statements, he shall make his motion therefor‘
in writing, and the form and manner of proceeding thereon shall
be similar to those prescribed as to motions to expunge, in Section 10 of the Act.

SEO. 3. Any application to cite in or admit new parties must
be in writing, and state briefly the grounds upon which it is:
made.

SEC. 4. Service of copies of any written motions, required by;
the Act, may be made by any indifferent person. ‘

SEC. 5. The “reasonable notice” required by Section 21 of the:
Act may be any notice, whether written or oral, which the judge,l
to whom the application is made, may deem and find to be reason-3
able, under the particular circumstances of the case; but in ordinary cases written notice should be given, signed by the defendant,
or his attorney.

VIII.
Trial, and judgment.

SECTION 1. Where the pleadings in an action present both,
issues of law and of fact, the issues of law must be first tried,~
unless the court otherwise direct.

SEC. 2. If some, but not all, of the issues in a cause are put to
the jury, the remaining issue or issues shall be tried first, unless
the court otherwise direct.

SEO. 3. The Court may, upon motion,.for special cause, order
a separate trial_ between the plaintiff, or one or more of several
plaintiffs, and the defendant, or one or more of several defendants.

SEC. 4. An admission of the existence and due execution ofia
document, in the manner provided for in Section 25 of the Practice Act, shall not be deemed to waive any just exceptions to its
competency or relevancy, but shall, unless otherwise expressed, be
deemed to include an admission of its delivery, and that it has not
since been altered.

SEC. 5. Where a complaint, embracing matters calling for both
‘equitable and legal relief, is tried to the jury, either by agree-ment of the parties, or order of Court under Section 23 of the
Practice Act, the Court may render such judgment, not inconsistent with the verdict, as it may deem proper, either for legal or
equitable relief, or both.

SEO. 6. Upon a default, the plaintiff can have no greater relief
than that demanded in his complaint, but in any other case the
Court may, in its discretion, upon a proper amendment, grant him
any other relief consistent with the case made on the trial, and
embraced Within the issue.

SEC. 7. In all cases not pending before a justice of the peace,
,Whether the relief sought be legal or equitable in its nature, judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintiffs,
and for or against one or more of several defendants, and the
Court may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
side, as between themselves, and grant to the defendant any
afiirmative relief to which he may be entitled.

SEC. 8. Where legal and equitable matters or claims for relief,
arising out of the same transaction, or transactions connected with
the same subject of action, are joined in the same complaint, or
Where any pleading setting forth a matter Which, before the
adoption of the Act, would have been cognizable only at law, is
met by setting up some equitable matter, either by itself, or in
connection with a legal defense, the costs upon the whole case
shall be at the discretion of the Court; but Where legal and equitable causes of action, which are wholly unconnected with each
other, are joined in the same complaint, the costs upon the judgment on the equitable causes of action, only, shall be discretionary.

FORMS OF PROCEDURE
ADOPTED BY THE JUDGES or THE summon com,

UNDER THE PROVISIONS on
THE THIRTY-THIRD SECTION OF THE
PRACTICE ACT."

I.
COMPLAINTS.

10

Full form, with writ, in action for money lent;
two counts.

To the sherry?‘ of the- county of Ifartford, his deputy, or either constable of the town of Hartford in said C'ounty—GREE'1‘ING:

By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are hereby commanded to attach, to the value of dollars, the goods or estate
of A. B. of VVindsor, in said county, and him summon to appear
before the Court of Common Pleas to be held at Hartford, in and
for the County of Hartford on the first Monday of February, 1880,
then and there to answer unto C. D. of said Hartford, in a civil
action, wherein the plaintiff complains and says:

First Count.

1. The plaintiff, on January 1st, 1877, lent to the defendant
$200, to be repaid thirty days thereafter.

2. The defendant has not paid said sum, though said thirty

days have elapsed.

60

On a note, and also for the reformation of a
lease.

I

First Count.

[Same as first count -in preceding form._]

Second Count.

1. [Same as first paragraph of second count in preceding form.]

2. The agreement, pursuant to which said lease was executed,
was for a lease of said house for two years only.

3. In drawing said lease, the scrivener, by mistake, made the
term of the lease five years, instead of two.

4. The plaintiff, relying upon the accuracy of the scrivener, did
not read the lease, nor discover this change until January 1st,
1879, when he notified the defendant thereof, and requested him
to join in an indorsement on the lease, or other suitable writing,,to
rectify the error.

5. The defendant then and ever since has refused to join, in any
way, in rectifying the error.

The plaintiff claims,

1. $1,200 damages, upon the first count.

2. A reformation of the lease.

'7.
To recover on a merehant’s account.

1. The plaintiff being a merchant doing business in the city of
New Haven, did between January 1st, 1878, and January 1st, 1879,
sell and deliver to the defendant sundry parcels of goods, under
an agreement between the parties that the plaintiff should charge
the defendant the goods so sold at reasonable prices, and that the
defendant should pay the plaintiff the amount due on such account
on demand. ,

2. The amount due on the account charged in conformity with
said agreement on February 1st, 1879, was and still is $500.

' 3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $550 damages.

8.

For an account, by way of equitable relief.

1. On January 1st, 1878, the plaintiff employed the defendant
as his agent to let and collect the rents of a certain block of buildings, known as Roe’s block, on the corner of King and Prince‘
streets, in Norwich, during the next year. '

2. The defendant afterwards let all the stores and apartments
in said block, to divers parties, and collected large sums from
them for rent.

3. The defendant has neither paid nor accounted to the plaintiff for such sums. and an account and payment were, on February
1st, 1879, demanded and refused.

The plaintiff claims, by way of equitable relief,

1. An account.

2. Judgment for the amount found due on such accounting.

9.
To correct an account stated.

1. The plaintiff and defendant, having had mutual dealings,
afterwards, on April 10th, 1879, came to a mutual accounting, upon
which a statement of such account was made in writing, of which
Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. Since said statement of account, the plaintiff has discovered
errors and false charges [or, credits, or both] therein, of which he
was wholly ignorant at the time of such settlement.

3. In the statement of said account, so settled, he is charged
[here state the items wrongfully charged, and show what is the error].

4. The following items, which ought to have been entered to
his credit in said account, were wholly omitted therefrom, by mistake, to Wit : [here set forth the items, with date, amount, etc.]

5. The following items are erroneous in amount, in this: that
the credit for one piano should have been of $400, instead of only
$100 [stating briefly the grounds why it should have been more].

6. Said account ought to be corrected as above mentioned;
and the balance thereon ought to be $100 in favor of the [plaintiff],
instead of being $500 in favor of the [defendant].

7. As soon as the plaintiff discovered said mistakes and errors,

he called on the defendant, on May 1st, 1879, and pointed out the
same to him, and requested him to correct the same, and to re-state

2. On February 3d, 1879, the defendant sold fifty barrels of
flour, - part of the goods so consigned to him, to Richard Roe -for
$450, at three months’ credit, and delivered the same to him.

3. Richard Roe was at that time in insolvent circumstances;
and the defendant might by ordinary care and diligence have
ascertained that fact.

4. Richard Roe did not pay for said flour at the expiration of
said three months, and was then and ever since has been insolvent;
and the plaintiffs have never received any part of said sum of
$450.

5. No express agreement was ever made with respect to the
terms of the defendant's agency. The defendant has always
charged the plaintiffs a commission at the rate of commission
ordinarily charged by del credere agents in said trade. And the
defendant in fact always accounted to the plaintiffs for the price,
whether he received the same from the purchaser or not.

6. The plaintiffs insist that the defendant is liable to them as
a. factor to sell upon a del crezlere commission, but if not so liable,
that he is liable as an ordinary agent.

The plaintiffs claim $500 damages.

15.

Against principal and agent, fin’ alternative

relief, where the authority of the agent is
disputed.

1. On January 1st, 1878, the defendant, John Stiles, represented to the plaintiff that he was authorized by the defendant,
Richard Roe, to select and employ an editor for a newspaper,
published at Hartford, called the Hartford World, then owned by
Richard Roe, at a salary of $1,500 ; and thereupon requested the
plaintiff to accept said position, at said salary, for the year beginning February 1st, 187 8. '

2. The plaintiff, believing such representations to be true, on
said day accepted said proposition.

3. On February 1st, 1878, the ‘plaintiff went to Hartford to

enter upon the duties of said position, when the defendant, Rich- '

ard Roe, refused to permit him to do so, and told him that John
Stiles had no authority from him to make Quch contract.

4. The plaintiff was then, and at all times during the ensuing
year, ready and willing to fulfill the duties of said position.

The plaintiff claims $1,800 damages from Richard Roe, or, if
said John Stiles in fact acted without authority from Richard Roe,
then he claims said damages from John Stiles.

16.

For alternative relief, according as an instrument in suit is well executed, or not.

1. On January 1st, 187 9, the plaintiff and defendant signed a
contract, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy, for the
purchase of a house of the defendant, known as No. 100 Chapel

street, in New Britain.
2. On February 1st, 1879, John Doe, the defendant’s son, delivered to the plaintiff a deed of said premises, purporting to be
executed by the defendant, of which Exhibit B, hereto annexed,’

is a copy; and the plaintiff thereupon paid said John Doe $5,000,
for the defendant, pursuant to said contract.

3. The plaintiff, on February 2d, 1879, demanded possession
of said premises of the defendant, but he refused to surrender the
same, and still remains in possession, claiming that he never signed
said deed, but that his said son signed his name thereto Without

his authority.
4. John Doe has paid said $5,000 to the defendant.

The plaintiff claims,

1. If the court finds that said deed Was Well executed, judg.
ment for the possession of said premises, and for $500 damages.

2. If the court finds that said deed was not well executed,
then that the defendant may be required to execute one, pursuant

to said contract.

170

Against the father of an apprentice, by the
mctster.

1. On June 1st, 1878, James Jones, the plaintiff, and the defendant, signed and sealed an indenture, of which Exhibit A,

hereto annexed, is a copy. [.0r state the tenor of these covenants.] .
2. On April 1st, 1879, James Jones willfully absented himself

from the service of the plaintiff, and continues so to do.
The plaintiff claims,‘$200 damages.

18.

By apprentice against master.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the defendant, the plaintiff, and James
Smith signed and sealed an indenture, of which Exhibit A, hereto
annexed, is a copy.

2. The defendant has not instructed the plaintiff in said bus- .

iness [or state any other breach].
The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

19.

Assault.

On May 26th, 1879, the defendant, while standing near the
plaintiff on Main street in Hartford, assaulted him by raising
a. heavy stick, and threatening to strike him.

The plaintiff claims $50 damages.

20.

The same. _
On May 26th, 1879, the defendant, while standing near the

plaintiff in Wethersfield, assaulted him by aiming a gun at him V

and threatening to shoot him.
The plaintiff claims $25 damages.

21.

For an assault and battery, with special
‘ damages.

1. On November 1st, 187 8, the defendant assaulted the plaintiff, and beat him with a cane.

2. The plaintiff was then a school-teacher, receiving a salary
of $300 a quarter. '

3. Said battery injured him severely, and disabled him from
attending to his business for six weeks thereafter, and he Was compelled to pay $25 for medicines and medical care and attendance.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

22.
For services of attorney at law.

1. The plaintiff being an attorney at law, rendered services as
such for the defendant, at the defendant's request, between January lst, 1878, and January 1st, 187 9, under an agreement between
the parties that the plaintiff should charge reasonable fees therefor,
including disbursements and expenses incidental thereto, and that
the defendant Would pay to the plaintiff the amount due on the
plaintiff’s account in the premises on demand. 1

2. The amount due on the account charged in conformity with
said agreement on February 1st, 1879, was and still is $1,000, and
on said day said account Was rendered to the defendant.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

23.
Against an attorney, for not collecting a note.

_l. On January 20th, 1878, the defendant was and ever since
has been an attorney at law in the practice of his profession.

2. On said day the plaintiff delivered to the defendant, as
such attorney, a promissory note of one Richard Roe, for $700,
dated December 5th, 1877, and payable on demand, with instructions to sue and attach, immediately.

3. The defendant failed to exercise reasonable care and diligence in collecting said note, and neglected to make any attempt to
collect it for one year.

4. When said note was delivered to the defendant for collection, and thence until December, 1878, Richard Roe had abundant property, Which might have been attached to secure said note, but
in said December he became and has ever since been insolvent,
and said note became of no value, and has never been paid.

The plaintiff claims $700 damages.

24.

Against the same, for a negligent defense.

1. The plaintiff, in April, 1880, employed the defendant, being
an attorney at law, as such, for a compensation to be paid him
therefor, to defend on behalf of the plaintiff an action brought
against him by James Stiles, then pending in the Superior Court

for Litchfield county, for the recovery of a large sum of money
claimed to be due to him from the plaintiff.

2. The plaintiff had a just defense to said action.

3. Such proceedings were had in said action that it became the
duty of the defendant, as the attorney of the plaintiff, by reason of
an order of the court, to interpose an answer on his behalf to the
complaint therein, showing such defense of the plaintiff, on or
before May 15th, 1880.

4. The defendant wholly neglected so to do, and by reason
thereof, and through his neglect, judgment by default was obtained
against the plaintiff in said action, and thereby he was compelled
to pay to James Stiles $1,070, the sum so recovered by him, and
was put to costs and charges in his endeavor to ®fend such
action, amounting to $50, and lost the means of recovering the
same back from James Stiles.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

25.
Against an attorney at law for negligence.

1. At the time hereinafter mentioned the defendant was an
attorney at law in the practice of his profession.

, 2. On May 25th, 1878, the plaintiff retained and employed the
defendant as such attorney to prosecute and conduct, in the Superior Court for Hartford county, a certain civil action against John
Stiles for converting to his own use certain goods claimed by the
plaintiff to be his property ; and the defendant then accepted said
retainer and employment.

3. The defendant, in violation of his duty, neglected to produce, and offer in evidence on said trial, a written instrument, previously delivered to him by the plaintiff to be used on said trial,
which instrument was a sale and assignment of said goods by said
Stiles to the plaintiff.

4. The plaintiff, by said neglect and default of the defendant,
was defeated in said action, and judgment therein was given for said
Stiles at the January Term, 1879, of said court, whereby the plaintiff was prevented from recovering his damages from said Stiles
on account of said conversion, and was obliged to pay said Stiles
$110, costs of suit, and has also lost $200, which he paid the
defendant, in the course of said action, for costs and disbursements incident to its prosecution.

The plaintiff claims $1,500 damages.

26.

Against the same, for negligence in examining
title.

1. At a time hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff was negotiating
with one John Doe for the purchase from him of certain real
property [brie/iy designate the premises], for $5,000, Which property said Doe assumed to have power to convey in fee, and clear
of all incumbrances.

2. The defendant being an attorney at law, the plaintiff, in
June, 1878, employed him as such to examine the title of John
Doe to said property, and to ascertain if the title was good, and if
any incumbrances existed thereon, which the defendant, for compensation to be paid to him, undertook to do.

3. The defendant negligently and unskillfully conducted such
examination, and overlooked at certain mortgage to the amount of
$4,500, on record, to John Stiles from John Doe, covering said
land, which was then due and unsatisfied; and negligently advised
the plaintiff that said Doe had a clear title to said land, free of all
incumbrances of record; and thereby induced the plaintiff to conclude said purchase, and pay John Doe $5,000, upon receiving from
him a deed of said premises, when in fact said property was subject
to said incumbrance to the amount of $4,500.

4. The plaintiff, in order to release the premises from said
incumbrance, was compelled to pay the holder thereof $4,500.

5. John Doe is wholly insolvent.

The plaintiff claims $5,000 damages.

2'7.
Against an auctioneer, for not accounting.

1. On March 27th, 1879, the defendant was, and at all times
since has been, carrying on the business of an auctioneer.

2. On said day the plaintiff delivered to the defendant, as such
auctioneer, twenty oil paintings, the property of the plaintiff, to be
sold by him at public auction for the plaintiff, and the defendant
received the same for that purpose.

3. On April 2d, 187 9, the defendant sold said paintings at
public auction for the plaintiff, for divers sums of money, amounting in the whole to a large sum, to wit: $600.

4. The defendant afterwards and before this action received
payment for the paintings so sold.

5. Although sufficient time has elapsed therefor, the defendant

in violation of his duty has neglected and refused, and still
neglects and refuses. to render to the plaintiff an account of such

sale, and of the proceeds thereof, and to pay such proceeds to the"defendant.

The plaintiff claims $650 damages.

28.

On an award.

1. On May 1st. 187 9, the plaintiff and defendant, having a controversy between them concerning a demand of the plaintiff for
the -price of ten barrels of oil, which the defendant refused to pay,
agreed to submit the same to the award of A B and C D, as arbi.
trators [or, entered into an agreement, a. copy of which is hereto
annexed, marked Exhibit A].

'2. On May 15th, 1879, said arbitrators, pursuant to said submission, awarded that the defendant should pay the plaintiff $200,
and duly published said award.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $250 damages.

29.

Debt on recognizance in a criminal prosecation.

1. On July 18th, 1879, Robert McCandless was duly brought
before the City Police Court of the City of Hartford, and lawfully
tried by said Court upon a. proper complaint, charging him
with the crime of burglary. H

2. On said day, upon said trial, said City Police Court found
probable ground to exist for the support of said complaint, and
thereupon ordered and considered that said Robert McCandless
become bound with surety to the State in the sum of eight hundred dollars, conditioned that said McCandless should appear before
the Superior Court to be holden at Hartford, within and for
the County of Hartford, on the fourth Tuesday of August, 187 9,
then and there to answer to said complaint, and abide the order
of the Superior Court thereon.

3. Upon said 18th day of July, 187 9, said Robert McCandless as
principal. and James McCandless as surety, appeared in said City
Police Court, and acknowledged themselves jointly and severally
bound to the State in the sum of eight hundred dollars, conditioned that said Robert McCandless appear before the Superior
Court at its said August Term, 1879, to answer to said complaint,
and abide the order of said Superior Court thereon. '

4. A true copy of said complaint against said Robert McCandless and of the files and records of said City Police Court relating
thereto, duly authenticated, were returned to and entered in the
docket of said Superior Court at its said Term.

5. At said August Term, 1879, of said Superior Court, William Hamersley, State’s Attorney for said county, filed in court an
information charging said Robert McCandless With. the crime of
burglary, being the same matter and olfense charged in the complaint aforesaid, and said information was duly entered on the
docket of said Court-. .

6. Afterwards at said August Term, 1879, and by order of said
Superior; Court, said Robert McCandless was required to be present in Court to answer to said information, that a trial might be
had thereon, according to law. ’

7. Said Robert McCandless then failed to be present in Court,
as ordered by said Superior Court, and then, and at all times
thereafter, made default of appearance.

8. Said James McCandless then failed to produce said Robert McCandless in said Superior Court, as ordered by said Court.

9. Said bond of recognizance, as aforesaid, so entered into by
said Robert McCandless and James McCandless, was then, by order
of said Court, duly called and then declared forfeited.

10. The defendants have never paid the amount of said recognizance, nor any part thereof.

The plaintiff claims $800 damages.

30.

For the hire of a piano, with damages for not returning it.

First Count.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant hired of the plaintiff for
six months, then next ensuing, one piano, the property of the plaintili, to be returned to the plaintiif at the expiration of said time,
in good condition, reasonable Wear excepted, for the use of which
he promised to pay the plaintiff a reasonable sum.

2. $50 was a reasonable sum for the hire of the same ; which

sum, on November 1st, 187 8, became due from the defendant to
the plaintiff.

3. No part of the same has been paid [except the sum of $' 

Second Count.

1. All the statements in the first count are made part of this
count.

2. The value of the piano so hired by the defendant, as above
alleged, was $500, and the defendant, not regarding his said
undertaking to return the same to the plaintiff, has not returned
the same, although he Was, on November 10th, 1878, requested by
the plaintiff so to do.

The plaintiff claims $600 damages.

31.

For the hire of furniture, &'c., with damages for

ill-use.
First Count.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the defendant hired from the plaintiff
household furniture, plate, pictures, and books, the property of
the plaintiff, to Wit: [describe or enumerate the articles, or refer to
Exln°bz't annexed, marked 11,] for one year then next ensuing, to be
returned by him to the plaintilI at the expiration of said time, in
good condition, reasonable Wear and tear thereof excepted.

2. He promised to pay the plaintiff for the use thereof $500 [in
equal quarterly payments, on the days of thereafter].

3. N 0 part thereof has been paid [except the sum of $200, &c.].

Second Count.

1. All the statements in the first count are made part of this
count.

2. The Value of the property so hired by the defendant, as
above alleged, was $3,000. '

3. The defendant took so little care thereof, that through his
negligence, carelessness, and ill-use the same became broken, defaced, and damaged to the amount of $100 beyond the reasonable
Wear thereof, and in that condition they Were returned to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $1,500 damages.

. 32.

Against ba/tlee [without reward, for negligence.

1. On December 8th. 187 8. the plaintiff deposited with the defendant three oil paintings of the value of $1,000, to be kept by
the defendant for the plaintiff, Without reward, and re-delivered

to the plaintiff upon request; and the defendant then received said
goods for said purpose.

2. The defendant, in violation of his duty, placed and kept said
paintings in a wet and damp cellar, and by his said neglect, said
paintings were mined, and made worthless.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

330
Same: goods stolen.

1. On July 7th, 1879, the plaintiff deposited with the defendant
six pieces of silver plate, of the plaintiff, to be kept by the defendant for the plaintiff, without reward, and the defendant received
the same for that purpose. ‘

2. The defendant did not safely secure said silver plate, as he did
his own, under lock and key, but, in violation of his duty, kept it
in an out house, the door of which was at all times unlocked.

3. On August 5th, 1879, while said plate of the plaintiff was
so kept by the defendant in said out-house, it was, by reason of the
gross neglect of the defend ant, stolen, and has never been recovered.

The plaintiff claims $600 damages.

34:.
Aga/inst bailee, for tinjrury of property lent.

1. On February 5th, the plaintiff lent the defendant for his accommodation a horse of the plaintiff, to ride from New Haven to

‘Milford and back, and the defendant received it for such purpose.

2. The defendant on said day and the day following, in violation of his duty, rode said horse to N orwalk and back.
3. By reason thereof said horse while so in the custody of the
defendant became lame, and thereby greatly deteriorated in value.
The plaintiff claims $200 damages.

35.
Agarinst bdilee, for injury of goods hired.

1. On October 1st, 1878, the plaintiff let to the defendant, for six
months, and delivered to him, certain household furniture of the
plaintiff, and the defendant hired and received the same.

2. During said six months the defendant, in violation of his duty,
did not take due and proper care of said furniture, whereby several
valuable articles of said furniture were broken and destroyed, to

wit [specify articles], and several other articles were greatly
injured and damaged, to wit [specify them].
The plaintiff claims $250 damages.

36.

Against bailee, for neglect in carrying for hire.

1. On March 29th, 1879, the plaintiff delivered to the defendant
four cases of wine of the plaintiff, to be carried by the defendant
from New Haven to Cheshire, for hire; and the defendant received
said goods for such purpose.

2. The defendant, in violation of his duty, did not use ordinary
care in carrying said goods, and by reason of his neglect the same
were broken and destroyed. S

The defendant claims $50 damages.

37.

For immoderately driving a horse.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant hired a horse of the plain.
tiff.

2. The defendant drove said horse so immoderately, and so
neglected the care of him, that on said day the horse died.

The plaintiff claims $200 damages.

38. ,
Bastardy.

To James Fen, Esquire, a justice of the. peace for the County
of New Haven, residing in New Haven, in said county, comes
Jane Doe of said town, and complains and says:

1. For more than one year last past she has been, and still is, a
single woman. a

2. She is pregnant with a child of her body, begotten on or
about March 1st, 1879, at said New Haven, by Richard Stiles, of
said town, which child, when born, will be a bastard.

The complainant prays process against said Richard Stiles, that
he may be arrested, and brought before proper authority, and be
dealt with as the statute, in such case made and provided, directs.

Dated at New Haven, October 1st, 1879.

JANE DOE.

NEW HAVEN COUNTV, ss. NEW HAVEN.
On this first day of October, 1879, personally came Jane Doe,
subscriber to the foregoing complaint, and made solemn oath to

the truth of the same, before me.
JAMES FEN,

Justice of the peace.

390
The same, by town.

To James Fen, Esquire, a justice of the peace for the County
of New Haven, comes the town of New Haven, in said county,
by its selectmen, John Smith, Thomas Brown, and Henry Jones,
and complains and says : _

1. Jane Doe, of said town, was on August 1st, ‘1879, at said

- town, delivered of a male child, born of her body:

2. Said Jane Doe, for more than one year next before, and at
the time of the birth of the said child, was a single woman.

3. Said child was begotten of her body, on or about November
1st, 1878, by Richard Stiles of said town, and is a bastard.

4. Said Jane Doe has hitherto omitted, and still does omit, to
bring forward her suit to recover maintenance for said child, and
said child has already become chargeable to said town [or, is
likely to become chargeable to said town], and no security has
been offered to said town to indemnify it against all charge or expense for the support of ‘ said child.

Said town, by its said selectmen, prays process against said
Richard Stiles, that he may be arrested, and brought before proper
authority, and be dealt with as the statute, in such case made and
provided, directs.

Dated at New Haven, October 1st, 1879.

The town of New Haven, by its selectmen,

JOHN SMITH,
THOMAS BROWN,
HENRY JONES.

NEW HAVEN COUNTY, .33. NEW HAVEN.

On this first day of October, 1879, personally came John Smith,
selectman as aforesaid, and made solemn oath to the truth of the
foregoing complaint; before me. '

O JAMES FEN,

Justice of the peace

On bills of exchange : drawer against acceptor.

1. On May 1st, 1879, by his bill of exchange, the plaintiff 0

required the defendant to pay to him, or order, $1,000 [60 days

' after date or, sight thereof].

2. The defendant accepted the said bill. [If the bill is payable

at a. certain time after “sight,” the date of acceptance should be stated,
otherwise it is not necessary/.]

3. The plaintiff still owns said bill, and the defendant has not
paid the same.

The plaintiff‘ claims $1,100 damages.

41.

Payee against acceptor.

On June 10th, 1878, .the defendant accepted a bill of exchange,

made [or, purporting to have been made] by one William Brown,
on June 1st, 1878, requiring the defendant to pay to the plaintiff,
.or order, $1,000, 60 days after sight thereof.

2. The plaintilf still owns said bill, and the defendant has not
paid the same. '

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

42.

First indorsee against acceptor.

1. On June 15th, 187 8, the defendant accepted a bill of
«exchange, made [or, purporting to have been made] by one William Brown, on June 10th, 1878, requiring the defendant to pay

to the order of one John Robinson $1,000, 30 days after sight _ 0

thereof.
2. Said Robinson indorsed the same to the plaintiff.

3. The plaintiff [duly presented said bill for payment, and] still
.owns the same, but it has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

43.

Subsequent indorsee against acceptor.

1. [43 in the preceding form, to the end of paragraph 1.]

2. ‘ By the indorsement of said Robinson [and others] the same
Was transferred to the plaintiii [who duly presented it for payment].
3. The plaintiff still owns said bill, and it has not been paid.

The plaintiii claims $1,100 damages.

44.

On a bill directed by the drawer to himself, and
accepted by him.

1. On October 10th, 1878, the defendant [or, the defendants,

under their firm-name of John Doe & Co.] made and accepted, and ,

delivered to the plaintiif, for value received, his [or, their] bill of
exchange, of which the following is a copy [copy of the bill and

acceptance]. ,
2. Said bill is still .the property of the plaintiff, and has not

been paid.
The plaintiif claims $1,800 damages.

45.

Payee against drawer, for non-acceptance.

1. On May 15th, 1879, the defendant, by his bill of exchange,
required one William Brown to pay to the plaintiif, or order, $1,200
[thirty days after sight]. __

2. On May 20th, 187 9, the same was presented to said Brown

for acceptance, but was not accepted.
3. Due notice thereof was given to the defendant.
4. Said bill is still the property of the plaintiff, and has not

been paid.
The plaintiff claims $1,300 damages.

46.

First indorsee against jtrst indorser.

1. The defendant indorsed to the plaintiff ‘ a bill of exchange,made [or, purporting to have been made] by one William Brown,

on May 15th, 187 9, requiring one John Robinson to pay to the’

order of the defendant $1,200, thirty days after said date.

2. Said bill was accepted by said Robinson on May 20th, 187 9.
3. On June 17 th, 187 9, the same was presented to said Robinson
for payment, but was not paid.
4. Due notice thereof was given to the defendant.
5. Said bill is still the property of the plaintiff, and has not
been paid.
The plaintiff claims $1,300 damages.

4'7.

Subsequent indorsee against jirst indorser ; the
indorsement being special.

1. The defendant indorsed to one John J enks a bill of
exchange, made [or, purporting to have been made] by one William Brown, on May 1st, 1878, requiring one John Robinson to
pay to the order of the defendant $1,600, thirty days after sight
thereof.

2. Said bill was accepted by said Robinson on May 5th, 1878.
[This clause may be omitted,  not according to the fact] ‘

3. The same was, by the indorsement of said J enks [and
others] transferred to the plaintiff.

[Continue as in 3, .4, and 5, in the preceding

The plaintiff claims $1,800 damages.

48.

Subsequent indorsee against his immediate
indorser.

1. The defendant indorsed to the plaintiff a bill of exchange,
made [or, purporting to have been made] by one William Brown, on
June 1st, 1879, requiring one John Robinson to pay to the order of
one John J enks $1,000, thirty days after sight thereof.

2. Said bill was accepted by said Robinson.

3. Said bill was indorsed by said J enks to the defendant.

[Continue as inform No. 46.]

The plaintiif claims $1,200 damages.

49.

Subsequent tndorsee against intermediate
/tndorser.

1. A bill of exchange, made [or, purporting to have been made]
by one William Brown, on J une 1st, 1878, requiring one John
Robinson to pay to the order of one John J enks $1,000, sixty days
after sight thereof, and indorsed by the said J enks to the defendant,
was, by the indorsement of the defendant [and others] transferred
to the plaintiff.

[Continue as in form No. 46.]

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

500

Indorsee against drawer, acceptor, and indorser.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the defendant, John Jones, by his bill of
exchange, required the defendant, William Brown, to pay to the
order of the defendant, John Robinson, $1,000 sixty days after
sight thereof. 1

2. On June 4th, 1878, said Brown accepted the same.

3. Said Robinson, on said day, indorsed the same to the plaintiff.

4. On August 6th, 187 8, the same was presented to said
Brown for payment, but was not paid.

5. Due notice thereof Was given to the other defendants.

6. ‘The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

51.

Payee against drawer, for non-acceptance.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant, by his bill of exchange,
required one John Robinson to pay the plaintiff, or order, in
Savannah, Georgia, $1,000, sixty days after sight thereof.

2. On July 20th, 187 8, the same was presented to said Robinson for acceptance, but was not accepted, and was thereupon duly
protested.

3. Due notice thereof was given to the defendant on July 21st,
187 8. '
4. The damages due by statute, on said day, Were $50.*

5. Said bill is still the property of the plaintiif, and, with said
damages, remains Wholly unpaid.
The plaintiff claims $1,300 damages.

52.

Payee against acceptor.

1. On May lst, 187 9, at [Havana, Cuba,] one William Brown,
by his bill of exchange, required the defendant to pay to the plain
tiff, or order, $1,000, thirty days after sight thereof.

2. On May 15th, 1879, the defendant accepted said bill.

3. Said bill is still the property of the plaintiff, and has not

been paid.

The plaintiff‘ claims $1,200 damages.

530

For board and lodging.

1. From Mayilst to July 1st, 187 8, Without any special agreement, the defendant occupied certain rooms in the house N o. 100
State street, Hartford, by permission of the plaintiif, and was fur.
nished by the plaintiii, at his ‘request, with food, attendance, and
other necessaries.

2. The same were reasonably Worth $50.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $60 damages.

54.

Book-debt.

1. On February 1st, 1875, the defendant owed the plaintiff $100
by book, to balance book accounts.

2. Said debt remains Wholly unpaid.

The plaintiff claims $120 damages.

55.

On a penal bond, without noticing the condition.

1. ° On July 1st, 1878, the defendant bound himself to the plaintiff, under ‘seal, to pay him $10,000, when thereto requested. ’
2. A The same has not been paid.
The plaintiif claims $11,000 damages.

56.

By the survivor of joint ‘obligees.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the defendant bound himself, under seal,
to the plaintiff and one John Doe, to pay to them $10,000, when
thereto requested.

2. On August 1st, 1878, John Doe died.

3. Said sum has never been paid.

The plaintiff claims $11,000 damages.

5'7.

On a bond for the payment of money only, plead-'
ing it according to its legal e17"ect.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant bound himself, under seal,
to the plaintiff to pay him $5,000, on condition, nevertheless, that
said obligation should be void if he paid him $2,500, on July 1st,
187 8, with interest from May 1st, 1878.

2. Nothing has been paid on said bond.

The plaintiff claims $5,200 damages.

58.

On bonds other than for the payment of money.

1. The defendant, on April 1st, 1878, made his bond, of which
Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.
2. [Set forth a breach : see following forms]
3. [Set forth any other breach]
The plaintiff claims $6,000 damages.

59,

Another form, not giving copy of bond.

1. On April 1st, 1878, the defendant bound himself, under seal,
to the plaintiff to pay him $1,000. .

2. Said obligation was upon the express condition that if [set
forth the substance or words of the condztion], said obligation was to
be void, otherwise to remain in full force.

3. [Allege breach, as in other cases.]

The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

60.

On a bond for the fidelity of a clerk.

1. On June 1st, 187 8, the plaintiffs being then about to employ
one John Doe as a clerk, the defendants bound themselves, under
seal, to the plaintiffs that if John Doe, at any time or times
during his employment by the plaintiffs, should not faithfully
perform his duties as such clerk, or should fail to account to
the plaintiffs for all moneys, or other property received by
him for the use of the plaintiffs, the defendants would pay to the
plaintiffs whatever loss they might sustain by reason thereof, not
exceeding $10,000 [or otherwise, according to the condition ; or say:
On June 1st, 1878, the plaintiffs being then about to employ one
John Doe as a clerk, the defendants executed to the plaintiffs a
bond, a copy of which is annexed, marked Exhibit A].

2. Between January 1st, 1879, and July 1st, 1879, John Doe
as such clerk, received money and other property, amounting to
the value of $3,000, to the use of the plaintiffs, for which he has
not accounted to them, and which be converted to his own use,
whereby the plaintiffs have sustained a loss of $3,000‘.

3. Said loss has not been repaid.

The plaintiffs claim $3,500 damages.

61.

On a bond for the faithful accounting of a sub" scmiption agent.

1. On May 1st, 1878, it was mutually agreed between the
plaintiff and one John Doe that he should canvass the city of
Hartford for subscribers to certain books then in course of publication in numbers, by the plaintiff [073 for subscribers to the
Atlantic Monthly, a magazine then published by the plaintiff];
that said Doe should collect, for account of the plaintiff, the moneys
which should grow due upon the subscriptions procured by him;
that the plaintiff should pay to said Doe $1 upon each subscription obtained by him, the same to be payable whenever six numbers of the work subscribed for should have been paid for by the
subscriber therefor; and that said Doe should faithfully account
to the plaintiff for all books and parts of books intrusted to
him, and should faithfully pay over to the plaintiff all the money
that he should, from time to time, collect under the authority given
him by said agreement, exceeding his commission of $1 for each
subscription.

2. Then and there [or, on May 15th, 1878,] the defendant
made and delivered to the plaintiff his bond in the penal sum
of $1,000, the condition of which bond was, that if said John
Doe should faithfully render up, or account for, to the plaintiff,
all books and parts of books and other publications, and all sums
of money, evidences of debt, and things in action, which should
be intrusted to him by or on behalf of the plaintiff, or by or on
behalf of others to the use of the plaintiff, in the course of the
employment of said Doe as a canvasser as aforesaid, up to and
not exceeding the ‘amount of $500 at any one time, then said
bond should be void, otherwise of full force and effect.

3. The plaintiff did thereafter intr11st and deliver to said John
Doe in the course of his employment under said agreement certain
books and parts of books of the value of $500, for which he has
failed to account to the plaintiff [or, thereafter John Doe did
collect and receive divers sums of money in the course of his employment under said agreement, exceeding his commissions, to the
amount of $500, which sums he has failed to render up, account
for, or pay over to the plaintiff].

4. On October 1st, 1878, said John Doe was duly requested
to account to the plaintiff for said books and parts of books [or,
to account for and pay over to the plaintiff such sums], but he has
not done so.

5. The plaintiff gave due notice thereof to the defendant, and

thereupon demanded payment from him of said sum of $500

according to the terms of said bond.
6. The same has not been paid.
. The plaintiff claims $600 damages.

620

On arbitration bond, for refusal to comply with
award.

1. The defendant heretofore made and delivered to the plaintiff a bond, conditioned to abide the award of John Stiles upon
certain diiferences between them, of which bond a copy is hereto
annexed, marked Exhibit A.

[2. On July 1st, 1878 [or, thereafter, and within the time limited for making the award], by agreement of the plaintiff and the
defendant, the time for the making of the award was extended to
October 1st, 1878.]

3. Said arbitrator, having undertaken the arbitration, on
August 15th, 187 8, duly made and published his award in writing
upon the matter submitted, and thereby awarded that the defendant should [here indicate briefly the provision which the defendant
has disregarded]; of which award a copy is hereto annexed,
marked Exhibit B.

5 4. The plaintiff on August 20th, 1878, gave notice of said award
to the defendant, and tendered to him, etc., and demanded of him,
etc.

5. The defendant has not [here allege breach, specifying the particular act or omission]. '

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

630

For revoking the arbitrator’s powers.

1. [Allege submission, as in preceding form.]

2. Thereafter, and before any award was made, the defendant, by writing under his hand and seal delivered to said arbitrator,
revoked the powers of the arbitrator.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

64.
On a bond for costs.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant, John Doe, having applied
to John Fen, Esq., a justice of the peace for New Haven county, to
sign a writ in favor of said defendant against the plaintiff, in a civil
action returnable before the Superior Court for said county to be
holden on the second Tuesday of September, 1879, and being
required by said magistrate, before said Writ was signed, to enter
into a recognizance with surety, in the sum of $140, to prosecute
said action to effect, and that he should pay any costs for which
judgment might be rendered against him thereon, said John Doe,
as principal, and the defendant, Richard Roe, a surety, appeared
before said magistrate and jointly entered into such a recognizance to the plaintiff, in said sum, and in the form by statute provided, after which said writ was signed.

2. At said Term of said Court, 111 said action, said John Doe
was nonsuited, and judgment for costs was rendered against him
for $15.25, in favor of the plaintiff.

3. Said judgment has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $25 damages.

65.
By the State, on a Probate bond.*

1. On May 1st, 187 8, the defendants executed and lodged in
the Court of Probate for the District of New Haven a Probate
bond, payable to the State, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed,
is a copy.

2. The defendant, John Doe, described in said bond as executor
of the will of David Stiles, deceased, on June 1st, 187 8, received,
as such executor, a United States four per cent. bond for $1,000
which belonged to David Stiles at the time of his decease.

3. On June 10th, 1878, said defendant returned to said Court
an inventory, under oath, of said estate,‘ in which the last mentioned bond was not included, nor has he ever rendered any
inventory or account of such bond to said Court, though the time
limited [in said Probate bond for the settlement of said estate]
has long since elapsed.

4. This suit is brought by the consent of said Court, duly
given, for the special benefit of James Stiles of Hartford, he
being the sole residuary legatee under said Will.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

66.

Assignment of breach of bond of a county treasurer, in an action by the State.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendants gave a bond to the State
for the faithful performance by the defendant, John Stiles, of the
duties of treasurer of Tolland County, of which bond Exhibit A,
hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. Said treasurer, between July 1st, 1878, and July 1st, 187 9,
received various sums of money as such treasurer. amounting to
about $1,000 from the County Commissioners of said County, and
fraudulently, and in breach of his trust, appropriated said sums to
his own use. 1

3. Said treasurer, on February 1st, 1879, accounted with the
auditors of his accounts, appointed by the representatives of said
County, concerning moneys which had come to his hands assaid
treasurer during the year preceding, and on such accounting was
found to be indebted to the County in the sum of $1,000.

4. On February 10th, 1879, the County Commissioners of said
County drew an order upon him in favor of John Doe, for said

sum, which order was on said day presented to him by said Doe.
5. The same has not been paid.
The plaintiff claims $2,100 damages.

6'7.

Assignment of breach of a sherl17"’s bond, for
neglect to levy.

1. [As in Form No. 66‘, substz'tut2°ng “sherzf” for “treasurer.”]

2. On October, 1st, 187 8, in an action brought by him against
one John Doe, John Stiles recovered judgment before the Superior
Court for New Haven County, at its September Term, 1878, against
John Doe, for $1,000.

3. On October 10th, 1878, an execution in favor of John
Stiles against the property of John Doe was duly issued on said
judgment, and delivered to said sheriff, of which Exhibit A, hereto
annexed, is a copy: [or state its eject]

4. Said sheriff did not execute said process, but although there
was then within his county real and personal property on which he
might have levied the moneys thereby directed to be levied [and
of which he had notice], he neglected and refused so to do, whereby
John Stiles lost his said debt.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

680

The same, for neglect to sell after levy.

1, 2, and 3. [Allege judgment and execution as in preceding f0rm.]

4. Said sheriff by virtue thereof, on October 15th, 1878, levied
on the goods of John Doe, of the value of $1,000; but he neglected
to advertise and sell the goods so levied on by him as aforesaid,
and no part of the moneys directed to be collected on said execution has been received by John Stiles.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

69.
For breach of promise of marriage.

1. On June 1st, 1878, in consideration that plaintiff, who was
then unmarried, promised, at the request of the defendant, to marry
him within a reasonable time, the defendant promised to marry the
plaintiff within a reasonable time.

2. The plaintiff, confiding in said promise, has always since remained, and now is ready and willing to marry the defendant.

3. The defendant refuses to marry the plaintiff, although a reasonable time elapsed before this action, and although she, on October 15th, 187 8, requested him so to do.
The plaintid claims $5,000 damages.

'70.

The same, where defendant is married to
another.

[1 and 2 as in preceding Form.] _

3. The defendant afterwards married a certain other person, to
wit, one Jane Smith, contrary to his said promise to the plaintiff.

[073 3. At the time of making said promise the defendant represented to the plaintiff that he was unmarried, whereas, in fact, he
was then married to another person, of which fact the plaintiff had

no notice.]
The plaintiff claims $10,000 damages.

'71.

Against a builder, for defective work.

1. On June 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff and the defendant signed
an agreement of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. The plaintiff duly fulfilled all the conditions thereof on his
part.

3. The defendant constructed said building in so unskillful and
negligent a manner [and of so unsuitable materials] that, shortly
after its completion, the foundation settled, the walls cracked, the
roof and walls became leaky, a considerable portion of the plastering fell, and the house otherwise was, and is, entirely untenantable, and nearly useless, through‘ the negligent and unskillful man.
ner of its constructlon.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

'72.

Against a builder, for‘ not completing his work;
with special damage by loss of rent.

1. On April 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and the defendant signed
and sealed an agreement, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is
a copy [or state its legal eject, e. g., thus, whereby the defendant
agreed to erect, in a substantial manner, a two-story frame house in
Southport, and to have it completed and ready for occupancy on or
before October 1st, 187 8, for which the plaintiff agreed to pay him
$2,000, payable as follows: When the foundations should be
laid, $500; when the tirst story should be up and the second tier

of beams laid, 3300; when the second story should be up and the
third tier of beams laid, $300; and when the roof should be on,
$400; and when the house should be entirely completed, the balance of $500].

2. The plaintiff duly performed all the conditions thereof on
his part.

3. The defendant entered upon the performance of the work
under said contract, and laid the foundations of said house,
and commenced the erection of the first story thereof; but has
neglected to finish said building pursuant to said contract, and
has left the same with the foundations laid, and the walls of the
first story partly up, and although the time for the completion of
said building expired before this action, he refuses to complete
the same.

4. The plaintiff on July 1st, 1878, made an agreement with
John Stiles, whereby he agreed to let, and said John Stiles agreed
to hire said building for one year from October 1st, 1878, at the
yearly rent of $300, of which the defendant had due notice.

5. By reason of the defendant’s failure to complete the contract upon his part, the plaintiff has been unable to complete said
house so as to give John Stiles occupancy thereof, and has been
thereby deprived of the profits of said lease, and has been other.‘
Wise greatly injured. 0 '

The plaintiff claims $200 damages.

'73.

On a special building contract, modified by
parol, with claim for extra work.

First Count.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the defendants, under their hands and
seals, made a contract with the plaintiff, of which Exhibit A, hereto
annexed, is a copy.

2. Thereafter, and before December 1st, 1878, the plaintiff
duly performed all the conditions thereof on his part, except that,
at the request of the defendants, he covered the roof of the building in the contract mentioned with slate instead of shingles, for
which the defendants promised to pay a reasonable sum in addition to the price named in said contract; and that, at the like
request, he omitted to put blinds upon the rear of the building, on
the agreement with the defendants that a reasonable deduction
should be made from the price named in said contract for such

omission; andthat, by the consent of the defendants, the time for
completing said work was extended for one month after the day‘
named in said contract, to wit, to December 1st, 1878, on which
day the whole of said work was completed by the plaintiff.

3. $250 is a reasonable payment to be made in addition to
the price named in said contract, for covering said roof with slate
instead of shingles.

4. $50 is a reasonable deduction to be made from the price
named in said contract for the omission to put blinds upon said
building. .

5. On January 1st, 1879, payment of $1,200, being the balance
due on said contract after making such allowance and deduction,
was duly demanded of the defendants by the plaintiff.

6. N 0 part thereof ‘has been paid.

Second Count.

1. Between December 1st, 1878, and January 1st, 1879, the
plaintiff rendered further services to the defendants at their request
in [here state extra work done, and materials furnished therefor], for
which the defendants promised to pay so much as they should be
reasonably worth.

2. The same are reasonably worth $200, which sum became
due therefor on January 1st, 1879.

3. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,500 damages.

'74.
On bank checks : _ payee against drawer.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant [or, the defendants, under
their firm-name of John Doe & Co.] made and delivered to the
plaintiff his [their] check in writing, dated on that day, and directed
the same to the First National Bank of Danbury, and thereby
required said Bank to pay to the plaintiff or order [or, bearer],
$1,000.

2. The same was duly presented by the plaintiff to said bank
for payment, but was not paid; of all which due notice was given
to the defendant. . p

3. Said check remains the property of the plaintiff, and has not
been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

80.

Aggravated injuries to passenger by common
carrier.

1. The plaintiff, at the time of the injuries complained of, was
a ship-joiner, earning his living at that trade.

2. The defendant, at the same time, was a common carrier of
passengers and freight by railroad, from New Haven through
Berlin to Middletown.

3. On March 10th, 187 8, the plaintiff bought a ticket of the
defendant entitling him, with his baggage, to a safe passage on said
railroad from New Haven to Middletown.

4. On said March 10th, while the defendant was carrying the
plaintiff from New Haven to Middletown, in pursuance of the
contract mentioned in the preceding paragraph, the servants and
agents of the defendant seized the plaintiff, and attempted violently and forcibly to put him off the car upon which he was riding,
and in making said attempt, tore the clothes of the plaintiff, injured his knee, and otherwise bruised and hurt him.

.5. By reason of said injuries the plaintiff was ill for six weeks,
was compelled to expend a large sum, $150, for medical attendance and care, and medicines, suffered great pain, was prevented
from pursuing his trade of ship joiner, and was made a cripple
for life.

The plaintiff claims $5,200 damages.

81.

Damages enh anced by proof of loss of earnings
in a profession.
I. On April 12th, 1879, the defendant was a common carrier of
passengers by rail between New Haven and Hartford.
2. -On said April .12th, the plaintiff entered a passenger car on

_a train of the defendant at New Haven, for the purpose of being

carried to Hartford, and then became a passenger on the defend,a.nt’s railroad.

3. The defendant so negligently and unskillfully managed said
train, that while the same «was;goi_ng from New Haven to Hartford,
and while the plaintiff was riding thereon as such passenger, said
train ran with great violence into another train standing on the
track ofthe defendant. '

4. By means of said collision the rightleg of the plaintiff was
broken, and he was in other respects greatly ‘hurt and bruised.

5. The plaintiff is and for many years last past has been a physician with a large and lucrative practice. Said injuries prevented
him from attending to his practice for six months. He was also

obliged to expend $250 for care and attendance while endeavoring
to be cured of said injuries.

The plaintiff claims $10,000 damages.

820

For loss of baggage.

1. The defendant was, on April 12th, 1879, a common carrier
of passengers and baggage by rail between N ew,London and Stonington. _

2. On said April 12th, the plaintiff at New Londonbecame a
passenger on the train of the defendant then going from New London to Stonington, and as such passenger delivered to the defendant a trunk containing goods and clothes of the value of $200,
being his reasonable baggage, to be conveyed on said train as his
baggage, and the defendant then accepted said trunk for such
purpose. ,

3. The defendant so carelessly and negligently conducted in taking care of and conveying said baggage, that said trtmk and its contents, through the carelessness and negligence of the defendant,
were wholly lost to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

83.
For not del/itveming in a reasonable time.

1. On August 12th, 1879, the defendant was, and for a long
time before had been engaged in transporting parcels daily as a
common carrier of goods between New London and Norwich.

2. On said August 12th, the plaintiff caused to be delivered to
the defendant as such common carrier, at Norwich, twelve cases of
ripe fruit, to be immediately carried to the plaintiff at New London,
and the defendant received said cases for that purpose.

3. The defendant, in violation of his duty, neglected to deliver
said cases of fruit to the plaintiff‘ for four days after he received the
same, and by reason of said negligence of the defendant, said fruit
became spoiled and wholly lost to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $7 5 damages.

84.

By owner of goods against common carrier, to
recover back excess of freight exacted.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the defendants agreed with the plaintiff
to transport from Hartford to New Haven, and to deliver there to
him a granite monument, for $150.

[0r, where there was no special contract, 1. The defendants being
common carriers for hire between Hartford and New Haven, on
June 1st, 1878, undertook to transport for the plaintiff from Hartford to New Haven, a granite monument, for a reasonable compensation.]

2. In pursuance thereof the defendants transported said monument [for which service $150 is a reasonable compensation]; and
upon its arrival at New Haven, the plaintiff demanded said monument of the defendants, and offered to pay them $150 for transporting the same; but the defendants refused to deliver it, unless
the plaintiff would pay them $200 for transporting the same.

3. The plaintiff thereby was compelled to pay, and on June 5th,
187 8, to obtain the delivery of said monument, did pay to the
defendants $200, which he paid, expressly denying the defendants’
right to claim it.

The plaintiff claims $7 5 damages.

85.

The common counts.

1. On and before January 1st, 1879, the plaintiff lent $1,000 to
the defendant;

2. And paid, laid out, and expended said sum for the defendant;

3. «And sold and delivered goods, wares, and merchandise, of
the price and value of said sum, to the defendant;

4. And bargained and sold goods, wares, and merchandise, of
the price and value of said sum, to the defendant;

5. And performed work, of the price and value of said sum, for
the defendant;

6. And furnished materials, of the price and value of said sum,
to the defendant;
A 7. And, on said day, the defendant had and received said sum,
to and for the use of the plaintiff;

8. And used and occupied certain lands of the plaintiff, by
his permission, which use and occupation were reasonably worth
said sum;

9. And said sum was found to be due to the plaintiff from the .

defendant, ‘on an account then and there stated between them;
10. Yet though said sums are justly due to the plaintiff from

the defendant, the defendant has never paid the same.
The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

860

Upon a compromise of a suit.

1. On May 15th, 1879, an action was pending in this Court between the parties to this. action, brought by the plaintiif to recover
from the defendant a book account of $1,000, which the plaintiff
claimed to be justly clue, but which the defendant disputed.

2. On said day, in consideration that the plaintiff promised to
discontinue his said action forthwith, if the defendant would, on
June 19th, 1879, pay $7 50 in satisfaction of said disputed claim,
the defendant promised to pay the plaintiff said sum on said last
mentioned day.

3. The plaintiif accordingly did discontinue said action.

4. Said sum has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $800 damages.

87.

The same, for withdrawing opposition to the probate of at will.

1. On May 1st, 1878, John Stiles, late of Derby, died, leavin
the plaintiff one of his heirs-at-law [or, next of kin]. '

2. After his death, the defendant [and others] exhibited for
probate, in the Court of Probate for the District of Derby, an
instrument purporting to be the will of said John Stiles, whereby
[a part of] the estate to which the plaintiff would have succeeded, if
said Stiles had died intestate, was devised and bequeathed to the
defendant.

3. There were doubts as to the validity of the execution of said
instrument, and the plaintiff threatened to oppose its probate on
that account. .

4. In consideration that the plaintiff would withhold such opposition, the defendant, on June 2d, 187 8, promised that he would
pay to the plaintiff $2,000, within ten days after the admission of
such instrument to probate.

5. The plaintiff accordingly withheld all opposition to the

‘probate thereof, and it was thereupon duly admitted to probate

before said Court of Probate, as the will of John Stiles.

[ Or, 5. The plaintiff has duly performed all the conditions of
said agreement, on his part], '
6. Said sum has not been paid.
The plaintiff claims $2,300 damages. '

88;

For conspiring to cheat.

1. At the time of the grievances herein complained of, the
plaintiff was a merchant doing business in Boston, Massachusetts;
and the defendants all resided at New Haven. _

2. In March, 187 9, at New Haven, the defendants conspired and
agreed together to cheat and defraud such merchants and traders
in said Boston as they might be able to deceive by false and deceit»
ful arts and practices, in the manner hereinafter set forth.

3. In pursuance of their said agreement, the defendants, David
Thompson and George Bristol, Went to said Boston, and said
Thompson there did give out and inform divers merchants there,
and among others, Michael Parsons and John Russell, doing business under the firm of Parsons St Russell, that he, said Thompson, wished and intended to purchase divers large quantities of
goods, that he Was a man of large property and safely to be
trusted, that he shortly expected Judge Penfield of Connecticut,
meaning the defendant, Nicholas Penlield, to be there with a large
sum of money for him, the said Thompson.

4. Said Thompson made said declarations for the purpose of
inducing said Parsons & Russell, and other merchants there, to
believe him to be a man of property and fit to be trusted, to sell

him goods upon credit, and to recommend him to others, as a man

lit to be trusted

5. Said Bristol was a merchant, then Well known to merchants
in Boston to be a man of considerable property, and accompanied said
Thompson to Boston, and assisted him in assorting and purchasing
goods as hereinafter mentioned, for the purpose of giving greater
credit to the statements of said Thompson, and with like intent.

6. Shortly after the arrival of said Thompson and Bristol in

said Boston, the defendants, Nicholas Peniield, and Henry Corson,

in pursuance of the defendants’ said agreement, Went to Boston,
and carried there and delivered to said Thompson $2,000.

7. Said money was so delivered for the purpose of making it
believed that said Thompson Was a man of property, fit to be
trusted, and to enable him to buy of such merchants as might be

induced to sell, large quantities of goods, and to pay cash in part
therefor and to obtain credit for the.residue.

8. After the arrival of said Penfield and Corson at Boston, all
the defendants, in pursuance of their said agreement, did represent to said Parsons & Russell. and to many other merchants at
Boston, that said Thompson was a man of property, of fair character, and safe to be trusted. ,

9. Said representations were made by the defendants for the
purpose alleged in paragraph fourth, and were made to Parsons 8;
Russell particularly to induce them to recommend said Thompson
to such merchants in Boston as might be induced to sell, on the
terms aforesaid, such goods as said Thompson might choose to purchase. .

10‘. Said Parsons & Russell believed the representations made

. as aforesaid by the defendants, and, infiuenced thereby, and at the

instance of the defendants, recommended said Thompson to the
plaintiff, and represented him as a man of property, fair character,
and safely to be trusted.

1 l. - The plaintiff confided in said recommendations, and believed
said representation of said Parsons 8; Russell, and, iniiuenced
thereby, and at request of said Thompson, sold and delivered to
him divers goods, to the amount in value of more than $2,000,
and said Thompson, of the money so advanced by said Pentield
and Corson, paid in part payment thereof $600, and for the residue
thereof the plaintiff gave ninety days’ credit; and to secure the
payment of said residue said Thompson then gave his note to said
Parsons & Russell, dated March 25th, 1878, for $1,520, payable in
ninety days to the order of said Parsons 8; Russell, and said Parsons 8; Russell, at request of said Thompson, then indorsed and
delivered said note to the plaintiff.

12. In fact, at the time the representations, hereinbefore mentioned, Were made, said Thompson was without property, and
bankrupt.

13. Said defendants and each of them, at the time of making
the several representations hereinbefore alleged to have been
made by them, that said Thompson Was a man of property,
and fit to be trusted, and of fair character, knew them to be false.

14. Said Parsons & Russell were ignorant of the conspiracy of
the defendants, and of their intent to defraud, and were deceived
by them. '

15. The goods, obtained as aforesaid from the plaintiff, were

obtained for and applied to the common benefit and use of all the
defendants.

16. Before the maturity of said note, given to the plaintiff by
said Thompson, said Parsons & Russell became and have ever since
remained insolvent.

l7. Said note, though due, is unpaid, and the plaintiff is likely
to lose the whole amount thereof.

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

89.
On a special contract, completely fulfilled.

1. On June 1st, 1879, the defendants [in consideration of
the agreements on the part of the plaintiff, therein contained,]
executed and delivered [under seal] a contract with the plaintiff,
of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. Thereafter and before June (30th, 1880, the plaintiff duly
performed all the conditions thereof on his part.

3. On July 1st, 1880, the plaintiff demanded of the defendants
payment of the'sum of $ . . . [being the last installment] in said
contract mentioned.

4. The same has not been paid fexcept, &:c.].

The plaintiff claims $ . . . . damages.

90.

The same, where the contract was fumlled by
an assignee.

1. On June 1st, 1879, the defendants, in consideration of
[state consideration briefly], executed in writing under their hands
and seals, and delivered, a contract with one M. N ., of which the
following is a copy [or, of which a copy is hereto annexed, marked
Exhibit A].

2. On July 1st, 187 9, said M. N. duly assigned the same, and
all his rights under it to the plaintiff.

3. The plaintiff‘ is the actual and bona fide holder and owner of
said chose in action.

4. Up to the time of the assignment, the assignor had duly
performed all the conditions of the contract on his part, and since
said assignment, the plaintiff has duly performed all the conditions thereof on his part.

[ Continue as in 3 and 4 in Form A70. 89.]

The plaintiff claims $ damages.

91.

Against a printer, for not fulfilling agreement to
print. _

1. On July 1st, 1878, the plaintiff made a contract with the
defendant, whereby the defendant agreed to furnish paper for,
and to print from certain stereotype plates of the plaintiff. and bind
within thirty days, two thousand copies of a book of memoirs,
for the price of $271 for each thousand copies, payable three
months from the completion of the work.

2. In accordance with, and for the purpose of fulfilling the

a contract, the defendant received into his possession, from the plaintiff, said stereotype plates, which were of the value of $1,000.

3. After so receiving them, he neglectedto fulfill the contract,
and afterwards refused to fulfill it, unless the plaintiff would advance thereon $250. 0

4. Accordingly, the plaintiff did, on October 1st, 187 8, advance
said sum thereon to the defendant, but the defendant has, notwithstanding, failed to fulfill the contract, and has not returned the
moneys thus advanced, and has converted said plates to his own
use.

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

92.

Contribution.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and defendant made and
delivered to John Doe their promissory note, of which a copy is
hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A.

2. At the maturity of said note, the plaintiff was compelled
to pay and did pay all of said note.

3. The defendant was and is bound to pay $1,000 to the
plaintiff, as his contributive share thereof.

4. On November 1st, 1879, the plaintiff demanded of the
defendant said sum, or contributive share of $1,000, which he
refused to pay, and no part thereof has been repaid to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

93.

For a conversion of goods.

1. On October 1st, 1878, the defendant had in his possession

ten barrels of flour, worth six dollars a barrel, belonging to the
plaintiff.

2. On said day the defendant sold said flour, without authority
from the plaintiff, and thereby converted the same to his own use.
The plaintiff claims $80 damages.

94.

The same.
1. In May, 187 8, one John Doe, being the owner of two bay

horses, delivered them to the defendant, and he received them _

in order that he might break in the same.

2. On April 26th, 187 9, John Doe sold said horses [they still
being in the possession of the defendant for the purpose aforesaid]
to the plaintiff, and gave him an order on the defendant for the
delivery of the same. ’

3. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff presented said order to the
defendant, and demanded said horses, but he thereupon refused
to deliver them, and has since sold them, and appropriated to himself the proceeds of the sale.

The plaintiff claims $700, damages.

95.
By executor for conversion in lifetime of testator.

1. On June 5th, 1877, said John Doe, then in full me, delivered one table, two sofas, and twelve chairs, then in his possession, to the defendant, to be stored by the defendant and returned
on demand. 7

2. On or about February 1st, 1878, and in the lifetime of said
John Doe, the defendant, without any authority therefor sold
said goods, and appropriated the proceeds of the sale to his own

use.

The plaintiff‘, as such executor, claims $250 damages.

96.

By executor for conversion after testator’s
death.

1. On January 15th, 1878, said John Doe, then in full life,
delivered a certain French clock, then his own property, to the
defendant to be repaired. ' 2. On May 10th, 1878, said clock being still in the possession

of the defendant, and the plaintiff as executor as aforesaid being
entitled to the immediate possession thereof, the plaintiff, as such
executor, demanded said clock of the defendant, but the defendant
refused to deliver the same.

The plaintiff as such executor claims $150 damages.

9 7 .
On stock subscriptions.

1. [For averment of zncorporatiion, see Form No. 7 7.]

2. After the incorporation of the plaintiff, the defendant, in
consideration that the corporators named in its charter would, at
his request, accept his subscription, on June 1st, 187 8, became a
subscriber for one hundred shares of its capital stock, of the par
value of $100 each, by signing and. delivering an agreement, of
which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy, and set opposite to
his name $10,000, which he thereby agreed to pay to said com.
pany. °

3. Said subscription of the defendant was then and there duly
accepted by said corporators.

4. The board of directors of the plaintiff, on July 1st, 1878,
required the defendant to pay thereon $5,000, agreeably to said
subscription and the charter and by-laws of the company. ‘

5. The plaintiff has duly performed all the conditions thereof
on its part. .

6. Said sum has not been paid by the defendant.

The plaintiff‘ claims $6,000 damages.

98.
Against the president of a joint stock corporation, under the statute, for a debt of the corpo-_

ration.*

1. The Union Razor Company is a joint stock corporation,
duly organized under the laws of this State, and located in Waterbury.

2. On March 1st, 1878, said corporation bought of the plaintiff
a turbine Water-Wheel, at the price of $400, to be paid Within
thirty days after delivery of said Wheel.

3. Said wheel was delivered on April 1st, 187 8, and accepted

by said company, but the price agreed remains wholly unpaid.

4. On July 1st, 1877, the defendant Was, and from thence to
the present time, has been the president of said company.

5. During all said period the defendant has intentionally neglected to make, sign, or lodge with the town clerk of Waterbury
any certiticate of the condition of the affairs of said company.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages, under the statute in such
case provided.

99.

Against some of the directors of an insolvent
insurance company, for fraudulent representations, inducing the plaint-2317' to insure.*

1. The Bridgeport Insurance Company was duly incorporated
under the laws of this State, in 1850, for the purpose of
carrying on the business of insurance against loss by fire; and by
its charter was required to appoint a board of nine directors, to be
elected annually from among and by the stockholders of said company, Whose duty it Was to have the management of the business of
the company, and see that all statements relative to its aifairs, condition, business, and property, Were properly and truly made.

2. On July 7th, 1857, a board of nine of said stockholders, among
Whom were the defendants, were duly elected directors of the company for the year ensuing, accepted said appointment, and subsequently, and before the commission of the ‘acts hereinafter complained
of, entered upon the discharge of the duties of said office, and
continued in the discharge thereof till October 12th, 1858.

3. On February 1st, 1858, for the purpose of giving said
company a false and fictitious credit, and to increase its business,
the defendants, being such directors, did falsely and fraudulently
represent and publish to the World as and for the true condition of
the affairs of said company, that said company was possessed of a

‘very large amount of property of great value, to wit: [Here describe

the property, as‘, Real estate $100,000, and 150 Harlem Railroad first
mortgage bonds of the par value of $1,000 each, etc.] all Which property was represented by and in said statement to be of the value
of $250,000, and said directors falsely and fraudulently represented
said company to be the rightful owners of said property, and to
be good and solvent, in order to induce people to eifect their insurance in and by said company, and to increase the business and
profits of said company, and their own profits as stockholders
"hereof.

4. The plaintiff, relying on said representations of said
directors and defendants, and believing the same to be true, did,
on February 13th, 1858, at the special instance and request of
said company, insure in said company a certain building by him
owned, in Granby, in the State of New York, a patent tannery,
so called, of the value of $1,200, on which the sum of $700
was insured by said company, (and certain other stock and
material of the plaintiff, situated in said tannery building, of the

i value of $1,000, on which the sum of $300 was insured by said

company,) and the plaintiff received from said company a policy
of insurance, and paid said company $10 for insuring said property
according to the requirements of said company, of which policy
Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy [or, which policy has been
lost and cannot be produced in court].

5. On October 8th, 1858, and while said policy was in full
force, said building, and said stock and materials therein, so insured,
were, without the fault of the plaintiff, destroyed by fire.

6. The plaintiff gave due notice and proof of said loss to the
company, within the time and in the manner prescribed by said
company.

7. At the time of said fire, for a long time previous thereto,
and at the time of the publication caused and made by the defendants and directors, as aforesaid,‘ said company was not the owner
of the assets hereinbefore specified and stated in said publication,
nor of any valuable assets; all which the defendants well knew,
when they thus wilfully, falsely, and fraudulently uttered and
caused to be published said false statement, as aforesaid.

8. Said loss has never been paid.

9. Said company was, at the time of said loss, ever since
has been, and now is, totally insolvent, and without any assets
whatever.

10. By means of the premises, and the false and fraudulent
statements so made and caused to be made by the defendants,
regarding the assets, property, and condition of said company, and
the plaintiffs belief in the same, and consequent insurance in said

company as aforesaid, the plaintiff has suffered damage to the

amount of $2,000.
The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages. ,

100.

For winding up a corporation, on the application of a stockholder.*

1. The Union Razor Company is a joint stock corporation, duly
organized under the laws of this State, for the manufacture of
razors and cutlery, and located in Waterbury.

2. The plaintiff owns ten shares of the capital stock of said
company, standing in his name upon its books. '

3. On May 1st, 187 7, said company abandoned the manufacture of razors and cutlery, and has since done no business.

4. Ever since said day, said company has neglected to wind up
its affairs and distribute its effects amongst its stockholders, although a reasonable time therefor has long since elapsed.

The plaintiff claims,

1. That the affairs of said company may bewound up, under
the direction of the Court, as by statute provided.

2. That said corporation be dissolved.

101.
On the covenant of warranty.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant executed and delivered to
the plaintiff, a deed of a certain farm in Bethel, bounded northerly
by land of John Smith, southerly and easterly by land of James
Stiles, and westerly by highway, and containing about 100 acres,
and in said deed covenanted to warrant and defend said property
to the plaintiff against all claims and demands whatsoever.

2. The defendant was not, but one William Brown was then
the lawful owner of said lands in fee simple.

3. On April 1, 1879, said Brown evicted the p1aintiE from the
same, and still withholds possession thereof from him.

The plaintiE claims-$6,000 damages.

102.

On the covenant of setzin.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant executed and delivered to
the plaintiff a deed of a certain farm, [describing it, as above,] and in
said deed covenanted with the plaintiff that he, the defendant, was

well seized of said farm, as of a good, indefeasible estate in fee
simple.

2.o The defendant was not then well seized of said farm, but
one William Brown was then well seized thereof in fee simple.

3. The plaintiff paid the defendant $2,000 for said farm on
receiving said deed.

The plaintiff claims $2,200 damages.

1030

On covenant against incnmbrances.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant, by deed, conveyed to the
plaintiff, in fee simple, a farm in Bethel [or otherwise briefly designate the property, and the estate therein conveyed].

2. Said deed contained a covenant on the part of the defendant, of which the following is a copy : [copy of covenant, or, whereby he covenanted, &c., stating its substance as in preceding forms].

3. At the time of the delivery of said deed the premises were
not free from all incumbrance, but * on the contrary were subject
to the right of dower of one Jane Stiles, widow of John Stiles,
the former owner of the premises.

4. On April 1st, 187 9, one John Smith recovered a judgment in
the Superior Court, for Hartford county, at its January Term, 187 9,
against the defendant, for $1,050, a certihcate of a judgment lien
on account of which was, on April 2d, 1879, recorded in the land
records of Bethel, and which judgment, at the time of the delivery
of said deed, remained unsatisfied.

5. At the time of the delivery of said deed, the premises were
subject to a tax-lien, duly recorded in the land records of Bethel,
for a tax of $50, theretofore duly assessed, charged, and levied
upon said premises by said town, and the ofiicers thereof, which
tax was then due and unpaid.

6. By reason thereof the plaintiff was obliged to pay, and did,
on July 1st, 1879, pay $1,200 in extinguishing the right of
dower [or, the lien of the judgment, or, the tax, or all of them]
aforesaid.

The plaintiff claims $1,300 damages.

104.

The same, where the conveyance was expressed
to be subject to a specified incumbvance.

1. [As in preceding form]
2. In said deed the defendant covenanted with the plaintiff,
that said premises then were free from all incumbrances whatsoever, except a certain mortgage [or other incumbrance, describing it].

4. At the time of the delivery of said deed, the premises were
not free from all incumbrances other than the mortgage therein
excepted, but [continue as in preceding form, from the *].

105.

Against landlord, on covenant for quiet enjoyment, with special damage.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant, by lease under seal, let to
the plaintiff the house N o. 100 State street, Hartford, for two
years, covenanting that the plaintiff should quietly enjoy possession

thereof for said term.
2. On October 1st, 187 8, one William Brown, who was the lawful owner of said house, lawfully evicted the plaintiff therefrom,
and still withholds possession thereof from him.

3. The plaintiff was thereby prevented from continuing the
business of a tailor at said place, was compelled to expend $500
in moving, and lost the custom of James J enks and John Johnson-, by such removal.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

106.

Against administrator, on covenant of warranty, broken by an eviction after the death

of the grantor.

1. On October 1st, 1873, John Doe of Derby, now deceased,
bargained, sold, and conveyed to the plaintiffs certain lands in said
town, as appears by his deed of that date, duly executed and delivered, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. On September 1st, 1870,. John Doe had conveyed to Richard
Roe, of said town, a part of the premises embraced in said deed to
the plaintiffs, as appears by his deed to Richard Roe, of which
Exhibit B, hereto annexed, is a copy.

3. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiffs, being in possession of the
lands described in their deed, were evicted, by Richard Roe, from
that part thereof included in his said deed, under an execution
issued in an action of ejectment previously brought against them by
him, before the Superior Court for New Haven County, in which
he recovered judgment at the January Term of said court in said

year.

4. On January 1st, 1874, John Doe died, intestate.

5. On January 10th, 1874, the defendant was duly appointed
administrator on the estate of John Doe, by the Court of Probate
for the District of Derby.

6. Said estate Was solvent, and on its final settlement, on May

1 10th, 1875, personal estate of the value of $2,000, and real estate

to the value of $10,000, was left for distribution.

7. The value of said lands from which the plaintiffs were so
evicted was, at the time of such eviction, $2,000.

8. The plaintiffs were also compelled to pay and did pay to
Richard Roe, on May 1st, 1879, the costs of said action of ejectment, amounting to $140.25.

9. The plaintiffs have also paid their own costs and counsel
fees, in defending said action, amounting to $275.

10. On July 1st, 187 9, the plaintiffs presented a Written claim
to the defendant, as administrator as aforesaid, for $2,450, for their
said damages arising from said suit and eviction, and from the
breach of the covenant of warranty in said deed of John Doe to
them; but the defendant refused to allow or pay the same.

The plaintiffs claim $3,000 damages.

107.‘

On a covenant against nuisances. “

1. On June 1st, 1878, the plaintiff, by his lease, under seal
demised to the defendant a lot of land [briefly designating 

2. In said lease the defendant covenanted that he would not
permit or erect any nuisances on said premises.

3. The defendant took possession of said premises under said
lease.

4. Afterwards the defendant erected [or suffered to be erected,]
on said premises, a building for a slaughter-house.

5. The offal and blood of said slaughter-house, and the offensive
smell created thereby, is a nuisance to the plaintiff, and to -the
neighborhood, and the plaintiE’s house adjoining thereto is thereby
rendered uninhabitable.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

108.

On a continu/13ng covenant to ma/tnta/in a fence.

1. On July 1st, 1870, the plaintiff and the defendant owners of
lands adjoining, in the town of Essex, signed and sealed an agreement, and thereby the defendant covenanted to erect a fence upon
the boundary line between said lands, and to maintain the same
forever in good repair.

2. The defendant did not, after the erection of said fence, maintain the same in good repair, but, in May, 1879, he suffered it to
become broken down, and to remain in that condition from that
time ever since.

3. By means thereof the plaintiff suffered great damage by the
injury to his lands and crops thereon, and his garden and fruit.
trees, by cattle coming through said broken.doWn fence from the
defendant’s land upon his premises, and was compelled to repair
and rebuild said fence, in order to protect his land from the cattle
coming from defendant’s land.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

109.

Against tenant, forbreach of covenant to keep
premises in repair.

1.  June 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and the defendant signed
and sealed 3:» lease, by which the plaintiff leased to the defendant,
for five years from said date, his dwelling.house, with stable and
sheds attached, in Orange.

2. The defendant covenanted in said lease that he Would, during said term, at his own cost, keep said premises in good repair,
and at the expiratign of said term leave said premises in as good
condition as he received the same, reasonable Wear and tear
excepted.

3_. The defendant occupied said premises during said term, and
during his occupancy some of the shingles on the roof of said
house became rotten and broken, so as to admit the rain-Water,
and the defendant has -never repaired the same.

4. By reason thereof the plastering upon the walls of said
house has been injured, and in many places has fallen down.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

110.

Criminal conversation.

1. Jane Stiles is, and for more than five years last past has

been, the wife of the plaintiff.
2. The defendant, on March 11th, 187 8, and on divers other

days since that date, seduced and carnally knew said Jane Stiles.
3. In consequence of said seduction, the plaintiff has lost the
affection of said Jane Stiles, and has been deprived of her society,
and assistance, which he otherwise would have had, and has suffered
great distress of body and mind.
The plaintiff claims $10,000 damages.

111.

For demurrage, and damages in the nature of

demurrage.
First Count.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and defendant signed a.
charter-party, for the hire of the ship, Starlight, of which Exhibit
A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. The plaintiff duly performed all the conditions thereof, on
his part.

3. The defendant kept said ship on demurrage nine days
over and above the periods agreed upon for loading and discharging in said charter-party.

4. Said demurrage has not been paid.

Second Count.

1. All the statements of the first count are made a part of
this count.

2. The defendant also detained the ship four days beyond
the periods agreed on for loading, discharging, and demurrage
in said charter-party, whereby the plaintiff, during all that time, was
deprived of the use of the ship, and incurred $100 expense in
keeping the same and maintaining the crew.

3. Forty dollars a day is a reasonable compensation for such
detention and expense.

The plaintiff claims $600 damages.

112.

By a wife for a divorce, with custody of children,
and alimony.

1. The plaintiff (whose maiden name was Mary.Roe) and the
defendant intermarried J anuary. list, 1870.

2. On divers days between June 1st, 1879, and July 1st, 1879,

the defendant committed adultery at Hartford, with one Jane _

Stiles.

[Or, 2. At the date of their marriage, the defendant was, and
ever since has been, subject to a permanent and incurable corporal
imbecility, which renders sexual intercourse impracticable; yet, at
all times prior to their marriage,’ he concealed said fact from the
plaintiE.

Or, 2. On February 1st, 1875, the defendant wilfully deserted
the plaintid, and has continued said desertion, with total neglect
of all the duties of the marriage covenant on his part to be performed, to the date of this writ, being for more than three years.

Or, 2. On February 1st, 1872, the defendant departed on a
voyage to Turks’ Island, and has been absent from the p1aintiE
and from this State, ever since, and for more than seven years, and
has not been heard from during said time by the plaintiff, or by any
other person to her knowledge.

Or, 2. The defendant, for more than one year last past, has been,
and now is, habitually intemperate.

Or, 2. The defendant, on divers days between January 1st,
1878, and the date of this writ, has been guilty of intolerable cruelty to the petitioner.

Or, 2. The defendant, on January 10th, 1879, was sentenced by
the Superior Court in New Haven County, to imprisonment for
life in the Connecticut State prison, for the crime of murder in the
second degree. .

Or, 2. The defendant, on January 1st, 1879, at New Haven,
committed a rape upon one Jane Stiles.]

[3. The plaintiff and defendant have two minor children, issue
of their marriage, John Doe, aged nine years, and Mary Doe, aged
eight years.] '

4. The defendant owns real and personal estate to the value of

_ $6,000.

The plaintiff claims,

1. A divorce.

2. The custody of both the children.

3. Alimony.

4. That her name be changed to Mary Roe. A

1 13.
For damage by a dog.

1. On March 25th, 1879, John Stiles was a minor and an apprentice of the defendant, and was then the keeper of a large dog.

2. On said March 25th, said dog attacked and killed ten sheep
belonging to the plaintid. '

The plaintiff claims, under the statute in such case provided,
$200 damages. ‘

114.

On a due-bill, by assignee of a part interest, and
assignor. 1. On January 1st, 1879, the defendant signed and delivered
to the plaintiff, John Stiles, for value received, a due-bill of which
the following is a copy : l

“ New Haven, Jan. 1st, 1879. Due John Stiles, $1,000.

RICHARD FEN.”

2. On January 10th, 187 9, John Stiles signed and delivered to
the plaintiff Richard Roe, a written assignment of a one-fourth
interest in said due-bill, and the debt evidenced thereby.

3. Said due-bill is wholly unpaid.

The plaintiffs claim $1,200 damages.’*

1 15.
Eiectment, and for mesne profits.

1. On August 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff owned and possessed a
certain lot of land in Harwinton, bounded North on land of John
Doe, and East, South, and West on highway.

2. The defendant, on said day, wrongfully entered on said
land, and dispossessed the plaintiff, and still keeps him out of possession, depriving him of the rents and profits.

3. Said rents and profits amount to $100 a year.

The plaintiii claims,

1. Judgment for the possession of said premises.

2. $500 damages.

116.

Against a sheri)7' for an escape from imprison- .

mcnt under an eccecutioan.

1. At the time of the escape hereafter mentioned, the defendant
was the sheriff of the county of Fairfield.

2. At a Superior Court holden at Bridgeport, in and for said
county, on the first Tuesday of March, 1878, the plaintiff recovered
judgment against one William Brown, for $1,800 damages, and
$35 costs of suit.

3. Said action was brought for a willful injury to the plaintiffs
property, [or otherwise, show that the action -was one in which an arrest was proper].

4. On April 16th, 1878, an execution against the estate and
body of said Brown was issued upon said judgment, and directed
and delivered to the defendant, as sheriff aforesaid.

5. Afterwards the defendant, on April 17th, 187 8, for want of
goods ‘or estate of said William Brown, suflicient to satisfy said
execution, took his body and committed him to the jail, in said
county, of which said defendant was keeper.

6. On May 10th, 187 8, the defendant suffered said Brown to
escape from his custody, and from said jail, and go at large without

. the consent of the plaintiff.

7. Said debt and costs then were and still are Wholly unsatisfied.
The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

117.

Against a factor, for price of goods sold by him.

1. On May 1st, 187 7, the plaintiff delivered to the defendant
[one hundred barrels of flour] for sale upon commission.

2. On May 10th, 187 7, [or, on some day unknown to the plaintiff, before May 10th, 187 7,] the defendant sold said merchandise
for $1,000, and thereafter received said sum.

3. On July 1st, 1877, the plaintiff demanded from the defendant the net proceeds of said merchandise.

4. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

1 1 8.
Against del credere factor.

1. On February 10th, 1879, the plaintiff employed the defendant, for reward as his factor, to sell, upon a del credere commission,

ten pieces of silk; and thereupon delivered said silk to the defendant, who received the same.

2. On February 25th, 1879, the defendant sold said silk to
John Doe on three months’ credit.

3. John Doe did not pay for said silk when payment became
due, but before the expiration of said credit he became insolvent;

and the plaintiff has never received anything in payment for the '

same.
‘The plaintiff claims $250 damages.

119.

For falsely representing a third person as fit
to be trusted.

1. On March 22d, 1879, the defendant represented to the
plaintiff that John Stiles (who was then proposing to purchase
goods of the plaintiff on credit, and had referred the plaintiff to
the defendant for information respecting his character and circumstances,) had done much business with him; that he had received
a large amount of money from said Stiles; that he then did business with said Stiles. and that, he, the defendant, believed him
to be a man in good circumstances, and fit to be trusted with goods
on credit.

2. The plaintiff believed said representations made by the
defendant to be true, and was induced thereby to sell, and did, on
said day, sell and deliver to said Stiles [brzeflg designate the goods]
of the value of $850, upon a credit of sixty days.

3. On March 30th, 187 9, the ‘plaintiff, relying upon said representations, sold and delivered to said Stiles [designate goods] of
the value of $600, upon a credit of sixty days.

4. In fact, said John Stiles, at the time the defendant made
said representations to the plaintiff, was insolvent and not fit to be
trusted with goods on credit, and the defendant did not at that
time do business with said Stiles, and did not believe said Stiles to
be a man in good circumstances, and {it to be trusted with goods
or credit.

5. The defendant made said false representations Well knowing
them to be false, and with intent to induce the plaintiff thereby to
sell goods to said Stiles on credit, and to defraud the plaintiff.

6. Said Stiles has not paid for said goods sold him by the plaintiff, although the time of credit has long since expired, and the
plaintiff is likely to lose the value of said goods.

The plaintiff claims $1,500 damages.

120.

For fraudulently concealing insolvency of a
person.

1. The plaintiff, at the time of the grievances herein com.
plained of, was a Wholesale grocery merchant.

2. On May 15th, 1879, the defendant introduced to the plaintiff, as a customer, John Stiles, who wished to procure goods on
credit, and the defendant then represented to the plaintiif that he

' had no doubt said Stiles would pay for any gobds he might buy,

and said Stiles then said, in the presence of and uncontradicted
by the defendant, that he, Stiles, was worth $5,000.

3. The plaintiff believed the representations of the defendant
to be true, and that said Stiles was worth $5,000, and was thereby
induced to sell, and did sell to said Stiles a .stock of general
groceries to the amount of $1,000, upon a credit of thirty days.

4. In fact, said Stiles, at the time of said representations, was
insolvent, as the defendant then knew, and the defendant did not
believe that said Stiles would pay for said goods, and, with intent to
defraud the plaintiff, refrained from informing him that said Stiles’
assertion of his solvency was false.

5. The defendant made said false representations with intent

to induce the plaintiff thereby to sell said goods on'credit, as aforesaid, and to defraud him. ,
- 6. Said Stiles, immediately after the purchase of said goods,
transferred them to the defendant, who received them in part payment of a debt owing him from said Stiles at the time of said
purchase, knowing, when he received them, that they were the
goods bought of the plaintiff, as aforesaid, and that said Stiles had
not paid for them.

7. Said credit given to Stiles has expired, and he has not paid
for said goods. .

The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

121.

For repairs of a divisional fence.‘

1. On May 1st, 187 9, the plaintid and defendant‘ respectively
owned lots adjoining each other, on Main street in Putnam, between
which was a certain divisional fence, which the defendant was
bound to keep in repair. 1

2. On said day, said fence was, and had long been out of repair, through the neglect of the defendant.

3. On said day, the plaintiff called on the selectmen of Putnam
to View said fence, who thereupon viewed it, and found it to be
insufiicient, and immediately thereafter gave written notice thereof
to the defendant. O

4. The defendant neglected to repair said fence within fifteen
days next thereafter.

5. On May 17th, 1879, the plaintiE repaired said fence, at his
own expense.

6. On said day, the selectmen of Putnam made and signed a a

written estimate of the value of said repairs, which they therein
estimated at $15.

7. The lawful fees of said selectmen for making such estimate
were $6, and the plaintiff has paid the same to them.

The plaintiff claims $42 damages, as by statute provided.

122.

For wtl)"ully throwing down a fence.*

1. On June 27th, 187 9, the defendant wittingly and unlawfully
threw down a fence on and belonging to a particular enclosure of
the plaintiff, which is situate in Meriden, and bounded North by
highway, and East, West, and South, by land of John Stiles.

2. It was twenty-four hours before the injury to said fence was
discovered and could be repaired. Said enclosure was used as a
market-garden, and by reason of the injury to said fence, divers
cattle strayed from the highway into the enclosure and destroyed
the vegetables there growing; doing damage to the amount of
forty dollars.

The plaintiff claims, by force of the statute in such case provided, $1 00 damages.
1 2 3 .

Flowage pet73t*ton.’r
1. The plaintiff owns a tract of land, known as Brook Farm,
in North Haven, through which runs a brook, known as Muddy
brook, and desires to set up a water-mill [for the manufacture of
paper,] on said land, and to build a dam thereon, in order to
create a water-power, by means of a pond, for the benefit of such

proposed mill [or state‘ what is desired by the plaintzf, otherwise, as
the case may be].

2. The plaintiff desires to build such dam across said brook at
a place five rods north of a point where it crosses the highway on
which his farm is bounded, and to make it ten feet in height above
the bed of the brook, and about forty feet in width.

3. Such dam, if erected, will flow water upon certain land in
said town belonging to the defendant, and bounded and described
as follows [descrzhing it]:

4. The plaintiff cannot agree with the defendant as to the
damages to be paid him for such iiowage.

5. The erection of said dam, and the consequent flowing of
said land, will be of public use.

The plaintiff claims such relief and action from the Court as is
provided by the statute relating to flowage petitions.

124.

Forcible entry and deta/liner.

To John Doe, Judge of the Court of Common Pleas for New
Haven County, comes John Stiles of Orange in said county, and
complains and says:

1. Richard Fen of said Orange, on May 15th, 1879, at said
Orange, with force and arms and with a strong hand, did unlawfully and forcibly enter into and upon a certain tract of land lying
in said Orange, belonging to the plaintiff [describe it] which before
had been and then was in the actual possession of the plaintiff;

2. The defendant with force and strong hand as aforesaid, did
then and there expel and unlawfully put the plaintiff out of possession of the same;

3. The defendant does unlawfully and unjustly, and with a
strong hand, still deforce and keep the plaintiff out of possession
of the same.

The plaintiff prays that process may be issued against the
defendant, in the manner prescribed by the statute in such case
provided.

Dated at Orange, this 17th day of June, 1879.

RICHARD FEN.

To the Sherzf of the County of New Haven, his Deputy, or either
Constable of 0range—Giu«:E'r1NG:
By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are hereby commanded to summon Richard Fen. of said Orange, to appear before

the undersigned authority, at the dwelling house of David Dun, in
said town, on the day of June, 1879, then and there to answer

O unto the foregoing complaint, and be dealt with thereon according

to law.
Hereof fail not, but make due service and return.

Dated at New Haven, June 17th, 1879.
JOHN DOE,

Judge of the Court of Common Pleas for New Haven County.

125.

Peaeeable entry, and forcible detainer.

To John Doe, Judge of the Court of Common Pleas for New
Haven County, comes John Stiles of Orange in said county, and
complains and says, ,

1. Richard Fen of said Orange, on May 15th, 1879, at said
Orange, without the consent and against the will of the plaintiff,
did unlawfully enter into and upon a certain tract of land lying in
said Orange, belonging to the plaintiff [describe it] which before had
been and then was in the actual possession of the plaintiff.

2. From said day to the date of this complaint, the defendant
has unlawfully and unjustly, and with strong hand, held and
detained the same, and deforced and kept the plaintiff out of possession thereof. ’ '

[Continue as in preceding form]

126.

Foreclosure of mortgage.

1. On August 1st, 1878, John Doe owed the plaintiff $1,000, as
evidenced by said Doe’s note for $1,000, dated on said day, and
payable to the plaintiff or order, one year after date, with interest
from date.

2. On said day, by his deed of that date, said Doe, to secure said
note, mortgaged to the plaintiff a lot of land in New Haven,
bounded North by Chapel street, 100 feet, East by Main street,
150 feet, West by land of John Doe, 150 feet, and South by land of
Richard Roe, 100 feet; which deed is conditioned for the pay.
ment of said note according to its tenor, and is recorded in New
Haven land records, vol. 200, page 100.

3. Said note is still owned by the plaintiff, and is due and
wholly unpaid.

4. William Brown, of Milford, claims to have a mortgage of
$500 on said land, and John Stiles, of Guilford, claims to have an
attachment lien thereon for $200 ; which claims accrued after the

‘ plaintiffs mortgage.

5. John Doe is now in possession of said premises.
The plaintiff claims :

1. A foreclosure of said mortgage.

2. Possession of the mortgaged premises.

127.

Foreclosure of chattel mortgage.* _

1. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant owed the plaintiff $1,000,
as evidenced by his note of said date, for said sum, payable to the
plaintiff, or order, three months from date, with interest.

2. On said day the defendant, being the owner of certain household furniture used by him in housekeeping in a certain dwellinghouse in New Haven, executed, acknowledged, and delivered to
the plaintiff a mortgage of said furniture, conditioned to secure
the payment of said note; of which mortgage Exhibit A, hereto
annexed, is a copy. 2

3. Said mortgage was, on said day, duly recorded in New Haven
land records, vol. 300, page 100.

4. Said note is still owned by the plaintiff, and is over due and
unpaid.

The plaintiff claims a foreclosure of said mortgage, and sale of
said mortgaged property.

1280

Foreclosure of mecham3c’s lien.

1. The defendant owns a lot of land in New Haven, bounded
North by King street, about 50 feet, South and West by West river,
and East by land of John Stiles, about 150 feet, on which is a
house, known as No. 100 King street.

2. The plaintiff furnished materials and rendered services in
the construction of said house, under an agreement with the
defendant, made March 1st, 187 8, when the defendant owned said
land, by which agreement the plaintiff was to build said house,
and the defendant was to pay him $2,000 therefor, on its completion.

3. The erection of said house was commenced April 10th, 187 8,
and completed October 1st, 187 8, according to the tenor of the
contract.

4. The defendant has paid $1,000, only, on account of the same.

5. On November 1st, 1878, the plaintiff lodged a certificate in
writing, by him duly signed and sworn to, with the town clerk of
New Haven, which certificate was recorded in New Haven land records,.vo1. 300, page 100, and of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed,
is a copy.

The plaintiff claims:

1. A foreclosure of said lien.

2. $1,200 damages.

129.

Foreclosure of judgment lien.*

1. A judgment against John 1509, for $1,054.50, in favor of
the plaintiff, was rendered by the Superior Court for Windham
County, at its Term holden at Brooklyn on the second Tuesday of
November, 1878. 8

2. The p1ainti§ took out and gave to the Sheriff of said county,
for service, an execution thereon, on which $250 was collected, and
which was returned on February 1st, 1879, as satisfied to that extent
only.

3. On February 10th, 1879, Richard Roe, attorney for the plaintiff in said action, signed in his behalf a certificate of a judgment lien upon the following described lands of said John Doe,
in Putnam (descrz'bz'n_q them), which certificate the plaintiff caused
to be recorded, on said day, in the land records of said town, vol.
20, page 15.

4. Said land was attached on the original writ in said action,
on January 10th, 1877, as the property of said Doe.

5. On said day said Doe owned said land [in fee].

6. On January 11th, 187 7, said John Doe by his deed of said
date, recorded in said records, vol. 19, page 20, conveyed his interest in said lands to Richard Fen. .

7. On February 1st, 1877 , an attachment was levied on the
interest of said Richard Fen in said lands, by Robert Green, in an
action returnable to the Superior Court for New London County,
which action is still pending therein.

8. [Richard Fen] is in possession of said lands.

The plaintiff claims:
1.  foreclosure of said judgment lien against all the defendants.
2. That he be put in possession of said lands.

1 300

Foreclosure of tam lien, brought by the town and
the tax-collector.’

1. At the annual town meeting of Tolland, held on November
8th, 187 6, the plaintiff, John Dun, was duly elected collector of the
town taxes in and for said town, to be. laid at such meeting for the
year then next ensuing, and accepted said oflice.

2. At said meeting, it was voted that a tax of seven mills on the
dollar be laid on the assessment list next to be completed, for the town
expenses for said year, and that the same be due and payable May
1st, 1877.

3. The defendant on October 1st, 1876, owned a farm in said
town, bounded North and East by highway, South by land of John
Doe, and West by land of Richard Roe, containing twenty-four
acres more or less, and on said day he signed and returned an assessment list to the assessors of said town, and swore to the same
before one of them, in which list said farm was included.

4. Said assessors assessed said farm at $1,000, and the same
was set in his list by them for said sum, and then constituted all his
taxable property.

5. Said assessors duly completed all their assessment lists, and
lodged an abstract of the same in the ofiice of the town clerk, on
December 14th, 1876.

6. On March 1st, 1877, the selectmen of said town made out and
signed a proper rate-bill, in which the sum of $7 .00 was set against
the defendant’s name, as the proportion of said tax which he was
to pay; and, on their application, Richard Fen, Esquire, a justice
of the peace residing in said town, signed and issued a warrant
directed to the plaintiff, J ohrf Dun, for the collection of the sums
due on said rate-bill.

7. The plaintiff, John Dun, on February 1st, 187 7, gave bonds
with surety, to the acceptance of the selectmen, for the faithful
discharge of the duties of his oliice as collector of said taxes.

8. The plaintiff, John Dun, published a notice in the Tolland
County Journal, a newspaper published in said county, three successive Weeks, beginning with the issue of said journal published
on April 10th, 187 7, and on said day posted a like notice on the
sign-post of said town, that he would receive payment of said taxes
on May 4th, 1877, at the store of David Dun, in said town, at any
time between the hours of 8 A. M. and 6 P. M.

9. On May 4th, 1877, the plaintiff, John Dun, was at said store
from 8 A. M. to 6 P. M., ready to receive such taxes.

10. The defendant has never paid said tax.

11. The plaintiff, John Dun, at divers times before August 1st,
1877, made diligent search for goods and chattels of the defendant,
on which to levy under his Warrant, but could find none, and none
were tendered.

12. On August 1st, 187 7, the selectmen of said town made,
signed, and caused to be recorded in the land records of said town,
their certificate describing said farm, the amount of said tax, with
the percentages due thereon to that date, being in all $7.21, and
stating that said tax became due May 1st, 187 7, and that atax lien
was claimed on said farm, for said amount, with such interest or
percentages as might thereafter accrue on the same.

The plaintiffs claim,

1. Judgment for the amount of said lien.

2. A foreclosure of said lien, by strict foreclosure, in favor of
said town, or by sale, as the court deems proper.

3. That in case ‘of a strict foreclosure which becomes absolute,
the title to the land be vested in the town.

131.

Foreclosure of a contractor’s lien on a ra/I3lroad.*

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and defendant executed a
contract, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy, for the
construction of a certain‘ section of railroad for the defendant.

2. The plaintiff began work under said contract on May 10th,
187 8, and completed the same on October 10th, 1878.

3. On October 10th, 187 8, the defendant owed the plaintiff
$50,000 for materials furnished and services rendered under said
contract.

4. Said sum remains due and unpaid.

5. On November 1st, 1878, the plaintiff signed and lodged
with the Secretary of this State a certificate of lien, under oath,
in due form, of which Exhibit B, hereto annexed, is a copy, and
which was duly recorded by said Secretary. '

The plaintiif claims a foreclosure of said lien.

132.

For fraud in sale of horses.
1. On August 2d, 187 9-, the plaintiff bargained with the defendant for the purchase of a horse belonging to the defendant, and

the defendant, to induce the plaintiff to buy said horse and to pay
$300 therefor, declared to the plaintiff that said horse was sound
in wind and limb, and free from any defect whatever.

2. The plaintiff, believing said statements to be true and in.
duced thereby, bought said horse and paid $300 to the defendant
therefor.

3. The defendant made said statements, knowing them to be
false, with intent thereby to induce the plaintiff to make said pur.
chase and to defraud him.

4. Said horse was in fact unsound, and then, and for a long
time before, had an incurable disease, called the glanders.

5. Said horse is unfit for use and of littlevalue, and the plaintiff hasexpended $50 in feeding and taking care of said horse,
and in endeavoring to cure him of said disease.

The plaintiff claims $400 damages.

133.

For misrepresenting the value of a trade and
business.

1. On May 15th,’ 1879, the defendant kept a circulating library
and carried on the trade of bookseller and stationer at a certain
building in Norwich, and was possessed of a lease of said building for the term of five years from April 1st, 187 7, and then
offered to sell to the plaintiff his interest in said unexpired lease
and said library and the stock, fixtures, and good-will of said
trade, and then pretended and represented to the plaintiff that the
profits of said circulating library, as theretofore conducted by the
defendant, had been at the rate of $200 a year, that the number
of subscribers to said library was from 150 to 160, and that

said building and trade, as theretofore conducted by the defendant,
produced profits at the rate of $800 a year;

2. The plaintiff believed said representations of the defendant
to be true, and was induced thereby to purchase, and did purchase,
of the defendant said lease, library, stock, fixtures, and good-will,
and paid him therefor $3,000. _

3. In fact, the profits of said circulating library had not been
over $50 a year. The number of subscribers to said library was less
than forty, and said building and trade, as conducted by defendant, had not produced profits at the rate of $300 a year.

4. The defendant made said false representations to the plain.
tiff well knowing them to be false, and with intent to induce the
plaintiff to make said purchase, and to defraud him.

5. Said lease, library, stock, fixtures, and goodwill were not
worth $1,000 at the time of their purchase by the plaintiff, and
the plaintiff has sustained great trouble and expense, viz.: $300 in
carrying on said trades, and in endeavoring to dispose of the same.

The plaintiff claims $2,500 damages.

134.
To annul a contract, for fraud.

1. On June 1st, 1877, the plaintiff was the owner of a farm
in Haddam [briefly descrzhing it].

2. The plaintiff was then old, infirm, and blind, and by reason
thereof incapacitated from attending properly ‘to business.

3. The defendant, on that day, fraudulently taking advantage
of the plaintiffs incapacity, procured his signature to a certain
writing, without paying him any consideration therefor, which
Writing he falsely and fraudulently represented to be a subscrip.
tion to the Farmer’s Magazz'ne for one year. .

4. The plaintiff on July 1st, 187 9, applied to the defendant for
information asto the contents of said writing; but he refused to
give him any information concerning it. '

5. The plaintiff is informed and believes and therefore avers that
said writing is a deed of said farm, or some interest therein, to the
defendant ; and that he intends to use the same for his own benefit,
and to the prejudice of the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims,

1. Judgment that said writing is void;

2, That the defendant produce the same, and deliver it up
to be canceled ; '

3. That he be enjoined against making any conveyance of any _

title, which he may claim under the same.

135.

On the statute, for fraud in contracting or escaping payment of a debt.

First Count.

1. On May 2d, 1879, the defendant owed, and now owes the
plaintiff $700, as evidenced by his note for that amount, dated
October 1st, 187 8, and payable six months after date, then and still
overdue and unpaid.

2. On October 1st, 187 8, the defendant applied to the plaintiff
for a loan, and then represented to the plaintiff that he owned a
piece of land in Berlin free from incumbrances, of the value of
$5,000.

3. The plaintiff believed said statement, and was induced thereby
to lend the defendant $700 upon his note payable in six months,
being the debt mentioned in paragraph first.

4. In fact the defendant did not own any land in Berlin, and
did not own any property subject to’ execution.

5. The defendant made said statement knowing it to be false,

and with intent to induce the plaintiff to make said loan, and to
defraud him.

Second Count.
1,. Paragraph first of the first count is made a part of this count.
2. At the time of making said note the defendant owned a

stock of dry goods, in a store in New Britain.

3. Afterwards the defendant removed and concealed said

goods, with intent to prevent their being taken on legal process.

4. When said note came due, the plaintiff made diligent search
for estate of the defendant, wherewith to satisfy his claim on said
note, but could find none.

Third Count.

1. {Same as ,1 in second count.]

2. After said note became due the defendant admitted that he

:owed the plaintiff the amount thereof, but refused to pay the

same.
3. At the time of said refusal the defendant had estate not

exempt from execution, more than sufficient to pay said debt, con.

cealed and withheld by him, so that it could not be taken by legal
process.

4. [Same as 4 in second count]

Fourth Count.

1. [Same as 1 in second count]

2. When said debt became due, the defendant had certain valuable rights of action, subject to be taken by foreign attachment.

3. The defendant, though duly requested, refused to disclose to
the plaintiff against Whom he had said ‘rights of action, with intent
thereby to prevent the same from being taken by foreign attachment.

4 [Same as 4 in second count]

The plaintiff claims, by force of the statute in such case provided,

$800 damages.
1 36.

For money lost at gaming.*

1. On May 1st, 1879, and within three months before the
bringing of this action, the plaintiff, by playing at a game of
cards, and by betting on the same, lost $25, and paid said sum to
the defendant, who Won said game and bet.

2. Said money has not been repaid to the plaintiff.

3. This action is brought to recover said money, under the
statute as to Gaming and Wagers.

The plaintiff claims $30 damages.

137.

By purchaser of the good-will of his business,
from a physician, toenjoiu his continuing inpractice [and for damages].

1. On July 1st, 1877, the defendant, being a physician practicing in Hartford and its vicinity, in consideration that the plaintiff, who was also a physician, Would purchase of him the good-will
of his practice, for $1,000, agreed with the plaintiff that he would
not practice medicine, or in any manner do business as a physician
in Hartford county, at any time after said day.

2. The plaintiff accordingly, on said day, purchased from the
defendant the goodwill of his said practice, for the price and on
the terms aforesaid, and paid said sum therefor.

3. The plaintiff on said day opened and has since. maintained
an office in said Hartford, as a practicing physician.

4. The defendant, in violation of his said agreement, on January ‘_

1st, 1878, opened an oihce in Hartford, and commenced, and still
continues to practice medicine, and to do business as a physician
in said county.

[5. The plaintiffs professional income has been thereby much
lessened.]

The plaintiff claims, .

1. That the defendant be enjoined from continuing in such
practice. ' l

[2. $5,000 damages. Omit this claim, if no damages are sought]

138.

On a guaranty of a precedent debt.

1. _ On April 1st, 1879, one John Stiles, being then indebted to
the plaintiff in the sum of $1,000, which was then due and payable,
the defendant, in consideration of forbearance of suit by the plaintiff for said debt, for sixty days, ‘signed and delivered to the
plaintiff, a memorandum, of which the following is a. copy [copy of
the guaranty].

2. The plaintiff performed all the conditions thereof on his
part, and $1,000 is now due to him thereon from the defendant,
and unpaid.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

139.
Habeas corpus.

To the Honorable Superior Court now in session at New Haven, in

and for the County of New Haven.

John Doe of New Haven, in said county, complains ‘and says: '

that he now is, and for many days last past has been, confined
and holden in imprisonment without law or right, in the county jail
in New Haven, by David Dun, the sheriff of said county.

The complainant prays this honorable Court to issue a writ of
habeas corpus, to bring him, with the cause of his imprisonment,
before said Court, to the end that what appertains to justice may
be done.

Dated at New Haven, October 1st, 1879.

JOHN DOE.

N aw HAVEN Counrr, ss. NEW HAVEN.
On this first day of October, 187 9, personally appeared John

Doe, above named, and made solemn oath that he verily believes

that he is illegally deprived of his liberty; before me.
' JAMES FEN,

Justice of the peace.
140.

Petition for highway in two towns.

To the Sherif of the County of, etc.:

By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are hereby commanded to summon the town of East Hartford and the town of
Manchester, to appear before the Superior Court, to be holden at
Hartford, on the second Tuesday of September, 1879, then
and there to answer unto John Stiles of East Hartford, whereupon the plaintiff complains and says:

1. Public convenience and necessity require a new highway to
be laid out, leading from a point in the highway in East Hartford
whichpasses the dwelling-house of John Doe, directly in front of
said house, to a point in the highway in Manchester, commonly
called Eastern Turnpike, about 500 rods’ southerly from the intersection of said Eastern Turnpike with Manchester highway, so
called.

2. The selectmen of East Hartford, on March 10th, 1879,
refused to lay out said proposed highway so far as the same runs
through East Hartford, and still refuse so to do.

3. The selectmen of Manchester, on April 2d, 187 9, refused to
lay out said proposed highway so far as the same runs through
Manchester, and still refuse so to do.

The plaintiff claims judgment for the lay-out of such highway,

p and an assessment of the damages and benefits incident thereto.

[Add date, signature, &:c., as in other wrz'ts.]

141.

For. the lay-out of a highway, all in one town.

1. A highway from Woodbridge Center to the west line of
Hamden. leading over West Rock, near Mill brook falls, is and
long has been demanded by common convenience and necessity.

2. On September 1st, 1879, the plaintiffs requested the selectmen of Woodbridge to lay out such a highway, and they refused

so to do.
The plaintiffs claim judgment for the lay-out of such highway,
and an assessment of the damages and benefits incident thereto.

142.

Against a man for necessaries supplied to his
wife, without his request. '

1. On May 1st, 1879, sundry articles described in Exhibit A
hereto annexed, were necessary for the use of Sarah Doe, the
wife of the defendant. '

2. The defendant neglected to supply her with said articles,
or any of them.

3. On said day, at her request, the plaintiff supplied her with
said articles, for her use and consumption.

4. Said articles were Worth $150.

5. The plaintiff has never been paid for the same.

The pla.intiE claims $200 damages.

143.

Against husband and wife, for goods sold upon
the credit of her separate estate.

1. Between January 1st, 187 9, and August 1st, 187 9, the
plaintiff furnished to the defendant, Sarah Doe, who then was, and
still is, the Wife of the defendant, John Doe, materials used to
build a house for her, upon and for the benefit of her own separate lands, situated in Danbury, and upon the credit of her said
separate estate.

2. Said Sarah Doe, in consideration that the plaintiff would
furnish such materials as aforesaid, then and there promised the
plaintiff that she would pay for the same as much as they should
be reasonably worth, out of her own separate property, and did
appoint the same to be paid for out of her separate property.

3. Such materials so furnished were reasonably worth $4,000,
which sum became due to the plaintiff from her on August 15th,
187 9, but no part thereof has been paid. 4. Said lands are bounded and described as follows, [descrz'bz'ng
them,] and were, at and before the marriage of the defendants,

since have been, and now are, her sole and separate property; and

are worth about $10,000.

The plaintiff claims, that said separate property of Sarah Doe be
charged with the payment of said sum of $4,000, and the costs of
this action, and be applied to the payment of the same.

144.

_On an agreement of indemnity.

1. On November 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff and defendant, being
partners in business under the firm name of Smith & Jones, dissolved said partnership, and mutually agreed that the defendant
should take and keep all the partnership property, pay all debts of
the firm, and indemnify the plaintiff against all claims that might be
made upon him on account of any indebtedness of said firm.

2. The plaintiff duly performed all the conditions of said
agreement on his part. 1

3. A judgment for $1,050.25 was recovered against the plaintiff and defendant by one William Brown, in the Superior Court
for Hartford County, at its January Term, 1879, upon a debt due
from said firm to said Brown, and, afterwards, on May 15th, 1879,
the plaintiff was compelled to pay, and paid $1,070 in satisfaction
of an execution issued on the same.

4. The defendant has not paid the same to the ‘plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

145.
B3/‘a parent, for services of a minor son.

1. C. B. rendered services to the defendant, at his request, as a
clerk in his store at Somers, from May 1st, 1878, until November

1st, 1878.
2. Such services were reasonably worth $100 [or, allege price

agreed, as in general form].
3. Said C. B. is the son of the plaintiff, and was then, and is

now under twenty-one years of age.
4. The defendant has not paid the plaintiff for said services.
The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

146.

For an injunction to restrain a nuisance by
noise.

1. The plaintiff owns and, since the year 1870, has owned and
resided in the house known as N o. 100 Main street, in Hartford.

2. The defendant in May, 187 9, owned a lot of land on said
street, adjoining the plaintiff's said homestead lot, and erected thereon a brick factory, known as No. 102 Main street, and put a steam

trip-hammer therein, and has ever since owned and operated said
factory. for manufacturing purposes, and in so doing has used said
trip-hammer, almost daily. ,

3. The use of said trip-hammer makes so loud a noise as to
render it impossible, while it is being operated, to hear ordinary
conversation in the plaintiffs house, and causes great discomfort
to him and his family.

4. The plaintiff on June 1st, 187 9, notified the defendant that
such use of said trip-hammer was a nuisance, for said reasons, and
requested him to discontinue its use, but the defendant refused so
to do. _

The plaintiff claims an injunction to restrain the defendant from
any such use of said trip-hammer in said factory.

147.
Against inn-keeper for refusing lodging.

1. On April 17th, 1879, the defendant was an inn-keeper, and
kept a common inn in Bristol, known as the Mansion House.

2.‘ On said day the plaintiff, being a traveler, entered said inn
and requested of the defendant to permit him to stay and lodge at
said inn during the night of the same day, and offered to pay a
reasonable sum for such lodging. '

. 3. The defendant, in violation of his duty, did not permit the
plaintiff to lodge at said inn during the night aforesaid as requested, although he had room to accommodate him.

4. The plaintiff was therefore obliged to leave said inn and
travel five miles to another inn for lodging, and to expend three
dollars in being conveyed to said other inn, and was exposed to
severe and inclement weather, whereby he became and was for a
long time ill, and unable to attend to his ordinary business.

The plaintiff claims $150 damages.

148.

Against inn-keeper, for loss of goods.

1. At the time -hereinafter mentioned, the defendant was an
inn-keeper, and kept a common inn known as the “Wilson house”

at Winsted.
2. On June 7th, 1879, the plaintiff, being a traveler, was received

by the defendant in his said inn, as such, and then brought into
said inn, as a part of his baggage, and committed to the charge of
the defendant as such inn-keeper, a trunk containing his necessary
wearing apparel, and other articles reasonable for a traveler to

‘carry, the property of the plaintiff.

3. Said trunk continued in the charge of the defendant in said
inn, and the plaintiff abode there as a traveler, until the loss hereinafter mentioned. .

4. The defendant, in violation_ of his duty, did not keep said
trunk and its contents safely, and on June 10th, 1879, the same was,
through his neglect and default, taken away by some person to the
plaintiff unknown, and has never been returned.

The plaintiff claims $7 5 damages.

149.
On a fire insurance policy.

1. The plaintiff [was the owner of, or.] had an interest in a
dwelling-house, known as No. 100 State street, Hartford, at the
time of its insurance and of the fire, hereinafter mentioned.

2. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant was, and still is, a corporation, duly incorporated under the laws of this State, with power
to insure risks by fire. _

3. On said day, in consideration of $140, to it paid, the defendant executed to the plaintiff a policy of insurance on said house, a
copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A [or state its
tenor].

4. On March 1st, 1879, said house was totally destroyed [or
greatly damaged] by fire.

5. The plaintiffs loss thereby was $3,000.

6. On April 1st, 1879, be furnished the defendant with proof
of his said loss and interest, and otherwise duly performed all the
conditions of said policy on his part. '

7. The defendant has not paid said loss.

The plaintiff claims $3,200 damages.

150.

The same, where the insurance was a renewal.

[As in the preceding form inserting after paragraph 3 the following.']
4. On July 1st, 187 9, the defendant, in consideration of $50 to
it paid by the plaintiff, renewed said insurance for one year from

said day, on the same terms and conditions as in the original
policy.

[Continue as in 4, 5, 6, 7, etc., in preceding 

151.

The same, where the plaintif purchased the
property after the insurance.

[As in Form 149, substituting, in the averment of the policy, the name
of the original insured in place of the words “ the plaz'7ztif,' ” and the
following instead of paragraph 4.]

4. At the time of making said insurance [or, at the time of the

commencement of the risk], and from then until the assignment‘

hereinafter mentioned, said [original insured] had an interest in the
property insured as the owner [or, mortgagee, or otherwise] thereof,
to an amount exceeding the amount of said insurance.

5. On January 10th, 1879, With the consent of the defendant
duly given in writing on said policy, said [original insured] sold,
assigned, and conveyed to the plaintiff his interest in said [property
insured], and in the policy of insurance. _

[Continue as in Form No. 149, paragraphs 4, 5, 6, and 7

The plaintiff claims $3,200 damages.

152.
On a fire policy, correcting an alleged mistake.

1. The plaintiff was the owner of a woolen factory, and certain
goods therein, in Hartford, at the time of the insurance and fire,
hereinafter mentioned.

2. On July 1st, 1878, in consideration of $200 to it paid, the
defendant executed to the plaintiff a policy of insurance on said
‘property, a copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A, in
which the insurance on said factory is stated to be for the amount
of $5,000, and that on said goods to be for the amount of $10,000.

3. The insurance agreed upon by both the plaintiff and the defendant, on said day, prior to the execution of said policy, was
$10,000 on the factory, and $5,000 on the goods, and these
amounts were transposed in the policy, by the mistake of the clerk
who filled it up.

4. On March 15th, 1879, said factory was totally destroyed by
fire, but said goods were saved without loss.

5. The plaintiff did not read said policy or know of said mistake therein, until after said iire.

6. The factory was worth over $10,000 When destroyed.

7. On April 10th, 1879, he furnished the defendant with proof
of his said loss and interest, and otherwise duly performed all the
conditions of the policy on his part.

8. The defendant has not paid said loss.

The plaintiff claims

1. A reformation of said policy by the correction of said mistake.

2. $12,000 damages, by Way of equitable relief.

153.

By [assignee of] the /insured, on an agreement
to /insure /when policy never issued.

1. [Incorporation of defendant may be stated as in Form 149.]

2. On and before July 1st, 1878, the Winsted Manufacturing
Company, a corporation established at Winsted, applied _ to John
Stiles, the agent of the defendant, duly authorized to make the
contract hereinafter mentioned, for insurance against loss or
damage by fire, upon a certain stock of merchandise, the property
of said Winsted Manufacturing Company, consisting of scythes
contained in a building occupied by it for storing, blacking,
bluing, and packing scythes, in Winsted. And the defendant,
by its said agent, on said day agreed to become an insurer to
said Company on said stock for three months from said day, for
$5,000, for a premium of $50, and to execute and deliver to said
Winsted Manufacturing Company a policy of insurance in the
usual form of policies issued by the defendant, for $5,000, for said
term.

3. The Winsted Manufacturing Company then and there paid
to the defendant said premium of $50.

4. It Was then and there agreed between said Company and
the defendant, that said insurance should be binding on the defendant for three months from the time of the receipt of said premium,
for the amount of $5,000, and the defendant then and there, in
consideration of the premises, promised said Company to execute
and deliver to it, in a reasonable time, a policy in the usual form
of its policies, insuring said stock to said amount, against loss and
damage by fire, for said term. _

5. The defendant, by the policies of insurance issued in its usual
form (among other things), promises and agrees [here set out legal

efect of the contemplated policy ; e. g.] to make good unto the insured
all such immediate loss or damage, not exceeding in amount the
sum insured, as shall happen by fire to the property insured, within
the time for which the insurance is made. the loss or damage to be
estimated according to the actual cash value of the property at the
time the loss shall happen; the loss to be paid within sixty days
after notice and proof thereof made by the insured, and received at
the defendant’s office, in conformity to the conditions annexed to
the policy.

6. After the insurance so made, and after said promise to execute and deliver a policy in conformity thereto, and within said
term for which the Winsted Manufacturing Company was so
insured, to wit, on August 20th, 1878, said stock of merchandise
in said building, mentioned in said agreement, was damaged and

‘in part destroyed [or, was totally destroyed] by fire, and said Com

pany thereby sustained loss and damage to a large amount, to wit,
$20,000, and to more than $5,000 over and above all insurance
thereon. '

7. Said Company duly fulfilled all the conditions of said agree.

ment and insurance on its part, and more than sixty days [or other-.

wise as required by the policy,] before the commencement of this
action, to wit, on August 24th, 187 8, gave to the defendant due
notice and proof of the loss as aforesaid, and duly demanded payment of said $5,000.

8. The same has not been paid.

9. [On October 1st, 187 8, the Winsted Manufacturing Company, for a valuable consideration, duly assigned to this plaintiE
said agreement and insurance, and its claim against the defendant
thereon, of which the defendant had due notice; and the plaintiff
is now the actual and bona fide owner of the same.]

The plaintiff claims $6,000 damages.

154.
Life polio/I3es—-by executor.

1. [For allegation of incorporation of defendant, see Form 149 ]

2. On October 1st, 187 5, in consideration of the payment to
the defendant, by one John Stiles, late of Hartford, deceased, of
a premium of $150, and of a like sum, to be paid to it by him,
annually during his life, the defendant made its policy of insurance
in Writing, a copy of which is annexed, marked Exhibit A, and

thereby insured the life of John Stiles in the sum of $5,000.

3. On June 1st, 1879, John Stiles died [which death was not
caused by any cause excepted in the policy].

4. Said John Stiles left a will, by which the plaintiif was appointed executor.

5. On June 10th, 1879, said will was duly proved, and the
plaintiff thereupon duly qualified as such executor. .

6. Said John Stiles duly fulfilled all the conditions of said
insurance on his part.

7. The plaintiff made due proof of the death of said Stiles,
in accordance with the requirements of the policy, on June 15th,
1879.

8. The amount of said insurance has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $5,200 damages.

155.

By wife, partner, or creditor.

1. [For allegationxof incorporation, see Form 149.] _ _

2. On July 1st, 1876, in consideration of the payment by the
plaintiff to the defendant of $100, and of the annual premium
of $100, to be paid to it thereafter by the plaintiff, during the life
of John Stiles, the defendant, made and delivered to the plaintiif
its policy of insurance upon the life of John Stiles, a copy of
which is annexed, marked Exhibit A; and thereby insured said
life in the sum of $3,000, payable to the plaintiff.

3. The plaintiff was then the wife of John Stiles [or, the partner of John Stiles, in the business of, etc., or, a creditor of John
Stiles, to the amount of $3,000, stating facts showing the interest in
the life], and as such had an insurable interest in his life.

4. On October 1st, 1878, John Stiles died, which death Was
not caused by [any cause excepted in the policy]. ‘

5. John Stiles duly fulfilled all. the conditions of said insurance
on his part. .

6. The plaintiff duly fulfilled all the conditions of said insurance
on his [her] part, and made due proof of death, according to the
requirements of the policy;

7. The amount of said insurance has not been paid.
The plaintid claims $3,200 damages.

156.
By assignee in trust for wife of insured.

1. [For allegation of incorporation of defendant, see Form No. 149.]

2. On June 1st, 1877, in consideration of the payment by one
John Stiles, to the defendant, of $150, and of the premium of
$150 to be paid to it by him annually during his life, the defendant made its policy of insurance, a copy of which is annexed,
marked Exhibit A; and thereby insured the life of John Stiles in
the sum of $5,000.

3. On July 1st, 1878, John Stiles [with the written consent of
the defendant, duly ind_orsed on the policy, or otherwise state such
consent as is required by the terms of the policy] duly assigned said
policy to the plaintiff in trust for Mary Stiles, his wife.

4. Up to the time of the death of John Stiles, all premiums
accrued upon said policy were duly paid.

5. On April 1st, 1879, John Stiles died, which death was not
caused by [any cause excepted in the policy].

6. Said John Stiles and the plaintiff each duly fulfilled all the
conditions of said insurance on their part, and the plaintiii, more
than sixty days [or as otherwise required by the policy] before this
action, to wit, on April 20th, 1879, gave to the defendant due
notice and proof of the death of John Stiles as aforesaid, and
demanded payment of said sum.

7. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $5,300 damages.

157.

Against a marine insurance company, on an
(open) policy, for a total loss.

1. The plaintiff was the owner of [or, had an interest in] the
ship N orthumberland, at the time of her insurance and loss, as
hereinafter mentioned.

2. On January 2d, 1879, the defendant, in consideration of
$500 to it paid, executed to him a policy of insurance upon said
ship, a copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A, [or,
whereby it promised to pay to the plaintiif within sixty days after
proof of loss and interest, all loss and damage accruing to him by
reason of the destruction or injury of said ship, during its next
voyage from New Haven to Havana, Cuba, whether by perils of the
sea, or by fire, or by other causes therein mentioned, not exceeding
$10,000].

3. Said vessel, while proceeding on the voyage mentioned in
said policy, was, on March 1st, 1879, totally lost by the perils of
the sea.

4. The plaintiffs loss thereby was $15,000.

5. On April 1st, 1879, he furnished the defendant with proof
of his loss and interest, and otherwise duly performed all the conditions of said policy on his part.

6. The defendant. has not paid said loss.

The plaintiff claims $11,000 damages.

158.

Ave/rment of loss by collision.

[Substitute for paragraph 3, in preceding form,‘

3. On February 17th, 187 9, while said ship or vessel in said
policy named, with said goods on board, was proceeding on said
voyage, and before her arrival at her port of destination in said
policy mentioned, another vessel, known as the General Washington, [or, the name of which is unknown to the plaintiff,] with great
force and violence was carried against and ran foul of said ship,
and said ship thereby was sunk and lost, with said goods, which
thereby were wholly lost to the plaintiff.

159.
On cargo, lost by flre;—valued policy.

1. The plaintiff was the owner of [or, had an interest in] one
hundred bales of cotton on board the ship Henry Clay, at the
time of the insurance and loss hereinafter mentioned.

2. On March 1st, 1879, the defendant, in consideration of $100,
which the plaintiff then paid, executed to him a policy of insurance
upon said goods, a copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit
A [or, whereby it promised to pay to the plaintiff $5,000, in case of
the total loss, by fire or other causes mentioned, of said goods,
before their landing at Havana, or, in case of partial damage,
such loss as the plaintiff might sustain thereby, provided the same
should exceed ten per cent. of the whole value of the goods].

3. On March 15th, 187 9, while said ship was proceeding on the
voyage mentioned in said policy, said goods were totally destroyed
by fire.

4 and 5. [As in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Form No. 157

The plaintid claims $5,500 daniages.

160.
On freight ;

1. The plaintiff had an interest in the freight to be earned
by the ship Siddons on her voyage from New Haven to Constantinople, at the time of the insurance and loss hereinafter mentioned,
and a large quantity of goods Were shipped upon freight in her at
that time. ‘

2. On July 1st, 187 8, the defendant, in consideration of $100 to
it by him paid, executed to the plaintiff a policy of insurance upon
said freight, a copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit
A [or, state its tenor, as before].

3. Said vessel, while proceeding upon the voyage mentioned
in said policy, was, on August 15th, 187 8, totally lost by the perils
of the sea. ~

4. The plaintiff has not received any freight from said vessel, nor did she earn any on said voyage, by reason of her loss
as aforesaid.

5 and 6. [As in Form No. 157.]

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

valued policy.

161.
For a loss by general average.

1. The plaintiE was the owner of one hundred bales of cotton
shipped on board a vessel called the Bridgeport, from New York
to Liverpool, at the time of the insurance and loss hereinafter menioned. '

2. On February 1st, 187 9, in consideration of $200, to it by him
then paid, the defendant executed to the plaintiff a policy of insurance upon said goods, a copy of which is hereto annexed, marked
Exhibit A [or state its tenor, as before].

3. On February 17th, 1879, while proceeding on the voyage
mentioned in said policy, said vessel was so endangered by perils of
the sea, that the master and crew thereof were compelled to, and
did cast into the sea a large part of her rigging and furniture.

4. The plaintiff was, by reason thereof, compelled to pay and
did pay a general average loss of $1,000.

5. On March 15th, 187 9, he furnished the defendant due proof
of his loss and interest, and otherwise duly performed all the conditions of said policy on his part. .

6. The defendant has not paid said loss.
The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

162.

For a particular average loss.

1 and 2. [As in the preceding form.]

3. On February 17th, 1879, while on the high seas, the sea
water broke into said ship, and damaged said cotton to the amount
of $1,000.

4 and 5. [As in 5 and 6 of the preceding form._]

The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

163.
I n tcrpleader.

1. On January 1st, 187 9, penjamin Brown deposited with the
plaintiff one United States four per cent. coupon bond N 0. 10,000,
payable to bearer on'January 1st, 1907.

2. On February 1st, 1879, the defendant John Jones notified
the plaintid that he claimed the same, under an assignment thereof
to him from said Brown, and demanded the same from the plaintiff.

3'. On the same day, the defendant John Johnson also notified
the plaintiff that he claimed the same under an order of said Brown
transferring the same to him, and demanded the same from the
plaintiff. ' ‘

4. The plaintiff is ignorant of therespective rights of the defendants.

5. He has no claim upon said property, and is ready and Willing to deliver it to such person as the court shall direct.

6. On May 1st, 1879, each of the defendants threatened to sue
the plaintiff for said bond.

The plaintiff claims,

1. That the defendants be restrained, by injunction, from
taking any proceedings against the plaintiff in relation thereto.

2. That they be required to interplead together concerning
their claims to said property.

3. That upon delivering the same to such person as the court
may order, the plaintiff be discharged from all liabilityto any of
the defendants in relation thereto.

164. ,

Against liquor-seller, for injuries done by a
drunken man.*

1. On May 1st, 1879, at Bridgeport, John Stiles, of said town,
Was intoxicated, and in consequence thereof carelessly and violently
drove his cart against the Wagon of the plaintiff, and thereby broke
the hind wheels of said Wagon, and otherwise injured it, to the
extent of $75.

2. John Stiles became and was intoxicated, as aforesaid, by
drinking intoxicating liquor which had been sold to him on said
day, shortly before -the grievance above complained of, by the
defendant.

The'p_laintiff claims $100 damages, under the statute in such
case provided. 1 6

165.

Against lessee and guarantor, for a joint judgment against both.

1. On January 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and the defendant, John
Doe, executed a lease [under seal] of the store No. 100 Chapel street,
New Haven, and the defendant, Richard Roe, signed, for value
received, a guaranty of the performance of its covenants by John
Doe; as appears by said lease and the guaranty at the foot of it, a
copy of which is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A.

2. The quarter’s rent of $400 due under said lease, on April
1st, 1879, is wholly unpaid.

3. The plaintiff notified Richard Roe on April 2d, 187 9, that
said rent was due and unpaid.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

166.

On a judgment.

1. .On May 1st, "1879. the plaintiff recovered a judgment against
the defendant before the Superior Court in and for the County of

O Hartford, at its January Term, in said year, for $1,050.50.

'2. Said judgment remains wholly unsatisfied [or, said judgment
has ‘been satisfied in -part only, to wit: to the extent of $500].
The plaintiff claims [$800] damages.

167.
On ct judgment of a justice of the peace.

1.‘ On May 1st, 1878, before John Doe, Esq., a justice of the
peace residing in Essex, the plaintiff recovered a judgment, against
the defendant, for $50, in a civil action wherein this plaintiff was
plaintiff [or, defendant], and the defendant herein was defendant

' [or, plaintiff].

2. The same has not been paid.
The plaintiff claims $60 damages.

168.
On a judgment, by an assignee.

1_— On May 1st, 1878, before the Court of Common Pleas in
Hartford county, [073 before John Doe, Esq., a justice of the peaco
residing in Granby,] one James Roe recovered a judgment which
was duly given by said court [or, justice] against the defendant, for
$100, in an action wherein the said James Roe was plaintiff, and
the defendant was defendant [or otherwise as the case was].

2. On June 1st, 1878, James Roe duly assigned said judgment
to the plaintiff, for value, [of which the defendant had due notice,].
and ‘the plaintiff is now the actual, bona flde owner of said judgment.

3. N 0 part thereof has been paid [except, etc.].

The plaintiff claims $120 damages.

169.
On a foreign judgment.

1. On Ju1y«10th, 1879, at Boston, in the State of Massachusetts,
the Supreme Judicial Court of that State, in an action therein pend
ing between the plaintiff and the defendant, duly adjudged that
the defendant should pay to the plaintiff $1,175.

2. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,300 damages.

170.

. For repayment of a judgment, paid and afterwards reversed.

1. On January 10th, 1879, the defendant recovered judgment
against the plaintiff before the Court of Common Pleas in and for
Hartford County, at its January Term in said year, for $345.25.

2. On January 20th, 1879, the plaintiif was compelled to
pay and did pay to the defendant $350, in satisfaction of said
judgment.

3. After said payment, the plaintiff brought a. Writ of error
on said judgment, to the Supreme Court of Errors for the First
Judicial District, and at the May Term of said Court, held at
Hartford, in said year, by the judgment of said court said judgment was duly reversed, for a cause which showed that said action
could not be maintained.

4. The defendant has not repaid the same.

The plaintiE claims $400 damages.

1'71.

For rent reserved in a lease.

1. On May 1st, 187 8, the defendant entered into a lease with
the plaintiff, under their hands and seals, a copy of Which is hereto
annexed, marked Exhibit A. [Or state the substance of the agreement.]

2. The defendant has not paid the rent for the [quarter] ending
on August 1st, 1878, amounting to $125.

The plaintiff claims $150 damages.

1 7 2.
For use and occupation at a fixed rent.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant  of the plaintiff the
house and lot, N o. 100 State street, New Haven, at the monthly
rent of $12, payable on the last days of each month.

2. The defendant occupied said premises from May 1st to
August 1st, 1878.

3.’ The defendant has not paid $12, being the part of said rent
due on the thirty-first day of July, 187 8.

The plaintiff claims $15 damages.

173.

Lessor against assignee of lessee.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and one John Stiles executed
a lease, of which a. copy is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A.

2. [By virtue thereof, John Stiles, on June 3d, 187 8, entered
into the demised premises, and was possessed thereof.]

3. Thereafter, and during said term, on April 1st, 187 9,
_I'_'namz'ng a day before the breach] all the estate and interest of
John Stiles in said term, by an assignment then by him made,
became vested in the defendant, who thereupon entered into the
demised premises, and became possessed thereof [and continued so
possessed from thence hitherto, or, until, etc.]. .

4. During the time the defendant was so possessed of the premises, on June 1st, 1879, $250 rent, for the quarter ending on that
day, became due to the plaintiff from the defendant.

5. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

174.

Lessor against executors of lessee, for rent due
before his death.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and John Stiles, late of
Hartford, deceased, executed a lease, of which a copy is hereto
annexed, marked Exhibit A.

2. [By virtue thereof, John Stiles, on June 3d, 187 8, entered
into the demised premises, and was possessed thereof.]

3. During said term. on October 3d, 1878, John Stiles died,
leaving a will appointing the defendants his executors.

4. Said will has been duly proved, and the defendants have
duly qualified as executors. '

5. $250 rent, under said lease, for the quarter ending on September 1st, 1878, [a day before the Zessee’.s death] became due on said
day to the plaintiff from John Stiles.

6. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

1'75.

Lessor against executors of lessee, for rent due
from them personally on their own occupation. ’

[As in preceding form down to paragraph 4, z'ncZusz've.]

5. As such executors, the defendants took possession of, and
occupied the premises under said lease.

6. After the death of John Stiles, and while the defendants
were so in possession, $250 rent, under said lease, for the quarter
ending on December 1st, 1878, on that day became due to the
plaintiff from the defendants.

7. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

176.

Grantee of reversion, against lessee.

1. John Stiles, of Hartford, being the owner of a house, No.
500 Main street, in sHartford, by a lease, dated June 11th, 187 8,
made between him and the defendant, [a copy of which is hereto
annexed, marked Exhibit A,] let said house to the defendant for
three years, from July 1st, 1878, for the yearly rent of $1,000,
payable to John Stiles, his heirs, and assigns, ' on the [state days
of payment].

[2. By virtue thereof, the defendant entered into the demised
premises, and was possessed thereof]

3. Thereafter, on April 10th, 187 9, John Sti1es,,by deed, conveyed the demised premises to the plaintiff [of which the defendant had due notice]. ' ,

4. Thereafter, on July 1st, 1879, $250, rent for the quarter ending on that day, became due to the plaintiff from the defendant.

5. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

177.

Devisee of the [reversion and] rent, against an
assignee of part of the premises.

1. John Doe, late of Hartford, deceased, being the owner of
the two houses on Main street in Hartford, known as Doe’s block,
on June 1st, 187 8, by lease then made between him and one John

Stiles [a copy of which is hereto annexed marked Exhibit A],
leased said premises to John Stiles for three years, from June 1st,
1878, for the yearly rent of $600 for each house, payable to John
Doe, his heirs, and assigns on the [state days of payment], which
rent John Stiles did thereby covenant to pay to John Doe, his

. heirs and assigns, accordingly.

2. By virtue thereof, John Stiles entered into the demised
premises, and was possessed thereof.

3. Thereafter, and during said term, on November 1st, 1878,
[naminga day before the breach] John Stiles duly assigned to the
defendant, all his interest in the south house of said block, and
thereby the defendant entered into possession, and became tenant
of such house.

4. On November 15th, 1878, John Doe died, having by his
will devised the [reversion and] rent of said premises to the plaintiff.

5. Said will was duly proved on November 23d, 187 8.

6. Thereafter, on December 1st, 1878, $150 rent, under said
lease, for the quarter ending on that day, became due to the plaintiff
from the defendant. ‘

7. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $200 damages.

1'78.

Ass/ignee of rent against lessee.

[1, and 2, as in preceding f0rm.] '

3. On April 1st, 1879, John Doe duly assigned to the plaintiff,
for a valuable consideration, said covenant and all his right to the
rent therein secured, and the plaintiif is now the actual, bona fide,
owner thereof. .

[4 and 5, same as 6 and 7, in the preceding form.]

179.

Executor of reversioner against lessee.

1. John Stiles, late of Hartford, deceased, being the owner of
the tenements hereinafter mentioned, on [elc., stale the lease, and the

V covenants which were broken, as in the preceding fbrms].

2. John Stiles, on May 1st, 1879, died seized of the reversion in
said demised premises, leaving a will, in which he appointed the
plaintiff executor.

3. Said will has been duly proved, and the plaintiff has duly
qualified as such executor,

4. The estate of John Stiles is still in course of settlement.

5. On October 1st, 1879, $250 rent, under said lease, for the
quarter ending on that day, became due to the plaintiff, as such
executor, from the defendant.

6. The same has not been paid.

The p1aintiE, as such executor, claims $300 damages.

1800

Against landlord, for breach of covenant to
keep premises in repair, with special damage.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and the defendant, signed
and sealed a lease, by which the defendant leased to the plaintiff
the premises known as No. 100 Main street, in Hartford, for one
year from that date.

2. Said lease contained a covenant on the part of defendant, of
Which the following is a copy [copy of covenant to keep in repair].

3. The plaintiff entered into possession of said premises under
said lease, and used the same as a store and Warehouse for storing
and selling various articles of dry goods.

4. The defendant has failed to perform said covenant and keep
the premises in repair, and has allowed the walls and roof to become
and remain leaky, by means whereof the Water has entered- said
premises and utterly ruined a portion of his said goods, and seriously injured others.

The p1aintiE claims $500 damages.

181.

Against landlord, for breach of covenant for
quiet possession.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and the defendant signed
and sealed a lease by which the plaintiff hired and the defendant
leased for the term of three years from said date, at a yearly
rent of $1,000 [briey‘ly designate the premises].

2. Said lease contained a covenant on the part of the defendant, of Which the following is a copy [copy of covenant for quiet
possession, or state its substance].

3. The plaintiff has not been permitted peaceably to occupy

and enjoy the ‘possession of said premises; but, on the contrary,
after the commencement of the term, and on July 1st, 1878, one
John Stiles, who at the time of making said lease, and thereafter,
until the last mentioned day, Was the lawful owner [or lawfully
entitled to the possession] of said premises, entered upon the same
and ejected the plaintiff therefrom, and has ever since kept him
out of possession of the same [or designate what part]. ’

4. [Allege special damage  any, e. g., as follows  The plaintid,
confiding in the said covenant of the defendant, had purchased a
number of farming utensils for the cultivation of said premises,
and had entered upon said premises and commenced to raise
grain and fruit thereon, when he was so ejected; and by reason
of the defendant’s failure to fulfil said covenant, said farming
utensils became of little or no value to him, and he Was deprived
of the result of his time and labor in cultivating said premises.

The plaintiff claims $800 damages.

182.

Against landlord, for breach of agreement to
complete demised building.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiif and defendant signed an
agreement, of which Exhibit “A,” hereto annexed is a copy [copy
agreement to complete unfinished warehouse, in the same manner as an
acljoining building, and let it to the plaintif giving possession on a day
named].

2. On June 1st, 187 8, the plaintiii took possession of the first
floor and basement of said building, under said agreement, in reliance on the assurance of the defendant, that said premises were
finished in the same manner as the store then occupied by Richard
Fen, in the same street, and in accordance With the terms of said
agreement.

3. Said premises were not finished in the same manner as
said store, but the roof of the building, and the gutters, Watercourses, and leaders therefrom, were constructed and finished in
a different and less perfect manner than those upon that store.

4. In consequence thereof, the Water falling upon the roofs of
said building mentioned in said agreement was obstructed and
prevented from passing off through the gutters, water-courses, or
leader, and was forced back upon and ran through the skylight in
the roof, and down into said first floor and basement.

The plaintiif claims $100 damages.

183.

By lessor, for an injunction restraining waste,
and damages for waste already done.

1.’ The plaintiff owns in fee .a house in Danbury, known as
N o. 100 Main street.

2. The defendant is in possession of said house, under a. lease
from the plaintiff.

3. Said house contains in each bed-room, a marble wash-basin
in a stationary Wash-stand, supplied by pipes with Water, from a
tank in the attic.

4. The defendant threatens to remove said basins, pipes, and
Wash-stands from said house, and has detached six of said basins
and wash-stands, in order to remove them; all which is without the
plaintiff’s consent. .

The plaintiff claims:

(1) An injunction to restrain said Waste.

(2) $100 damages.

184.

On a promise to pay for the surrender of a lease.

1. At’ the time hereinafter mentioned, the plaintiff had a lease
of a house and lot in Newtown, for a term commencing on the
1st day of May, 1877, and ending on the 1st day of May, 1880,
under which he was entitled to the possession of said house
and lot.

2. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant being the owner of [07,
having purchased] the reversion of said premises, subject to the
unexpired term of the lease, promised the plaintiff that in consideration that he, the plaintiff, would surrender to the defendant the
unexpired term and the possession, he would pay the plaintiff the
sum of $500 [on, etc.].

3. The plaintiff thereupon accordingly surrendered the unexpired term and the possession to the defendant.

[0r, 3. The plaintiff duly performed all the conditions thereof
on his part.]

4. Said sum has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

185.

Libel.

1. On June 10th, 187 8, at New Haven, the defendant published
in a letter addressed to John Doe the following Words concerning
the plaintiff : “ Richard Roe is a man to avoid. He is in the habit
of obtaining goods and credit on false representations.”

' 2. Said publication was false and malicious.

The plaintiff claims $3,000 damages.

186.
Libel, with special damage.

1. The plaintiff is, and for more than ten years last past has
been a merchant, engaged in the wholesale dry goods business, in
Bridgeport.

2. On December 10th, 1878, the defendant published in a
newspaper called the Brzrlgeport Times the following words concerning the plaintiff: “John Smith of this city has modestly
retired to foreign lands. It is said that creditors, to the amount
of $50,000, are anxiously seeking his address.”

3. The defendant meant thereby that the plaintiff had absconded to avoid his creditors, and with intent to defraud them.

4. Said publication was false and malicious.

5. Said publication was read by several of the plaintiff's customers, and led them to decline to enter into certain businets engagements with the plaintiff, which they otherwise would have
entered into, whereby the plaintiff suffered heavy pecuniary loss.

The plaintiff claims $5,000 damages.

1870

Malicious prosecution.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant stated to John Roe, a
grand-juror for the Town of Berlin, that the plaintiff had committed the crime of theft, and procured from him a complaint
charging the plaintiff with stealing a gold watch of the defendant.

2; The plaintiff was arrested upon said charge and brought
before Richard Roe, Esquire, justice of the peace for Hartford
county, at said Berlin, and in consequence of the false testimony
of the defendant, was bound over to the June Criminal Term,
1878, of the Superior Court for Hartford county for trial.

3. The defendant appeared before said Superior Court, and
charged the plaintiff with having committed the crime of which
he was so accused.

4. Said charge was in fact false, and the plaintiff upon trial
therefor at said Superior Court was acquitted and discharged.

5. The defendant made said charge from motives of malice.

6. There was no reasonable or probable cause for said prosecution.

7. The plaintiff is, and for five years last past has been a retail
dealer in groceries, and said prosecution has injured the plaintiff
in his business and caused many persons to cease from trading
with him, has injured his reputation, and cost him $250 in conducting his defence.

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

188.

Against a physician for malpractice.

1. The plaintid, in May, 1878, employed the defendant, being
a physician, as such, to attend him and cure him of a fever from
which he then suffered, for compensation to be paid therefor,
and for that purpose the defendant undertook, as a physician, to
attend and care for the plaintiff.

2. The defendant then entered upon such employment, but did
not use due and proper care or skill in endeavoring to cure the plaintiff of said fever, in this: that the defendant, at an early stage of
the plaintiffs malady, bled the plaintiff to a profuse and immoderate
extent, taking from him twenty ounces of blood, the same being an
excessive and injurious quantity, and which the defendant, if he
had used proper care and skill, would not ‘have taken; and, also,
in this: that the defendant, on the fourteen days next following,
unskillfully and negligently administered to the plaintiE five grains
of mercury every six hours during that time; the same being excessive and injurious doses, and which the defendant, if he had used
due and proper care and. skill, would not have administered to
the plaintiff.

3. By reason of the premises, the plaintiff was injured in his
health and constitution, suffered great pain, was weakened in
body, and was obliged to, and did expend the sum of $1,000, in

' endeavoring to be cured of said sickness, which was prolonged

and increased by said unskillful and improper conduct of the
defendant. '
The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

189.
Against a surgeon, for the same.

1. The defendant being a surgeon, the plaintiif, in May, 187 8,
employed him, as such, to set and heal the leg of the plaintiif,
which was broken, and for that purpose the defendant undertook
as a surgeon to attend and care for the plaintiff.

2. ‘The defendant so negligently and unskillfully conducted
himself in setting and attempting to heal the plaintiffs leg, as to
bring on inflammation, and make it necessary to have it amputated.

3. By reason of the defendant’s said negligence, the plaintiff
Was made sick, and kept from attending to any business for six

months, and was put to great expense, and has been, and still is,‘

disabled from attending to any business.
The plaintiff claims $1,500 damages.

190.
Motion for writ of mandamus.

To the Honorable Superior Court now in session at Hartford, in and

for the county of Hartford, comes John Fen, State’s Attorney for said
county, and shows to said Court that,

1. The Hartford and New Haven Railroad Company was incorporated by the General Assembly of this State in 1833, with
power to construct and operate, and for the purpose of constructing and operating, a railroad for the transportation of passengers
and freight from Hartford to the navigable waters of New Haven
harbor, at some point between the canal basin and the west end of
Tom1inson’s bridge.

2. The road was soon after constructed and put into operation
between Hartford and the waters of New Haven harbor, at a
point within the prescribed limits.

3. The road connected, at its terminus at New Haven harbor,
with a line of steamboats, which was established and run under a
charter granted by the General Assembly of this State, for
the transportation of persons and freight from said railroad to the
city of New York, and from the latter to said railroad.

4. Said railroad and line of steamboats have for a long time
constituted a direct and important route for the public travel,
greatly accommodating the same, and necessary to the public convenience.

5. The respondent is bound by the terms of its charter to
run its cars and transport passengers to said terminus, to such an

extent as to afford reasonable accommodation -to the travelingpublic.

6. The respondent, on May 1st, 1879, wholly discontinued the
running of its passenger trains to said terminus, although often
requested to continue them by persons desirous,of being transported over that part of its road, and ever since has refused, and
now refuses to run its passenger cars over that part of its road.

Said Attorney moves this honorable Court to issue a writ of
mandamus, requiring said corporation to run its cars over that
part of its road, in such manner as shall reasonably accommodate
the public travel and conform to the requirements of its charter,
or to signify cause to the contrary thereof to this Court, to be
holden at Hartford, within and for the county of Hartford, on
the second Tuesday of September, 1879.

Dated at Hartford this 21st day of May, 1879.

JOHN FEN,
State's Attorney for Hartford County. '

191.
Writ of mandamus.

Hanrronn COUNTY,
Summon Counr,
. January Term, 1879.
To the Hartford and New Haven Railroad Company, a corporation
incorporated by the State of Connecticut, and located at Hartford—

GREETING: . _

1. Whereas said Hartford and New Haven Railroad Company was incorporated by the General Assembly, in 1833, with
power to construct and operate, and for the purpose of constructing
and operating, a railroad for the transportation of passengers and
freight from Hartford to the navigable waters of New Haven
harbor, at some point between the canal basin and the west end
of Tomlinson’s bridge;

2. And whereas the road was soon after constructed and put

into operation between Hartford and the waters of New Haven harbor, at a point within the prescribed limits;

3. And whereas the road connected at its terminus with a line
of steamboats ‘which was established and run, under a charter
granted by the General Assembly, for the transportation of persons
and freight from said railroad to the city of New York, and from
the latter to said railroad;

4. And whereas said railroad and line of steamboats have for
a long time constituted a direct and important route for the public
travel, greatly accommodating the same, and necessary to the public
convenience; '

5. And whereas, said railroad company is bound by the
terms of its charter to run its cars and transport passengers to said
terminus, to such an extent as to afford reasonable accommodation
to the traveling public ; H

6. And whereas said railroad company on May 1st, 1879, wholly
discontinued the running of its passenger trains to said terminus,
although often requested to continue them by persons desirous of
being transported over that part of its road, and ever since has
refused and now refuses to’ run its passenger cars over that part of
its road; as by the application, on file, of John Fen, State’s
Attorney for Hartford County, it is understood:

Therefore, that due and speedy justice may be done in this behalf, it is hereby required and enjoined of you, the said Hartford
and New Haven Railroad Company, that on or before the second
Tuesday of September, 1879, you commence and continue to run
your cars over that portion of your road, in such a manner as shall
reasonably accommodate the public travel and conform to the requirements of your charter; or signify cause to the contrary thereof
to this Court, to be holden at Hartford, in and for said county of
Hartford, on the second Tuesday of September, 1879.

By order of Court.
RICHARD ROE,

Clerk.
1 9 2 .

For breach of contract to manufacture goods.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant agreed with the plaintiff to
manufacture and deliver to him within four months thereafter,
50,000 slats for elliptic spring beds similar to a. certain sample,
then and there left by the plaintiff with the defendant, for the
price of $5,000, which the plaintiff agreed to pay him therefor.

2. The defendant did manufacture, under said agreement, 50,000
slats, but manufactured them in an unskillful and unworkmanlike
manner, and not similar to said sample, and on August 15th, 1878,
offered to deliver the same to the plaintiff.

3. The plaintiff declined to accept the same, on account of said

defects.
The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

193.

On a promise to manufacture wool into satinets.

1. On October 1st, 1878, the defendant, in consideration that
at his request, the plaintiff had delivered to him, fifteen bags of
Wool, of the value of $750, to be manufactured into satinets for
a reasonable compensation, to be paid him by the plaintiff, undertook to cause said Wool to be manufactured into satinets, and to
deliver the same to the plaintiff early in the next spring, or as soon
afterwards as the same could be finished. ‘

2. Said Wool Was so manufactured by the defendant, before
May 1st, 1879, on which day the plaintiff demanded said satinets
of the defendant, and then and there offered to pay him a. reasonable compensation for his services in manufacturing the same.

3. The defendant then, and ever since, neglected and refused
to deliver the same, and has appropriated them to his own use.

[Or, 2. The defendant did not manufacture said wool into
satinets, although a reasonable time therefor elapsed before this

action.] _ _
[0r, 2. The defendant so negligently and unskillfully manufactured said Wool that the satinets Wereof no value.]
The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

1940

For goods made at def‘endant’s request, and
not accepted.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant employed the plaintiff to
make for him [designate articles], and agreed to pay for the same,
upon delivery thereof, $1,000.

2. The plaintiff made said [articles], in conformity With the
terms of said employment, and on July 1st, 1879, tendered the
same to the defendant, and has ever since been ready and Willing
to deliver them. ’

3. The defendant has not accepted or paid for the same.
The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

195.
For breach of contract to employ.

1. On April 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and defendant mutually
agreed that the plaintiff should serve the defendant as an accountant, and that the defendant should employ the plaintiff as
such, for one year, and pay him for his services $120 a month.

2. On April 2d, 187 8, the plaintiff entered upon the service of
the defendant as aforesaid, and has ever since been, and still is,
ready and willing to continue in such service.

3. On August 1st, 1878, the defendant wrongfully discharged
the plaintiff, and refused to permit him to serve as aforesaid, and
has never paid him anything for his services.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

196.

The same, where the employment never took

efect.
1. [As in preceding form.]

2. On April 2d, 187 8, the plaintiff offered to enter upon the
service of the defendant, and has ever since been ready and willing

so to do.
3. The defendant refused to permit the plaintiff to enter upon

such service, or to pay him anything under said contract.
The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

. 197.
For breach of contract to serve.

1. On July 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff and defendant mutually
agreed that the plaintiff, who was then a carriage manufacturer,
should employ the defendant as a foreman in his carriage factory,
at an annual compensation of $1,200, payable monthly, in equal
payments, and that the defendant should serve the plaintiff as such
for one year. .

2. The plaintiff has always been ready and willing to perform

his part of said agreement.
3. The defendant entered upon the service of the plaintiff on

said day, but afterwards, on January 2d, 1879», refused [and has
ever since refused] to continue to serve the plaintiff as aforesaid.
The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

198.  

For rescission of a contract, on the ground of
mistake.

1. On July 1st, 187 9, the, defendant represented to the plaintiff
that a certain farm belonging to thedefendant, in the town of
Hinsdale, and State of Massachusetts, contained, by actual survey,
one hundred and five acres. '

2. The plaintiff was thereby induced to purchase the same at
the price of $10,000, in the belief that said representation Was
true, and signed an agreement, of which the defendant has a duplicate, and of Which a copy is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A;
but no deed of the farm has been executed to him. 1

3. On August lst, 1879, the plaintiff paid the defendant $1,000,
as part of such purchase money. '

4. Said farm contained in fact only fifty acres, whereby the
value of saidpremises was materially lessened.

5. The plaintiff, on September 1st, 1879, notified the defendant
that he found said farm to contain only fifty acres, and that, for
this cause, he rescinded said contract, and demanded that it be
delivered up to him, and said $1,000 returned. '

The plaintiff claims,

1. $1,200 damages.

2. That said agreement be delivered up and canceled.

1990

To reform a conveyance, by correcting mistake in
boundary.

1. On April lst, 1879, the defendant executed and delivered
to the plaintiff a deed, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a
copy.

2. The description therein given of the premises intended to
be conveyed thereby Was erroneous, and does not describe any
premises whatever, because the Word ‘- southerly,” as last used in
said description, was inserted, by mistake of the parties to said
deed, instead of the Word “northerly.”

3. In order to make said deed pass the premises, and to make_
it conform to the actual intention of the parties, said description
should be amended by substituting the Word “northerly,” for the
Word ‘~ southerly,” where the latter word is last used therein.

4. The plaintiff has paid to the defendant the contract price
for said premises.

5. The plaintiff, on May 1st, 1879, told the defendant of said
mistake, and asked him to execute a new and proper deed, in order
to pass the title, but the defendant refused to do so.

The plaintid claims that said deed be reformed by correcting
said mistake.

200.

By one having paid the debt of another, to be
'repaid on demand.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff paid $50 to the use of the
defendant, and at his request, to be repaid on demand, in paying to
one John Doe one quarter’s rent of the house then occupied by
the defendant [or, otherwise show what the debt was].

2. The plaintiff, on July 1st, 1879, demanded payment of the
same from the defendant.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.
The plaintiff claims $70 damages.

201.

By one having paid the debt of another, to be re’ paid on a day certain.

I. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff paid to the use of the defendant, and at his request, $1,000, in paying to one John Doe a promissory note for said sum, made by the defendant.

2. The defendant promised to repay said sum [With interest] to
the plaintiff, on July 1st, 1879.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

202.

For money received by the defendant, through
the mistake of the plaintiji".

1. On May 30th, 1877, the plaintiff, intending to pay the defens
dant $50, paid him $500 by mistake.

.2. On June 5th, 187 7, the plaintiff demanded of the defendant
the sum so over paid.

3. The defendant has not repaid the same.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

203.

For money had and received.

1. On January 1st, 1877, the defendant received $500 from
James Brown, to be paid to the plaintiff, on demand.
2. On January 10th, 187 7, the plaintiff demanded said sum
of the defendant, who refused to pay it, and it remains unpaid.
The plaintiff claims $600 damages.

204.

For money paid to a third party, at the defendant’s request.

1. On June 2d, 1877 , at the request of the defendant, the
plaintiff paid to one James Brown $100.

2. In consideration thereof, the defendant promised to pay said
sum to the plaintiff, on demand.

3. On July 1st, 1877, the plaintiff demanded payment from the
defendant.

4. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $120 damages.

205.
Application for writ of ne eweatf‘

T o the Superior Court in and for Fa—z'rfield County, now in session at
Danbury, in said County, at its Term commencing on the third Tuesday of September, 1879.

,The application of Jane Doe, of Bethel, respectfully represents :

1. She obtained from this honorable Court, at its Term holden
at Bridgeport, in said county, on the third Tuesday of April, 187 9,
a decree of divorce from John Doe, of Bethel, to Whom she had
been formerly married, and for the payment by him to her of
$5,000, as alimony.

2. Said alimony has not been paid.

3. The defendant, on September 10th, 187 9, declared that he
would never pay a cent of said alimony, and would be out of the
reach of all the courts in Connecticut Within a fortnight.

4. The defendant has no visible property, open to attachment

or levy, known to the plaintiff, but has abundant means for the
payment of said alimony, concealed in his possession or control.
The plaintiff asks that a Writ of ne exeat may forthwith issue to
prevent the defendant from leaving this State, until he has paid
said alimony.
Dated at Danbury, September 11th, 1879.
' JANE DOE.

Subscribed and sworn to, at Danbury, this 11th day of Sep.
tember, 1879, before me. V
RICHARD FEN,

Justice of the peace.

206.
Writ of ne caveat.

SUPERIOR COURT,
FAIRFIELD COUNTY,
September Term, 187 9.

To the S72erzf‘ of Fairfield County, or his deputy:

Whereas the following application of Jane Doe, duly verified by
her afiidavit, has been presented to this Court, to wit [recite application]: '

And whereas it is found that reasonable cause exists for granting the prayer of said petition,

These are, therefore, by authority of the State of Connecticut,
to command you to require said John Doe, of Bethel, to give a bond,
with sufficient surety, to your acceptance, in the penal sum of
$7,000, payable to the Sheriff of said county, or his successors in
otiice, conditioned that said John Doe shall not depart from this
State, without leave of this Court; and, if said John Doe shall
neglect or refuse to give such bond, upon your demand, you are
directed to arrest his body, and commit’ him to the common jail
in said county, and the keeper of said jail is, in such case, hereby
commanded to receive and safely keep him, within said jail, until
he give such bond, or be discharged according to law; and you
are further directed to deliver, in such case, to the keeper of said
jail an attested copy of this writ, with your doings thereon
indorsed.

Hereof fail not, but make due service and return.

By order of Court,
Clerk.

207.

Against a watchmaker, for want of skill.

1. The plaintiff on May 1st, 187 9, delivered to the defendant,
who was then a watchmaker, a watch of the plaintiff, of the value
of $100, to be repaired, for reward.

2. The defendant, in repairing said watch, did it so carelessly
and unskilfully, that he broke the main-spring, and ‘otherwise injured it, so that the plaintiff has thereby ever since wholly lost the
use of said watch.

The plaintiff claims $125 damages.

208.

Against a blacksmitli, for bad work.

1. The plaintiff on May 1st, 1879, emplo.yed the defendant, who
was then a blacksmith, to shoe his horse for reward. ‘

2. The defendant, in shoeing said horse, did it so carelessly and
unskilfully, that he pricked and wounded his right fore foot, and
thereby said horse was lamed and hurt, and the plaintiff lost the
use of him for three months, and laid out money in his cure, and
the value of said horse was greatly lessened.

The plaintiff claims $40 damages.

2090
Against a tailor for spoiling a garment.

1. The defendant for more than one yearlast past has been a.
tailor, and has followed that business and trade.

2. On May 5th, 1879, the. plaintiff delivered to the defendant,
as such tailor, two yards of broadcloth of the valueof $10, to be
made into a coat by the defendant for the plaintiff, for reward,
and the defendant received said cloth for that purpose. T

3. The defendant afterwards, in violation of his duty, unskilfully, carelessly, and negligently made said coat, and by reason of
the carelessness and negligence of the defendant, the same was
wholly unfit for the plaintiff, so that he could not wear it ; by means
whereof he has wholly lost said cloth delivered to the defendant
as aforesaid.

The plaintiff claims $12 damages.

210.

For negligence in use of public street.

1. On May 11th, 1879, the defendant placed a large quantity
of building materials in the public highway known as Main street,
Hartford, and left the same there for several days.

2. Said materials were placed so as unnecessarily to obstruct
the highway, and in an improper and negligent manner, and, during
the night time, were left without placing any light or signal to indicate danger.

3. In consequence of said negligence, and improper conduct of
the defendant, in the night time of said day, the carriage of the
plaintiff, with the plaintiff therein, then passing through saidstreet,
was accidentally and without fault or negligence on his part,
driven against said obstructions, and was thereby overturned, and
the plaintiff thrown out.

4. Said carriage was badly broken. and the plaintiff was severely bruised in consequence of said accident.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

2 1 1 .
Against master for negligence of servant.

1. At the time of the grievances complained of the plaintiff was a
cook in the service of John Doe, at N o. 74 King street, New Haven,
and the defendant was an ice merchant.

2.. On August 2d, 1879, John Stiles, a servant of the defendant, acting in the line of his service, delivered ice at the house of
said John Doe, and while so doing, and by reason of his negligence,
allowed a block of ice weighing 100 pounds to fall on the plaintiff
from a great height.

3. The plaintiff was thereby severely bruised and her shoulder
broken, and she became, in consequence of said injuries, person.
ally disabled and disfigured.

4. By reason of said injuries, the plaintiff has been prevented
for a long time from attending to her business, and has incurred
a large expense, to wit, $125, for nursing and medical attendance.

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

2 1 2 .
On note ; payee against maker.

1. On May 1st. 187 8, the defendant, by his note, promised to
pay to the plaintiff $100 six [days] after date, [or, on demand,]
for value received.

2. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $120 damages.

213.

First indorsee against maker.

1. On May 1st, 187 8, the defendant, by his note, promised to
pay to the order of one William Brown, $500 [ days after
date], for value received.

2. Said Brown indorsed the same to the plaintiff.

3. The plaintiff still owns said note, and it has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $550 damages.

214.

Subsequent indorsee against maker.

1. [As in the preceding form.]

2. The same was, by the indorsement_ of the said Brown, and
of Aaron Brown and Charles Dorman, [or, and others,] transferred
to the plaintiff.

3. [As in preceding form.]

The plaintiff claims $550 damages.

215.

First indorsee against jirst indorser, on note
payable at Bank.

1. The defendant indorsed to the plaintiff a note made [or,
purporting to have been made], by one William Brown, on the 1st
day of April. 1878, to the order of the defendant, for the sum of
$1,000, payable thirty days after date at the State Bank, Hartford,
for value received.

2. On the 3d day of May, 187 8, the same was presented at said
Bank, for payment, but Was not paid. [Or state facts excusing want

of presentment]
3. Notice thereof Was duly given to the defendant.

4. [Same as 3, in Form A70. 213.]
The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

Subsequent indorsee against first indorser; the
indorsement being special.

1. The defendant indorsed to one John Robinson a. note, made
by one William Brown, on May 1st, 1878, to the order of the
defendant, for the sum of $1,000 [payable 30 days after date], for
value received. ' ‘

2. The same was by the indorsement of said Robinson [and
others] transferred to the plaintiff. [ Or: Said Robinson indorsed

the same to the plaintiff]
[Continue as in Form No. 215, except that presentment should be

alleged, as made “ to said Brown,” instead of "at said Bank.”]
The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

217.

Subsequent indorsee against his immediate indo/rser.

1. The defendant indorsed to the plaintiff a promissory note,
made [or, purporting to have been made] by one William Brown,
on May 1st, 1878, to the order of one John Robinson, for $1,000,
payable sixty days after said date, for value received, and indorsed
by said Robinson to the defendant. '

[Continue as in Form No. 215.]

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

218.

Subsequent indo/rsee against intermediate indorser.

1. A promissory note, made [or, purporting to have been made]
by one William Brown, on May 1st, 1878, to the order of one
John J enks, for $1,000, payable 60 days after date, for value
received, and indorsed by said J enks to the defendant, Was by the
indorsement of the defendant [and others] transferred to the
plaintiff.

[As in Form No. 215.]

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

219.

Subsequent tndorsee against maker,’ first and
second tndorser. ‘

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant John Jones, by his note,
promised ,to pay to the order of the defendant, William Brown,
$1,000 [three months after date], for value received.

2. Said Brown indorsed the same to the defendant John Robinson, who indorsed it to the plaintiff.

3. On August 3d, 1878, the same was presented [or state facts
eascuszng word of presentment] to John Jones for payment, but was
not paid. a

4. Notice thereof was duly given to William Brown and John
Robinson. ‘

5. They have not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

220.

On a note made by partners.

1. The defendants, under their firm-name of John Stiles & Co.,
made their note, dated May 15th, 1879, whereby they promised
to pay to the plaintiff, or his order, $1 ,000, four months after date,
for value received.

2. Said note is still the property of the plaintiff, and has not
been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

221.

By partners, on a note payable to the order of
their jtrm-name.

1. The defendant made his note, dated June 10th, 187 9,
whereby he promised to pay to the plaintiffs, under their firmname of John Doe 8; Co., or order, $1,000, four months after said
date, for value received.

2. [As in preceding form.]

The plaintiffs claim $1,200 damages.

222.

By a surviving partner, on a note payable to
the order of his late firm.

1.‘ At the time of the making of the note hereinafter mentioned,
the plaintiff and one John Doe were partners, doing business under
the firm-name of Richard Fen & Co.

2. On June 14th, 1879, the defendant made his note in writing,
dated on that day, and thereby promised to pay to them, under
their said firm-name, or ’ their order, $1,000, three months after
date, for value received.

3. The same has not been paid.
4. On July 15th, 1879, John Doe died, leaving‘ the plaintiff the

sole surviving partner of said firm, and, as such, he still owns said ‘

note.
The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

‘ 223.
By payee against surviving maker.

1. At the time of the making of the note hereinafter mentioned, the defendant and one John Doe Were partners, doing
business under the firm-name of John Stiles & Co.

2. On March 1st, 187 8, they made, under their said firm-name,
their note in Writing, dated 'on that day, and thereby promised to
pay to the plaintiff, or his order, $1,000, three months after date,
for value received.

3. The same has not been paid, and is still owned by the plaintiff.

4. On May 15th, 1878, John Doe died, leaving the defendant
the sole surviving partner of said firm.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

224.

By maker of accommodation note, having paid it.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff made and delivered to the
defendant his promissory note [describe or copy note].

2. It Was an accommodation note, without consideration, given
to the defendant, at his request, and upon his promise that he would

pay it at maturity.

3. The defendant before its maturity negotiated it for value.

4. He failed to pay it at maturity, and the plaintiff was thereupon compelled to pay and did pay it on September 4th, 1878.
5. The defendant has not repaid the same.
The plaintiff claims [$1,000] damages.

225.

On a note payable at a certain time after sight.

1. [Allege the note as in preceding forms.]

2. On May 1st, 1879, said note was duly presented to the
defendant [maker], with notice that payment was required according to the terms thereof.

3. [Allege non-payment, as in preceding forms.]

226.

Remote indorsee against his immediate indorsers.

1. Heretofore John Stiles & Co. made their note in Writing,
dated May 1st, 1879; and thereby promised to pay to the order of

' James Doe $1,000, 60 days after said date [or, on, &c.].

2. The said payee then and there [or, thereafter] indorsed the

same to the defendants.
3. Thereafter, and before this action, the defendants indorsed

the same to the plaintiff. ‘
[Continue as in Form No. 2

227.

Special averment of excuses for non-presentment, where the maker could not be found.

At the maturity of said note, due search and inquiry Was made
for said [maker] at [the place of payment], in order that the same
might be duly presented to him for payment, but he could not be
found, and the same was not paid; of all which due notice was
given to -the defendant.

228.
The same, where the indorser has waived notice.

[Commence as in preceding forms.] _
3. At maturity said note was duly presented for payment, but

was not paid.

4. The plaintiif did not give the defendant notice of non-payment, and the defendant afterwards, with full knowledge thereof,
promised to pay said note.’

[Continue as in preceding forms]

229.

The same, where demand and notice were both
waived.

[Commence as in preceding forms]

‘ 3. Afterwards, and before this action, the defendant indorsed
said note to the plaintiff, and in and by said indorsement, expressly
waived any demand and notice.

4. The plaintiff still owns said note, and it remains unpaid.
The piaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

230.

Payee of negotiable note against an indorser in
blank.

1. On May 1st, 1878, John Doe made his note, dated on that
day, and thereby promised to pay to the order of the plaintiff
$500, four months after date.

2. The defendant indorsed said note, in blank, before John Doe
delivered it to the plaintiii‘.

3. Said note at maturity was duly presented for payment, but
was not paid; and immediately thereupon the plaintiff caused a writ
of attachment to be issued thereon against John Doe, and committed it to a proper officer for service, and said ofhcer made diligent
search for property of said Doe to attach thereon, but could find
none; of all which due notice was given to the defendant.

4. Said note was made by John Doe, and indorsed by the defendant, for the purpose of paying for coal sold and delivered by
the plaintiff to John Doe, on the credit of such indorsement;
the defendant indorsed the same for the purpose of procuring for
said maker a credit with the plaintiff, knowing that it would be so
applied; and said note was so passed and indorsed by the defendant to the plaintiff, in payment for coal then sold and delivered,

_ [or, as a security for the loan by the plaintif of the sum therein menI tioned].
5. The same has not been paid.
The plaintiif claims $600 damages.

0231.

On a note, by a surviving payee, and the administrator of a deceased payee.

1. On January 1st, 1879, the defendant signed and delivered to
the plaintiff, John Stiles, and Richard Roe, now deceased, his note
of said date. for $1,000, payable’ to them, or order, six months
from date, for value received.

2. On February 1st, 1879, said Richard Roe died, intestate.

3. On February 10th, 187 9, the plaintiff, Robert Fen, was duly
appointed administrator of the estate of said Richard Roe, and
duly qualified as such.

4. Said note is now the property of the plaintiffs and has not
been paid.

The plaintiifs claim $1,200 damages.

232.

On a joint note, against one of the makers, and
the executor of the other.

1. On January 1st, 1879, the defendant, John Roe, and Richard
Fen, now deceased, signed and delivered to the plaintiff, their note
of that date, for $1,000, payable to him, or order, six months
from date, for value received.

2. On February 1st, 1879, said Richard Fen died, leaving a
will, in which he appointed the defendant, John Doe, his executor.

3. On February 10th, 1879. said will was duly proved and
John Doe duly qualified as such executor.

4. Said note is now the property of the plaintiff and has not
been paid. The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

233.

By holder of note, against maker and indorser,
for a joint judgment against both.*

1. On January 1st, 1879, the defendant, John Stiles, executed
and delivered to the defendant, Richard Roe, his note of said date,

for $1,000, payable to the order of Richard Roe, thirty days from 7

date, for value received.

2. On January 6th, 1879, Richard Roe indorsed said note to
the plaintiff.

3. On February 3d, 1879, the plaintiff demanded payment of
the note from John Stiles, who did not pay it. . '

4. On February 4th, 1879, the plaintiff gave due notice of said
demand and refusal to Richard Roe. 5. Said note is now the property of the plaintiff and has not
been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

234.

Against the maker and indorser of a note, and
to reach collateral securities lodged with the
indorser by the maker.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant. John Jones, for the purpose of inducing the plaintiff to sell him certain goods for $1,000,
agreed to give him, in payment therefor, said defendant’s promissory note, indorsed by one William Brown; and represented to the
plaintiff that said Brown would be adequately indemnified by
collateral security for his indorsement. ‘

2. On said day the plaintiff Was thereby induced to sell and
deliver said goods to said Jones. —

3. On said day, in consideration of the premises, said Jones,
by his note of said date, promised to pay to the order of said
Brown $1,000, three months after date, for value received.

4. ‘Said Brown indorsed said note to the plaintiff.

5. On October 4th, 187 8, the same was presented to said Jones
for payment, but was not paid.

6. Said Brown had due notice thereof, on the next day.

7. The same has not yet been paid.

8. Said Jones, When he procured said indorsement from said
Brown, lodged with him six promissory notes for the aggregate
sum of $1,500, made by one John Johnson, and indorsed by said
Jones, as security for such indorsement.

9. Said Jones is endeavoring to Withdraw said notes from said
Brown, in order to prevent their application to said indorsement.

10. The plaintiff has requested said Brown to apply said notes
to the payment of the plaintiffs said claim, but he refuses to
do so.

The plaintiff claims,

1. $1,200 damages.

2. That said notes be delivered to the plaintiif, to be applied to
the payment of said sum.

3. That the defendants be restrained by injunction from disposing of said notes to any person, other than the plaintiff.

235.

For an injunction [and damages], in a case of
nuisance by maintenance of a slaughterhouse.

I. The plaintiff is, and at all the times hereinafter mentioned
was the owner of, and in possession of, the house and lot N o. 100
State street, in Hartford.

2. On July 1st, 1879, the defendant erected upon the adjoining
lot, N o. 98 State street, a slaughterhouse, and still maintains the
same, and from said day until the present time has continually
caused cattle to be brought and killed there, and has caused the
blood and oEa1 to be thrown into the street, near to said house of
the plaintiff.

3. The plaintiE’s house has, ever since said day, been thereby
rendered uninhabitable, by reason of the offensive sounds and
smells so caused by the defendant.

The plaintiff claims,

1. An injunction against the further use of said building as a

slaughter-house.
[2. $500 damages. Omit this claim,  no damages are sought

in this action.]

236.

Against selectmen for maliciously appointing
an overseer. '

1. At the time of the grievance herein complained of, the
defendants were and ever since have been selectmen of the town
of Enfield, and the defendant was an inhabitant of said town.

2. On February 18th, 1879, the defendants as such selectmen,
did, in compliance with the forms of law, appoint John Stiles of
Entield an overseer over the plaintiff, for three years from the date
of his appointment, to advise and order him in the management
of his business.

3. Before, and at the time of said appointment, the plaintiff
was prudent and discreet in the management of his affairs, and in

no respect likely to become chargeable to said town, and the defendants, with full knowledge thereof, made said appointment
without probable cause. i

-4. The defendants made said appointment with a malicious
intent thereby to injure, wrong, and oppress the plaintiff.

5. By reason of said appointment, the plaintiff was for the
space of six months deprived of the privilege of managing his
own affairs, and was obliged to expend a large sum, to wit, $7 5, in
obtaining the removal of said overseer.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

237.

On a joint and several o]?icer’s receipt.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff was a constable of New
Haven, and had in_ his hands for service a Writ of attachment
against John Doe.

2. On said day John Doe and the defendant signed and delivered to the plaintiff a receipt for certain property attached under
said writ, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

3. On May 1st, 1879, and during the continuance of said
attachment, lien, the plaintiff demanded said property of the
defendant, who failed to re-deliver the. same.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

° 238.
Partition.

1. The plaintiff and the defendant own, as tenants in common,
a block of two houses on Main street, in Hartford, known as N o.
100 and No. 102 Main street, situated upon a lot bounded East on
Main street, 50 feet, North on land of John Doe, 100 feet, West on
land of Richard Roe, 50 feet, and South on land of John Fen, 100
feet.

2. The plaintiii is in possession of an undivided half of said
property.

The plainti& claims a partition of said property.

239.

For partition, or sale.

1. The plaintiff and the defendants, William Smith and James
Smith, are in possession, as tenants in common, of certain real
property in New London, described as follows: [describing z't.]

2. Each of them has an estate in fee in one undivided third
part thereof. .

[1-3. The defendant, John Johnson, has a mortgage heretofore
executed by the defendant, James Smith, upon his said interest, for
the payment of $1,000 on July 15th, 187 8, with interest from that
time.] ’

The plaintiff claims, by way of equitable relief,

1. A partition of said real property, according to the respective
rights of the parties aforesaid; or,

2. If a partition cannot be had without material injury to those
rights, then a sale of said premises, and a division of the proceeds
between the parties, according to their rights. '

240.

By partners in a voyage for a settlement of the
proceeds.

1. On March 1st, 1876, John Doe and Richard Fen, partners
in trade under the firm name of Doe 8; Fen, Richard Roe, and the
plaintiff joined in chartering the ship General Washington, and
proceeded to (it her up with all the necessary appliances, furniture,
tackle, apparel, and provisions, for a whaling voyage to the Arctic
Ocean, and on April 1st, 1876, had laid out in the same $30,000,
of which Doe 8L Fen contributed $15,000, Richard Roe $5,000,
and the plaintiff $10,000.

2. Said ship sailed on said day, on said voyage, and returned
on December 1st, 1878, with a cargo of oil and whalebone worth
$60,000.

3. Richard Roe took charge of said ship and cargo, on her
return, by the consent of all parties, and sold the cargo, and received
said sum therefor.

4. Said Roe has paid, out of said proceeds, all expenses of the
voyage not previously advanced by the owners, and all moneys
due the officers and crew for their shares and pay, to their satisfaction; and has a considerable balance yet remaining in his hands.

5. The plaintiff, on May 1st, 187 9, demanded of said Roe an
account of his dealings with said. ship and cargo, and payment
of the moneys due the plaintiff on account of said voyage, but
said Roe refused to give such account or make any payment whatever to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff has never received anything
on account of said voyage.

6. The plaintiff is informed and believes, and therefore avers,
that said Doe & Fen have received payment to their satisfaction
from said Roe of the moneys claimed by them on account of said
voyage.

The plaintiff claims,

1. An account from Richard Roe.

2. A decree settling the shares due each of the several parties
on account of said voyage.

3. A decree for the payment of his share by said Roe, or by
said Roe and Doe & Fen, if said firm have received more than
their due share.

241.

To wind up a parmerslup, and for a receiver.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and the defendant formed a
partnership under articles, of which a copy is hereto annexed,
marked Exhibit A.

[Or  the agreement was not in writing, state its e~17'ecthbrz'efly,—e.g.,
under an agreement that the plaintiff should contribute the use of
$1,000 capital, and that the plaintiff and the defendant [copartners] should co-operate in the care and labors of the business,
and that the plaintiff should receive half the net profits, and upon a

dissolution of the partnership, repayment of his capital, With interest,

and that the defendant should receive half of the net profits]

2. The plaintiff and defendant now own a valuable lease of
the store N 0. 100 Main street, in Hartford, and a large and valuable
stock of goods, and they have also a large amount of debts due to
them, and a valuable good-Will.

3. On May 1st, 187 9, the defendant [or, the plaintiff] pursuant to
the provisions of said agreement, gave to the [defendant, or plaintzj] a Written notice of his intention to dissolve said partnership,
of which a copy is annexed, marked Exhibit B. r

4. A considerable amount of property belonging to the partnership is in the possession and under the control of the defendant,
which is liable to injury and waste, unless speedily sold; but he

neglects to sell the same, and refuses to allow it to be sold by
the plaintiff. '

5. There are unsettled co-partnership claims and demands, requiring attention; and the books and papers of the company are in
the defendant’s hands, and he wholly neglects to attend to the
business of settling the affairs of the company. i

The plaintiff claims, a

1. That a receiver of the property, rights, and good-will of
said partnership be appointed, with power to dispose of the same,
and to collect all debts, for the benefit of all parties entitled thereto.

2. That the proceeds thereof be divided, after payment of all
just debts of said partnership and the costs incident to this action,
between the parties hereto, according to their respective rights.

242.

Upon a promise made to a third person, to pay
money to the plaintifs; making the former a
defendant.

1.‘ On May 1st, 187 7, one John Stiles was, and ever since has
been, indebted to the plaintiffs in the sum of $2,000.

2. On that day, John Stiles, being the holder of a bill of exchange for the sum of $1,000 [descrz'b2'ng it], indorsed and delivered
it to the defendant, Jacob Doe, in consideration of which said Doe
then and there promised John Stiles that he would endeavor to collect the same, and that when collected he would apply the proceeds
in payment of said indebtedness of John Stiles to the plaintiffs;
of all which said Stiles, on said day, gave notice to the plaintiffs.

3. Afterwards, and on May 1st, 1878, said Doe collected said
bill.

4. Said Doe has not applied any part of the proceeds of said
bill, in payment of said indebtedness.

5. John Stiles was asked by the plaintiffs before this action to
join as a co-plaintiff herein, but declined to do so; for which reason he is made a defendant.

The plaintiffs claim judgment against Jacob Doe for $1,200
damages.

, 243. _
Application for writ of prohibition.

To the Superior Court, now in session at 1Vew Haven, in and for the
County of New Haven, at its Term commencing on the second T ues—
day of September, 1879.

John Doe, of New Haven, complains and says :

1. The Court of Common Pleas for New Haven county is
exceeding its jurisdiction, in that at its Term which commenced on
the first Monday of September, 1879, on the application of James
Fen, of Orange, it has ordered the issue of a writ of ne exeat, to
prevent this complainant from leaving this State, until he has
executed a certain deed in favor of said Fen.

2. Said writ is now being prepared by the clerk of said Court,
and this complainant is in danger of arrest thereunder, and is
aggrieved by such order of said Court.

The complainant prays that a rule may be granted against said
Fen, and also against David Dun, Esquire, Judge of said Court
of Common Pleas, to the end that they may appear before this
Court, and show cause why a writ of prohibition should not be
issued against them.

Dated at New Haven, September 10th, 187 9.

JOHN DOE.

244.
» Rule to show cause.

SUPERIOR COURT,
NEW HAVEN COUNTY,
September Term, 1879.

To James Fen of Orange, and to David Dun, Esquire, of New Ifaven,
Judge of the Court of Common Pleas for New Haven County .'

Whereas the following complaint has been made to this Court
by John Doe of New Haven, to Wit: (Recite complaint.) C

And whereas it has been ordered by this Court that a rule to
show cause issue thereon,

These are, therefore, to require you to appear before this Court,
at New Haven, on the 15th day of September, 1879, at
o’clock in the noon, then and there to show cause why a writ
of prohibition should not be issued against you.

By order of Court.

Clerk.

SUPERIOR COURT,
NEW HAVEN COUNTY,
September Term, 1879.

To the  of New Haven County, or his deputy:

By authority of the State of Connecticut you are hereby commanded to leave a true and attested copy of the foregoing rule to

- show cause with each_of the defendants thereto, to wit: James Fen

of Orange, and David Dun, Esquire, of New Haven, on or before
the 12th day of September, 1879.
Hereof fail not, but make due service and return.
By order of Court.
~ Clerk.

245.

Against pawnbroker, for a return of a pledge;
alternatively, for damages for its conversion.

1. In October, 1878, in consideration of a sum of money lent
to the plaintiff by the defendant, the plaintiff delivered to "the
defendant by way of pledge for said loan, to be re-delivered to the
plaintiff on his paying the defendant the amount of said loan and
interest, a gold watch, which was a gift to the plaintiff from his
father, who has since deceased. .

2. The plaintiff has repaid the defendant the amount of said
loan and interest.

3. The defendant refused to deliver said Watch to the plaintiff
on his repaying said loan and interest, and still refuses so to do.

The plaintiff claims

1. A return of said Watch, by way of equitable relief, or else

2. $500 damages.

246.

For the re-delivery of goods left in pledge, and i

an injunction.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the defendant lent the plaintiff $1,000.

2. On said day the plaintiff deposited with the defendant ten
gold Waltham Watches of the value of $125 each, and signed and
delivered to him an absolute bill of sale thereof.

3. Said deposit and bill of sale were understood by both parties to be, and were intended for, a pledge of said Watches merely,
to secure the repayment of said loan with interest.

4. On January 1st, 1879, the plaintiff tendered the defendant
$1,040, in repayment of said loan With interest, and requested the
re-delivery of said Watches.

5. The defendant, on said day, refused to accept said tender,
or to re-deliver said watches.

6. The defendant now threatens to sell said watches, claiming
them to be absolutely his own, under said bill of sale.

7. The plaintiff has been at all times since said tender, and
now is, ready to pay said sum to redeem said pledge.

The plaintiff claims,

1. An injunction against the sale or other disposition of said
watches.

2. Their re-delivery to the plaintiff, on his paying said sum of
$1,040 to the defendant, or into court.

247.

By one town against another, for eacpenses in
supporting a pauper. 1. On May 1st, 1879, John Stiles of Danbury, a person over
fourteen years of age, was residing in New Haven (the plaintzf
town), and was poor and unable to support himself, and in immediate need of support.

2. On said day, and for five weeks next following, the selectmen of New Haven furnished him with necessary support, at an
expense of $15, an account of the items of which is hereto annexed,
marked Exhibit A.

3. During all said time said Stiles belonged to Danbury.

4. On May 5th, 1879, the selectmen of New Haven gave due
notice, in writing, to the selectmen of Danbury of the condition of
said Stiles, and that he was chargeable in New Haven.

5. On July 1st, 1879, the selectmen of New Haven presented
to the selectmen of Danbury a bill of said - expense, similar to
Exhibit A, and demanded payment thereof.

Said expense of $15 has never been repaid to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $20 damages.

248.
Que? tam action on statute.

1. John Doe. late of New Haven, deceased, died on March 7 th,
1879, leaving a will duly executed and unrevoked, whereby the
defendant was appointed executor of said will. p

2. Before and at the time of said Doe’s death, the defendant
had knowledge of his appointment as such executor, and had such

will in his hands.

3. The defendant neglected for more than thirty days after the
death of said Doe, to exhibit said will for probate to the Court of
Probate for the District of New Haven, being the District where
said testator last dwelt, and has not yet exhibited said will for
probate.

The plaintiff claims. by force of the statute in such case provided,
$17 damages, one-half for his own use and the other half for the
use of the town of New Haven.

249.
Information in the nature of a quo warrra/nto.""

To the Honorable Superior Court, now in session at New Haven, in and

for New Haven County, at its Term commencing on the third Tuesday of December, A. D. 1875,

Comes Eleazer K. Foster, Esquire, State’s Attorney within and
for the County of New Haven, who in this behalf prosecutes in his
own proper person, and at the relation of Alvin L. Willoughby, of
New Haven, and gives the Court to understand and be informed
that,

1. On the firs’; Monday of October, 1875, said Willoughby was
a freeman of the city of New Haven, and an elector of the State
of Connecticut, and a resident of the Fourth Ward in said city,
and had been such freeman and resident for twenty-five years previous thereto.

2. Said Willoughby’s name, upon the day and year last aforesaid, was enrolled on the registry list of said Fourth Ward as a
voter thereof, and he had all the qualifications required by law to
entitle him to vote in said ward at any city election in said city,
or to be voted for, for the ofiiceiof councilman of said city, or to
hold the office of one of the councilmen of said city from said
Fourth Ward from the first day of January, 1876, to the first day
of January, 1877. '

3. On the first Monday of October, 1875, at the annual city
meeting of the city of New Haven for the election of three councilmen from each ward in said city, and for the election of other
oEicers in said city, in accordance with the provisions of law,
said Alvin L. Willoughby received a sufficient number of the
votes of the freemen resident in the Fourth VVard, in said city,
on a ballot cast at the meeting in said ward, to elect him a
councilman from said Fourth Ward, and was then and there, in

the manner aforesaid, duly and legally elected a councilman of
said ward, from the first day of January, 187 6, to the first day
of January, 1877. and did accept said office and claimed to be
elected as aforesaid and admitted into the Common Council of said
city as said councilman, and ever since has and does still claim to
be admitted as said councilman in said Common Council, and to
use and exercise the rights, powers, and duties pertaining to said
office. .

4. Notwithstanding his said election and acceptance thereof,
Benjamin W. Gates, of said town and city of New Haven, on
the first day of January, 1876, and from thence continuously
hitherto, without any legal warrant, claim, or right, has used and
exercised, and still does use and exercise the office of councilman
from the Fourth Ward in said Common Council of said city for
the term aforesaid, in place of said Alvin L. Willoughby, and
claims to be a councilman in place of said Willoughby, and to
have, use, and enjoy all the liberty, rights, privileges, and franchises to said office pertaining, concerning which said otiice, liberties, rights, privileges, and franchises, the said Gates for all the
time aforesaid has usurped and does still usurp. at New Haven, to
the damage and prejudice of the right of said city of New Haven
and said relator, and also against the peace of the State.

.Whereupon the said Attorney prays the consideration of this
Court in the premises, and that due process of law may be awarded
against said Benjamin W. Gates, .in this behalf, to answer to this
Court by what Warrant he claims to have, use, and enjoy the office,
liberties, rights, privileges, and franchises aforesaid.

Dated at New Haven, January 4th, 1876.

E. K. FOSTER, State’s Attorney.

Personally appeared Alvin L. Willoughby, and made oath to
the truth of the facts stated in the aforesaid information, to the
best of his knowledge and belief, before me,

ARTHUR D. OSBORNE,
Clerk of the Superior Court for New Haven County.

250.
Rule to show cause.

STATE ex rel. SUPERIOR COURT,
ALVIN L. WILLOUGHBY NEW HAVEN COUNTY,
vs. DECEMBER TERM,
BENJAMIN W. GATES. ss. January 4th, 1876.

Upon the foregoing information being filed in Court, it is ordered that a rule be entered that said Benjamin W. Gates show
cause, if any he have, Why he usurps, and by What Warrant he
claims to have, use, and enjoy the office, rights, privileges, and
franchises of a member of the Common Council of the city of
New Haven, at 10 o’clock A. M., on the 11th day of January,
187 6, and that notice be given to him of the filing of said information and of this rule, by some proper officer, by leaving a true
and attested copy, certified by the clerk of this Court, of said information and of this order, with said Benjamin W. Gates, or at
his usual place of abode, in the town of New Haven, on or before
the 5th day of January, 1876.

By order of Court, January 4th, 1876.

JONATHAN IN GERSOLL, Assistant Clerk.

251.

Against a railroad, by a laborer not paid by the
contractor.*

1. From May 1st, 1878, to June 15th, 1878, John Stiles of
‘New London, was engaged in building a section of railroad for the
defendant, under a contract between them. V

2. During the whole of said period the plaintiff Worked, in
building said section, under a contract between him and said
Stiles, by which he Was to have Wages at the rate of $1.25 a day.

3. On June 15th, 187 8, $34 was and still is due to the plaintiff
from said Stiles on account of said Wages.

4. On July 1st, 1878, the plaintiff gave Written notice to David
Dun, the treasurer of the defendant, that said sum was due the
plaintiif from said Stiles for labor on the road during said period,
and remained unpaid.

5. Said sum is still unpaid.

The plaintiff claims $50 damages, under the statute in such
case provided.

252.
For redemption of a mortgage of real property.

1. On June 10th, 1878, the plaintiE executed to the defendant
a mortgage of certain land in Meriden, described as follows (describ.
-ing it): conditioned to secure the payment of a book debt for $1, 000 in
one year,with interest at six per cent. per annum, payable half yearly.

2. On June 10th, 1879, he tendered to the defendant $1030,
being the principal of said mortgage, with the interest due to that
time, and also tendered to him a proper release deed of said mortgaged premises, and requested him to execute and acknowledge the
same; but he refused to accept the money, or execute and acknowledge the deed.

The plaintiE claims,

1. That he be allowed to redeem said mortgage, upon paying
to the defendant said amount due thereon;

2. That, upon such payment, the defendant execute a proper
release deed of said premises.

253.0

For the reformation of a policy of/ire insurance,
and for payment of a loss under the same.

1. The defendant is a corporation, incorporated under the laws of
the State of New York, with power to make contracts of insurance
against fire, and has appointed John Doe of Hartford its attorney,
on whom service of process against it within this State can be lawfully made.

2. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff agreed with the defendant for
an insurance, by the defendant, of his house and barn, on his lot
situated on the corner of King and Prince streets, in Stamford,
against fire for one year, to the amount of $3,000, of which $2,000
was to be placed on the house, and $1,000 on the barn.

3. A policy was issued in consequence of said agreement, of
which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy, and the plaintiff paid
the defendant $15 therefor.

4. By either mistake or fraud, on the part of the defendant, the
barn was not mentioned in said policy, but the house is therein expressed to be insured for $3,000.

5. On July 15th, 187 8, said barn burned down, and was wholly
consumed, without the fault of the plaintiff.

6. The plaintiff had kept, up to the time of said fire, all the
conditions in said policy on his part, to be performed.

7. The plaintiff on July 20th, 1878, made due proof of the total
loss of said barn, and transmitted the same to the defendant, in all
respects in conformity to the provisions of the policy.

8. The defendant, on — receipt thereof, notified the plaintiff that
it did not recognize any liability to him, because the barn was
not named in the policy.

9. The plaintiff received said policy just as he was starting on
a voyage to Cuba, and did not read it until after his return, which

. was after the fire, and up to that time had supposed that the policy

Was drawn pursuant to said agreement, to cover both barn and house.

10. Said barn was Worth $2,000, at the time of said tire, and
the loss thereon was total.

11. The plaintiff on August 1st, 187 8, requested the defendant
to correct said policy, by making it conform to said agreement, but
the defendant refused to correct it, in any way.

The plaintiff claims, ,

(1.) A reformation of said policy.

(2.) $1,200 damages, by Way of equitable relief.

254.

For goods sold at a jiaced price.

1. On May 1st, 1879,'the plaintiff sold and delivered to the
defendant one beach Wagon. _

2. The defendant promised to pay the plaintiff $350 for the
same (on demand). ‘

3. He has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

255.

The same, describing the goods sold, as author- 1

ized by Rule III, section 2, (page 14.)

1. On June 5th, 1878, the plaintiif sold and delivered to the
defendant a quantity of groceries. »

2. The defendant promised to pay $800 for said goods, in thirty
days thereafter.

3. He has not paid the same._

The plaintiif claims $1,000 damages.

256.

For goods sold at a reasonable price.

1. On June 5th, 1878, the plaintiff sold and delivered to the
defendant [sundry articles of household furniture], for a reasonable
price, payable on their delivery.

2. The same were reasonably worth $500.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $600 damages.

257.

The same, sale on credit. ,

1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff sold and delivered to the
defendant ten barrels of apples, for which the defendant agreed
to pay What they Were reasonably Worth, in thirty days after delivery.

2. The same were reasonably worth $30.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The defendant claims $40 damages. v

258.

For goods delivered to a third party at defendant’s request, at a jiaced price.

1. On June 6th, 1878, the plaintiff sold to the defendant, and,
at his request, delivered to one James Brown, one hundred barrels of flour.

2. The defendant promised to pay to the plaintiff, immediately
upon their delivery, $800 therefor.

3. He has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

259.

For not delivering goods sold.
1. On April 1st, 1878, the defendant, at Hartford, sold to the

‘plaintiff one hundred barrels of flour of the brand “Extra St.

Louis,” for $8 a barrel, and on a credit of thirty days.

2. Said sale was under an agreement that the defendant should
deliver said flour the day after said sale, at the railroad station at
Hartford, to be transported to the plaintiff at New Britain.

3. The defendant did not deliver said flour as agreed, and has
ever since refused to deliver the same to the plaintiff, although
demanded.

The plaintilf claims $100 damages.

260.

By a vendee of chattels, on failure of title.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant sold to the plaintiff for
$400, paid to him by the plaintiff, a certain piano as the property
of the defendant.

2. Said piano was not then the property of the defendant, but
belonged to one John Stiles, all which the defendant then knew.

3. Thereafter said John Stiles sued the plaintiff to recover
possession of the same; and the plaintiff gave the defendant
due and timely notice of the commencement of said action, and

required him to defend the same, but the defendant neglected to‘

defend said action, and such proceedings were afterwards had
therein, after the plaintiff had made all the defense in his power,
that said John Stiles recovered, by legal process issued upon a judgment therein rendered in his favor, possession of said piano from
the plaintiff, with $45 costs.
The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

' 261.

For dejtciency upon a re-sale [goods sold at auc' tton].

1. On June 1st, 1878, the plaintiff put up at auction sundry
goods, subject to the condition that all goods not paid for and
removed by the purchaser thereof, within six days after the sale,
should be re-sold by auction on his account, of which condition the
defendant had notice.

2. The defendant purchased one harness and wagon, at said
auction, at the price of $75.

3. The plaintiff was ready and willing to deliver the same to the
defendant, on said day and for six days thereafter, and on June
4th, 1878, offered to do so, and demanded payment therefor.

4. The defendant neither removed said goods purchased by
him, nor paid for the same within said six days.

5. Before June 10th, 1878, the plaintiff gave the defendant rea-J

sonable notice of the time and place of re-sale.

6. On said day, at the public sign-post in Somers, at the time
and place named in said notice, the plaintiff re-sold said harness
and wagon on account of the defendant, by public auction, for $50.

7. The expenses attendant upon such re-sale amounted to $5.

8. The defendant has not paid the deficiency thus arising,
amounting to $20.

The plaintiff claims $30 damages.

262.

For breach of agreement to convey.

1. On April 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and defendant signed and
sealed an agreement, of which a copy is hereto annexed, marked
Exhibit A.

[07, 1. On April 1st, 1879, the defendant agreed with the
plaintiff that in consideration of one dollar then paid, and of the
further sum of $10,000 payable as hereafter mentioned, he Would,
on May 15th, 1879, execute to the plaintiff a good and sufficient

- conveyance of the house No. 100 State street in Hartford, free

from all incumbrances; and the plaintiff agreed to pay $10,000
for the same on delivery of such conveyance]

2. On May 15th, 1879, the plaintiff demanded the conveyance
of said property from the defendant, and tendered $10,000 to
the defendant [or, was ready and Willing, and offered to the defendant to pay $10,000, and duly to perform all his agreements
under said covenant, upon the like performance by the defendant].

0‘

o. The defendant has not executed’ any conveyance of said
property to the plaintiff. A

[Or, 3. There is a mortgage upon said property, made by John
Doe to Thomas Stiles, for $5,000, recorded in the Hartford Land

Records, on July 1st, 187 8, vol. 50, page 1, and still unsatisfied
of record, or any other defect of tz°tle.]

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

263.

For breach of agreement to purchase.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and defendant signed and
sealed an agreement, of which a copy is hereto annexed, marked
Exhibit A.

[Or, 1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and defendant mutually
agreed that the plaintiff should sell to the defendant, and that the
defendant should purchase from the plaintiff, forty acres of land
in Fairfield, bounded [describe it], for $4,000.]

2. On July 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff, being then the owner in fee
simple of said property [and the same being ‘free from all incumbrances], tendered to the defendant a sufiicient deed of conveyance of the same [or, was ready and Willing, and offered to
convey the same to the defendant by a suiiicient deed], on the
payment, by the defendant, of said sum.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.
The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

264.

Against vendor of land, for damages for not
fulfilling agreement to convey, and for redelivery of seeu~m’ties for purchase money.

1. On January 1st, 1877, the plaintiff and defendant entered
into an agreement in writing of that date, under their hands and
seals, whereby the defendant agreed to sell to the-plaintiff the
farm the defendant then resided on in Groton, containing about
one hundred acres, for sixty dollars an acre; and that he would,
on May 1st, 1877, at his house on said farm, at eight o’clock in the
morning, on receiving from the plaintiff $3,000, execute, at his
own expense, a proper deed of said premises in fee to the plaintiff,
which should vest a clear title to the same in him, free of all
incumbrances; and the plaintiff agreed that he would, at the time
and place above mentioned, on the execution of such conveyance,
pay to the defendant $3,000, and give the note and mortgage
hereinafter mentioned; and in said agreement the defendant
acknowledged the payment by the plaintiff of $1,000, in part payment for said premises; and further agreed to take the plaintiff's
note for two thousand dollars, secured by a mortgage on said
premises in payment of $2,000 of the purchase-money, said note
to be payable in one year from said day, and to bear interest at
six per cent. per annum; and further agreed to pay the plaintiff,
on failure of performance, one thousand dollars, as liquidated
damages. ,

2. On said day, at said place and hour, the plaintiff was ready
and willing to fulfill the agreement on his part in all respects, and
offered to the defendant to accept a conveyance of the premises,
and tendered to the defendant $3,000, and a note and mortgage
drawn and executed pursuant to the agreement, and otherwise has
duly performed all the conditions of said agreement on his part.

3. The defendant then and there refused to convey said premises, pursuant to the agreement.

4. The payment of $1,000 to the defendant, stated in the first
paragraph to have been acknowledged in said agreement, was made
by a negotiable promissory note for that amount, made by the plaintiff, payable to the order of one John Doe, and indorsed by him,
which note was delivered to the defendant, and accepted by him
in payment of said sum of $1,000. ‘

2. Said note still remains in the defendant’s possession.
The plaintiff claims, ‘
1. $1,000, as liquidated damages.

2. That the defendant be required to deliver up to him said
note.

265.

For the purchase money of real property sold,
but not conveyed.

1. On June 1st, 1878, the plaintiff and defendant signed an
agreement, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy, that

the plaintiff should sell to the defendant, and that the defendant
should purchase from the plaintiff the house and lot No. 100 State
street, Hartford, for $10,000.

2. On June 10th, 1878, the plaintiff was ready and willing, and
offered to execute and deliver a suiiicient deed of said property to

the defendant, on payment of said sum, and is still ready and
Willing to execute and deliver the same.

3. The defendant has not paid said sum.
The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

266.

For the consideration money of a conveyance.

1. On May 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff sold and conveyed to the
defendant, at his request, certain premises in Danbury, described
as follows: [designate the prem2°ses.]

2. The defendant agreed to pay the plaintiff therefor the sum
of $1,000 on May 1st, 1879.

3. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

267. ’

Replerv/tn.

To the sherif of the county of Tolland, his deputy, or to either constable
of the town of Tolland in said county—GREETI_NG:

By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are hereby commanded, without delay, to cause to be replevied to John Doe of said
town certain goods and chattels, to wit: one bay mare of the value
of two hundred dollars, now in possession of Richard Roe of said
town, at said town, and by him wrongfully detained, and to attach
the goods or estate of said Richard Roe, to the value of three hundred dollars, and him summon to appear before the Superior Court,
to be held at Tolland, within and for the county of Tolland, on the

. Tuesday of 1879; then and there toanswer unto
said John Doe, in a plea of replevin, wherein the plaintiff declares
and says, p

1. That eversince the 1st day of May, 187 9, the defendant has
wrongfully detained, and still wrongfully detains, from the plaintiff
said goods and chattels, being the property of the plaintiff; and

2. That the plaintiff on said day was, andeever since has been
flawfully entitled to the immediate possession thereof :
To his damage in the sum of three hundred dollars; to recover

-which damages, with costs, as well as the possession of said goods
and chattels, he brings this suit.

Hereof fail not, but make due service and return.
Dated at Tolland this tenth day of May, 1879. V
' A. B., Justice of the peace.

[Add afidavit and recognizance, as given in Gen. Stat, page 484,
Sec. 3.]

268.

Against garnishee : scire facias.

[The commencement of the writ, in actions of the nature of scire
facias, will be the same as in ordinary actions.]

1. The plaintiff brought a civil action to the Court of Common
Pleas, holden at New Haven, in and for the county of New Haven,
on the first Monday of May, 1880, by a lawful writ of attachment,
issued and dated on April 15th, 1880, signed by James Fen,
Esquire, justice of the peace -for said county, demanding $250

damages, and directed to the sheriff of said county, etc., directing
him to attach to the value of $300 the goods or estate of Richard
Roe, and to leave an attested copy of said writ, at least twelve
days before the session of said Court, with Robert Stiles, the present
defendant, or at his usual place of abode, as the agent, trustee, and

debtor of said Richard Roe.
2. Said writ was duly served on Richard Roe, and also a

true and attested copy of the same was by said officer left with ~

said Robert Stiles, as agent, trustee, and debtor of and to said
Richard Roe, more than twelve days before the sitting of said
Court, to which said writ, being duly served, was returned.

3. By legalremoves, said action came to the September Term
of said Court, holden at New Haven on the first Monday of September, 1880, when and where the plaintiff recovered judgment
against said Richard Roe for $200, damages, and $18, costsof
suit.

4. Thereupon the plaintiff took out execution for the sums
aforesaid, with interest, and twenty.five cents for said execution,
which was dated on the twentieth day of September, 1880, and
signed by John Smith, clerk of said Court, and directed to the
sheriff of said county, etc., to serve and return.

5. "Said execution, on September 21st, 1880, was put into the
hands of Charles Brown, sheriff of said county, who, on September 22d, 1880, made demand of Robert Stiles, the present defendant, as agent, trustee, and debtor of and to said Richard Roe, of
the sums contained in said execution, and of any estate of said
Richard Roe in his hands, or moneys due from him to said Roe.

6. Robert Stiles refused to pay said execution, or to show
any estate of said Richard Roe, or to pay any debt due from himself
to Richard Roe, to said oflicer, whereon to levy said execution, with
his fees, amounting to $224; of all which doings on said execution
said sheriff made due return, by indorsing the same on said execution, and returning the same to the clerk of said court.

7. The defendant, at the time the copy of said writ against
said Richard Roe was left with him in service, was indebted to
Richard Roe in a greater sum than the amount of said judgment
and execution, and said officers’ fees thereon [and had in his
hands estate of said Roe to said amount]; yet he would not
expose or discover any estate of Richard Roe, whereon said
execution’ might be levied, nor pay said debt or any part thereof
to said ofiicer.

8. Said judgment has never been reversed, nor has the amount

due thereon, and on said execution, as aforesaid, ever been paid.
The plaintiff claims $250 damages.
Of this writ, with your doings thereon, make due return.
[E. F., of . is recognized in $70, to prosecute, etc.]
Dated at New Haven, this 15th day of October, 1880.

JOHN SMITH,
Cleric of the Court of Common Pleas
in New Haven County.

269.

Seduction.

1. Before and at the time of the seduction hereinafter mentioned, Jane Doe, the plaintiffs daughter, lived with him, and rendered him services as his servant.

2. In the early part of the year 187 8, the defendant seduced

said Jane Doe, whereby she became pregnant, and Was, on N ovem-I

ber 25th, 187 8, delivered of a child. ,

3. In consequence of such seduction, said Jane Doe Was, both
before and after her confinement, sick and ill, and the plaintiif
lost her services for a long time, and also incurred expense to the

amount of $500 for nursing and medical attendance.
The plaintiff claims $5,000 damages.

2'70.

For services.

1. From May 1st, 1879, to November 1st, 1879, the plaintiff
rendered services to the defendant, at his request, as his household
servant [or otherwz'se.* See the following forms].

2. For said services the defendant promised to pay the plaintiff
what the same were reasonably Worth.

3. The same were reasonably Worth $90, which sum was due
therefor on said day last mentioned

4. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

2'71.

For commissions of broker.

*As broker, in the purchase [or, sale, or, both] for the defendant
of stocks, bonds, and negotiable securities [or, of real estate in

Hartford], to the amount of $

272.

For freight, against consignor.

*In carrying in their vessel, the General Grant, from New York
to New Haven, [100 barrels of flour, or, sundry goods and merchandise], at the request of the defendant.

2'73.

The same, against consignee.

*In carrying in their vessel, the General Grant, from New York
to New Haven, [100 barrels of flour, or, sundry goods and merchandise], which were consigned to the defendant, he paying freight
therefor, and were by the plaintiif delivered to‘ him, and by him

accepted.

2740

For services in editing or compiling a book.

71

”'In compiling and editinga certain book entitled “ The ,
and in preparing the same for the press, and revising and correcting the proofs of the same.

2'75.

By an architect, for his services.

*As architect, in forming and drawing plans, and making estimates for, and superintending the erection of a dwelling-house in
Hartford, known as N 0. 100, Main street.

2'76.

For tuition bills.

* In instructing the defendant's children, Mary and John, atthe
plaintiifs school in Hartford.

2 '7 '7 .
For services, as a blacksmith.

* In shoeing two horses of the defendant.

2'78.
By proprietors of a newspaper, for advertising.
1. The plaintiffs, at the times hereinafter mentioned, were the
proprietors and publishers of a daily newspaper known as
“The Daily Press,” published in Hartford.

2. Between June 1st and July 1st, 1879, the plaintiffs, at the

defendant's request, published in said newspaper advertisements
for the defendant.

[Continue as in 2, 3, 4, etc., in Form No. 270.]

2'79.

By advertising agent, for services and dist bnrsements.

1. Between June 1st and July 1st, 1879, the plaintiff, at the
defendants’ request, caused advertisements of their business to be
inserted in the following named newspapers , and periodicals:
[names of papers, or annex and refer to a list].

2. The plaintiii, for such insertions, for the use of the defendants, and at their request, paid out [and incurred liability to pay]
$100. ,

3. Such services were reasonably worth $2 5, which sum, with
the amount of said disbursements, became due on July 1st, 187 9.

4. The same has not been paid [except the sum of $ . . . 

The plaintiii claims $150 damages.

280.

Slander.

1. On February 19th, 187 8., at Hartford, the defendant spoke,
in the hearing of John Doe, the following words. concerning the
plaintiff: “ He is a thief.”

2. Said words were false and malicious.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

281.

Slander, with special damage.

1. On May 12th, 1878, at New Britain, the defendant said to
one John Smith, concerning the plaintiff: “He is a young man of
remarkably easy conscience.”

2. The plaintiff was then seeking employment as a clerk to
said Smith, and the defendant meant by his words that the plain.
tiff was not trustworthy as a clerk. H

3. Said words were false and malicious.

4. In consequence of said words, said Smith refused to employ
the plaintiff as a clerk.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

282.
The same.

1. The plaintiff is, and for more than twelve years last past has
been, a merchant engaged in the retail dry-goods business at New

London.

2. The defendant, on August 5th, 187 8, at New London, in
the hearing of divers persons, said, concerning the plaintiff as such
merchant: “ John Doe is a great villain anda scoundrel, a bankrupt,
not worth a cent, not able to pay his debts, and thousands worse

‘ than nothing.”

3. Said words were false and malicious.

4. The plaintiff, in consequence of said words, has suiiered in
his reputation and has lost the good-will and trade of many persons
with who1n°he otherwise would have had profitable business.

The plaintiff claims $5,000 damages.

283.
Against sherijf, for not serving writ of summons.

1. The defendant Was, at the time of the grievances hereinafter
complained of, sheriff of Litchiield county.

2. On February 5th, 1879, the plaintiff delivered to the defendant a Writ of summons duly issued, in a civil action wherein this
plaintiff v_vas plaintiff and John Stiles of Litchfield was defendant,
demanding $750 damages, returnable to the April Term, 1879, of
the Superior Court for Litchfield county, and directed to said
sheriff ; and at the time of delivery told the defendant to serve the
Writ immediately.

3. The defendant, in violation of his duty, did not serve said
writ immediately, and neglected to serve said Writ until March
31st, 1879, when he served the same and returned it to said court.

4. Said action was brought to recover a debt of $700 which
accrued six years before March 25th, 187 9, and the recovery was
barred by the Statute of Limitations on said day.

5. John Stiles appeared at said court and pleaded the Statute
of Limitations in defense to said action, and upon said defense
recovered judgment against the plaintiff for $3 7, costs of suit.

6. Said debt has never been paid.

The plaintiff claims $800 damages.

I 284.

Aga/inst shertjf, for not attaching property.

1. [As in Form No. 283.] ‘

2. On December 10th, 1878, the plaintiff delivered to the
defendant a writ of attachment duly issued, in a civil action,
wherein this plaintiff was plaintiff and Richard Roe was defendant,
demanding $2,000 damages, returnable to the January Term, 187 9,
of the Superior Court for New London County, and directed to
said sheriff. .

3. Afterwards the defendant returned said Writ to said court
with his indorsement that he had made diligent search within his
precincts for estate of said Richard Roe, but could find none,
and that he had summoned said Richard Roe to appear before
said court.

4. Said return and indorsement were false. Said Richard Roe,
at the time of service and return of said Writ, had Within the defendant’s precincts estate of greater value than $3,000, to wit, 500
barrels of flour at the store of said Roe, in New London, which,
by the use of due diligence, might have been found and attached by
the defendant.

5. At said January Term of the Superior Court the plaintiif
recovered judgment in said action against said Richard Roe for
$1,750 damages, and $691?“ costs of suit.

6. Afterwards the plaintiff obtained execution on said judgment, and on March 16th, 1879, delivered the same to the defendant to levy. J

7. The defendant returned said execution in its life time,
wholly unsatisfied.

8. Said judgment is in full force, and has never been satisfied.

9. Said Richard Roe, shortly before said judgment was rendered,
became insolvent.

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

285.
Against a sherijf, for default of his deputy in not

keeping property attached sixty days after
. judgment.

1. The defendant is and for more than two years last past has
been sheriff of Hartford County.

2. John Stiles is and for more than two years last past has

-been deputy sheriff of Hartford County, appointed and retained

in office by the defendant. ,

3. On September 12th, 187 8, the plaintiff delivered to said
John Stiles a writ of attachment duly issued in a civil action
wherein this plaintiff was plaintiff, and Richard Roe of Hartford
was defendant, demanding $300 damages, returnable to the October
Term, 187 8, of the Court of Common Pleas for Hartford County,
and directed to said sheriff and his deputy.

4. Said John Stiles, by virtue of said writ, attached a carriage
and two horses of said Richard Roe, of the value of $450, and
served and returned said writ according to law.

5. Said writ and action were duly entered at said October
Term of the Court of Common Pleas, and the plaintiff thereupon
recovered judgment against said Richard Roe for $250 damages
and $40 costs of , suit. '

6. Upon said judgment the plaintiff obtained a writ of execution, duly issued, dated October 29th, 1878, returnable in sixty

days, and directed to said sheriff, his’ deputy, or either constable
of the town of Hartford.

7. Afterwards the plaintiff delivered said Writ of execution to
John Doe, a constable of the town of Hartford, Who by virtue
thereof on November 2d, 187 8, Within sixty days after rendition
of said judgment, made demand of said Richard Roe for goods
and chattels on which to levy said execution, but none were shown
him, nor could he find any Within his precincts. 7 '

8. Afterwards, and Within sixty days after said judgment,
said John Doe by virtue of said execution made demand of said
John Stiles of the goods and estates of said Richard Roe by him
attached as aforesaid.

9. Said John Stiles, in violation of his duty, did not keep said

goods, by him attached, sixty days after judgment rendered as ’

aforesaid, but released and discharged them from attachment, and
did not deliver them to said John Doe, when demanded by him as
aforesaid, but refused to deliver the same.

10. Said judgment is in full force, and has never been satislied.

The plaintiff claims $350 damages.

286.

The same, for neglect to account and make
return.

1. [As in Form No. 285.]

2. On October 1st, 1878, the plaintiii recovered judgment
against one John Doe of Hartford, before the Superior Court for
Hartford county, at its September.Term, 1878, for $1,060.

3. On October 10th, 1878, the plaintiff took out execution on
said judgment, directed to sheriff of said county, and delivered it

i to the defendant, as such sheriff, for service.

4. The defendant, by virtue thereof, on October 15th, 1878,
levied on and sold the goods of John Doe, of the value of $1,000;
but, although the time for the return of said execution has long
elapsed before this action, he has failed to make return of said execution, and no part of the avails of said levy has been paid to the
plaintiff. 1

The plaintiff claims $1,200 damages.

2870

Against sherijj" and eacecution creditor, for illegal seizure.

1. The plaintiff is trustee of the insolvent estate of John Stiles,

appointed by the Court of Probate for the District of Hartford, »

upon the petition of Richard Roe, by decree of said court made
March 10th, 1879. '

2. The defendant John Doe is, and for more than one year
last past has been, sheriff of Hartford county.

3. The nfty barrels of flour hereinafter mentioned belonged
to said John Stiles, and were a part of his estate at the time of
the plaintiffs said appointment.

4. On April 5th, 1879, the defendant John Doe, under color of
a writ of execution issued on a judgment rendered in favor of the
defendant James Smith in an action by him against said John
Stiles, wrongfully seized said fifty barrels of flour, and afterwards
caused the same to be sold by auction, and appropriated the proceeds thereof.

5. In making said seizure and sale the defendant John Doe
acted under the special direction of the defendant James Smith,
who had notice that the property seized belonged to the plaintiif.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

288.

Shipping : charterer against owner, for abandoning the voyage.

1. On May 1st, 187 9, the plaintilf and defendant agreed by
charter-party that the defendant’s ship, called the Emma, then at
New Haven, should, With all convenient dispatch sail to Havana, and
there load and receive from the plaintiff a full cargo of sugar, or
other lawful merchandise, which the defendant should carry to
New Haven, and there deliver to the ‘plaintiff, on payment of
freight, certain perils and casualties in said charter-party mentioned
only excepted.

2. The plaintiff duly performed all the conditions thereof, re- .

quired on his part.

3. Said ship was not prevented by any of said perils or casualties from ‘completing said outward voyage ; but she did not with
all convenient dispatch sail to Havana; and the defendant caused
said ship to deviate from her said voyage and abandon the same.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

289.

For passage money.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff conveyed the defendant in
his ship, called the Daniel Webster, from New York to Havana,
at the defendant’s request.

2. The defendant promised to pay the plaintiff $50 therefor.

[07, 2. The said passage was reasonably worth $50.]

3. The defendant has not paid the same.

The plaintiff claims $60 damages.

290.

By owner against freighter, for not loading.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and defendant entered into an
agreement, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

[Or, 1. On May 1st, 1879, the plaintiff and defendant agreed by
charter.party that the defendant should deliver to the plaintiff's
ship Adirondack, at New London, on May 10, 187 9, five hundred
tons of merchandise, which she should carry to New York, and
there deliver, on payment of $500 freight ; and that the defendant
should have five days for loading, five days for discharge, and five
days for demurrage, if required, at $40 per day.]

2." At the time nxed by said agreement, the plaintiff was ready
and willing, and offered to receive said merchandise, from the
defendant. '

3. The period allowed for loading and demurrage has elapsed,
but the defendant has not delivered said merchandise to said vessel.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

291.
Owner against eharterer, for freight.

1. On May 1st, 187 9, the plaintiif and the defendant agreed by
charter party that the plaintiffs ship, called the Comet, should,
with all convenient speed, sail to Havana, Cuba, and that the defendant should there load her with a full cargo of sugar, or other lawful
merchandise, which she should carry to New Haven, and there
deliver to the defendant, on payment by him to the plaintiff of
freight at two dollars per ton ; one-half of such freight to be paid
in cash, on unloading and right delivery of the cargo; and the
remainder by approved bills, at three months, or in cash, less five
per cent. discount, at the defendant’s option.

2. Afterwards said ship accordingly sailed to Havana, and was

i there loaded by the defendant with a full cargo of lawful merchandise, and the plaintiff carried said cargo, in said ship to New
Haven, and there delivered the same to the defendant in accordance with the terms of said charter-party.

3. Said freight amounted in the whole to $1,000, and the
defendant paid to the plaintiff half of said freight in cash,
but has never paid the remainder, either by such approved bills as
aforesaid, or in cash, less discount as aforesaid.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

292.

On statute, for not erecting sign-p0st."‘

1. On July 12th, 187 9, the defendants were and ever since
have been selectmen of the town of Milford.

2. On said day, and within six months of this action, the public
necessity and convenience required, and ever since has required,
the erection of a sign-post in Milford, at the intersection of the Old
Turnpike, so called, with the highway leading to Orange.

3. On said day the defendants, in violation of their duty as
selectmen, did not erect such sign-post, and thence hitherto have
neglected to erect the same.

The plaintiff, by force of the statute in such case provided, claims
$5 damages.

293.

For a specijtc performance.

1. On July 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff and defendant executed a certain agreement, upon the considerations appearing therein ; of
which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. 0 On said day the defendant owned in fee the lands described
in said agreement.

3. On August 15th, 187 8, the plaintiff tendered $10,000 to the
defendant, and demanded a conveyance of said lands.

4. The defendant has never executed such conveyance, and is
in possession of said lands.

5. The plaintiff is still ready and willing to pay him said sum.

The plaintiff claims :

1.  decree for a conveyance, or that the title be otherwise
vested inhim.
2. $1,000 damages.

294.

Against a railroad company for a spectjtc performance of an agreement to construct a farm
crossing, and for damages.

1. The defendant before _March 1st, 1878, had located its railroad in part upon the farm of the plaintiff, on which he lives, in
Berlin, and on said day he agreed with it, by a writing, signed
by both parties, to sell and convey to it the right of way across
said farm, for its railroad, for $200, provided that, in case the construction of said railroad should require a fill across a certain

meadow on said farm, then a farm crossing should be made and_

left, either over said embankment, or through the same and under
the tracks. ‘

2. On April 10th, 187 8, the plaintiff received from the defendant $200, and executed and delivered to it a deed of said right of

way, containing no reference to any agreement as to a farm crossing, which deed is recorded in Berlin land records, vol. 5, page 6.

3. Before July 1st, 1878, the defendant constructed its railroad
across said farm, and made a fill across said meadow, fifteen feet
high, but left no farm crossing either over or through the embankment, thus constructed.

4. The plaintiff, on said day, requested the defendant to make
or leave such a crossing, but the defendant through John Doe, its
Superintendent, refused so to do. _ °

5. For want of such a crossing, the plaintiff has, ever since said
day, been forced to drive his cattle daily, in going from his barn to
the main part of his farm, around the side of said valley, and a
hundred rods out of the direct and accustomed way, whereby he
has been damaged to the amount of $100.

6. Unless a crossing is constructed, as agreed, the plaintiffs
farm cannot be conveniently used as such, and will be irreparably
injured. . '

The plaintiff claims :

1. A decree for the immediate construction of a proper farm
crossing, as agreed.

2. $100 damages.

295.

For restoration of personal property, threatened
with destruction, and for an injunction.

1. The plaintilf is, and at all times hereafter mentioned Was,
the owner of an oil portrait of his grandfather, of which no duplicate exists. [Or state any facts showing that the property is of a kind
that cannot be replaced by money/.]

2. On June 1st, 187 8, he deposited the same for safe keeping
with the defendant. ’

3. . On January 1st, 1879, he demanded it from the defendant,
and offered to pay all reasonable charges for its storage.

4. The defendant then refused to deliver it to the plaintiff.

5. On February 1st, 1879, the defendant threatened to conceal,
dispose of, cut or injure the same, if required to deliver it up.

6. N o pecuniary damageswould be an adequate compensation
to the plaintilf for the loss of said painting.
The plaintiff claims,

1. An injunction to restrain the defendant from disposing of,
injuring, or concealing said painting. _‘
2. That he return the same to the plaintiff.

296.

On a subscription for a public object.

1. The plaintiff is a corporation, with power to establish and sup- .

port an academy. 2. The plaintiff, in July, 187 8, Was erecting a building at Danbury for the purposes of an academy.

3. The defendants and others were desirous that the building
should be completed, and requested that the plaintiff should completethe same, and for the purpose of enabling the plaintiff to do
so, the defendants subscribed and agreed to pay the plaintiff
$1,000, in consideration of the premises, and of the like subscription and agreement of other persons [073 in consideration of which

the defendants were to receive from the plaintiffs 10 shares of
the capital stock of the plaintiif].

4. Upon the faith of said subscription, the plaintiff proceeded
with the erection of the building, and expended thereon large

sums of money, and incurred large liabilities, and has completed
said building.
5. The defendants’ subscription has not been paid.
The plaintiff claims $1,100 damages.

297.
Summary process, on at parol lease.

To John Fen, Esquire, a justice of the peace for New Haven
county, residing in the town of New Haven, comes John Doe,
of said town, and complains and says :

1. On May 1st, 187 8, he leased to Richard Roe, for the term
of one year from said day, for the annual rent of $300, payable in
monthly payments of $25, on the last day of each month during
said term, the following premises, to wit : [describing them.]

2. Said lessee entered into possession of the premises under
said lease, and has ever since continued to hold possession thereof.

3. On June 1st, 1879, he gave due notice to the lessee, in the
manner prescribed by the statute, to quit possession of the premises on or before June 16th, 187 9.

4. Though said lease has expired by lapse of time, and more
than nfteen days have elapsed since said notice was given, and the
time therein limited has expired, yet the defendant neglects and
refuses to quit possession of said premises, but still holds over, and
retains the possession thereof.

The complainant prays

1. That a summons may issue to said Richard Roe, requiring
him to appear before some competent authority, at some suitable
time and place, to answer to the matters alleged in this complaint.

2. Judgment for the possession of said leased premises, with

costs. Dated at New Haven, June 17th, 1879.

JOHN DOE.
By JAMES DUN, his attorney.

To the Sherzf of New Haven County, his deputy, or either of the constables of the town of New Haven within said county—GBEE'rING :

By authority of the State of Connecticut you are hereby commanded to summon Richard Roe, of said town, to appear before

me, the subscriber, a justice of the peace for New Haven County,
at my ofiice in the town of New Haven, on the day of

18 , at o’clock in the
noon, then and there to answer unto the foregoing complaint, and
be thereon dealt with according to law.

John Doe,» of New Haven, as principal, and David Jones, of Derby,
as surety, are jointly and severally recognized to the adverse party
in the sum of $25, to answer all damages and costs, which he may
sustain, in case the complainant shall fail to make his plea good.

Hereof fail not, but of this complaint and summons due service
and return make, according to law.

Dated at New Haven, June 17th, 1879.
JOHN FEN,

Justice of the peace.

298.
Summary process on a written lease.

To John Fen, Esq., a justice of the peace for the county of New
Haven, residing in the town of New Haven, in said county, comes
John Doe, of said town, and complains, and says,

1. On May 1st, 1878, a written lease was executed by himself and Richard Roe of said town, of the following described
premises, to wit: [descm'bz'ng them,] for the term of one year, from
said date, for the annual rent of three hundred dollars, payable in
monthly payments of $25, on the last day of each month during
the continuance of said lease; and said lessee covenanted in said
lease with the complainant, that if he should neglect to pay the rent
therefor as aforesaid, and the same should remain unpaid five days
after the same should become due and payable as aforesaid, then
said lease should thereupon, by virtue of this express stipulation,
therein contained, expire and terminate; and that said lessor might,
at any time thereafter, re-enter on said premises, and the same have
and possess as of his former estate; and without such re-entry, might
recover possession thereof in the manner prescribed by the statute
relating to Summary Process, and that no demand for the rent, and
no re-entry for condition broken, as at common law, should be necessary to enable the lessor to obtain such possession, pursuant to said
statute, and that all right to any demand for said rent, and any
such re-entry, was expressly waived by said lessee; and said lessee
further covenanted in said lease. that whenever said lease should

terminate, either by lapse of time, or by virtue:of any of the express
stipulations therein, he waived all right to any notice to quit possession, as prescribed by said statute.

2. Said lessee, on May 1st, ‘187 8, entered into the possession of
said premises, under said lease, and has continued in the possession
of the same from thence to the present time. .

3. Said lessee failed and neglected to pay the rent which became due and payable on October 30th, 1878, nor has he since paid
the same, or any part thereof.

4. Five days having elapsed since said rent became due as aforesaid, said lease has, by virtue of said express stipulation therein contained, expired and terminated. .

[073 4. On May 1st, 1879, said lease expired and terminated
by lapse of time.]

5. Said lessee still neglects and refuses to quit possession of said
premises to the complainant, and still holds possession thereof.

The complainant prays,

1. Process against said Richard Roe, and that a summons may
issue against him to appear before some competent authority, at some
suitable time and place, to answer to the allegations in this complaint.

2. Judgment for the possession of the leased premises, with
his costs.

Dated at New Haven the day of , 1879.

J OHN Dom,
By James Dun, his attorney.

299.
Against surest/tes for payment of rent.

1. On March 1st, 187 8, John Doe, by agreement in writing with
the plaintiff, hired of him [briefly designate the prenzises, e. g., thus,
the building N 0. 100 Main street, in Norwich], at the yearly rent of
$1,000. payable [quarterly] on the first days of, etc.

2. The defendant, in consideration of the premises and of one
dollar to him paid, and as security for the punctual payment of said
rent, then and there subscribed and delivered to the plaintiff an
agreement, of which the following is a copy: [copy of guaranty; or
say, an agreement that if any default should be made therein, he
would pay to the plaintiff such sums as should be suflicient to make
up such deficiency and fully satisfy the conditions of said lease,
without requiring any notice of non-payment, or proof of demand
made].

3. John Doe made default, after due demand, in the payment
of the sum of $200, which was due for said rent on June 1st, 1879.

4. Before this action, on June 2d, 1879, the plaintiff [gave to
the defendant due noticeof said demand and non-payment, and]
demanded payment from the defendant of said sum.

5. The same has not been paid.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

300.

Against principal and sureties; on contract for
services.

1. Heretofore certain articles of agreement were signed and
sealed by the plaintiff and the defendant, John Doe, bearing date
June 1st, 1878, of which a copy is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit
A. s

2. On June 1st, 1878, simultaneously with said agreement, and
in consideration thereof, the defendants John Stiles, Richard Roe,
and James Fen, signed and sealed a guaranty, Written at the foot
of said agreement, of which a copy is hereto annexed, marked
Exhibit B. p 3. On April 1st. 187 9, the plaintiff had performed all the conditions of said contracts on his part, and was entitled to receive from
John Doe, upon said articles of agreement, for said Work, a large
sum of money, to Wit, $2,000.

4. John Doe has never paid said sum to the plaintiff, and on
said day refused to pay it. '

5. On said day, the other defendants had due notice of said
demand and refusal.

6. The defendants have wholly failed to perform said contracts
on their parts, and have Wholly neglected and refused to pay said
sum of $2,000.,

The plaintiff claims $2,200 damages.

301.

On an agreement to be answerable for the price
of goods sold to a third person.

1. On May 1st, 187 7, in consideration that the plaintiff, at the
request of the defendant, would sell to one John Stiles, on a credit

of three months, such goods as said Stiles should desire to buy
of the plaintiff, the defendant promised to be answerable to the
plaintiff for the payment by said Stiles of the price of any goods
80 sold on credit;  the amount of the guaranty was limited, add, to

an amount not exceeding a total credit of $300 at any one time, are

otherwise, as the case may have been].

2. The plaintiff, on May 10th, 1877, on the faith of said guaranty, sold and delivered to said Stiles _[desz'gnate briejiy the goods
sold] for the price of $250, upon a credit of three months from
said day, and immediately gave due notice thereof to the defendant. .

3. Payment of the same, after said three months had elapsed,
was demanded from said Stiles, but. the same was not paid; of all
which due notice was given to the defendant.

4. On September 1st, 1877, payment of the same was demanded
by the plaintiff from the defendant.

5. N 0 part thereof has been paid [except $75, which the
defendant paid to the plaintiff on September 6th, 187 7].

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

, 302.

By surety on. lease, against principal.

1.. On May 15th, 1878, the defendant and John Stiles executed
a lease, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. At the request of the defendant, the plaintiff made and
delivered to the defendant his guaranty thereon, in writing, of
which Exhibit B, hereto annexed, is a copy.

3. The defendant delivered said lease and guaranty to John
Stiles, and thereby obtained possession of said premises.

4. The defendant failed to pay $250, rent under said lease,
which became due on November 1st, 187 8.

5. The plaintiff by his guaranty was compelled to pay, and did
pay, on January 20th, 1879, to John Stiles $265, being said sum,
with interest.

6. The defendant has not repaid the same.

The plaintiff claims $300 damages.

303.

By surety against principal, for money paid
on appeal _bond.

1. On May 15th, 1878, John Stiles recovered, before John Fen,

Esquire, a justice of the peace for New Haven County, residing in «

Derby, a judgment against the defendant for $65.75, from which
judgment the defendant appealed to the next Court of Common
Pleas for said County. ‘ '

2. On said day, at the request of the defendant, the plaintiff
became recognized as surety, with the defendant, as principal, in
an appeal bond for $100, before said magistrate, upon said appeal.

3. On January 5th, 1879, in‘ said appellate court, judgment
was rendered, on said appeal, in favor of John Stiles, for $65 dam-l
ages and $25.25 costs.

4. On March 1st, 1879, the plaintiff paid to John Stiles $25.7 5
upon said appeal bond, being the amount of said costs with
interest.

5. No part of the same has been repaid to him.

The plaintiff claims $40 damages.

304.

To restrain infringement of trade-mark [and
for damages].

1. The plaintiff is, and for _ten years last past has been, the
manufacturer of an article [describe commodity] known as ,
which he has, during all said time, offered for sale and sold in
packages [describing them, if the defendant's are similar], labeled with
his own proper device and trade-mark, adopted by the plaintiff for
that purpose in 1868, of which the following is a copy [or, specimen]. Here insert copy of trademark.

2. By reason of the long experience and great care of the plain.
tiff in his said business, and the good quality of said article, the
same has become widely known in the community as a valuable
and useful article, and acquired a high reputation as such, and
has commanded and still commands an extensive sale, which is
and has been a source of great profit to the plaintiff.

3. Such article is known to the public and to the buyers
and consumers thereof, by said name of , and by the
plaintiffs own proper device and trade-mark aforesaid.

4. Notwithstanding the long and quiet use and enjoyment

A by the plaintiff of said name and trade-mark, the defendant, well

knowing the premises, but wilfully disregarding the plaintiff’s
rights, thereafter, and in 1877, wrongfully prepared and offered
for sale. and now does offer for sale and sell, at New Haven,
and elsewhere, an article in imitation of the plaintiff’s article,
which he has caused to be put up in similar packages, and labeled
with a similar label, of which false label the following is a copy
[or, specimen]. Here insert copy of false trade-mark.

5. Such imitation is calculated to deceive the purchasers and
consumers of the plaintiff's said article, and has misled and still
does mislead many of them to buy the article sold by the defendant,
in the belief that it is the article manufactured by the plaintiff,
greatly to the diminution of said business and profits of the plaintiff.

[6. The article so put up and sold by the defendant, in imitation
of the plaintiff’s article, is of a greatly inferior quality.]

[7. By reason of the premises the plaintiE has been damaged
to the amount of $1,000.] ’

The plain tiff claims,

1. That the defendant, and his servants and agents, be forever
enjoined from preparing, putting up, selling, or offering for sale
said imitation of the plaintiff's article, or any article bearing the
name of , or any.such imitation of said name, or said false
trademark, or any similar imitation of the label or trademark of
the plaintiff.

2. By way of equitable relief, that the defendant account for
and pay over to the plaintiff all the profits realized by him upon
sales of said articles, sold by him with any imitation of the plaintiif’s trade-mark.

[3. $1,000 damages. Omit this claim, and paragraph 7,  no
damages are sought]

305.
For wilfully cutt/tng trees.

1. On July 7th, 187 9, the defendant, without license from the
plaintiff. cut, destroyed, and carried away fifty-five trees, the property of the plaintiff, then standing on the land of the plaintiff,
known as Mill farm, in Tolland.

2. Of said trees twenty were more than one foot in diameter,
ten were one foot in diameter, and twenty-live were less than one
foot in diameter.

The plaintiff claims, by force of the statute in such case provided, $385 damages.

306.
Ordinary trespass de bonis.

1. On May 20th, 1879, the plaintiif was lawfully possessed of
ten chairs.

‘.3. On said day, the defendant forcibly took said chairs from
the possession of the plaintiif and carried them away.

The plaintiff claims $10 damages.

307.

Negligent injury to goods and person.

1. On March 10th, 187 9, the plaintiff was driving in a wagon
belonging to him, along the highway.

2. On said day, the defendant, while driving in another wagon
along the same highway, carelessly drove‘ against the wagon of the
plaintiff, and thereby broke and injured the same.

_ 3. By means thereof the plaintiif was also thrown out of his
wagon, and much bruised and injured, so that he was prevented
from transacting his ordinary business, and was obliged to expend
$50 in endeavoring to be cured of his injuries.

The plaintiff claims $500 damages.

308.

Trespass to goods for exemplary damages.

1. [Same as I in Form No. 306.]

2. On said day, the defendant, wilfully and without color of
right, and against the will of the plaintiff, forcibly took said chairs
from him and carried them away.

The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

309.

Wanton /injury to goods and person.

1. [Same as I in Form No. 307.]

2. On said day, the defendant, while driving in another wagon
along the same highway, wilfully, wantonly, and violently drove
against the wagon of the plaintiif, and thereby broke and injured
it.

3. [Same as 8 in Form 307.]

The plaintiif claims $1,000 damages.

310.

For shooting plainti)7"s dog.

On June 12th, 1879, the defendant shot and killed a valuable
dog. the property of the plaintiff.
The plaintiff claims $25 damages.

311.

For injuring plaintijfs horse.

On June 12th, 1879, the defendant struck, with a large club, a
horse belonging to the plaintiff, and thereby broke one of the legs
of the horse.

The plaintiff claims $200 damages.

312.
For takicig and riding plaintij7"s horse.

1. On March 1st, 187 9, the defendant unlawfully took a horse
belonging to the plaintiif, from the plaintiffs stable, and rode the
horse for a long distance at full speed.

2. Said horse thereby became broken winded.

The plaintiff. claims $150 damages.

313.

Injury to clothes.

1. On January 6th, 187 9, the plaintiff had in his lodging-room
a carpet-bag containing wearing apparel, and a box containing a
number of ‘books.

2. On said day the defendant entered said lodging room,
unlawfully took away said carpet-bag and box with their contents, and placed them in a damp cellar, whereby said wearing
apparel and books became mildewed and damaged.

3. The defendant also forced open the lock of said carpet-bag
and took out several articles of wearing apparel, which he has since
worn and greatly injured.

The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

314.

Trespass on land.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the plaintiff was possessed of certain
lands in Litchfield, bounded North by land of John Doe, East
and South by highway, and West by land of Richard Roe.

2. On said day, the defendant unlawfully entered on said land,
and cut down six cords of hickory wood thereon, worth $50.

The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

, 315.
Trespass on land, with cattle.

1. On June 10th, 1878, the plaintiff was, and ever since has
been, the owner and occupier of a piece of land in the town of

New London, hounded North by highway, East by land of A B,
South by highway, and West by land of C D.

2. On said day the oxen of the defendant, by his negligence,
entered on said land, and trod down the corn, and consumed
the herbage there growing.

The plaintiff claims $75 damages.

316.
Trespass on land, and to goods.

First Count. _

1. The plaintiff, before and at the time of the grievances hereinafter complained of, was a boarding-house keeper, carrying on
business at the house known as No. 73 Chestnut street, in Bridgeport, then occupied by the plaintiff. 1

2. On January 1st, 187 8, the defendant, with other men acting
under his orders, broke into said house, and forcibly thrust the
plaintiff therefrom.

3. The defendant then took possession of said house, and has
kept the plaintilf out of the possession thereof from thence to the
present time.

4. The business of the plaintiff as a boarding-house keeper was
destroyed by the acts of the defendant hereinbefore stated.

5. The plaintiff has suffered $200 damage thereby.

Second Count. 1. Paragraph first of the first count is made a part of this count.

2. On January 1st, 187 8, the defendant entered said house, and
unlawfully and forcibly seized goods and furniture therein, be.

longing to the plaintiif, of the value of $500, and detained, and
still detains, them from the plaintiff.
The plaintiif claims $700 damages.

317.

By trustees, under a settlement, for advice, and
a settlement of their accounts.

1. On January 7th, 1863, John Doe, of Hartford, desiring to
make a voluntary settlement in trust of the bulk of his property,
in contemplation of marriage, by his deed of said date, duly executed, and acknowledged, sold, transferred, and conveyed to
the plaintiffs, as joint tenants, to them and the survivor of
them, and the heirs and assigns of such survivor, a large amount
of real and personal property, including a number of shares in
various joint stock, manufacturing, and mining companies, upon
the following trusts, as in said deed are set forth, to wit : [or,
instead of setting forth the trusts, the deed may be referred to a.s Exhibit
A, hereto annexed.]

First.—'1‘o hold, manage, use, sell, convey, invest, and re-invest
said trust estate, as according to their judgment and discretion
shallbe for the best interests of the same, and to collect and receive all the increase, interest, rents, profits, and income thereof.

S'econd.—To pay over to said John Doe, the defendant, during
his life, the net annual income of said trust estate.

T/tird.——In case of any future marriage by said defendant, then
to pay over one-half of said net income to his Wife, during the continuance of said marriage relation, and in the event of his death
during the continuance of said marriage relation, then to her, during her life, and the other one-half of said net income to him, during his life.

Fourth.—In case a child or children should be born, the issue
of such a marriage, then to pay over one-third of said net income
to said John Doe during his life, one-third to his Wife during the
continuance of their marital relation, and, in the event of his death,
during the continuance of their marriage relation, then to her during her life, and the remaining one-third to said child or children;
and, until such children shall arrive at the age of twenty-one years,
their share of said income shall be paid to the parent or guardian
having the custody of such child or children.

.l7’tfth.—In the event of any future marriage by said John Doe,

and the birth of a child or children, the issue of such marriage,
and the subsequent death of said wife or children, or both, or either
of them, during the life of said John Doe, then the share of said
income payable to said Wife or children under the third and fourth
articles_ of said instrument, if they were living, shall be paid to
said John Doe, during his life.

S’z'xth.—Upon the death of said John Doe and his wife, if
there shall be children surviving, then the whole of said trust
estate is to go to said children in equal portions, but not to
vest in them or pass from the trustees until the youngest shall
arrive at the ‘age of twenty-one years, and then to be divided and
apportioned to each by said trustees; and for the purpose of such
division said trustees are empowered to sell any property that, in
their discretion, they may deem it proper to sell, in order to carry
the same into effect : always provided that each child, after arriving at the age of twenty-one years, shall receive its respective share
of said net income, until such division is made.

Seventh.—On the death of said John Doe and his wife, if
there shall be no surviving child or children, issue of their marriage, or if there be such child or children, and they shall all
die before the youngest shall arrive at the age of twenty-one years,
then, in that event, the whole of said trust estate, with all accumulations of income, if any, shall go to the legal representatives of
John Doe, according to the laws of the State of Connecticut, then
in force, in the same manner as if intestate estate, and said trustees
shall divide and pay over the same accordingly, and close the trust,

E2'giztlz.—In case of the death of all the trustees herein named,
or their inability from any cause to act, said defendant, by said
deed, authorized and empowered any Judge of the Supreme Court
of Errors of the State of Connecticut to appoint one or more trustees in their stead, who, upon such appointment, shall have all the
powers of the trustees therein named, and shall execute the trust,
according to the provisions of said instrument.

JV2'nth.—All questions that shall or may hereafter arise as to the
construction of said instrument, or the execution of said trust, or
the rights of the respective parties under the same, shall be determined according to the laws of the State of Connecticut.

2. For the accommodation of said John Doe, and at his request,
the plainti&s accepted said conveyance upon the aforesaid trusts,
and said deed was duly delivered by him to the plaintiffs, and
recorded in the land records of Hartford on January 7th, 1863;

and all the property therein conveyed was situated in the State of
Connecticut. ,

3. Afterwards, on January 13th, 1863, said defendant married
Jane Roe of Litchfield, who is now living, and is his wife, and
there have been born lawful issue of said marriage, as follows:
James Doe, aged about twelve years; William Doe, aged about
nine years, and Edward Doe, aged about seven years.

4. Ever since the date and delivery of said deed, the plaintiffs
have held and managed the property therein conveyed, pursuant

to the terms of ‘said trusts, and have duly paid over the net income .

arising from said trust, as is in said deed provided.

5. The plaintiffs have sold part of said property so conveyed to
them, and disposed of and re-invested the proceeds thereof in other
property for the benefit of s'aid trust, pursuant to the powers given
them in said deed.

6. There have come into the plaintiffs’ hands, and are now held
by them as a part of said trust property, six hundred and seventyeight shares of the capital stock of the Hartford Steel Manufacturing Company, and forty-two shares of the capital stock of the Union
Copper Company, which companies are manufacturing corporations, incorporated under the laws of this State.

7. Said stocks have thus far proved, and at present continue to
be profitable investments, and" the plaintiffs have held and now
hold the same, as such trustees, with the knowledge and assent of
said John Doe, and because neither he nor the plaintiffs know of
any other securities, which, i_n their judgment, would probably
produce a greater net income with equal certainty and safety.
But the plaintiffs say that they are in doubt whether -they should,
and are unwilling longer to hold so large an amount of said stocks,
Without the advice and protection of a decree of a proper Court.

8. Of said six hundred and seventy-eight shares-in said Hartford Steel Manufacturing Company, sixty-one and six-tenths shares
came into their hands, as trustees, from stock dividends heretofore,
and since the date of said trust deed, declared by said Company,

and four-tenths of a share were bought by them out of the funds

of said trust, in order to make their number of shares even. And
the plaintiffs show that they have hitherto treated said sixty-two
shares of said stock, thus acquired by them, as an addition to and
part of the principal of said trust estate, but that, lest any questions
should hereafter arise as to whether the same ought not to have
been and to be treated as income, rather than principal, they ask

the advice and order of this honorable Court touching the same, in
order to settle conclusively the proper character of said shares in
that regard.

9. Of said forty-two shares of the Union Copper Company,
two shares were set and divided to the plaintilfs, as such trustees, by said Company, which were a part of certain of its stock
formerly owned -by said Company, but afterwards distributed,
pro rata, among its stockholders. And the plaintiffs say that they
have hitherto treated said two shares of said stock, thus acquired

_ by them, as an addition to and part of the principal of said trust

estate; but that, lest any questions should hereafter arise as to
whether the same ought not to have been and to be treated as
income, rather than principal, they ask the advice and order of
this honorable Court, touching the same, in order to settle conclusively the proper character of said shares in that regard.

10. Ever since the date of said trust deed, the plaintiffs have
rendered frequent accounts of their management of said trust,
and of the receipts and expenditures on account thereof to John
Doe, and he has approved the same; but inasmuch as said trust
is onenecessarily of very long duration, and the rights of his said
minor children born, or that may be hereafter born, are involved
in the administration of said trust, as well as the rights of his
wife, the plaintiffs ' feel it to be their right and duty to ask this
honorable Court to examine into their administration of said trust
from the commencement thereof, their sales and purchases, investments and re-investments, as respects the principal of said trust
fund, and their receipts, charges, and disbursements on account of
the income thereof, and to pass upon the propriety and correctness
of their said doings and accounts, and make a complete settlement,
up to the date of its decree, of all said matters as between the
plaintiffs and all parties interested in said trust.

11. The value of the trust property now in the hands of the
plaintiffs, both real and personal, is considerable, to wit: not less
than eighty thousand dollars, according to the best of their judgment and belief ; and is situated in this State ; and said John Doe
has, since the execution of said trust deed, removed out of this
State, and now resides with his said wife and children in the city
and State of New York.

The plaintiffs ask the Court, by its decree,

1. 'l‘o advise and order as to whether they may or shall hereafter hold, as part of said trust property, said stocks in said

manufacturing companies, or any part thereof; and as to whether
said sixty-two shares of stock in the Hartford Steel Manufacturing Company, and said two shares of stock in the Union Copper
Company, or any part thereof, ought,to have been or to be treated

as part of the income of said trust property, rather than as part ‘

of the principal thereof.

2. That this honorable Court may examine into the administration of said trust by the plaintiffs, from the commencement
thereof down to the time of such examination, including all their
sales and purchases, investments and re-investments, as respects
the principal of said trust fund, and all their receipts, charges, and
disbursements on account of the income thereof; and may pass
upon the propriety and correctness of the said doings and accounts,
and make a complete settlement, up to the date of its decree, of all
said matters as between the plaintiffs and all parties interested in
said trust.

318.

For use and occupation.

1. The defendant occupied the [house and lot, N o. 100 State
street-, New Haven], by permission of the plaintiff, from May 1st
to July 1st, 1878, under an agreement to pay the plaintiff a reasonable rent therefor, monthly.

2. The use of said premises for said period was reasonably
worth $50.

3. The defendant has not paid the same.
The plaintiff claims $60 damages.

319.

On statute, for prosecuting vewattouls suit.

1. On August 10th, 187 8, the defendant commenced a civil
action against the plaintiff, claiming $2,000 damages, and caused
a writ in said action to be served upon him, returnable to the
September Term, 1878, of the Superior Court for Hartford County.
By legal continuance said action came to the January Term, 1879, of
said Court, and, at said Term, judgment in said action was rendered
in favor of this plaintiff to recover of this defendant $7 7, costs of
suit.

2. Said action was commenced and prosecuted by the defendant
against the plaintiff without probable cause.

3. Said action was commenced and prosecuted by the defendant

against the plaintiff with a malicious intent unjustly to vex and
trouble him.

4. This plaintiff necessarily expended in the defence of said
action a much larger sum than said costs, to wit : $560.

The plaintiff claims, by force of the statute in such case provided,
to recover treble damages, to wit: $1,680.

320.
For breach of warranty, on a sale of a horse.

1. The defendant, on April 11th, 1878, warranted to the plaintiff that a certain horse was sound, and thereby induced the plaintiff to buy said horse of him, and pay him $150 therefor.

2. Said horse then had the heaves, and was thereby unsound.

The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

321.

On a warranty of the soundness of a horse, with
special damages.

1. On April 1st, 1879, the defendant, offering to sell to the
plaintiff a certain horse, warranted said horse to be sound, kind,
and true, and gentle and quiet in harness.

2. The plaintiff, relying upon said warranty, purchased said
horse, and paid to the defendant therefor $300.

3. At the time of said warranty and sale said horse was
unsound, unkind, and untrue, and restive, and ungovernable in
harness, and had an infectious disease, to wit, the glanders, and
was worthless, all of which was well known by the defendant.

[Allege special damage,  any, e. g., as follows:

4. Thereafter said horse infected with said disease three other
horses of the plaintiff, of the value of $1,000, by reason whereof
one of said horses died, and the others were rendered worthless;

and the plaintiff was put to great expense in the care of said horses
and in attempting their cure.]

The plaintiff claims $2,000 damages.

322.

Against warehousemen for loss of goods.

1. On May 8th, 187 9, the defendants kept a warehouse at New
London, and the plaintiff then delivered to them at said Warehouse

certain merchandise consisting of [briefly describe goods], the property
of the plaintiff, to be stored in said warehouse, for a reward, until
called for by the plaintiff ; and the defendants, as warehousemen,
then received said goods for that purpose.

2. The defendants, in violation of their duty, did not take due
and proper care of said merchandise; and through their neglect
the same became wholly lost to the plaintiff.

The plaintiff claims $800 damages.

323.

Against warehouseman for /injury to goods.

1. On May 17th, 187 9, the defendant kept a warehouse at
Norwich, and the plaintiff then delivered to him at said warehouse certain merchandise consisting of [briefly describe goods], the
property of the plaintiff, to be stored in said warehouse, for the
plaintiff, for a reward ; and the defendant, as warehouseman, then
received said goods for that purpose.

2. When said goods were delivered as aforesaid, the plaintiff
caused the defendant to be informed that it was necessary to their
preservation that they should be kept dry. 3

3. The defendant, in violation of his duty, negligently allowed
said goods to become wet, whereby they became greatly injured
and depreciated in value.

The plaintiff claims $1,000 damages.

324.
Waste.

1. On April 1st, 1876, the plaintiff was, and ever since has
been, the owner in fee of a certain piece of land in Haddam,
bounded North by highway, East and South by land of A B, and
West by land of C D.

2. The plaintiff, by a lease, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy, let said land tothe defendant for six years from 3

said day, and the defendant entered upon said land at the com.
mencement of said term, and has ever since occupied the same
under the lease.

3. On November 1st, 1876, and on other days thereafter, and
before this action, the defendant, without authority, on said prem:
ises, cut down 50 beech trees, and dug up 1,000 yards of soil, and
carried said trees and soil away.

_4.. The p1ainti& was thereby injured in his reversionary estate
in the premises.
The pla.intif1' claims $500 damages.

325.

For diverting water from plain.ti#"s mill.

1. Before and at the time of the grievances herein complained
of, the plaintiif was and ever since has been possessed of certain
iron and tin works with the appurtenances, in Rockville, near a certain water-course, and exercised the business of manufacturer of
tin plates therein.

2. Said water-course before and at the time of said grievances
had flowed and been used of right to flow, and still of right ought
to flow in great abundance to said works of the plaintiff, for supo
plying the same with necessary water for the working thereof.

3. On May 8th, 187 9, and on divers other days between that day
and this action, the defendant wrongfully diverted large quantities
of the water of said water-course out of the same and away from
said works of the plaintiff and from supplying the same with water
for the necessary working thereof, as said water-course ought to
have done, and otherwise would have done.

4. By reason of said wrongful acts of the defendant, the
water of said water-course, sutiicient for supplying said works during that time, could not and did not flow as the same ought to
have done, and the plaintiff for want of sutiicient water could not
during that time use said works nor exercise his said business
therein as he ought to have done, and otherwise would have done,
and thereby the plaintiii during all that time was deprived in
large part of the use of said works’ and of the profit which he
otherwise might and would have made by carrying on his trade
therein.

The plaintiff claims $5,000 damages.

326.

For an injan ction against diverting a watercourse [and damages].

1. The plaintiif is, and at the time hereinafter mentioned was,
possessed of a saw mill, situated on Mill brook, in North Haven,
and his sole occupation was and is the operation of said mill.

2. The water of said brook was and has ever been accustomed to
How to said mill.

3. On August 1st, 187 8, the defendant wrongfully diverted the
water of said brook, so that less water ran to the plaintiffs mill,
and has ever since continued and threatens to continue said diversion.

4. By reason thereof the plaintiff has been unable to saw more
than 10 logs a day, whereas, before said diversion of water, he was
able to saw 200 logs a day, and if said diversion is continued, the

\value of said mill privilege will be substantially destroyed, and the
plaintiff’s livelihood taken away.

The plaintiff claims,

1. An injunction against any future diversion of said water
from his mill.

[2. $500 damages. If damages are not desired, omit this claim]

3270

To restrain a nu isance, by fouling a stream [and
for damages].

1. The plaintiff owns a farm in Hebron, through which flows
and has ever flowed a stream, known as Ball brook.

2. The defendant owns a mill on said brook, at a point above
"the plaintiffs farm, and on May 1st, 1878, began to use the same
as a paper mill. _

3, In such use of said mill, the defendant has employed, for
cleaning rags, sundry noxious chemical substances and fluids, and
has allowed the same, after ‘they have been so employed, to be
thrown into or mixed with the water of said brook, whereby such
water has been greatly fouled. ‘

4. Before such use of said mill, the plaintiff had always watered
his stock at said brook, and had also carried the water therefrom
into his house, by pipes, and was using it for his domestic purposes.

5. Since said use of said mill, and fouling of said water, the
water of the brook where it enters the plaintiffs farm, and throughout its entire course through the same, is so foul and unwholesome,
that he has been and is unable to use it either for his stock or his
domestic purposes.

6. On June 1st, 187 8, he notified the defendant of this injury
to the water, and requested him to desist from any such use of the
brook thereafter, but the defendant has, notwithstanding, continued
said nuisance to the present time.

7. [The plaintiff has already been damaged to the extent of $100

thereby, and] if said nuisance is continued permanently, it will ruin’

said farm.

The plaintiif claims,

1. An injunction against the continuance of said nuisance.

2. $100 damages.  no damages are desired, in this action,
omit from the 7th paragraph the words “The plaintid has already
been damaged to the extent of $100 thereby, and ” and also the 2d
claim for “ $100 damages.”]

328.

Obstruction of private way.

1. On May 22d, 1878, the plaintiff was, and ever since has
been, possessed of a certain piece of land in Windham, bounded
North by land of A B, East and South by land of C D. and West
by land of defendant, and had a right of way from his said land
over the land of the defendant to the highway, to pass and repass
on foot freely at all times.

2. On said day the defendant built a high fence across said
way, and at all times thereafter maintained said fence so that
the plaintiff, from said day hitherto, has been prevented thereby
from enjoying said way.

The plaintiff‘ claims $100 damages.

329.

Obstruction of public way.

1. At the time of committing the grievances herein complained
of, the plaintiff was, and ever since has been, the owner in fee of
a piece of land in Tolland, bounded North by land of A B, East
and South by land of C D, and West by land of defendant.

2. For many years last past the public had, and still have
a right of way over the land of the defendant adjoining said
land of the plaintiff, and leading over the defendant’s land to the
highway known as Main Street, to pass and repass, freely at all
times, with horses and carts.

3. On March 5th, 1878, the defendant erected a stone wall
across said public way at its entrance upon said highway, and has
ever since maintained the same.

4. Before said day andthence hitherto, the plaintiff carried on
the business of market-gardener on his said land, and could pass
and repass from his place of business to Main Street only by using
said public way, and a large portion of his customers could reach
his place of business only by passing over said public way; and

during all said time the plaintiif has been prevented by said acts
of the defendant from enjoying said public way, and has also
thereby been seriously injured in his said business.

The plaintiff claims $700 damages.

330.

Against a wharjtnger, for negligence.

1. On May 1_7th, 1879, the defendant was a wharfinger, and
carried on his business upon a wharf called Munson’s wharf, near

the Thames river, in Norwich.

2. On said day the plaintiff delivered to the defendant, as such
wharfinger, upon said wharf, three boxes of Woolen cloth, belonging to the plaintiff, of the" value of $200, to be by the defendant
safely kept upon said wharf, and thence shipped on board a certain
vessel, to be carried therein from Norwich to New York, and the
defendant received said goods for that purpose.

3. The defendant, in violation of his duty, neglected to give
said goods reasonable care, and by reason of his carelessness and
negligence, said goods became injured and deteriorated in value.

The plaintiff claims $100 damages.

331.

For the construction of a will.*

1. Susan Trowbridge, late of New Haven, died on September
6th, 1868, seized and possessed of a considerable estate, both real
and personal.

2. On January 17th, 1865, she made and executed a will dated
on said day, which will was in ‘due form of law to pass both real
and personal estate, and of which Exhibit A, heretoannexed, is a
copy.

3. After her decease, said will was duly presented for probate
to the Court of Probate for the District of New Haven, and was on
September 10th, 1868, admitted to probate, as a will of real and
personal estate, and was duly recorded in the records of said
Court.

4. The plaintiff, being the sole executor and trustee named in
said will, duly qualified as such, to the acceptance of said Court of
Probate, and was, and is now, the only acting executor pf said will

and trustee thereunder.

5. The plaintiff, as executor under said will, has paid all lawful

claims against the estate of the testatrix, and all legacies provided

for by said will, and has duly rendered his administration account
of all his proceedings in the settlement of said estate to said Probate Court, which account has been accepted and approved by said
Court. ~

6. After the payment of the lawful claims against the estate of
said testatrix, and of the legacies given by said will, and the
expenses of the settlement of the estate,‘ there remained in the
hands of the plaintiff no residuary estate whatsoever, applicable to
the purposes of the trust, provided for in the sixteenth section of

said will, except the two tracts or parcels of land, with the build- ‘

ings thereon, in the sixteenth section of said will specifically
described, which are of the value of not less that $20,000.

‘ 7. N 0 church edilice or meeting-house has been erected upon
either of the tracts of land in the sixteenth section of said will set
apart for that purpose, nor has any application ever been made to
the plaintiff for the occupation or use of said premises for the
erection of such church edifice or meeting-house, nor have any steps,
so far as he can learn, ever been taken by any person or persons,
society or ecclesiastical organization, for the purpose of availing
themselves of the provisions of the trust by said sixteenth section
intended to be created.

8. By reason of the failure of the residuary estate contemplated
by said sixteenth section, the plaintiff is without funds, or the means
of raising them, to keep the house in said sixteenth section mentioned properly insured, or to make the repairs upon said house
necessary to keep it in proper and tenantable condition, or to pay
the taxes lawfully assessed against the premises, or assessments
properly laid thereon for local and municipal purposes, and the
taxes already assessed against said premises have remained unpaid
for a series of years and now amount to $1,235, bearing interest at
the rate of 12 per cent. per annum, as provided by law in the case
of delinquent taxes assessed upon property within the city of New
Haven.

9. Betsey Howell and Sally Howell, named in said sixteenth
section, have both deceased since the death of the said testatrix, and
their interest under the provisions of the will has ceased.

10. The following named persons claim to have some interest
in or title to the premises described in said sixteenth section, as
next of kin and heirs at law of the testatrix, to wit: [naming them.]

11. Various questions have arisen, and various claims have

been made by the diderent persons hereinbefore named, relative
to the construction, validity, and legal eifect of certain of the
provisions, devises, and trusts contained in said will, among which
are the following:

1st. Whether any legal effect can be given to any part of the
sixteenth section of said will, and if so, what, and whether all or
any part of said section is or is not void; and whether any portion
of the scheme contemplated by said section can be made legally
operative ?

2d. Whether" the trust, made or which it was attempted to
make in said section, is valid, legal, and operative, and capable of
being carried out in any legal manner; and if so, how; and whether
the trust estate thereby created, or which it was attempted to
create, is now a valid and subsisting estate; and whether the
provision for accumulation therein contained is a legal and valid
provision; and if not, Whether the other provisions of said section
are thereby rendered inoperative and void ?

3d. Whether the provisions of said section suspend the power
of alienation for more than two lives, either actually or by possibility; and whether if said power of alienation be suspended for
more than two lives, the trust, which it was sought to create, is
thereby rendered inoperative and void ?

4th. Whether the trust, which it was sought to create by said
section, is or is not void for uncertainty, indefiniteness, and a failure of the object of the testatrix’s bounty ?

5th. In the event of said trust being adjudged to be inoperative or invalid, or to have failed, then, to whom and in what proportions, and in’ what manner the tracts of land in said section
mentioned are to be conveyed, or Whether such tracts or either of
them revert, or of right and in law belong to the heirs at law of
the testatrix, and who such heirs are ?

6th. Whether any of the provisions, devises, trusts, and powers
granted, created, or which it was sought or intended to grant or
create by said section, are ineffectual, or void, or have failed; and
in what proportion and to.whom such parts of the estate granted by

any of the provisions of said section, which are adjudged to be

inoperative, (if any there be,) go and of right belong ?

12. The plaintiff is ready and willing to convey said estate as
the same shall appear of right to belong, but he is in doubt as to
said several questions, and as to the true construction of the
clauses and paragraphs of said will, to which said questions relate,
and by reason of the conflicting claims of the various parties in

interest, and of the uncertainty and ambiguity of the various
clauses of said Will, he is exposed to sundry suits by said claimants,
and to loss and damage therefrom.

13. The plaintiff is advised by counsel that he cannot, with
safety to himself, and the rights and interests of others, proceed in
the execution of said will, and of the trust created, or which it was
attempted to create by the sixteenth section thereof, Without the
advice and protection of this Court, in giving a construction to
the several clauses and provisions of said Will, in respect to which
have arisen said various claims and questions.

. The plaintiff claims:

1. An adjudication as to the several matters in respect to which
said questions and doubts have arisen, and a decree settling the
construction of said will, and directing the plaintiff in what manner
he shall carry its trusts into execution, so as to enable him, to
execute said trusts properly, and With safety to himself.

2. That said heirs at law and next of kin of Susan Trowbridge
may be cited in, and ordered to set forth their said several claims
and demands, and to submit the same to the decision of this
Court.

3. That the sums to be allowed out of said estate to the several
parties hereto, for their expenses and counsel fees, may be fixed by
the Court.

3320

For work and materials )“u—rn@°shied.

1. On May 1st, 1878, the plaintiff agreed to build a sail-boat
for the defendant, similar to one then owned by the plaintiff, called
the Wave, and the defendant agreed to pay the plaintiff therefor,
on delivery, the reasonable value of the materials used therein,
and $59 for the plaintiff’s labor thereon.

2. On July 1st, 187 8, the plaintiff finished said boat, as agreed,
and delivered it to the defendant.

3. The materials used in said boat Were reasonably worth $50.

4. The defendant has paid nothing on account of said boat.

The plaintiff claims $150 damages.

333.

For goods made at defendant’s request, and not
accepted.

1. On July 1st, 1878, the defendant agreed with the plaintiff
that the plaintiff should make for him forty chairs, similar to a

sample chair in the plaintiif’s store, and promised to pay for the
same, upon delivery thereof, $60.

2. The plaintiff made said chairs according to agreement, and
on August 11th, 1878, offered to deliver the same to the defendant,
and has ever since been ready and willing so to do.

3. The defendant has not paid for the same.

The plaintiff claims $75 damages.

334.

Against the maker, acceptor, indorser or drawer
of a bill of exchange, promissory note, due-bill,
bond, bank note, check, or certificate of deposit,
or other written instrument for the payment
of money only. A

$100 is due to the plaintiff from the defendant, on an instrument, of which a copy is hereto annexed, marked Exhibit A.
The plaintiff claims $125 damages.

[Annex _copy of the z'nstrument.]

- CROSS-COMPLAINTS.

335.

Cross-complaint to a complaint for foreclosure :
tender.

vs. New Haven County,

JoHN Don: SUPERIOR COURT,
RICHARD R01: AND JOHN FEN. January .Term, 1879.

CROSS-COMPLAINT OF JOHN FEN, AGAINST JOHN DOE AND RICHARD
ROE.

1. 'After the defendant Richard Roe made the note and mortgage in the original complaint described, he sold and conveyed, by
a proper deed, his interest in the mortgaged premises to this
defendant, John Fen.

2. On June 1st, 187 8, when said note fell due, and before the
commencement of the plaintiff’s said action, and after notice to him
of said conveyance, this defendant tendered to the plaintiff the full
amount due on said note, with interest, being in all $10,600, in
payment thereof, and the plaintiff refused to accept the same.

3. This defendant has ever since been, and now is, ready and
Willing to pay said sum to the plaintiff, or into Court for his use.

This defendant claims a conveyance to himself from the plaintiff
of the mortgage title, on tender or payment into Court by this
defendant of $10,600.

336.

Cross-complaint‘, to a complaint for foreclosure :

for a discovery and account, and a reconveyance.

vs. Middlesex County,

J OHN Don ‘ SUPERIOR COURT,
RICHARD Ron. September Term, 187 9.

CROSS -COMPLAIN T -.

1. The defendant has made sundry payments on the mortgage
note, in said original complaint described.

2. On January 1st, 1877, the plaintiff took, and has ever since .

retained possession of, said mortgaged premises, and has ever since
said day been receiving the rents and profits thereof, to a large
amount.

3. The plaintiff refuses to apply said payments, or said receipts
for rents and profits, on said mortgage debt.

4. The defendant has kept no account of the payments so made
by him, nor did the plaintiff indorse them on the note, and the
defendant is ignorant of their exact amount, but the same is Well
known to the plaintiff.

5. The defendant on January 1st, 1879, demanded of the plaintiff an account of said payments, and of said rents and profits received, but he refused to give it. C

6. The defendant believes and therefore avers that said note
is fully paid, by the rents, profits, and payments aforesaid. .

The defendant claims,

]. An account of said rents and profits, by Way of equitable
relief.

2. A discovery as to the entire amount of his payments, on
account.

3. A reconveyance, if, on a just accounting, it appears that
said note is satisfied.

337.

Cross-complaint between co-defendants, on an
agreement to indemnify. (366 Page 153, F07‘m N 0- 987-)

’ (Insert title and caption of original cause.)

The defendant John Doe brings this cross-complaint against
his co-defendant, James Smith, and says :

1. The defendant, James Smith, on April 5th, 1879, directed
this defendant to levy the execution, in said original complaint
described, on the flour therein mentioned, and agreed to indemnify
him for so doing; and said levy was made on the faith of said
agreement.

2. This defendant, at the time of said levy. believed said flour
to belong to John Stiles, and to be subject to such levy.

This defendant claims that, in case judgment be rendered
against him, on said original complaint, a further judgment may
be rendered in his favor against James Smith, that said James
Smith is liable to, and shall reimburse this defendant for any
sums which this defendant may be compelled to pay on any execution issued on such prior judgment, in favor of such original
complainant.

A 338.
SUPPLEMENTAL COMPLAINT.
JOHN STILES Summon Comm,
vs. Hartford County,
RICHARD Rom. January Term, 1879.

SUPPLEMENTAL COMPLAINT.

1. Since the above entitled action Was commenced, in which the
plaintiff seeks a specific performance of an agreement for a conveyance of certain lands, in Hartland, of which he is in possession under
said agreement, the defendant has brought an action, to this honorable Court, at its present Term, to eject the plaintiff from said
land, and it is now pending, undetermined.

2. The plaintiff has no legal defense to said action, but has an

equitable right to the legal title to said lands, as shown in his
original complaint.

The plaintiif claims an injunction against the prosecution of said
complaint of ejectment, until the determination of his said action.

PLEAS TO THE JURISDICTION
AND IN ABATEMENT.‘

339.

In City Court, because none of the parties reside
within the city.

CITY COURT on NEW HAVEN,
January Term, 1879.

‘US.

JOHN Don:
RICHARD RoE.

PLEA TO THE JURISDICTION.

The defendant pleads in abatement because he did not, as is in
said writ alleged, nor did the plaintiif, reside within the limits of
said city, at the time of the commencement of said suit.

And therefore he prays judgment,

By A. B., his attorney.

340.
For defective service.

The defendant pleads in abatement, because* said writ was not
otherwise served upon him than by the ofIicer’s leaving a copy of
said writ and complaint with him. on the first day of February,
1879, "and only three days, instead of twelve days, before the first
Tuesday of February, 1879, when this Term of this Court, to which
said Writ was made returnable, was to and did commence.

And therefore he prays judgment,

By A. B., his attorney.

341.

Another action pending.

[To be inserted after the word “ because* ” in the first line of the
form above g2'ven.] B

*At the commencement of this action, there was and now is
another action pending in the Superior Court in and for Tolland
County, between the same parties, as the parties to this action, and
for the same cause as that set forth in said complaint. .

342.

Alien enemy.
1. The plaintiff was not at the commencement of this action,

and is not now, a citizen of the United States ; but was and is an «

alien, born in England, out of the allegiance of the United States,
and within the allegiance of the [queen of Great Britain].

2. At the commencement of this action, the government of
[Great Britain] was, and still is at war with, and an enemy of, the
United States.

3. The plaintiff then’ was, and still is, an alien enemy abiding
without the United States, and at [London], within said kingdom,
and adhering to the said enemies of the United States.

343.

Non-jotnder of a party to the contract.

1. The supposed contract [or other cause of action] mentioned in
the complaint, if any such was made, was made with said Ira Roe,
by the plaintiff [or, by the defendant] and one John Doe, jointly

[and if as partners, may be added, as partners, under the firm-name

of Roe & Co.]
2. Said John Doe is still living at New London;*

344.

Joint interest in plaintif and at third person.

1. The plaintiif had not, at the time of the alleged grievances
in the complaint mentioned [nor at any time since], any title to or
interest in the [property, the subject of the action] therein mentioned,
except jointly With John Doe and Richard Roe.

2. John Doe and Richard Roe are still living at Bridgeport.

345.

Partnership with third party.

1. At the time of the making of the note in said complaint
alleged, the defendants were in partnership with one John Doe,
under the firm name of Stiles & Co.

v 2. Said note was made by the defendants and John Doe,
jointly, by their said firm name.

3. John Doe is still living at Danbury.

346.
Non-joinder of a co-administrator, as a co‘ plaintif.

After the death of said John Doe, on May 1st, 1878. letters of
administration were duly issued to one John Stiles, together with
the plaintiff, by the Court of Probate for the District of Hartford;
and said John Stiles thereupon duly qualified as administrator, and
still issuch, and living at Hartford.

347.

Non-joinder of a co-executor.
1. John Fen, the testator mentioned in the complaint, by his

will duly appointed the plaintiff and one John Stiles, jointly,

executors of his said Will.
2. On May 1st, 1878, said will was duly proved before the

Court of Probate for the District of Hartford, and letters

testamentary were thereupon duly issued to said John Stiles,

together with the plaintiif, by said court, and John Stiles thereupon duly qualified as executor, and still is such, and living at

Hartford.

DEMURRERS.

348.
For mtsjotnder of causes of action.

DEMURRER.

The defendant demurs to the complaint for misjoinder of causes
of action, because the first count is for breach of contract, and the

second count is for slander.
By A. B., his attorney.

349.

For duplicity, or mtsjotnder of causes of action
in one count.

DEMURRER.
The defendant demurs to the complaint, because it sets forth, in

but one count, two separate and distinct causes of action ; namely,”

one on a note and one on a bond.
By A. B., his attorney.

350.
For want of an averment of a request.

DEMURREB.

The defendant demurs to the complaint, because it does not
aver any request made by the plaintid of the defendant, as was

required by the contract therein alleged.
By A. B., his attorney.

351.
For want of parties.

DEMURRER.

The defendant demurs because the contract, sued on, is alleged
to have been made by himself and John Doe, jointly, Wherefore
said John Doe should have been made a defendant.

By A. B., his attorney.

352.
To the relief’ sought.

DEMURRER.

The defendant demurs to the [second] prayer for relief, because
on the facts stated, the plaintiff is not entitled to the relief therein
sought.

By A. B., his attorney.

ANSWERS.

353.

General dental.
(Title) (Caption.)
ANSWER.

The defendant denies the truth of the matters contained in the
plaintiff’s complaint.
By JOHN FEN. his attorney.

354.
(Title.) (Caption.)
ANSWER.
1. Paragraph first is admitted.

2. Paragraph second is denied.
JOHN Dom, by A. B., attorney.

355.
General denial, with new matter.

ANSWER.

1. The defendant denies the “truth of the matters contained in
the plaintiE’s complaint.

2. On March 1st, 1878, the plaintiff executed and delivered to
the defendant a release under seal, discharging all demands then
existing in favor of the plaintiff against the defendant.

356.

Answer and counter-claim.
(Tit1e.) (Caption.)
ANSWER, AND COUNTER-CLAIM.

1. [State defense as in any of the forms of answers]
By way of counter-claim :
1. [As in Form No. 4.4.4 to the end.]

-3 5 '7 .
Several defenses.

ANSWER.

First defense to first count.

1. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant assigned and delivered to
the plaintiff a due bill of one John Doe for $50, which the plaintiff accepted as a full satisfaction of the demand set up in the first
count of his complaint.

Second defense to first count.

2. On July 1st, 187 9, the plaintiff signed, sealed, and gave to
the defendant a release of all demands of the plaintiff, against the
defendant, to that date.

Defense to second count.

1. Paragraph first is denied.

2. As to the matters alleged in paragraph fourth, the defendiant has not any knowledge or information thereof, sufficient to

form a belief. S
JOHN STILES, by A. B., his attorney.

358.

Accord and satisfaction.

After making the contract [or, other instrument] and the
alleged breach thereof [or, after committing the said supposed
grievances], in the complaint mentioned [or, in the third count in
the complaint mentioned], and before this action, on May 1st, 1879,
the defendant delivered to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff‘ [or, to
John Doe, one of the plaintiffs, and said Doe] accepted and
received from the defendant a grand piano, in full satisfaction of
the damages [or, moneys, or, liability, or, debt, as may be appropriate]
in the complaint mentioned, and of all the damages by the plaintiff
sustained by reason of the non-performance [or, non-payment, or,
neglect, or, acts] therein alleged.

359.

That defendant indorsed as agent; where the
complaint set forth the contract untruly in
this respect.

1. Paragraphs third and fourth [or, other paragraphs stating the
note and endorsement] are denied. '

2. The following is a true copy of the note, on which this
action is brought: [copy of note and endorsement, with addition of
“ Treasurer” to defendant’s signature].

3. At the time of the making and indorsement of said note
the defendant was the treasurer of the Union Oil Company, a corporation, duly incorporated under the laws of Ohio; and was
authorized by it to receive said note, and to indorse the same to
the plaintiffs, as such treasurer, of all which facts the plaintiffs
had notice.

4. Said corporation Was, at the time of said indorsement,
indebted to the plaintiffs to the amount of about $1,000, for goods,.
furnished by the plaintiifs to said corporation ; and said note was
received and indorsed by him, as such treasurer, and not in his
individual capacity, and was received by the plaintiffs as an obligation of said corporation, on account of said debt dueto them from
said corporation only, and the defendant received no consideration
therefor.

360. _
Alteration of instrument.

After the making [or, acceptance] and issue of said note E07‘, bill]
it was materially altered, by the plaintiff, without the consent of
the defendant, by cutting off the signature of John Stiles, who was
a joint maker thereof, [or, by adding the words “payable at the
Hartford National Bank,” or otherwise, as the case may be.]

361.

Arbttrament and award.

1. After the maturity of the note [or, after the accruing of the
cause of aictzlm] mentioned in the complaint, on April 10th, 187 9,
the plaintid and defendant executed a written submission of the
demand alleged in the complaint, among other controversies, to
the arbitration of one John Stiles, [or annex a copy of the submission
as an ea:h2'b2't.]

2. Afterwards and before this action, on May 1st, 187 9, by his
award then duly made and published, John Stiles awarded that
[stating substance of the award].

362.

To complaint on an award; /invalidity of award,
with counter-claien. (Form No. 28.)

1. Paragraph first is admitted.

2. The defendant has no knowledge or information sufficient to
form a belief, that the arbitrators made an award [in writing, under
their hands, and delivered the same to the plaintiff] within the
time limited therefor.

3. The defendant had no notice of the time or place, when or

‘where said arbitrators would meet to hear the matters submitted

to them, and no opportunity of appearing or being heard in his
defense before them ; and the alleged award was made without any
information or notice thereof to the defendant.

4:. The arbitrators, on May 10th, 1879, and while preparing
their award, or immediately prior thereto, examined several wit
nesses touching the matters submitted to them, and heard their
statements in respect thereto, in the presence of the plaintiff, and
in the absence of, and without the consent of, the defendant.

By way of counter-claim :

1. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of this answer are made part of this
counter-claim. '

2. The defendant had a good defense upon the merits, in the
matter submitted to said arbitrators; and would have been entitled
to an award in his favor, had an opportunity been afforded him of
producing his proofs before them.

The defendant, by way of equitable relief, asks,

I. That said award may be adjudged to be void.

2. That the plaintiff be perpetually enjoined from enforcing

the same.

363.
Defense of son assault demesne.

1. On the day mentioned in the complaint, and just before the
assault therein complained of, the plaintiff made an assault upon
the defendant, and the defendant, in self-defense, necessarily beat
and bruised the plaintiff a little, doing him no unnecessary harm.

2. The acts of the defendant, above mentioned, are the same
of which the plaintiff complains.

364.

To an action for an assault : defense of molliter
manus /imposwolt.

- 1. Paragraphs first and second  e., those as torthe beating and
injury] are denied. - T

2. At the time mentioned in the complaint, the plaintiff had
made an assault on one John Doe, and was then and there beating
him [or, the plaintiff and one John Doe, in breach of the peace,
were fighting together].

3. Thereupon the defendant, in order to preserve the peace and
prevent the plaintiff from further beating said Doe, [or, in order to
preserve the peace and to separate them]. gently laid his hands
upon the plaintiff, as he lawfully might, doing him no unnecessary
damage. T

4. Thereupon the plaintiff assaulted the defendant, and the
defendant, in self-defense, necessarily beat and bruised the plaintiff
a little. '

5. The acts of the defendant, above mentioned, are the same of
which the plaintiff complains. '

365.

To an action for an assault and battery; self
' defense : (see Form .No. 21.)

ANSWER AN D COUNTER-CLAIM.

1. Paragraph iirst is denied, except as herein admitted. On
the day therein mentioned, the plaintiii attempted to strike the
defendant, and the defendant thereupon, in order to protect him.

~ self from violence, struck the plaintiii, using no more force than

was necessary to use to defend himself from the attack of the
plaintiff. ‘

2. As to paragraphs secbnd and third, the defendant has not
any knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief.

By way of counter-claim :

:1. The statements in paragraph first of this answer are made
part of this counter-claim. 2. The plaintiif, on said day, while the defendant was defending himself. as hereinbefore alleged, struck him many blows with a
heavy whip, causing him thereby great pain.

The defendant claims $1,000 damages.

366.

Denial of plaint~i)?"’s title, in a case of bailment.

1. Paragraph third (that alleging the plaz'ntzf’s title) is denied.

2. Said [article bailed] was the property of one Richard Fen,
and he was entitled to its possession when this action was brought.

3. Before the commencement of this action, the defendant
had, on the demand of Richard Fen, delivered the same to him.

367.

Unauthorized acceptance in name of corporation,
and want of consideration.
First defense.

John Stiles, who accepted said bill, in the defendant’s name, had
no authority to accept bills for the defendant, and said acceptance
was made without the authority or consent of the defendant, and out
of the course of its regular business, and without any consideration
moving to it.

Second defense.
I. Said acceptance was for the accommodation of John Doe.

2. The defendant has no knowledge or information suliicient to
form a belief as to whether said bill was indorsed by John Doe and
delivered to the plaintiffs ; but, if it was, it was not so indorsed
for value, nor until after its maturity [_'or, was so indorsed and
transferred, Without consideration], and, prior to such indorsement,
the plaintiffs’ had notice of the facts stated in the foregoing paragraph.

368.
That the acceptance was for the plartnt/t)7"’s accommodatton.

1. The defendant accepted the bill mentioned in the. complaint,
for the accommodation of the plaintiii‘ [or, of said John Doe], and
there was never any value or consideration for the acceptance or
payment of said bill by the defendant.

[Addz°ng, where the plaintzf is an indorsee],

2. Said bill was indorsed to the plaintiff, and he always held
the same, without any value or consideration.

369.

To a complaint for breach of promise: that
platnti)?’ was nnchaste.

1. At the time mentioned as the time of said supposed promise, the plaintiff was lewd and unchaste.

2. The defendant was Wholly ignorant thereof, at that time.

3. Upon being informed thereof, and for that cause, he refused
to marry the plaintiff.

3'70. _
Payment by note.

1. On October 1st, 1878, the defendant paid the plaintiff $1,000
in cash, and also gave him his, the defendant’s, note for $1,000, of
said date, payable to the plaintiff, or order, thirty days from date,
for value received.

2. Thereupon the plaintiii accepted said note as payment of the
balance then due to him in respect to the matters alleged in said
complaint, and gave the defendant a receipt in full of all demands

to date.

3'71.

To an action against a carrier for injury to

-goods : that the damage was by placlnt/t‘]7"’s fault.

I. The box of glass, mentioned in the complaint, was not
marked by the plaintiff, as being glass, when delivered to the
defendant, nor did it then bear any indication of the character of
the contents, nor did the defendant have any notice thereof.

2. ' The defendant stowed said box in his vessel with due care,
and in a manner which would not have injured its contents, had
they not been glass. ’

3'72.

That a loss of goods by a common carrier was by
a risk for wh/tch' defendants were not liable.

1. The merchandise mentioned in the complaint was delivered
by the plaintiffs to the defendants, and by them received on board

, the steamer Lexington, under a special contract made between them

for the transportation of the same from New York to Stonington,
of which Exhibit’A, hereto annexed, is a copy.

2. While the merchandise was well and properly stowed on
board the steamboat, and being carried pursuant to the contract,
and without any carelessness or misconduct of the defendants or
their servants, or any defect of the boat or its equipments, the
boat, by mere accident, took tire, and was consumed, with its
cargo, including the merchandise of the plaintiffs; and thereby,
by the accident of tire, and not by any negligence, misconduct,
or default of the defendants, the merchandise was not delivered
at Stonington, and became lost to the plaintiffs.

3'73.

By a railroad company, to action by passenger:
(see Form No. 80.)

1. Paragraph fourth is denied, except so far as admitted in the
following statement: ' l V

The plaintiff received, While passing from New Haven to Berlin,

in exchange for his said ticket, a, certain check which was evidence

of his right to travel from Berlin to Middletown. By a reasonable
rule adopted and enforced by the defendant, it was the duty of the
plaintiff to surrender said check to the conductor of the defendant’s
train during his passage from Berlin to Middletown, upon demand,
and the duty of the conductor to eject from the train, at the first

stopping-place, any passenger who refused to surrender such check.
The plaintiff, while passing as aforesaid from Berlin to Middletown,
refused, upon demand, to surrender said check to the conductor of
the train, and thereupon the conductor, without unnecessary force,
attempted to put the plaintiff off the train at the first stoppingplace, to wit, East Berlin, and desisted from said attempt as soon
as the plaintiff surrendered said check.

2. As to paragraph fifth, the defendant has no knowledge or
information, sufficient to form a belief.

3'74.
Compromise.

1. Before this action, the plaintiff having demanded said sum
[or said goods, or otherwise] from the defendant, the defendant

refused to pay the same, “because [here state facts showing the claim
to have been a doubtful one].

2. The parties thereupon agreed to compromise said claim,

and that the defendant should pay, and the plaintiff accept $50, in
satisfaction thereof.

3. On July 1st, 1879, the defendant so paid, and the plaintiff
so accepted said sum. ;

3750

Ultra vires.

1. The plaintiff [or, said company] was not authorized by law to
take, hold, and convey real property, except for the following purposes, and in the following manner [here set forth the powers of the
corporation]. ' l

2. The deed alleged in the complaint was executed by the
grantor, and accepted by said corporation for the purpose of [here
state purposes and manner, not within the power]

  376.

‘Note taken by an insurance compw/I72?!» which was
unauthorized by its charter.

1. At the times mentioned in the complaint, the plaintiff was a
corporation created by the State of New Jersey, doing business in
this State, and incorporated for the purpose of carrying on the busi- ness of mutual life insurance, and for no other purpose.’

2. By the second section of its charter, it was “declared and provided that all persons whoshould insure in or with the corporation
should, while they continued so insured, be deemed to be, and taken
as members of the corporation ;” and by the sixth section it was
“ declared and provided that it should and might be lawful for the
oiiicers of the corporation to take the notes or obligations of the
members for the amount, either in part or in whole, of the premium
of insurance, in proportion to the amount insured ;” but that said
corporation should never exercise any banking powers. _

3. Said notes Were executed by the defendant, for the accommodation respectively of John Doe and Richard Roe, in the com.
plaint named, who indorsed them to the plaintiff, which discounted the same in violation of its charter.

377.

Covertnre of the defendant.

At the time of making the supposed [contract] alleged in the
complaint, the defendant was [and still is] the Wife of one John

Doe.

378.
Denial that credit has expired.

Said sale was upon a credit of six months from July 1st, 1879,.
which had not expired, at the commencement of this action.

379.

Discharge in ,Bankrnptey.*

1. On'May ], 1877, the defendant filed, in the District Court of
the United States for the District of Connecticut, a petition to be
adjudicated a bankrupt under the laws of the United States.

2. On June 1, 1878, said Court duly granted to the defendant
a discharge in bankruptcy, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is
a copy. _ y '

3. The supposed indebtedness alleged in the complaint, if any
such ever did accrue, accrued before [or, the supposed contract
alleged in the complaint, if any such was made, was made before]
the filing of said petition.

380.
Dwress by imprisonment.

The defendant, at the time of making said [contract] was
imprisoned by the plaintiff [and others in collusion with him].
and then and there detained until, by the force and duress of
imprisonment, the defendant made and delivered the same.

381.
Du/ress by threats.

The instrument in the complaint mentioned was obtained from
the defendant by the plaintiff [and others in collusion with him]
by duress of the defendant in threatening the defendant with
bodily harm, in consequence of which, and in fear thereof, the
defendant executed said instrument.

382.

That the delivery was in escrow.

1. The defendant gave said deed [or other writing] to secure the
repayment of $1,000, then lent by the plaintiff to one John Doe.
' 2. The defendant delivered said deed. not to the plaintiff or his
agent, but to one John Stiles, as an escrow, to be kept by him
upon condition that if John Doe should, within six months,
secure the repayment of said sum to the plaintiff by a mortgage
upon his farm, then said deed should be immediately discharged,
and returned to the defendant, and that only in case of default of
John Doe, in so securing the repayment of said sum, should said
deed stand in force.

3. Within the time agreed, and on May 1st, 1879, John Doe
did secure the repayment of said sum to the plaintiff by a mortgage upon said farm, which the plaintiff then and there accepted
as such security ; whereby the deed of the defendant, so delivered
in escrow, became void. '

383.
That thenote was for goods sold by fraud.

. 1. On July 15th, 1879, at New Haven, the plaintiff, being
engaged in business as a retail grocer, and having offered to sell
out the stock, fixtures, and good will of said business to the defendant, did, with intent to deceive and defraud the defendant,

falsely and fraudulently represent to him that said business, as
heretofore conducted by the plaintiff, was a proiitable business, and
that the net profits thereof, realized by him during the year ending July lst, 1879, had exceeded $3,000, [or, otherwise, as the representations were].

2. The defendant, relying on said representations, purchased of
the plaintiff said stock, fixtures, and good-will, and gave in payment therefor said note in the complaint described.

3. Said representations were false, and said business was not,
and never had been a profitable business, and the plaintiff had not
realized any profits whatever from the same during the year ending July 1st, 187 9, [or otherwise state specifically the particulars in
which the representations were false]. ' '

4. Said note was given to the plaintiff Without any other consideration than said sale.

5. The defendant has never realized any profits from said business.

6. Immediately on discovering said fraud, he rescinded said
contract of sale, and tendered to the plaintiff all that the defendant had received under said contract, to Wit, [ ] upon condition of his returning said note, which the plaintiff refused to do.

384.

That the note was for accommodation, and was
misapplied. '

1. The note described in the complaint was given by the
defendant to [the payee] therein named, without any other consideration than is hereinafter stated.

2. The defendant had made his promissory note for $1,500,
dated May 15th, 187 9, to said [payee], without consideration, and
solely for the accommodation of said [payee], and upon his promise
to take up and pay the same at maturity.

3. S Said note fell due on August 18th, 1879, and, at the request
of said [payee], the defendant then gave him the note in suit, for
the special purpose of enabling him therewith to take up and
renew said first note of $1,500, he paying the balance, and upon
the agreement with him that it should be so used, and not otherwise. ,

4. The plaintiff having a.claim then over-due against said
[payee], said [payee] wrongfully diverted said note from the purpose for which it Was given, and fraudulently misapplied the same,
by giving it to the plaintiff as collateral security for said claim.

5. The plaintiff received the note» in suit, with -notice of the
foregoing facts, and as collateral security for an antecedent debt,
and without paying any consideration therefor.

[6. Paragraphs first, fourth, and fifth of the complaint are
denied.]

385.
By town to highway petition: (Form No.140, page 93.)

ANSWER or DEFENDANT, THE TOWN or EAST HARTFORD.
1. Paragraph first and second is denied.

2. As to paragraph third, this defendant has not any knowledge ,

or information, sufficient to form a belief.

.386.

That the debt was for money lost at play. '

1. On May 1st, 1879, the defendant and the plaintiff played
together at a game of chance, called euchre, for stakes; and, at
said gaming, the plaintiff won $25 of the defendant.

2. The defendant gave the plaintiff the note mentioned in the
complaint for said money so staked and lost.

337.

That the note was given to compound a felony.

1. On May 1st, 1879, at Hartford, one John Doe, the son of
the defendant, had feloniously stolen, and led away a horse,
the property of the‘ plaintiff. .

2. The defendant, in order to compound and settle said felony,
gave the note mentioned in the complaint, upon the agreement of
the plaintiff to desist from giving any information of said felony.

388.

That note was for liquors sold without a license.

1. The only consideration for the note, mentioned in the complaint, Was the illegal sale of intoxicating liquors, sold by the [payee], to said defendant in New Haven. 2

2. Said [seller], at the time of such sale, had no license for the

sale thereof, as required by law.

3. Said note Was transferred to the plaintiff after it was due,
and without consideration [and after he had full notice of the
foregoing facts].

389.

Setting up a second defense inconsistent with
that stated as the jtrst defense.*

Second defense.

1. The defendant’s entry, if any, on said premises, was by virtue
of a lawful Writ of attachment, in favor of John Doe against the
plaintiff, directing an attachment of the plaintiff’s estate to the
amount of $1,000, which writ was returnable to the Superior Court
to be holden at Litchiield, in and for said County, on the first Tuesday of September, 1878, and directed to the sheriff of said County,
or his deputy, or any constable of the town of Winchester.

2. The defendant, on May 1st, 187 8, Was sheriff of Litchiield
County, and said writ was given him for service on said day.

3. The defendant attached a pair of oxen of the plaintiff, by
virtue of said Writ, and, if he made said alleged entry, it was in
order to make said attachment.

390.
Infancy of defendant.

At the time of making the supposed contract [or, of the delivery
of the goods, or other consideration], alleged, the defendant was

under the age of twenty-one years, to Wit, eighteen years of age.

391.

Insanity of the defendant.

At the time of the making of the alleged promise [or, agreement,
or, of the executing of the alleged deed] the defendant was of unsound mind, and thereby incapable of making [07-, executing] and
of binding himself by the same.

392.

To an action on an insurance policy: that
plaintif gave in a fraudulent account of loss.

1. After the alleged loss, and before this action, the plaintiff
made and delivered to the defendants a false and fraudulent account
of the alleged loss and damage, as and for such account as is mentioned in said policy, in which said account he stated that insured
goods of the plaintiif, to the value of $1,000, had been destroyed
by said tire, and that his damage by said fire was to said amount,
with a fraudulent intent to induce the defendants to pay him said
amount.

2. Said insured goods of the plaintiff had not been destroyed
by said tire to an amount exceeding in value $150, and his damage
was not over $150, as the plaintiff then well knew.

393.

Transfer of the interest of the insured.

After the making of said policy, and before the loss alleged,
on or about May 1st, 1878, the entire interest of the plaintiff in
said [things insured] was transferred to one John Stiles, by an
absolute sale and delivery of said [property] to him, by the
plaintiif, and remained in said John Stiles, at the time of said loss.

394.
Extra-hazardous risk.

1. [Allege promision of policy as to extra-hazardous articles]

2. After the making of said policy, and before the loss
alleged, the plaintiff received into his said store a large quantity
of goods described in said policy as extra-hazardous, to wit, ,
and at the time of said fire, he had a large quantity of the same
in said store.

395.

Correcting plainti)7"s statement of the policy,
and alleging eactra-hazardous use of premises.

1. As to each and every allegation of the complaint, the
defendant has no knowledge or information thereof sufficient to
form a belief, except so far as the same are hereinafter admitted.

2. Admitting that it is a corporation under the laws of New

York, and that it did, on May 1st, 187 9, in consideration of $25
to it paid, execute and deliver to John Doe a policy of insurance
in his favor, to the amount of $2,500, against loss or damage by
fire upon [his stock of books’ and stationery contained in the fivestory brick building, No. 100 Main street, Hartford]. subject to
the terms and conditions in said policy, the defendant denies
that it insured John Doe in the manner in the complaint alleged,
and that the paper annexed to the complaint, purporting to be
a copy of said policy, is a correct copy thereof.

3. It was in the policy so executed and delivered, agreed and
declared that [setting forth prom'sz'ons relied on], and “that this policy
is made and accepted in reference to the proposals or conditions
hereto annexed, which are to be used and resorted to, in order to
explain the rights and obligations of the parties hereto, in all cases
not herein otherwise specially provided for.”

4. At the time of the execution and delivery of said policy,
there was annexed thereto a printed paper containing “proposals for
insuring” and “conditions of insurance,” together with “classes of
hazards,” embracing therein articles designated “ Hazardous,” and
“ Extra-hazardous,” and a “Memorandum of special rates,”’which
proposals and conditions became and were a part of the contract,
and by which it was agreed and declared that [setting forth conditions relied on]. '

5. On or about May 1st, 187 9, said John Doe, Without the
knowledge or consent of the defendant, used the third story of the
building in the policy mentioned, or suffered the same to be used,
as and for a [bookbindery], and continued to make, or suffer
such use thereof, from thence until and at the time of the fire in
the complaint mentioned.

6. By reason of such wrongful use of said third story, the risk
assumed by the defendant in and by said policy, Was increased,
and rendered more hazardous than it was at the time said policy
was issued; by reason whereof said policy became void, and was
void, at the time of the fire, which, it admits, occurred.

3t)6.
That a marine policy was obtained by misrepresentations.

The defendant was induced to issue the policy alleged in’ the
complaint, by the misrepresentation, made by the plaintiff to the

defendant, of a fact then material for the defendant to know, and
to the risk of said policy ; that is to say, by the misrepresentation
that said vessel was loaded with hides, whereas a large portionof
her cargo consisted of guano [or, that said vessel had sailed from
New York on May 1st, 1879, whereas she had not sailed thence on
that day, but on March 1st, 1879], as the plaintiff well knew.

’ 397.
The same, in life insurance.

i A material fact stated in the declaration which is mentioned in
the policy, alleged in the complaint, and which was thereby agreed
to be the basis of said insurance, was untrue; that is to say that,
at the time of the delivery of said declaration to the defendants,
said John Doe [or, where the representtation was not incorporated in
the contract, said John Doe induced the defendants to issue the
policy, by falsely and fraudulently representing to them that he]
was in a good state of health, and was not afflicted with any disease
or disorder, tending to shorten life ; whereas, he was not then in
good health, but was afflicted with tubercular consumption, a
disease which does tend to shorten life.

398.

Denial of account of loss.

The plaintiff did not, within thirty days, which was the time
limited in the conditions of said policy, nor within a reasonable
time after said loss, make out or deliver a particular account of

such loss and damage, signed by or on behalf of the plaintiff, and ‘

verilied by his oath or aflirmation ; but neglected to do so for the
space of three months after said loss.

399.

To debt on judgment : fraud in its recovery, with
counter-claim. '

ANSWER, AND COUNTER-CLAIM.

1. After the commencement of the action, in which the judgment mentioned in said complaint was rendered, the plaintiff came
to the defendant, and with intent to deceive him, and prevent him
from defending it, falsely and fraudulently represented [here state
representatz'ons,—e. g., thus that he, the plaintiff, intended to and

would discontinue said action, and that the defendant need not

appear therein.

2. Relying on said representations, the defendant omitted to
appear therein, as he otherwise would have done.

3. The plaintiff thereafter, and without the knowledge of, or
notice to, the defendant, proceeded to take judgment therein, with
intent to defraud him.

lhwqufammadmm:

All the following statements in this answer are made part of
this counter-claim.

The defendant, by way of equitable relief, asks that said judgment be adjudged void, and the plaintiff forever restrained from
enforcing it.

400.
Invalidity of a foreign judgment.

1. N 0 process was served upon the defendant in the action
resulting in the judgment mentioned in the complaint.
2. He never appeared in person, or by attorney, in said action.

401.
Invalidity of judgment against non-resident.

1. The action, in which the judgment against the defendant is
alleged to have been recovered, was founded upon an alleged contract.
2. When that action was commenced, the defendant was not

a resident of this State, but of Illinois.

3. He never appeared in that action, and never was personally

served in this State with any process therein.
4. When the order of notice in that action was made, and for

a long time before and after, he had no property or rights of prop- ,

erty within this State; and when that judgment was rendered
said court had acquired no jurisdiction of his person.

402 .

Answer to complaint on judgment, setting up a
reversal of judgment.

1. On February 20th, 1879, John Doe sued out a writ of error
returnable to the Supreme Court of Errors, to be holden at Hartford, in the First Judicial District, on the second Tuesday of May,
1879, to reverse the judgment mentioned in said complaint, and
at said Term of said Court, said judgment was reversed.

2. Said original action has been re-entered for trial, in said Superior Court for Windham County, and is still pending therein.

403.

Former judgment.

On May 1st, 1879, in an action in the Superior Court, in and for
Hartford County, holden on the fourth Tuesday of January, 1879,
[or, before John Doe, Esquire, a justice of the peace in and for
Hartford County, residing in Windsor,] by the plaintiff in this
action, against this defendant, for the same cause of action as that
set forth in said complaint, the plaintiff recovered judgment
against this defendant upon said’ cause of action, for $1,000 and
costs, amounting in_all to $1,045.25. 0

404.

Assignment of lease, by assignee to third person.

Before the rent claimed in the complaint became due, and on or
about May 1st, 1879, the defendant assigned all his interest in said
lease to one John Doe, who then entered into possession, and so

continued when said rent became due.

405.

Defense, in an action of ejeetment; license, and
equitable title in the defendant.

First defense. _ _
1. On May 21st, 1878, the plaintiif gave the defendant a license

'- to enter on and take possession of the land mentioned in the

complaint.
2. The defendant entered thereon, on said day, and has ever

since remained in possession, under said license.
3. The plaintiff never revoked said license, before br1nging

this action.
Second defense.

1. On May 1st, 187 8, William Smith, being the owner of the
land mentioned in the complaint, executed to the defendant a deed,

whereby he granted to him a piece of land [describe as in the deed].

2. By almutual mistake of the parties thereto, said deed did not
include the land mentioned in the complaint ; but it was their intention that it should, and they, at the time of its execution, believed
that it did include the same, and the defendant, in such belief,
paid to said Smith the price thereof.

3. The plaintiff afterwards took his title from said Smith, with
actual knowledge of the facts alleged in paragraph second.

406.

Lien of am agister; (see Form No. 94.)

1. Before and at the time of making the agreement hereinafter
mentioned, and before the sale by said John Doe to the plaintiff,
the defendant had a lien on said horses to the amount of $500,
for the breaking in and training of the same, and, as incidental
thereto, for the necessary feeding, keeping, and care of the same, at
the request of said John Doe.

2. While said horses were in the possession of the defendant,
and before their sale to the plaintiff, an agreement was made
between John Doe and the defendant, that the defendant should
sell said horses for the most money he could obtain, and retain out
of the purchase-money such sum as he was entitled to by any lien
.on said horses, in respect of said debt.

3. The defendant sold said horses in pursuance of said agreement, for $400, being the most money he could obtain.

4. When the plaintiff demanded said horses, the defendant
gave him notice of said contract, and of the amount of said lien,
and that the proceeds of said sale were not sufficient to satisfy the
defendant’s said debt.

4070

Lien for storage.

1. On May 1st, 187 9, the plaintiff deposited the goods mentioned
in the complaint with the defendant for storage, agreeing to pay for
the same [twenty-five cents] per [ton] per [month].

, 2. The defendant has always been, and still is, ready and willing to deliver said goods to the plaintiff, upon payment of the
storage money due. .

3. ' The plaintiff has not paid or tendered to the defendant the
storage money due. '

, 408.
Statute of limitations.
The right of action for the cause stated in said complaint [or,
for the cause stated in the second count of the complaint] did not

accrue within [six] years next before the commencement of this
action. ' ’

409.
Maintenance by attorney, sheriji", etc.*

1. The plaintiff, when he acquired said note [or, other cause of
action], as alleged in his complaint, and when he brought this
suit, was an attorney at law of this State [or, sheriff, or, deputy
sheriff, of New London County, or, a constable of the town of New
London].

2. He purchased said note [or, other cause of action], and
brought this suit, with intent to make -gain by the fees of collection.

410.

Mistake in amount of note.

Said note was given upon a settlement of accounts between the
defendant and the plaintiff, and was intended by them to be made
and received for the sum of $100, then agreed by both parties to
be the amount due the plaintiff from the defendant ; but when
it was given, it was, by mistake of the parties, made for the sum of
$200, as mentioned in the complaint, instead of $100, which was all
that was due ; and as to the excess, to wit, $100, the same is without consideration.

411’.

To an action against father or husband, for necessaries : denial that they were necessaries.

1. The articles mentioned in said complaint [or, bill of particulars], were not furnished to his wife [or, child] with the defendant’s
[knowledge or] consent.

2. The same were not necessary for her [or-, said child].

412.

Novation, by substitution of new creditor.

1. On May 10th, 187 8, the plaintiff requested the defendant to
make and deliver to one John Doe, the defendant’s demand note
for $500, payable to said Doe, or order, for value received, and
agreed that, if he would do so, it should be a discharge of his, the
defendant's, debt to the plaintiif of said amount, alleged in said
complaint.

2. On said day the defendant, pursuant to said request, made
and delivered such a note to John Doe.

413.

Denial of indebtedness, in part.

The defendant admits that he owes the plaintiff $600, part of
the $1,000 demanded in the complaint, for the piano therein
mentioned, but as to the residue of said sum, he denies that he is
or ever was so indebted.

414.

Denying the promise as to part, and pleading
payment as to residue.

1. The defendant promised to pay the plaintiff $200, only.
2. He paid that sum to the plaintiff, on May 1st, 1879.

415.
Payment of all the goods were worth.

1. Said goods mentioned in said complaint were worth no
more than $50.

2. The defendant paid $50 to the plaintiff therefor, on May 1st,
1879.

416.

Payment in part, and dejieieney in the goods
exceeding the balance, with counter-claim for
6130688.

1. The plaintiffs have brought this action to recover a balance
claimed to be due for mirrors and other articles furnished to, and
for Work done for the defendant by the plaintiffs, between May 1st,
187 8, and June 1st, 1879; and the total amount of the account for

said mirrors and other articles, and said work, as made out and
presented by the plaintiffs, was $650.

2. The defendant paid to the plaintiffs from time to time various sums of money, on account of said mirrors and other articles,
and Work, amounting in all to $500, and re-delivered to them certain of said articles.

_ By way of counter-claz'm:

1. All the foregoing statements of this answer are made part
of this counter-claim. '

2. It was agreed between the defendant and the plaintiffs, that
all mirrors furnished should be perfect and true, and in every way
satisfactory to the defendant ; and that if any of them, upon trial,
should prove to be untrue or imperfect, the same should be called
for and taken back by the plaintiffs, and others substituted in their
stead.

3. Among the articles furnished by the plaintiffs to the defendant under said agreement, and included in said account, were one
pier-glass, three mantel mirrors, and four gilt cornices, which were
charged in gross, in said account, at the price of $500.

4. Said three mantel mirrors proved, upon examination and
trial, to be untrue and imperfect ; and Were entirely unsatisfactory
to the defendant. . i

5. He notified the plaintiffs on June 15th, 1879, of the deficient
and unsatisfactory quality and character of said mirrors, and requested them to take them away, and replace them with true and
perfect mirrors ; but they have never done so, though the defendant
has at all times been, and still is, ready to re-deliver said mirrors to
them.

6. These mirrors, if true, perfect, and satisfactory, would have
been Worth about $400, at the price such mirrors were to have been
furnished, under said agreement.

7. They were worth at least $250 less, on account of their
deficient character.

The defendant claims to recoup said sum of $250 for such deficiency, to the extent of the balance claimed by the plaintiffs, and
asks judgment against the plaintiffs for the excess.

417.

That defendant gave his note or acceptance,
which is not due.

After the accruing of the alleged debt, and before this action,
the defendant delivered to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff received
from him, for and on account of said debt, a bill of exchange
drawn by the plaintiff upon and accepted by the defendant [or, a

promissory note made by the defendant], for $1,000, being the
amount of said debt, payable to the plaintiff, or order, for value
received, three months after date, which period had not elapsed at
the commencement of this action. 418.

That platnt/I17“ agreed to take note in part payment.

I. Said goods Were sold and delivered to the defendant by the
plaintiff on an express agreement that the plaintiff should accept
in part payment therefor, to the extent of $100, the defendant’s
note for that sum [or, the note of one John Doe], dated June 20th,
1879, and payable three months after date [With a good indorser],
and the residue of $500 in cash.

2. On June 20th, 1879, and before this action, the defendant
tendered to the plaintiff such a note as is above described, [indorsed
by John Stiles, who was then, and still is, a merchant at New Haven,
in good 'credit,] and is still ready and Willing to deliver the same.

3. The defendant refused to receive the same.

4. As to the residue of $500, the defendant [allege payment or
tender, as the case may be].

419.

That defendant accepted a bill for part of the
debt, wh/t'eh plaintijf has negotiated.

Defence to First Count. ,

1. As to the sum of $500, a part of the alleged cause of
action, after the statement of the account [or otherwise refer to the
cause of action] mentioned in the complaint, and before the commencement of this action, on May 1st, 187 9, the plaintiff drew his
bill of exchange of said date upon the defendant, and thereby
required the defendant to pay to the plaintiffs order 3500, for
value received, three months after date, and the defendant, at the
request of the plaintiff, then accepted said bill, and delivered it
to the plaintiff, who then accepted the same in discharge of [or,
for and on account of] said sum of $500.

2. The plaintiff has indorsed and delivered said bill to some
person to the defendant unknown, who from thence hitherto has
been, and still is, the holder thereof, and entitled to sue the defendant thereon.

. 

Norlt-presentment of note at place of payment.

1. The note on which this action is founded is payable by its
express terms at the State Bank, Hartford;

2. When the note fell due, the defendant had and ever since
has had money suflicient for its payment deposited with said bank
for that purpose and ready to be so applied, on presentment of the
note there.

3. Said note has never been presented at said bank, for payment.
4. The defendant is and always has been ready and willing to

pay said note according to its tenor and effect, and offers to bring
into court here the money for its payment, to wit, $1,000.

421.

Traverse of pla/tntt)T’s general allegation of performance.The plaintiff has not duly performed all the conditions of
said contract on his part, but, on the contrary [here set forth the
particular breach, as in compZaz'nts; and  the prom'sz'on broken does
not appear in the complaint, it may be stated thus, although said contract contained a provision, of which the following is a copy: here
insert the copy], the defendant did not, etc.

4220

Plea to information in the nature of a quo
warranto.

TATE Z.
ALVIE L VéfLI7::)UGHBY l SUPERIOR COURT’
' I NEW HAVEN COUNTY,

BENJAMINv'¥V. GATES. DECEMBER TERM, 1875. 0

PLEA.

And now the said Benjamin W. Gates comes into court, by his
attorney, and protesting that said information is not sufficient in
the law, so that he is not bound to answer thereunto, yet’ for plea
and answer thereto saith that the State of Connecticut ought not
to implead him by reason of the premises in said information contained, because he says that,

1. Though true it is that the said Alvin L. Willoughby, the
relator therein, Was, on the first Monday of October, 1875, a
freeman of said city of New Haven, resident in the Fourth Ward
of said city, and did at the annual meeting in said city, holden on
said day, receive sundry votes in said ward, from qualified freemen thereof, for the oilice of councilman for the then next ensuing
municipalyear, yet it is not true, and the defendant hereby denies, that said relator received a sufficient number of such votes at
said meeting to elect him one of such councilmen.

2. On the contrary, at said meeting, the freemen of said ward
duly elected the defendant, with two other freemen resident
therein, other than said relator, to be the councilmen of said
city from said ward for said then next ensuing municipal year, and
at the time of said meeting, and for more than five years next prior
thereto, the defendant was and ever had been a freeman of said
city, resident in said ward ; and for a more particular statement of
the votes cast at said meeting in said ward for said oliicers, this
defendant further says that the voting in said ward was duly held
at the store of S. V. Taft therein, and that Charles B. Foote was
duly appointed and acted as presiding officer at said ward meeting,
and that the ballot boxes were duly kept open for the reception of
votes in said ward, from the hour of six o’clock in the forenoon
until the hour of dve o’clock in the afternoon of said day, when
they were closed, and the ballots therein duly and publicly counted,
and that of said ballots, by said official count, Adam Miller was
duly found and declared to have received four hundred and ten,
and Edward Wines was duly found to have received three hundred and ninety-three, and the defendant was duly found to have
received three hundred and eighty-five, and sundry other persons
duly found to have received a less number, to wit, the said relator,
three hundred and eighty three, Thomas Wallace, Junior, three
hundred and seventy-four, Franklin S. Bradley three hundred and
seventy-two, Alvin J. Willoughby thirty-five, and Thomas Wallace eighteen.

3. Thereupon the result of said election was duly declared and
certified to the meeting of freemen of said city, held in the First
Ward .,thereof, whereof, and of the said city meeting holden on
said day', John ‘F. Comstock was duly appointed and acted as
moderator and presiding oflicer, and thereupon said John F. Comstock, being the moderator of said city meeting as aforesaid, before the adjournment thereof, in open meeting publicly declared

that Adam Miller, Benjamin W. Gates, and Edward Wines had
been on said day duly elected councilmen'of said city from said
ward for the said then next ensuing municipal year, after which
said city meeting was duly adjourned without day, and due return of said election made by said presiding oiiicer to the clerk of
said city, under his hand, all of which is fully set forth in the records of the doings of said city meeting in the records of said city,
duly attested by John S. Fowler, clerk of said city and of said
meeting thereof.

4. This defendant was duly notified by the city sheriff to attend
the first meeting of the Council of said city, at the opening of said
municipal year, and did attend the same, and was duly sworn and
accepted said office of councilman, and hath ever since acted as
such councilman, by virtue of said election.

5. And this defendant denies that he has ever exercised,
claimed, usurped, or now exercises, claims, or usurps any oince of
councilman of or rightfully belonging to said relator.

All which things the defendant is ready to verify as this court
shall award, and thereupon he prays that said office, privileges,
and franchises may be adjudged to him, and that he may be dismissed by the court of and from the premises charged upon him

as aforesaid.
BENJAMIN W. GATES,

By JOHN DOE, his attorney.

423.
Rescission of contract.

After the contract alleged in the complaint, and before any
breach thereof, it was agreed by and between the plaintiff and the

defendant that said contract should be rescinded; and they then
rescinded the same accordingly.

424.

Explaining contract of sale, and alleging breach
as to delivery.

1. It was a part of the agreement referred to in the complaint
that the plaintiff should deliver the goods sold, at Fairfield.

2. Said goods have not been so delivered, and have not been
accepted by the defendant.

. 425.
Allegtng breach as to quality.

1. It was a part of the ‘agreement referred to in the complaint
that the mattress therein mentioned should be stuffed with horsehair.

2. Said mattress Was not stuffed with horse-hair.

3. The defendant, therefore, on May 1st, 1879, and as soon as
he discovered the defect, returned the same to the plaintiff, [or,
duly tendered the same back to the plaintiff, and has ever since

_been, and still is, willing to return them].

426.
Recoupment for breach of warranty.

1. Said goods were sold and delivered in the piece or package,
and Without an opportunity for the defendants to examine the
same.

2. At the time of the sale, it Was represented and agreed by
said [seller], that the goods were and should be free from any defect
or injury, and should be marketable.

3. A portion of said goods, being the dry goods and hosiery in
the package marked A, were unmarketable, defective, and injured.

4. Said defects were unknown to the defendants, at the
time of the sale and delivery. ‘

5. The defendants sustained $100 damage thereby, being the
amount of the price of the goods so injured‘ or defective.

The defendants claim that said last-mentioned amount shall be
deducted from any amount that may be proved against them on the
trial of this action.

427.
Set-Of.

At the time of the commencement of this action, the plain.
tiff was, and still is, indebted to the defendant in the sum of $1,000,
for the following cause : [here state the cause of action relied on as
a set-of]

The defendant offers to set off said debt against the plaintiffs
demand, if any should be found to exist, and claims judgment
for such balance as may be found to be due him from the plaintiff,
on said account.

428.
Several defenses, and aiset-01?‘: (to Form No. 4, page 25).
ANSWER, AND snr-om‘. ’ 0

Defense to First Count.

' 1. Paragraph first is denied.

2. As to the second paragraph, the defendant has no knowledge, or information thereof, suiiicient to form a belief.

Defense to Second Count.

Paragraph first is denied.

First defense to Third Count.

1. It was an express condition of the agreement referred to in
the complaint, that if the plaintiff should, during the period of his
service mentioned in the complaint, sell goods for any other person
than the defendant, he should not be entitled to receive any compensation from the defendant for any services which he might
render for him.

2. The plaintiff, during the period of his service mentioned in
the complaint, sold sundry goods for one Benjamin Brown, and for
other persons whose names are unknown to the defendant, without
the defendant’s consent. .

Second defense to Third Count. .

The defendant has fully paid the plaintiff for his services.

By way of set-of:

1. Between May 1st, and July 1st, 1879, the plaintiff received
from Daniel Downs $1,000, for the use of the defendant.

2. He has not paid the same.

The defendant claims $1,200 damages, or so much thereof as
may be found due, after making said set off. '

429.

By sher/£17, to action for false Iretu/rn: (page 160,
Form.No. 284.)

1. Paragraph fourth is denied.‘

2. Richard Roe carried on the business, at the store mentioned
in said paragraph, of selling goods on commission. a The defendant
found said 500 barrels of flour there, but was told by said Roe that
they belonged to one John Davis of New York city, whose factor
he was. The defendant repeated this to the plaintiff, and asked if

he would indemnify the defendant, should he attach said flour, but
the plaintiif refused so to do. A

3. The defendant did not know that said flour belonged to
said Roe, and could not ascertain the same, although he used due
diligence therefor.

430.

By she’ri)7“ to complaint for an illegal seizure:
(see Form No. 287, page 163.)

ANSWER OF DEFENDANT JOHN DOE.

1. This defend ant denies that said fifty barrels of flour belonged
to the insolvent estate of John Stiles, and that he wrongfully
seized the same as alleged in paragraphs second and third.

2. Said ‘dfty barrels of flour taken and sold by the defendant were lawfully attached in said action by the defendant James
Smith against said Stiles, upon a writ of attachment served by the
defendant’s deputy, William Brown, more than sixty days before
said proceedings in insolvency against said Stiles were commenced,
and were delivered to the defendant by said Brown, upon his
demand on said execution lawfully issued on said judgment, and
were sold by the defendant according to law, by virtue of said
execution.

431.

Privileged. communication; to complaint for
slander : (see Form No. 281, page 159.)

1. The plaintiif had been a clerk to the defendant. Said John
Smith was a friend of the defendant, engaged in the same business,
and applied to the defendant for advice as to the character of the
plaintiif, who was seeking employment of him. The defendant
spoke the words complained of while giving to said John Smith,
in conlidence, his real opinion of the plaintiif, for the purpose

aforesaid.
2. Paragraphs third and fourth are denied.

432.

To a complaint for specific performance : (Form
No. 294, page 166.)
1. Paragraph fourth is denied.

2. Paragraphs third and fifth are denied, except as hereinafter
expressed. '

3. The defendant, immediately upon making said fill, commenced to fill and grade the necessary approaches for a farm cross.ing, over said embankment.

4. In order to make the grades suitable, it was necessary to
commence to fill in the approaches on each side, at a point on the
plaintiif’s meadow, about ten feet outside the location of the defendant’s railroad. .

5. The defendant entered upon the plaintiffs land for this purpose, when the plaintiff forbade such entry, and ordered the deferrdant’s men to leave his premises, saying he wanted his farm crossing
made under the embankment, and not over it.

6. To construct a crossing under the embankment would require
a stone arch or abutments, which would cost not less than $400,
while a crossing, constructed as intended by the defendant, would
cost not over $50, and would be equally serviceable and safe.

7. The defendant is and has ever been ready and willing to
construct a suitable farm crossing over said embankment.

433.

By a surety, alleging an extension of time.

1. On May 1st, 1879, [or, at some time unknown to the defendant] the plaintilf agreed with said [debtor], in consideration of $10,
[or, for a valuable consideration] to extend the time of payment
of said rent guaranteed by the defendant, from said day, on which
the same was due, until June 1st, 1879.

2. The defendant had no knowledge of [or, did not assent to]
said agreement to extend the time.

434.

By surety, alleging an alteration of the contract.

1. The defendant gave said bond to the plaintiff, as surety
for one John Doe, to secure the performance, on the part of said
Doe, of [here state the principal contract briefly ; or,  in writing, it
may be annexed, as an exhibit].

2. Afterwards, and without the knowledge or consent of the
defendant, the plaintiff agreed with John Doe, as follows: [Here
state the modification of the contract] ‘

4350

Tender.

1. Before this action, on May 1st, 1879, at Hartford, the defendant tendered to the plaintiff $1,000 in payment of said note and
interest [or other indebtedness], but he refused to receive the same.

2. The defendant has ever since remained, and still is, ready
and willing to pay to the plaintiff said sum ; but the plaintiff has
hitherto refused to receive the same.

436.

Tender as to part, and payment as to part.

1. [Allege payment on account]

2. As to the residue of said claim, before this action, on May
1st, 1878, at Hartford, the defendant tendered [continuing as in
preceding form].

4370

Denial of part, and tender of residue.

1. The defendant promised to pay the plaintiff $500 only, [or,
the goods (or services) in- said complaint mentioned were worth
no more than $500].

2. On July 1st, 1879, and before this action, he tendered to
the plaintiff $500, in payment of said sum; but the plaintiff refused
to receive the same.

3. The defendant has ever since remained, and still is, ready
and willing to pay said sum to the plaintiff; but the plaintiff has
hitherto refused to receive the same. '

438.

A demand after the pla*tnt't)7"’s tender.
1. After the making of the tender alleged, and before this

action, on May 1st, 1879, at Hartford, the defendant requested the‘

plaintiff to pay him said sum [07, to deliver to him said deed].
2. The plaintiff then refused, and ever since has refused, to
pay [or, to deliver] the same.

4390

License, ete., to action for trespass:~ (Form No. 31%.

page 176.)

1. The defendant denies the truth of the matters contained in
the plaintiff’s complaint, except as is hereinafter admitted. .

2. The defendant took said horse on the day alleged in the
complaint, by authority of a general permission from the plaintiff to
ride said horse at such times as he was not required for the plain.
tifI°’s use.

440.
Defective fence: (Form No. 315, page 177.)

1. Paragraph second is denied.

2. For a further defense, the defendant says that his oxen referred to in paragraph second of the complaint, Were, at the time
of the alleged trespass, pastured in a lot of the defendant adjoining
said land of the plaintiff; and the plaintiff, before and at the

time of the alleged trespass, Was bound by law to keep in repair
the east half of the fence dividing said adjoining lands; but the
plaintiff neglected to keep said fence in repair; and by reason of
said neglect of the plaintiff, said oxen entered on the land of the
plaintiff, through said east half of said fence, if they entered at all.

441.

False warranty: that the note was _(/tven on a
purchase of diseased sheep, and that they injured other sheep of the defendant.

ANSWER, AND COUNTER-CLAIM. I. Said note Was given for sheep purchased by the defendant

of the plaintiffs.
2. The plaintiffs, in making said sale, warranted that the sheep,

so sold, were sound and free from disease.
3. The defendant was ignorant of the disease called foot-rot ;

and he purchased said sheep, relying upon said representations of

the plaintids.
4. In fact the sheep were not sound, but were diseased with the

foot-rot, as the plaintiffs Well knew.
5. By reason of said disease, said sheep were Wholly Worthless.

. By way of counter-claim :

1. All the foregoing statements in this answer are made part of
this counter-claim. ‘

2. Said disease is contagious.

3. The defendant was then the owner of five hundred other
sheep, with which he allowed those purchased to run.

4. Before he had any knowledge that the sheep so purchased
were diseased, and While they were running with his other sheep,
the latter became diseased with said foot-rot, from their so running
together.

5. He has been thereby compelled to expend $500 in their cure
and endeavoring to cure them, and damaged, by reason of allowing said sheep to run with his other sheep, to the amount of $2,000,

The defendant claims $2,500 damages.

442.

To action for waste, (Form No- 183, page 114-)

1. Paragraph fourth is denied.

2. The defendant has detached six of said basins and washstands, but it was simply because they were leaky, and in order to
make the necessary repairs, which are now in progress, and he intends to replace them as soon as the repairs are completed.

443.

To complaint for an injunction against fouling
a stream, (Form No. 327, page 186.)

1. The defendant denies so much’ of paragraph third as alleges
that he has allowed sundry noxious chemicals, substances and
fluids to be thrown into or mixed with the water of said brook
whereby said Water has been fouled.

2. Paragraphs fifth, sixth, and seventh, are denied, except the
notice and request alleged in paragraph sixth, which are admitted.

COUNTER-CLAIMS.

444.

Against carriers, for negligence.
[Any matters of strict defense should be stated, before the counter-claim,
by way of awwweva]

By way of counter-claim.‘

The transportation of the goods mentioned in the complaint was
conducted so badly and negligently, and with so little care, that by
the negligence and improper conduct of the plaintiff and his servants in that behalf, a part of said goods, of the value of $1,000,
were wholly lost to the defendant ; and a part thereof, of the value
of $500, were damaged in the sum of $100.

The defendant claims $1,100 damages, and demands judgment
for $1,100, or so much thereof as he may be entitled to, over and

above the plaintiff’s claim.

, 445.
Equitable counter-claim, on sale by platnt/£17“ ’.9
factor.

By way of counter-claim :

1. The goods mentioned in the complaint were, with the
privity of the plaintiff, sold and delivered to the defendant by one
John Doe, in his own name, as the sole owner, and as and for his

own goods.
2. Said Doe was in fact the agent and factor of the plaintiff,

in respect to said goods.

3. The plaintiff did not appear, and was not known by the
defendant, at or before the time of the sale and delivery, to be
the owner of the goods, or in anywise interested therein.

4. The defendant bought and accepted the goods of and from
said Doe, as the true and sole owner and seller; and credit for
the goods was given to the defendant by him.

5. Said Doe, before and at the time of the sale and delivery
of the goods, was, and still is, indebted to the defendant by his
demand note, dated June 1st, 1879, for $500.

The defendant claims, by way of equitable counter-claim, a set-off
of said $500 note, against the plaintiff’s demand.*

446.

Answer by one of several defendants, with counter-claqjm; [Form No. 126‘, page 83.]
ANSWER AND COUNTER-CLAIM or JOHN STILES.

1. Paragraph first is not admitted, except as hereinafter stated.

[2. All the other paragraphs are admitted]

By way of counter-claim :

1. The foregoing statements of this answer are made part of
this counter-claim.

2. A.note, such as is described in paragraph first of this answer
was made; but it was given by John Doe to the plaintiff, without consideration, and in pursuance of a fraudulent combination between
them, to cover up Doe’s property from attachment by this defendant, and others of his creditors.

3. Said Doe has no other property than said mortgaged prem1ses. .

4. On July 1st, 1878, this defendant lent said Doe $1,500,
which is now due and unpaid ; and to secure said debt, this defen.dant attached, on September 1st, 187 8, all said Doe’s interest in
said estate, on a writ returnable to the Superior Court for Fairiield
County, to be held at Danbury, on the third Tuesday of September,
1878. 5. On November 1st, 187 8, this defendant recovered judgment

against said Doe, before said Court, for $1,565.25, and forthwith ‘

filed a certificate of a judgment lien upon said mortgaged premises,
which is recorded in New Haven land records, vol. 210, page 150.

This defendant claims a decree setting aside said mortgage to
the plaintiff. as fraudulent and void, as against this defendant.

J OHN STILES, by A. B., attorney.

ANSWER TO COUNTER-CLAIM.‘

447.

Answer to counter-claim, setting up new matter,

with a denial.
First defense.

Every paragraph of said counter-claim is denied.
Second defense.

At the time when said horse is alleged in said counter-claim

to have been hired, the plaintiff was an infant, aged only nineteen
years.

REPLIES.

448.
General denial.

REPLY.

The plaintiif denies every allegation in the answer.
By A. B., his attorney.

449.
Partial denial.

REPLY.
The plaintiff denies the second paragraph of said answer.

450.
In avoidance of a release : dnress.

REPLY.

The plaintiff replies that said release was extorted from him by
the defendant, by threats that, if not given, the defendant would
beat and maim the plaintiif.

451.

Reply, and answer to counter-claim : son assault
¢lemesne. [see Form No. 365, page 204.]

1. The plaintiff denies that the assault and striking by the defendant was in self-defense, as alleged in paragraph hrst of
the answer.

2. By way of answer to the counterclaim:

_ The plaintiff denies that he struck the defendant otherwise than
as herein admitted. The defendant first beat the plaintiff as stated
in paragraph first of the complaint, and the plaintiff thereupon, in order to protect himself from the defendant's attack,
struck the plaintiff with a Whip, using no more force than was
necessary to his self-defense.

452.

1)efendant’s reply to above answer to counter” ‘ claim.

The defendant denies that the assault and striking by the plainiff was in self-defense as alleged in his answer to the defendant’s
counter-claim. .

453.

By passenger, to common carrier, in action for
/negl/£ge»n,ce. [Form No. 371, page 206.]

1. In respect to the facts stated in paragraph first of the
defendant’s answer, the plaintiff says: _

Before the defendant’s conductor demanded said check, the
servants and agents of the defendant had carelessly handled a certain box of tools, being a part of the baggage of the plaintiff, and
by such careless handling had injured said box of tools; and the
plaintiff refused to deliver said check, until he was made good for
the injury so done to his box of tools.

2. After the plaintiff discovered that said conductor was determined to eject him forcibly from the defendant’s train unless said
check was surrendered, he offered to surrender said check, and
tendered the same to said conductor, who neglected to receive it,

and, notwithstanding said tender, proceeded with the acts alleged '

in the fourth paragraph of the complaint.

3. If said conductor was lawfully authorized to eject the plaintiff from the ‘defendant’s train, he used, in making said attempt,
unnecessary force, and by the use of such unnecessary force inflicted
upon the plaintiff the injuries complained of.

4540

Replication to plea in qua warranto : [Forms
N0. 249 and No. 421,pages 144 a/nd.223.]

STATE ex rel.
ALVIN L. WILLOUGHBY
US.
BENJAMIN W. GATES.

SUPERIOR CoURT,
NEW HAVEN COUNTY,
DECEMBER TERM, 1875.

REPLICATION.

And now the said Eleazer K. Foster, Esquire, State’s Attorney,
and who prosecutes in this behalf at the relation of Alvin L.
Willoughby, saith that, for anything above alleged by the said
Benjamin W. Gates, the State of Connecticut ought not to be
barred from having said information against the said Benjamin
W. Gates because he saith, that,

1. So much of paragraph second of "said plea, as follows the
words therein contained, “and for a more particular statement of
the votes cast at said meeting in said ward for said ofiicers, this
defendant further says,” and also all the matter pleaded in the third
and fourth paragraphs of said plea are true.

2. Yet the said Attorney further saith that the said thirty-hve
ballots, cast as aforesaid at said meeting for Alvin J. Willoughby.
were intended, by the freemen who cast said ballots, to be cast for
said relator, and said ballots so cast were cast for said relator

lvin L. Willoughby by the name of “Alvin J. Willoughby,”
and ought in truth and right to have been counted for said relator.

And so the said Attorney says that said Benjamin W. Gates
was not elected to the ofiice of councilman of said city of New
Haven for said ward for the term aforesaid, as in said plea is
supposed; and this the said Attorney is ready to verify; wherefore
he, for the State of Connecticut, at the relation of Alvin L. Willoughby aforesaid, prays judgment, and that the said Benjamin
W. Gates of the premises above charged upon him by the said

information may be convicted.
ELEAZER K. FOSTER, State's Attorney.

455.

Dgfectiqye fence: (Forms No. 315, and No. 440, pages 177
and 231.)

The plaintiE denies that he was bound to keep said east half of
said fence in repair, and that said east half of said fence was not

in good repair at the time of said trespass, and that said oxen entered his land through said east half of said fence.

456.

Revocation of license : (Forms No. 312 and 439, pages 176
and 231.)

1. Before the trespasses mentioned in the complaint, the plaintiff
revoked the permission previously given to ride said horse.

2. The plaintiff denies that the defendant took said horse by
authority of a general permission, as alleged in the second paragraph of the answer.

REJOINDERS.

457.

Rejoinder to special reply ; duress.

The defendant rejoins, by leave of the Court, that the release,
set up in said reply, was extorted from the defendant by duress,
by the plaintiff’s threats that he would shoot the defendant, if he
did not execute the same. '

458.

Denial. and demurrer: (Form No. 453, page 236.)

By leave of Court, the defendantfurther pleads and says,

1. In respect to the first paragraph of the reply, the facts
therein stated are insufiicient in the law to justify the refusal of
the plaintiff to surrender said check.

2. The defendant denies that the plaintiff offered to surrender
said check and tendered the same to said conductor, as stated in
the second paragraph of the reply.

3. Paragraph third of the reply is denied.

ERRORS, AND NEW TRIALS,

459.

Writ of error : matter of law.

1. The defendant [or the plaintiff] in error brought to the
Superior Court for Hartford County, at its January Term, 1880,
a civil action, upon which such proceedings were had as appear
by a copy of the record thereof, hereto annexed, marked Exhibit
A [or, recite the whole process and proceedings in the action].

2. Said Court in proceeding to, and rendering said final judgment, manifestly erred and mistook the law in this, to Wit [here

assign the errors complained of
The plaintiff claims,

' 1. That said erroneous judgment be reversed and set aside.
2. $500 damages.

460.

Writ of error : matter of fact.

1. The defendant in error brought to the Superior Court for
Hartford County, at its January Term, 1880, a civil action, and
obtained judgment therein, as appears by the record of said action,
of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy [or recite the whole
record].

2. When final judgment in said action was rendered, the
plaintiff in error was under the age of twenty-one years,,to Wit:
of the age of twenty years.

3. The plaintiff in error appeared in said action, and filed his
plea by attorney, and did not appear in or defend said action by
guardian. '

4. In said proceedings and judgment there ismanifest error
in this, to wit: that the plaintiff in error appeared in said action
by attorney, whereas he ought to have appeared and defended
said action by guardian.

The plaintiff claims, a

1. That said erroneous judgment be reversed and set aside.

2. $200 damages.

461.
Petition for new trial.

T 0 the Shertf of Hartf‘ord County, etc. [as in the usual form].

By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are hereby commanded to summon John Stiles of Bloomfield, in said county, to
appear before the Superior Court to be holden at Hartford, Within
and for the County of Hartford, on the second Tuesday in September, 1880, then and there to answer unto Richard Roe of said
Hartford in a civil action, wherein the plaintiff complains and
says:

1. Said John Stiles brought an action for a breach of contract to
this Court, at its January Term, 1880, and, at said Term, a trial was
had of said cause, upon issue joined on the answer of this plaintiff,
before a jury, and a verdict was rendered against this plaintid for
$1,000 damages, which was accepted by the Court, and judgment
rendered thereon. ‘

2. On said trial it became and was a material question whether
[here state the particular point in dispute, to which the newly discovered
eviden ce relates].

3. Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a correct statement of all the .

evidence produced by John Stiles on said trial.

4. Exhibit B, hereto annexed, is a correct statement of all the
evidence produced by this plaintiff on said trial.

5. Since said trial, this plaintiff has discovered material evidence
in his favor, which evidence he failed to discover, and was unable
to discover, before or during said trial, although he used all reasonable diligence in endeavoring to find testimony in his favor.

6. Said verdict and judgment against him are unjust.

7. Said newly discovered evidence is the following, to Wit
[set out the names and residences of witnesses, and. the substance of
what they will testify ; also any newly discovered documentary evidence].

The plaintiff claims, that said former verdict and judgment be
set aside, and that he be allowed a new trial of said cause.

MOTIONS.

462.
JOHN DOE SUPERIOR COURT,
vs. ' HARTFORD COUNTY,
RICHARD FEN, January Term, 1880.

MOTION TO STRIKE OUT.

The defendant moves the court to strike out of the complaint
(or, from some count or paragraph thereof, as the case may be), that
part commencing at (here designate specifically the objectionable matter), because the same is a statement of evidence only (or of legal
conclusions, etc., as the case may be), and not of facts.

° DAVID BROWN, attorney for defendant.

463.

JOHN DOE , SUPERIOR COURT,
vs. HARTFORD COUNTY,
RICHARD FEN, January Term, 1880.

MOTION FOR MORE SPECIFIC STATEMENT.

The defendant moves that the plaintiff be required to amend his
complaint by stating,

1. Whether or not the contract recited in his complaint is in
Writing.

2. (Here state clearly and specifically any other matter showing
wherein the pleading is uncertain.)

DAVID BROWN, attorney for defendant.

464:.
JOHN DOE SUPERIOR COURT,
vs. I Hartford County, .
RICHARD ROE. September Term, 1880.

MOTION TO EXPUNGE, AND CORRECT COMPLAINT.

The defendant moves,

1. To expunge the third paragraph of the complaint. for scandal ;

2. That the fourth paragraph may be made more certain, by
specifying the name of the agent, by Whom it alleges that the defendant made the promise therein alleged.

By A. B., attorney.

465.

Motion to require a new party to be_ added.
[Prefix title and caption of cause.]

MOTION TO CITE IN JOHN STILES, AS A [CO-PLAINTIFF].

The defendant says,
[Here insert a statement of the facts showing the propriety of adding

another party, as in Forms No. 343 to ‘No. 347, pages 196 and 197.]
Wherefore the defendant moves that the plaintiff be ordered to
cite in said John Stiles, as a. [co-plaintif or co-defendant, as the
case may be]. ' '
DAVID BROWN, attorney for defendant.

466.

Order requiring new party] to be cited in as a
co-defendant.

[Prefix title and caption of cause.]

ORDER FOR CITING IN JOHN STILES, AS A CO-DEFENDANT.

It appearing to the Court that John Stiles of Derby ought to be
joined as a co-defendant in the above-entitled cause, it is hereby

Ordered, That the plaintiff amend his writ and complaint, by
adding said John Stiles, as a co-defendant, and summon him to
appear before this Court on or before the day of 1880,
then and there to answer to said complaint.

By order of Court,
Clerk.

467 .
Citation to bring in a new party, as co-defendant.

[Commence by setting out the original complaint as amended, or,  it

be very long, the substance of it, and also the order of Court under
which the citation issues]

JOHN DOE , SUPERIOR COURT, \
vs. NEW HAVEN COUNTY,
RICHARD ROE. September Term, 1880.

To the Sherif of New Haven County, his deputy, or either Constable
of Derby, GREETING:

By authority of the State of Connecticut, you are hereby commanded to summon John Stiles, of Derby, to appear on or before
the day of November, 1880, before the Superior Court now
in session at New Haven, in and for New Haven County, at its
September Term, 1880, then and there to answer unto the foregoing complaint of John Doe, pursuant to the foregoing order of
Court.

Hereof fail not, but make due service and return.
Dated at New Haven, October 10th, 1878.

By order of Court,
Clerk.

APPLICATIONS TO INTERVEN E.

468.
JOHN DOE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS,
vs. FAIRFIELD COUNTY, .
RIOHERD ROE, September Term, 1880.

APPLICATION FOR SUBSTITUTION OF JOHN STILES, AS PLAINTIFF.

John Stiles of Bridgeport, respectfully represents that since the
commencement of said action, on August 1st, 1880, the plaintiff

therein assigned the cause of action to him, by a written instrument, of which Exhibit A, hereto annexed, is a copy.
He therefore prays that he may be substituted as the p1aintiE

in said action.
J OHN STILES,

by ROBERT FEN, his attorney.

STATE or CONNECTICUT,
SEcRE'rARY’s OFFICE,

October 27th, 1879.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Orders and Rules hereinbefore printed, are a true copy of those transmitted to me by the
Judges of the Superior Court, under the 33d Section of An Act
to simplify Procedure in Civil Causes, and to unite Legal and
Equitable Remedies in the same Action; approved March 28th,

1 8 7 9.
DAVID TORRANCE,

Secretary of Connecticut.

GENERAL RULES OF PRACTICE

or THE SUPREME COURT or ERRORS AND SUPERIOR COURT,
' AS REVISED IN JUNE, 1879.

_ 

Page. Page.

1. Appearance of parties. 245 11. Costs in criminal causes. 255
2. Assignments for trial. 246 12. Depositions. 256
3. Attorneys. 248 18, Disclosures. 257
4. Bills of exceptions. 250 14. Errors. , 258
5. Bills of particulars. 250 15. Files and records. 258
6. Bonds for prosecution. 250 16. Jurors. 259
7. Committees and auditors. ' 251 17. Motions for a new trial. 259
8. Continuances. 251 18. Motions in arrest. 261
9. Copies. 252 19. Pleadings. 261
10. Costs in civil actions. 252 20. Supreme Court of Errors. 261

I.

Appearance of parties.

SECTION 1. The attorney of the plaintiff, or if there be no
attorney, the plaintiff himself, shall enter his appearance by causing his name to be entered upon the docket, on or before the
opening of the court on the day following the return day of the
writ, and if no such appearance shall be entered, it shall be lawful
for the clerk, upon the appearance of the defendant, as hereinafter
specified, to enter up judgment of nonsuit against the plaintiff.

And the attorney of the defendant, or if there be no such
attorney, the defendant himself, shall in like manner enter his
appearance, on or before the opening of the court on the second
day after the return day of the writ; and on failure thereof, it
shall be lawful for the clerk, if the plaintiff shall have appeared as
aforesaid, to enter up judgment against the defendant ; provided,
that nothing herein contained shall be _construed to prevent the
court, in the exercise of its discretion, from allowing an appearance of either party, for reasonable cause, at any subsequent
period.

SEC. 2. An appearance for the plaintiffs, or the defendants, as
the case may be, where there are several, shall be deemed to be
a general appearance for all of them, unless stated to the clerk to
be for one, or more, only, and so entered on the docket.

II.

Assignments for trial.

SECTION 1. Either party to any civil cause pending in the Superior Court, desiring to have the same tried at any term thereof,
shall give written notice of such desire to the clerk of said court,
in the county where such cause is pending, at least SIX. days before
the opening of said term; before which. opening, the clerk shall
print, and distribute among the bar of the county, a list of the
causes, concerning which he has received notice as aforesaid,
arranging those on the court docket and those on the jury docket
separately, in the‘ order in which they stand upon the docket,
which shall constitute the list of causes to be tried at said term.
These cases shall stand assigned for trial in their order, and,
according as the term is a court or jury.term, the tirst eight of the
court or of the jury causes, as the case may be, shall stand
assigned for trial upon the first day, and the second eight for

.the second day : provided that the court may direct that any of

the privileged cases hereinafter mentioned may be advanced upon
the trial list; and provided, further, that any case on the jury
docket, in which there is an issue to be tried to the court, shall be
placed on the trial list, not only among the jury cases, but also
among the court cases, in its proper place among the court cases
brought to the same original term. a

SEC. 2.. If either party to any cause in said list shall not be
prepared to try the same, when reached in order, he shall be
defaulted or nonsuited, as the case may be, unless said case, for
cause shown, be postponed for days, placed at the foot of the
docket, or continued. ‘

SEO. ‘3. In those counties in which two judges are regularly
assigned to hold, successively, each civil term, or in which there
are two shire towns, and any term commenced at one is commonly
concluded, by adjournment, at the other, a second trial list of
additional causes, not on the original trial list, shall be made up

and printed, prior to the coming of the judge, who may be assigned ‘

to hold the latter part of the term, or to such adjournment ; the
notices of such additional causes to be given to the clerk, at least
six days before the day set for the coming of said judge, or before
such adjournment.

SEC. 4. The following classes of cases, in the order in which
theyiare hereinafter arranged, shall be deemed to be privileged,
in respect to their assignment for trial in the Superior Court.

I. All actions privileged by statute, namely,

1. Writs of habeas corpus.

2. ' All civil actions, except upon Probate bonds, brought by,
or on behalf of, the State, including. informations on the relation

of a private individual. Gen. Stat., page 430, Sec. 14.
3. Foreclosure petitions by bondholders under railroad mortgages. A Gen. Stat., p. 333, Sec. 84.

4. Appeals from probate, and from the doings of Commissioners appointed by Courts of Probate, during and after the term
next succeeding that to which they are brought.

Gen. Stat., p. 430, Sec. 15.

5. Writs of error in cases of summary process.

. I Gen. Stat., p. 430, Sec. 15.

6. ' Any objections made to the acceptance of the report of a
committee, or auditor, or award of an arbitrator.

Gen. Stat., p. 430, Sec. 15.

7. Complaints to enjoin nuisances occasioned by factories. '

- Gen. Stat., p. 477, Sec. 5.
8. Proceedings in rem for the seizure of intoxicating liquors.

Gen. Stat., p. ,271, Sec. 11.
9. Complaints to alter bounds of drain companies.

Gen. Stat., p. 266, Sec. 11.
II. Motions to dissolve temporary injunctions.
III. Motions for temporary injunctions.
, IV. Writs of ne exeat.
V. Writs of mandamus.

VI. Questions as to the terms or form of a decree or judgment, to be rendered on the report of a committee or auditor, or
award of arbitrators. '

VII. Pleas in abatement.

VIII. Foreclosures, when the only question is as to the time to
be limited for redemption.

IX. Complaints for appointment of a receiver. .
X. Disclosures by garnishees.

XI. Issues of law raised on demurrer.
XII. Writs of error, and motions in error.
XIII. Complaints for divorce, Where the respondent does not
appear.
XIV, Hearings in damages, on a default.
XV. Hearings in damages, on demurrer overruled.

SEO. 5. The Superior Court in each county shall designate a
particular day of the Week as a motion.day, and an hour, in said
day upon which the bar shall meet, at the court house, during
every Week of term time, to revise the assignment lists and report
their assignments to the court for approval ; but if sufiicient business to occupy the court is not provided in this way, the court
will assign any cases upon the trial list at its/discretion. The
court shall fix the motion-day in each county, at its first term in
the year 1880, and may change such designation, from time to
time, if deemed expedient. The clerk shall print the day so
designated in the docket of each term.

SEC. 6. All causes assigned for trial on a specilied day. will be
considered as assigned for the opening of the Court on that day;
at which time the parties must be ready for trial. And the Court
in its discretion will proceed to the trial of either of said causes;
but Without satisfactory reasons to the contrary, such causes will
be called on for trial in the order in which they stand on the list
of assignments. . 4

SEC. 7. The State’s Attorney in each county shall give to the
clerk of the Superior Court in such county, at least six days before
any session of the Superior Court therein, Written notice of the
day of said Court on which he will begin the trial of criminal
causes; and, so far as he is able, shall at the same time file with
said clerk a list of said causes, arranged by days, in the order in
which he proposes to try the same.

III.

Attorneys.

SECTION 1. N o more than one counsel on each side, in the

Superior Court, shall be heard on any question of evidence, or
upon any interlocutory motion or plea in abatement.

SEC. 2. ' The counsel who commences the examination of a Witness, either in‘ chief or on cross-examination, must alone conduct

it; and no associate counsel will be permitted to interrogate the
Witness.

SEC. 3. In the examination of witnesses, counsel will not be
permitted to interrupt a Witness for any other purpose, nor any
further, than may be necessary to understand him.

SEC. 4. The counsel in support of a demurrer, a Writ of error,
a motion in error, a motion for a new trial, or a motion in arrest of
judgment, or in support of the affirmative of an issue in fact, will
be entitled to begin the trial, and to open and close the argument;
and where several issues are to be tried together, as to some of
which the plaintiff, and as to others the defendant has the affirmative, the Court shall determine, in its discretion, which party shall
open and close.

SEC. 5. On the trial of criminal causes, the State's Attorney, in
his preliminary statement, will not be permitted to state facts and
circumstances enforcing the guilt of the accused, but will confine
himselfto such general facts and explanations as may be necessary
to enable the jury to understand the relevancy and application of
the evidence which he expects to introduce.

SE0. 6. The attorney’s bills due to the clerks of the Superior
Court and of the Supreme Court of Errors, must be paid during
the same term of the Court at which they become due. And no
attorney who shall neglect the payment of his clerk’s bill, as aforesaid, will be permitted to enter his name on the docket, or appear
as an attorney or counsellor for any party, at a subsequent term,
until such bills shall be paid. i

SEC. 7. In causes in which there shall be an appearance by
attorney for the defendant in the Superior Court, the plaintiff may,
at any time, require such attorney to state to the Court whether he
has satisfactory reasons to «believe, and does in truth believe, that
there exists a bona, Jide defense to the plaintiffs action, and whether
such defense will be made, together with the nature or substance
of it, and Whether there will be a trial in such cause. And if such
attorney shall refuse to disclose as required, or shall not satisfy the
Court that such defense will be made, or such trial had, the Court
may order judgment to be entered for the plaintiff. But if such
attorney shall make a frank disclosure and shall aver his real
belief to be that a bona fide defense exists, and will be made, and
that there will be a trial of said action, then it shall remain on the
docket for trial.

And if such attorney, upon such inquiry, shall intentionally
mislead the Court, or shall make a false statement with a view to
procure the_continuance or postponement of said action, the Court
may suspend him from practice as an attorney in said Court, for

' such time as it shall deem proper.

IV.

Bills of exceptions.

N 0 bill of exceptions will be allowed in the Superior Court,
except in cases Where an adequate remedy is not adorded by
a motion for a new trial.

V.

Bills of particulars.

SECTION 1. Bills of particulars may be amended, by leave of
the Court, in the same manner, and upon the same terms, as complaints are amendable by law.

SEC. 2. In an action on a bond or other contract, when damages are to be assessed by the Court or the clerk, the plaintiif must
file with the clerk an account or statement of the particulars of his
demand, unless the same sufficiently appears from the complaint,
or from the bond or other instrument declared upon, or from the
bill of particulars tiled in the cause. And in actions for a bookdebt, where judgment shall be rendered upon default, an execution
shall not issue, until the plaintiff shall have lodged with the clerk
a copy of his account, unless the Court shall dispense with the

VI.

Bonds for prosecution.

Bonds given for the prosecution, or upon the appeal of an
action, or as special bail, may be changed or renewed, and other

bonds taken in lieu of them, by the Superior Court, for reasonable
cause.

VII.

0

Committees and auditors.

SECTION 1. In actions in which there shall be an appointment
of auditors or committee, the court fee will be payable when said
auditors or committee are appointed.

SE0. 2. When any suit shall be referred to an auditor or committee, only one day’s attendance at each term shall be taxed in
favor of the prevailing party, after such reference, until the report
of the auditor, or of the committee, shall be returned into Court.

SEC. 3. When any suit shall be so referred, no trial of the same
will be had by the Court unless, upon the agreement of the parties,
or by an order of Court, said reference be revoked, in which case
no attendance Will be taxed, in favor of the prevailing party, during the time such case was so referred. In case a suit so referred
be not heard by said auditor or committee before the next session of the Court, said auditor or committee will be re-appointed
Without a formal motion by either party ; and the clerk may make
the necessary entries therefor, Without any special order from the
Court. In such case, one day's attendance at such term of the
Court may be taxed in favor of the prevailing party.

VIII.

C'ont«13nuances.

SECTION 1. No action pending in the Superior Court shall,
after the _term to which it was originally brought, be further continued on motion, on the ground that the party making such
motion cannot be prepared for trial during the term, unless he
shall pay to the adverse party his taxable costs of the term. And
in such case, no costs for that term shall afterwards be taxed in
favor of either party. But this rule shall not be enforced, ifpthe
cause of the continuance be occasioned by the fault of the adverse
party, nor if he cannot be prepared and is not himself ready to
try said cause at said term. _ ,

SEC. 2. Whenever a motion is made for the continuance of a
cause, on account of the absence of a. material witness, such motion, if the adverse party require it, shall be supported by an affidavit, stating the name of the absent witness, if known, and the
particular facts, which, it is believed, can be proved by him, with
the grounds of such belief. And the Court in its discretion may
refuse to continue such cause, if the adverse party will admit that
the absent witness Would, if present, testify to the facts stated’ in
the afiidavit, and will agree that the same shall be received as evidence on the trial, in like manner as if the witness were present
and had testified thereto. Such agreement shall be made in writing, at the foot of the affidavit, and signed by the party or his attorney. ' '

The same rule shall apply where the motion is grounded on the
want of any material document, or other evidence that might be
used on the trial.

IX.

Copies.

SECTION 1. In trials in the Superior Court, the Court may require" a copy of the pleadings, at the opening of the trial, to be furnished for the use of the judge, by the plaintiif, or by the appelIant, if the action come into said Court by appeal. Such copy
shall be either written or printed, as the Court may direct; and
the necessary expense thereof shall be taxed by the Court, in favor
of the party furnishing the copy, if a judgment for costs is eventually rendered in his favor.
SEC. 2. N 0 copy of a record, upon which a writ of error shall

be pending, will be taxed in the bill of costs on such writ, unless
such copy shall become necessary by reason of a defense of nul tiel
record.

X.

Costs in civil actions.

SECTION 1. On motions for new trials, the prevailing party
shall be entitled to recover the costs in the Supreme Court of Errors,
to be taxed in the Superior Court. And if the party making such
motion shall neglect to carry it forward, and shall not give notice
to -the opposite party, at least twelve days before the session of the
Supreme Court of Errors, that it will not be pursued, he shall pay
costs in the same manner as if it had been carried forward, and
withdrawn on the first day of the term.

SEC. 2. The mileage or travel of witnesses residing out of the
State will be computed and taxed from the State line, on the usual
course of travel.

SEC. 3. Mileage fees for only one travel at the same term will
be taxed for the same witness in the same cause, except upon terms
previously approved by the Court.

SE0. 4. If a witness be in attendance in more causes than one,
between the same parties, at the same time, and on behalf of the
same party, his fees for travel and attendance will be taxed in one
cause only.

SEC. 5. If witnesses, having been duly summoned, attend as
witnesses, but are not called to testify, their fees will be taxed in
the bill of costs, if it appears to the Court that they were summoned
in good faith, and with the expectation of using them, and if their
testimony would have been admissible.

SEO. 6. Whenever in any action there shall be two or more
issues joined on material allegations, and a part of such issues shall
be found for the defendant and the remainder for the plaintiff, the
defendant shall recover such costs as were incurred by him, upon
the issues found in his favor, including fees of witnesses and the

expense of summoning them ; but nothing for his travel, attend-p

ance, and attorney fee. And if several distinct claims be made
under one count, and the plaintiff shall recover upon some and not
upon others, he will not recover costs incurred in attempting to
enforce the claims which he shall fail to establish.

SEC. 7. When costs are awarded to both parties, as before provided, in the same suit, the court, upon motion of either party,
may order a set-off of the same, and issue execution only for the
balance.

SEC. 8. If a garnishee appear to disclose on the original process,
and shall be discharged as having no funds, etc., he will be entitled to the same fees for his travel, attendance, and attorney fee
as a party to the action, to be taxed against the plaintiff; and
his costs for attendance will be allowed up to the time he is
called upon by the plaintiff to make disclosure to the court, or
until a committee shall be appointed to hear his disclosure, as

' the case may be; and also for his travel and attendance before

said committee. But if he neglect to appear and disclose when
required, he will not be entitled to costs.

SE0. 9. If an executor, administrator, or trustee upon an estate
represented insolvent, shall appeal to the Superior Court from

the- report of commissioners in allowing a claim to a creditor
of such estate, and such claim, on. appeal, is not allowed, the
executor, etc., will recover costs against the creditor. But if
such‘ creditor shall prevail on the appeal, and recover as large
a sum in the Superior Court as was allowed to him by the
commissioners, and in all cases where a creditor shall appeal from
the doings or report of the commissioners on such an estate, in
disallowing his claim against the estate, or any part of it, and
shall recover or be allowed in the Superior Court a greater sum
than was allowed to him by the commissioners, the costs on appeal
will be taxed in his favor, against the estate.

SEC. 10. If any creditor of such an estate shall appeal to the
Superior Court from the doings or report of the commissioners in
allowing the claim of any other creditor, costs, at the discretion of
the court, may be taxed in favor of ’the prevailing party against
the other. But no costs shall be allowed against the estate.

SEO. 11. No costs will be taxed for witnesses before committees
appointed upon any proceedings under Part I of Chapter VII, Title
16, of the General Statutes, relative to the lay-out or alteration of
a highway, or constructionof a bridge.

. SEC. 12. In actions for foreclosure, where the defendant does
not appear, attendance will be taxed for three days only, unless
the case remains open for his benefit, or at his request, or for
other good cause shown. ‘

SEC. 13. If, by the provisions of the charter of any railroad
company, canal company, bridge company, etc., it shall be made
the duty of the Superior Court to appoint appraisers, assessors,
commissioners, etc., the clerk and court fees must be paid as in
other causes.

SEC. 14. If a cause, on motion, is dismissed or erased from the
docket of the Supreme Court of Errors or Superior Court, for
want of jurisdiction, no costs will be taxed on either side.

SEC. 15. Fees will be allowed, in the Superior Court, to the
sheriff, one deputy sheriff, one constable, and to the sheriff’s
assistant, for their attendance. On special occasions the court
may authorize the attendance of a greater number of oilicers, and
allow fees for the same. And if the Supreme Court of Errors
and the Superior Court be in session on the same day, fees will
not be taxed for the attendance of said ofiicers in both courts.

SEC. 16. Bills of costs in civil causes may be taxed by the clerk
or assistant clerk of the Superior Court; provided reasonable

notice be given to the adverse party, or his attorney, to be present
at the taxation, if the appearance of such party be entered on
the docket. And either party may appeal from such taxation to
the court, if in session, otherwise to any judge thereof.

SEC. 17. When an action is continued by the court for advisement, only one day’s attendance will be taxed in favor of the
prevailing party, at any intermediate term.

SEC. 18. One day’s attendance shall be taxed in the Superior
Court, in any case in which a question is reserved for the advice
of the Supreme Court of Errors, during the pendency of such
question.

SEC. 19. The judges of the Supreme Court of Errors and
Superior Court will not receive for any act or services officially
performed by them as such, under the laws of the State, any fees,
perquisites, or emoluments which are not or shall not be prescribed by some public or private statute.

XI.

Costs in Cr/o3m'inal Causes. l

SEC. 1. No fees will be taxed in the Superior Court for witnesses called before courts of inquiry, only to impeach or support
character.

SEC. 2. An of1’icer or indifferent person serving subpcenas in,

criminal causes will not be allowed fees for returning the same
to court, unless he returns them in person or actually pays for
their return, and then only the sum paid by him will be allowed,
not exceeding the legal fees for returning civil process. Nor
will he be allowed fees for returning more than one subpcena in

i the same cause, at the same term, unless for special reasons

approved by the court.
SEC. 3. An officer or other person serving a subpoena or capias

.in criminal causes, on behalf of the State, upon witnesses who are

poor and unable to _procure the means of traveling to court, will
be allowed a reasonable compensation for procuring the conveyance of such witnesses to court, and a reasonable sum will be
taxed‘ for the support of such witnesses during their necessary
attendance at court; provided a previous order or authority shall
be given by said court, if in session, or by the State’s Attorney,
if said court is not in session, for that purpose.

SEC. 4. Upon a requisition for the arrest and delivery of a fugitive from justice, the person appointed by the Governor to receive
and convey to this State such fugitive shall be allowed, and there
shall be taxed in his favor: '

His necessary expenses for travel in procuring and delivering
such requisition, and in receiving and conveying such fugitive;

The necessary expenses for travel of such fugitive, from the time
of his surrender until he be committed to prison in this State or
be discharged from custody;

Such amounts as have been legally demanded and actually paid

' to oilicers of other States, and which were necessary to be paid to

secure the arrest and surrender of such fugitive;

A reasonable compensation, not exceeding $5 a day, for the time
actually andnecessarily spent in procuring such requisition, and in
the performance of his duties as agent under the same.

But such taxation shall not be made, unless such agent shall fur.
nish a detailed statement of his expenses and time, verified by his
affidavit; nor unless the State’s Attorney for the county in which
the crime charged upon such fugitive is alleged to have been committed shall, before the requisition is issued, ofiicially certify that,
in his opinion, public justice requires that the fugitive be surrendered for trial in this State. .

Other expenses necessarily incurred by such agent in the performance of his duties may, in special cases, be taxed, upon the
application of the State’s Attorney.

SE0. 5. The fees for the warrant of commitment of a prisoner,
and the sheriffs fees for delivering a prisoner to the Warden of
the State’s prison, will be taxed in the bill of costs.

SEC. 6. No bill of costs in a criminal cause Will be taxed
against the State until it has been carefully examined by the
State’s Attorney; nor unless he certifies that, in his opinion, the
ame is reasonable and legal.

XII.

- Depositions.

SECTION ‘1. Whenever a partyin a civil action shall be notified
to appear at the taking of any deposition, the party thus notified
may, if he see cause, take depositions at the same time and place
designated in such notice, to be used in the same cause, without

any further notice to the opposite party. And the notice thus
given shall be deemed sufficient notice to both parties that depositions will then and there be taken by them.

SE0. 2. When a deposition is taken in the absence of the ad.
verse party, or his agent or attorney, the party taking such deposition shall lodge it with the clerk of the court to which it is
addressed, on the first day of the next Term of said court, for the
inspection of the adverse party; unless before that time he has
delivered the same, or a copy thereof, to said adverse party. But
the court may, in its discretion, direct that said deposition be
lodged with the clerk, at any prior or subsequent time. And if
this rule be not complied With, such deposition shall not be read in
evidence.

XIII.

Disclosures.

SECTION 1. Disclosures by garnishees, and all other disclosures .

in civil actions, may be made to the court, or before a committee
appointed to take the disclosure, as the court may determine.

SEC. 2. The Superior Court Will not hear disclosures from garnishees, in suits brought by process of foreign attachment, which
come to the court by appeal, except in cases where the garnishees
shall be cited to appear before the court, pending the appeal. All
disclosures by garnishees brought originally to the court by
process, in which the garnishee is cited to appear and disclose,
shall be heard, if practicable, at the first term. All motions for
disclosure in pending actions must be filed with the clerk or delivered to the opposite party or his counsel, as soon as the necessity
for such disclosure appears.

SEC. 3. Disclosures, made in answer to complaintsin the nature
of bills of discovery in equity, may be made either by sworn
answers, or before a committee appointed to take the disclosure, as
the court, upon motion, may determine.

XIV.

Errors.

SECTION 1. In every writ of error and motion in error, there
must be a special assignment of errors, in which the precise matters of error or defect in the proceedings in the court below,
relied upon as grounds of reversal, must be set forth; and no
others will be heard or considered by the court.

SEC. 2. N 0 questions will be considered by the Supreme Court
of Errors except such as appear on the record, either, iirst, in the
iinding of the court, or second, in a‘ motion for a new trial, or
third, in a bill of exceptions. It must further appear on the
record, in one of the parts named, that the question was distinctly
raised, as a question of law, on the trial, and was decided by the
court adversely. '

SE0. 3. A motion in error is a mere process and not a part of the
the record. Errors may be assigned, that is, pointed out in it, but
they must be such as appear elsewhere upon the record.

SEC. 4. N 0 general assignment of errors, as that; “the judgment should have been the other way,” can be regarded. A
special assignment of each particular error should be made.

SEC. 5. Upon every writ or motion in error, the assignments
of errors must either be fully made, when the same is signed or

allowed, or be lodged with the clerk of the court to which the‘

same is returnable, at least twelve days before the session of said

court.
SEC. 6. The allowance of a motion in error shall operate as a

supersedeas, unless otherwise ordered by the court.

XV.

Files and records.

SECTION -1. The clerks of the Superior Court and of the
Supreme Court of Errors will not permit the files and records of
said courts to be taken or detained from their respective offices,
except while said courts are in session._ And all iiles and records
taken from said offices during term time must be returned thereto
before the final adjournment of the court.

SEC. 2. When any original writ, complaint, answer, or other

pleadings, shall be mislaid or lost, the court may permit a sworn
or certified copy of the same to be placed on the iiles of the court,
and substituted for the original, thus lost or mislaid. And the
clerk shall certify the order of_ the court, authorizing such substi—
tution, upon such copy.

XVI.

Jurors.

SECTION 1.‘ Jurors who reside out of the town in which the
court is holden, and are necessarily detained over Sunday, will be
allowed their fees for attendance, as for an additional day.

SEC. 2. If a juror, when called in court, shall neglect to appear,
and ‘by reason thereof it shall become necessary to fill the jury
panel with one or more talesmen, such juror will not be allowed
his fees for attendance for the day on which he so neglected to
appear.

SE0. 3. In causes to be tried by the jury, the court and jury
fee must be paid to the clerk, at the commencement of the trial;
and no further court or jury fee will be payable in said causes.
But the court may, in its discretion, order the jury fee to_be
refunded, if the trial shall not proceed. '

XVII.

Motions for a new trial.

SECTION 1. If the counsel of either party, upon the trial of any
action, intends to raise any question of law which may be the subject of a motion for a new trial,- he must state the same distinctly to
the court, before his argument is closed, and in such time as to
give the opposite counsel an opportunity to discuss the same, and
must request the court to take note of the point. And if this be
omitted, it will not be the duty of the court to decide the question, nor reserve the same, on a motion for a new trial. l

SEC. 2. In all motions for a new trial, the precise points made
by counsel, and the rulings of the court thereon, must clearly appear;
and a point or question not raised distinctly in the Superior Court
will not be heard by the Supreme Court of Errors on said motion.

SEC. 3. When, in the trial of a cause, any point shall be ruled

against a party, which may be the ground for a new trial, the
court may direct a statement of such matter to be made and
lodged on file, though, on a motion in arrest of judgment, the
judgment shall be rendered in his favor; and then, if such judgment shall afterwards be reversed in the Supreme Court of Errors,
such party may enter his motion for a new trial in the (locket of
the court, and proceed therewith, as in other cases.

SEC. 4. Whenever there shall be a want of‘time to settle a.
motion for a new trial, during the term at which it is allowed, the
parties by agreement may waive their right to have the same
settled and finished during the term; in which case the judge
allowing the same may settle said motion, as soon as may be after
the adjournment of the court, and lodge the same with the clerk,
as of the same term.

SEO. 5. Whenever a party shall wish to apply to the Supreme
Court of Errors to rectify a motion for a new trial, it shall be his
duty to give notice in writing to the adverse party or his counsel,
twelve days before the sitting of said court, that such application
will be made, stating the alteration intended to be made; and
such application shall bemade at the opening of the court on the
first day of the term. Unless such notice be given, the right to
make such application will be considered as waived. But the
judge allowing such motion may at any time, before or during the
argument upon said motion, rectify any mistake or omission in
the same, giving timely notice thereof to the counsel.

Such applications to the Supreme Court of Errors will not be
heard upon testimony taken in court, but only on depositions taken
by the party oifering the same, after having given reasonable
notice to the opposite party or his counsel of the time and place
of taking the same, that the latter may have an opportunity of
cross-examination; nor shall such an application be entertained,
unless the party making it has, previous to the notice thereof to
the opposite party, requested the judge who allowed the motion
to make the correction applied for; and none but a printed or
written argument shall be received from either party on such an
application to said court. 1

XVIII.

Motions in arrest.

Motions in arrest of judgment, whether for extrinsic causes or
causes apparent on the record, must be lodged with the clerk
within twenty-four hours after the verdict is accepted, exclusive of
Sunday, and before the final adjournment of the court.

XIX.
Plead/tings.

SECTION 1. All pleas in abatement in the Superior Court must
be filed on or before the opening of the Court on the day following the return day of the writ. And all pleas in abatement in the
Supreme Court of Errors must be lodged before the second opening of the Court on the first day of the term.

SEC. 2. In any action by a corporation, foreign or domestic,
founded upon any contract, express or implied, the defendant shall
not, under a general denial, be permitted to dispute, but shall be
deemed to admit, the capacity of the plaintiff to make such contract.

XX.

Supreme Court of Errors.

SEC. 1. The clerk of the Supreme Court of Errors, at each term
thereof, shall furnish for each judge a printed copy of every case
brought to that court, at the expense of the party bringing the
same before the court, unless he shall, within one month after the
termination of the last preceding term of the Superior Court in
that county, give notice to the clerk that such case will not be carried forward. And no copies in the Superior Court or in the
Supreme Court of Errors will be taxed in the bill of costs, unless
the same be certified by the clerk.

SEC. 2. The judge who shall reserve any case for the consideration of the Supreme Court of Errors, or who shall sign a writ of

, error, or allow any motion in error to that court, may authorize

an ahridgment of the case and of the copies ; but in every case,
one full copy of the nles, records, and documents must be furnished by the clerk, at the expense of the party bringing the case
forward, for ‘the use of the judge who may be designated to draw
up the opinion of the Court.

SEC. 3. No cause will be heard unless the full record to be used
in the trial is printed and delivered to the Court at the opening of
the term; nor unless the counsel on both sides furnish each judge
of said court, at or before the opening of the case, with a printed
brief, stating the points of law to be urged in argument, and the
authorities relied on in support of them.

SEC. 4. In- all cases to be argued, counsel upon each side of a
case shall exchange briefs with the opposing counsel in the case, at
least three days before the cause is reached for argument.

SEO. 5. The time occupied in the argument of any cause shall
not exceed two hours on each side, without special leave of the
court, granted before the argument begins. The time thus limited
and allowed may be apportioned among counsel on the same side
of a case, as they may choose ; provided a fair opening of the case

is made by the party having the opening and closing of the argument. '

 

. At the annual meeting of the Judges of the Superior Court and
the Supreme Court of Errors, held -at Hartford on the twentyfourth day of June, 187 9, it was

ORDERED, that the foregoing revised Rules of Practice be adopted
for the Supreme Court of Errors and the Superior Court, to take
effect on the first day of January, 1880.

Certified by

JOHN D. PARK,
Chief Justice.

