Oi' COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFF1CERS, AND PROCEEDINGS IN
CIVIL CASES. 
Of· courts and certain officers of courts. 
Cu.lPTZR 75. Of the circuit court. 
CHAPTER 76. Of the clerk of the circuit court. 
CRAPHR 77. Of the orphans' court, and proceedings therein. 
CHAPTER 78. Of the register of wills. 
I I I.
PART 
TITLE I. 
CeAPHR 79. Of the district court of the United St.ates for the District or Columbia. 
CHAPTER 7o. 
OF THE CIRCUIT COURT. 
SEC. 1. The circuit court of this District, consisting of one chief
judge and two assistant judges, is hereby continued, with the powers
and jurisdiction conferred by this Code upon the same. The said 
judges shall hold their respective offices during good behavior.
SEC. 2. The present judges of the circuit court of this District shall 
continue to hold their offices according to the tenor of their commis­
sions; and 88 vacancies occur they shall be filled in the manner pro­ 
vided by law.
SEC. 3. Any two of the judges of the circuit court shall constitute a 
quorum for the transaction of any business that might be done by all
the judges. 
SEC. 4. Every person who shall be appointed a judge of the circuit
court shall, before he begins to exercise the duties of hie office, take 
an oath to support the constitution of the United States, and faith­
fully and impartially to perform the duties of his office to the beet of 
his skill and judgment.
SEC. 5. The original jurisdiction of the circuit court shall extend to 
all civil cases not otherwise provided for; and said court shall have
and exercise such appellate jurisdiction as may be prescribed by law. 
SEC. 6. The circuit court, and the judges thereof, shall have, within
this District, all the powers by law vested in the circuit courts of the 
United States, and the judges thereof, by the acts of the Congress of
the United States now or hereafter in force, except so far as is other­
wise provided. 
SEC. 1. The circuit court, and the judges thereof, shall have power 
to issue all writs and process necessary and proper to the complete
exercise of the power conferred upon said court, and upon the judges
thereof, by law. 
SEC. 8. When there shall be occasion for any process for which no
form is prescribed by law, said court may frame a new writ in con­
formity with the principles thereof. 
SEC. 9. The judges of the said court shall, at all reasonable times,
when not engaged in holding court, transact such business at their 
chambers as may be done out of court at chambers; they may hear
and dispose of all applications for orders and writs which are usually
granted in the first instance upon an ex parte application, and may,
in their discretion, also hear applications to discharge such orders 
and writs. 
SEC. 10. The said court shall have power to make all proper judg­
ments, sentences, decrees, orders, and injunctions, and to issue all 
processes, and to do such other acts as may be proper to carry into
effect the same, in conformity with the laws of this District. 
SEC. 11. The said court shall have power to make rules for regula­
ting the practice and conducting the business of said court in all cases
not provided for by law, and to revise the same from time to time, for
the purpose of simplifying the proceedings, of expediting the deci­
sions of causes, of presenting distinctly the points in issue in trials
by jury, of diminishing costs, and of remedying the abuses and im­
perfections that may be found to exist in the practice. 
SEC. 12. The said court shall have the general superintendence of 
all courts of inferior jurisdiction, to prevent and correct errors and
abuses therein, when no other remedy is expressly provided by law. 
SEC. 13. The said court shall be a court of record, and shall have
an appropriate seal, devised by the judges thereof, a description of 
which shall be filed with the clerk of said court and recorded.
SEC. 14. The judges of said court shall have full authority to ad­ 
minister all necessary oaths, and to take all necessary recognizances 
to keep the peace, or to answer any criminal charge or offence in the
court having jurisdiction. 
SEC. 15. The said court shall have power to hear and determine upon
all errors and matters of fact that may happen in the proceedings
depending in said court, and to cause to be corrected any clerical
error that may happen in making up the records of said court. 
SEc. 16. The circuit court shall have power to hold adjourned ses­
sions of said court. 
SEC. 17. The circuit court shall have full authority to punish by
fine and imprisonment, or either, all contempts of their authority and
process. 
SEC. 18. When no judge of the circuit court is present e.t the time
and place appointed for holding said court, whether at the beginning
of a term or at any adjournment, the clerk of said court shall adjourn
the same, from day to day, until one or more of the judges of said
court shall be present. 
SEc. 19. All writs and processes whatsoever issuing from the circuit
court shall be tested in the name of the chief judge of said court. In 
the event of a. vacancy in the office of the chief judge, they shall be
tested in the name of the senior assistant judge of said court. 
SEC. 20. The circuit court, or any judge thereof during the vaca­ 
tion of said court, shall he.ve power to award e. writ of error in any
criminal case whatever, wherein final judgment shall have been pro- 
. nounced by the criminal court of this District, convicting any person
of any crime or misdemeanor. Such writ of error shall be returned 
to the circuit court which may be in session, or to the next circuit
court which may be held at the time fixed by law for holding the
same. The circuit court may reverse the judgment pronounced by the
criminal court, or remand the case, or order a new trial, or such other
proceeding as the nature of the case may require. The judgment of
the circuit court shall be certified to the clerk of the criminal court,
and preserved amongst the original papers in the case. 
SEC. 21. Where, at any term of the circuit court, a jury shall be 
empsnneled to try any cause or issue, and it shall happen that no
verdict shall be found, nor the jury otherwise discharged before the
day appointed by law for the commencement of the next succeeding
term, the said court shall and may, nevertheless, proceed with the
trial by the same jury in every respect 88 if such term had not com­
menced ; and all subsequent proceedings to final judgment, if such
judgment shall be rendered, shall be entered and have legal effectand
operation 88 of the term at which the jury shall have been empan­ 
neled.
SEC. 22. No action, cause, process, or proceeding pending in the 
circuit court shall be discontinued by reason of such court not having
been held at any stated term, or any adjournment thereof, but they 
shall respectively be returned to, entered, and have day in the term
which shall be held after such failure. 
SEC. 23. If at the end of a term of the said court any matters
depending therein are undetermined, the same, subject to the pro­
visions of section twenty-two of this chapter, shall stand continued 
until the next term. 
SEC. 24. The said court shall be held in the city of Washington, in
this District. 'fhere shall be three regular terms thereof for each 
'Year, to wit: the first beginning on the first Monday of January;
the second beginning on the first Monday of May; and the third 
beginning on the first Monday of October. 
SEC. 25. The chief judge of said court shall receive an annual salary
of three thousand seven hundred and fifty dollars; o.nd each of the 
associate judges shall receive a.n annual salary of three thousand flvo
hundred dollars. The said salaries shall be paid in quarterly pay­
ments out of the treasury of the United States, and in the same
proportion for any part of a quarter. 
SECTION
1. Present clerk to continue, and vacancies
to be filled by the court. 
2• 
l Clerk to give bond and ma.ke oath.
3. S 
•· \ Clerk may appoint deputies and take
5. J from them bond. 
6. Precess to be isaued in tho name of
clerk. 
7. l 
OF THE CLERK OF THE CIRCUIT COURT. 
8. S The duties and powers o( clerk.
9. 
CHAPTER 76. 
SsCTioH 
10. l The liabilities of clerk.
11. S 
12. No clerk or deputy shall act u attorney
at law. 
13. The judges of circuit court shall exam­
ine the cf erk'• office. 
1'. The clerk shall deliver recordll, &c., to
hia succeaor. 
SEC. 1. The present clerk of the circuit court shall continue to
hold hie office during the pleasure of the said court; and aa a. vacancy 
occurs the said court shall appoint a proper person to be clerk thereof,
to serve as such during the pleasure of the said circuit court. 
SEC. 2. Every clerk of the circuit court, before entering upon tho
duties of his office, shall give bond to the United States, to be ap­
proved by the circuit court, in a. sum not less than ten thousand
dollars, with two sufficient sureties, with condition for the faithful 
discharge of the duties of his office.
SEC. 3. He shall also be sworn to the faithful discharge of the 
duties of hie office, which oath shall be administered by the chief
judge of the circuit court. 
SEC. 4. Such clerk may appoint one or more deputies, who, except
where otherwise provided, shall have the same power as their prin ...
cipal ; the appointment shall be in writing, and signed by such
clerk, and shall be filed in the office of the recorder. He may revoke
the appointment of any deputy at will, by writing, filed in the same
office. Ea.ch deputy, before entering on his duties, shall take the
oath of office, which shall be endorsed on his appointment. 
SEC. 5. Such clerk may take from each of his deputies a bond, with
sureties, for the faithful performance of his duties ; but the clerk and
the sureties on his official bond shall be liable for all the official acts
of each deputy. 
SEC. 6. All processes issued by any deputy clerk shall be issued in
the name of the principal. 
SEC. 7. Such clerk shall, either by person or by deputy, attend
each term of the circuit court. He shall keep his office in the build­
ing provided for that purpose, and shall take charge of and safely
keep, or dispose of according to law, all books, papers, and records
which may be filed or deposited in his office. 
SEC. 8. Such clerk shall enter the proceedings of the circuit court
in a book to be provided for that purpose. The proceedings of each 
day shall be drawn up at lsrge, and read by the clerk in open court
the next day, except that the proceedings of the last day of a term
shall be drawn up and read the same day. After being corrected 
where necessary, the record shall be signed by the chief judge, or, in
case of his absence, by the senior assistant judge. Said clerk shall 
endorse under his hand on all writings required to be filed in his
office, the time of filing thereof; shall issue all writs and processes 
required to be issued from said court; shall enter into the proper
record books, under direction of the court, all orders, judgments, and
decrees proper to be entered ; and shall keep such dockets and other 
books of record, each with its proper alphabetical index, as may be
required by law, or by the rules of the court. 
SEC. 9. Such clerk shall have power to administer all oaths. 
SEC. 10. For any wrongful act, or any omission to perform any
duty imposed on him by law, the clerk shall be liable on his bond to 
any person injured.
SEC. 11. If such clerk shall knowingly and wilfully do any act 
contrary to the duties of his office, or shall knowingly and wilfully
fail to perform any act or duty required of him by law, he shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and, on conviction, shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding one thousand dollars and be removed from 
office. 
SEc. 12. No clerk or deputy clerk of any court in this District shall
be permitted to practise as an attorney or counsellor at law in any 
action or proceeding in any court whatever. For violating the 1>ro- 
visions of this section he shall be deemed guilty of a misdeanor, and
fined a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars. 
SEC. 13. The circnit court shall, at least once in every year, ex­
amine the clerk's office, and enter on record the manner in which the 
books and papers thereof are kept.
SEC. 14. Buch clerk, on the expiration of his term of office, shall 
deliver to his successor all the records, books, and papers belonging
to his office. 
SECTION
1. The orphans' court to comriat of one
judge. 
2. The present judge to continue in office.
3. The judge to take an oath. 
4. The orpbana' court to be a court of
record, and have a seal. 
!: l Jurisdiction and powers of the orphans' 
S court.
7. 
8. l How, in calC8 of interest, they may be
9. S tranaferred to the circuit court. 
10. I Power of iuuin1 and enforcing pro-
11. 5 ceaa. 
12. Service of summons,
13. Publication; when allowed.
14. Return of service. 
SEC. 1. The orphans' court of this District, consisting of one
judge, is hereby continued, with the powers and jurisdiction conferred 
by this Code upon the same. The said judge shall hold his office
during good behavior. 
SEC. 2. The present judge of the orphans' court shall continue to
hold his office according to the tenor of his commission ; and as a
vacancy occurs it shall be filed in the manner prescribed by law. 
SEC. 3. Every person who shall be appointed a judge of the orphans'
court shall, before he begins to exercise the duties of his office, take
an oath to support the constitution of the United States, and faithfully
and impartially to perform the duties of his office to the best of his 
skill and judgment. 
CHAPTER 77. 
OF THE ORPHANS' COURT. 
S11:0TI01' 
15. J wudiction u to Ntatel of deceued 
persone, 
] 6. Rule. of proeeeding and practice in force
in orphans' court. 
17. The judge to be a coneervator of the
peaco, and to admiaister l'atba. 
18. The orphans! coon ma.y correct clerical
errors, &.c. 
19. When and where orphans' court may be 
held.
20. Register may adjoum court in absence 
of judge.
21. Process to bo teated in the name of tho 
ju~ge.
~. Power of court as to contempts. 
23. Compensation of judge. 
SEC. 4. The orphans' court shall be a court of record, and shall
have an appropriate seal, devised by the judge thereof, a description
of which shall be filed with the register of said court and recorded. 
SEC. 5. The orphans' court shall have cognizance of all matters
relating to the probate of wills; the granting and revoking of letters
testamentary; of administration and collection; the conduct and ac­
counts of guardians, executors, administrators, and collectors of the 
effects of deceased persons; the securing the rights of orphans and
legatees; the distribution of the personal estates of intestates, and 
to the administration of justice in the affairs and estates of deceased
persons, according to law. 
SEC. 6. Such court may appoint guardians to minors, and revoke
such appointments, in case~ provided by law. 
SEC. 1. Such court shall have po~r and authority, in cases pro­
vided for by law, to examine and decide upon all accounts, claims,
and demands existing between wards and their guardians, and
between legatees, or persons entitled to any distributable part of an
intestate's estate, and executors or administrators. 
SEC. 8. If, in any case cognizable in the orphans' court, the judge
thereof may be, or shall have been, interested, either as counsel, 
legatee, or otherwise, such case, and all matters relating thereto,
shall be instituted and transacted, prosecuted and determined, in the 
circuit court; and the circuit court shall have full and complete
jurisdiction thereof, and shall be governed in all matters touching 
the same by the provisions of law which govern the orphans' court 
in similar cases.
SEC. 9. If, during the pendency of any matter in the orphans' court, 
the judge thereof shall become disqualified to hear and determine the
same for any of the causes specified in the last preceding section, such 
matter shall be transferred to the circuit court, with like effect as if
.the same had been instituted in the circuit court, according to the 
proviaiona of the last preceding section.
SEC. 10. The orphans' court shall have full power to grant and 
issue all process necessary or proper to carry into effect the powers of
said court. 
SEC. 11. The orphans' court, in the exercise of its powers and
jurisdiction, may enforce obedience to, and execution of, its orders, 
decrees, or other process, by attachment of contempt or by seques­
tration. 
SEC. 12. Whenever personal notice is required to be given to any
party to a proceeding in the orphans' court, and no other mode . of
notice is prescribed, it shall be given by summons, issued from the
court, and under the seal of the court, directed to the marshal, and
'requirlng him to summon such person to appear before the court or
judge, at a time and place to be named in the summons. In the body 
of the summons shall be briefly stated the nature or character of the
proceeding. 
SEC. 13. Where the appearance of a party required to be noti:fieit
is neceesery to the determination of any matter pending in the orphans'
court, and it appears, by the return of an officer, that such person
cannot be found, or by affidavit that such person is a non-resident of
this District, or that his residence is unknown, notice may be given
him of the pendency of the ~roc~dings by publication, in such
manner as the court may direct ; and the court may proceed upon
such notice as if the summons had been personally served. 
SEC. 14. Summonses, unless otherwise required by law, shall be
returned at such time as the orphans' court shall direct. 
SEC. 15. The jurisdiction of the orphans' court shall extend over
the estates of all persons deceased who, at the the time of their decease, 
were inhabitants of or residents in this District ; and of all persons
who shall die without this District, leaving personal estate within 
this District, or whose personal estate may afterwards be found
therein. 
SEC. 16. The rules of proceeding and practice in the circuit court,
so far as the same may be applicable, shall be the rule of the orphans' 
court, except in such matters as are otherwise provided for by law.
The orphans' court shall have power to make rules for regulating the
practice and conducting the business of said court, in all cases not 
provided for by law, where the rules of proceeding and practice in
the circuit court are not applicable. 
SEC. 17. The judge of the orphans' court shall be a conservator of
the peace, and shall have full authority to administer all necessary 
oaths. 
SEC. 18. The orphans' court shall have power to hear and deter­
mine upon all errors and matters of fact that may happen in the
proceedings depending in said court, and to cause to be corrected any 
1 rical rr r th t may h pen in mt king u I the recor s id 
con rt. 
SEC. 19. The orphans' court shall be held in the city of Washington
on the first Monday of each month in every year, and at such other
times, for the transaction of business, as the judge thereof may 
SECTION 
1. The present register to continue in office.
2. The register to give bond and take an 
oath.
3. l Register may appoint deputiee, and 
4. S take from them bond.
5. Process to be issued in name of rerister. 
6.} 
OF THE REGISTER OF WILLS. 
7. The dutiea and powers of register.
8. 
• 
appoint. . 
SEC. 20. When the judge of the orphans' court is not present at the
time and place appointed for holding said court, whether at the 
beginning of a term or at any adjournment, the register of wills
shall adjourn it until the next regular day for holding the same.
SEC. 21. All process issuing from the orphans' court shall be t.ested
in the name of the judge of said court. 
SEC. 22. The orphans' court shall have authority to punish by
fine and imprisonment, or either, all contempts of its authority and
process. 
SEC. 23. The judge of the orphans' court shall receive an annual
salary of two thousand five hundred dollars, and shall be paid in 
quarterly payments out of the treasury of the United States, and in
the same proportion for any part of a quarter. 
CHAPTER 78. 
SBCTIOl!I 
9. The judge of orphans' court shall ex­
amine records in register's office. 
10. Alphabetical index to be provided for
each record book. 
11. Register may administer oaths, and imue
eitations, 
12, When he may act u judge. 
SEC. 1. The present register of wills shall continue to hold his
office, according to the tenor of his commission ; and as a. vacancy
occurs, the orphans' court shall appoint a. proper person to be register
of wills, to serve as such during the pleasure of said court. 
SEC. 2. Every person who shall be appointed register of wills,
shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, give bond to the
United States, to be approved by the judge of the orphans' court, in 
a sum not less than eight thousand dollars, with two sufficient
sureties, with condition for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
office. He shall also be sworn to the faithful discharge of the duties
of his office, which oath shall be administered by the judge of the
orphans' court. 
SEC. 3. The register of wills may appoint one or more deputies,
who, except where otherwise provided, shall have the same power 88 
their principal. The appointment shall be in writing, and signed
by such register, and filed in the office of the recorder ; he may
revoke the appointment of any deputy, at will, by writing filed in
the so.me office. Each deputy, before entering upon his duties, shall
take an oath of office, which shall be endorsed on his appointment. · 
SEC. 4. Such register may take from each of his deputies a bond,
with sureties, for the faithful performance of his duties; but the
register and his sureties on his official bond shall be liable for all the 
official acts of each deputy.
SEC. 5. All process issued by any deputy register shall be issued 
in the name of the principal.
SEC. 6. Such register shall attend every sitting of the orphans' 
court. He shall keep his office in the building provided for that
purpose, where he shall attend daily, and shall take charge of and 
safely keep, or dispose of according to law, all books, papers, and
records, which may be filed or deposited in his office. 
SEc. 1. The register shall record the proceedings of the orphans'
court; shall endorse under his hand on all writings required to be 
filed in his office, the time of filing thereof; shall issue all process
required to be issued from the orphans' court; shall keep such dockets
and other books of record as may be required by law, or by the rules
of the court ; and shall record in books to be kept for that purpose,
under the direction of the court, all orders, judgments, and decrees 
of said court, and also all wills proved in said court, with the pro­
bate thereof, all letters testamentary and of administration, returns, 
reports, accounts, and all bonds, and such other acts and proceedings
as he shall, by the rules of said court, or by any special order of the 
judge thereof, be required to record. ·
SEC. 8. The provisions of sections ten, eleven, twelve, and four­ 
teen, of chapter seventy-six, shall apply to the register of wills, as
well 88 the clerk of the circuit court. 
SEC. 9. The judge of the orphans' court shall, at least once in
every year, examine the register's office, and enter on record the
manner in which the books, records, and papers thereof a.re kept. 
SEC. 10. The register shall have a proper alphabetical index to
each record book in his office. 
SEC. 11. Unless otherwise specially prescribed, the register shall
have power to administer all oaths necessary and proper to be taken
touching any matter pending in the orphans' court, or in any man­
ner connected with any proceedings of which such court has jurisdic­
tion; and he shall have power to issue citations and summonses upon
the application of any party, without the order of the judge, except
in those cases in which such order is specially required by law for the 
issuing of a citation or summons. 
SEC. 12. In case of the disability or absence from this District of
the judge of the orphans' oourt, the register of wills shall have 
authority to proceed in any matter depending in said court as fully as
the said judge himself might do were he present and able to act. 
TITLE I. OF THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED ST ATES FOR THE DISTRICT 
S1cr10•
1. Of the powers and jurisdiction of the 
district court.
2. Who shall hold the diatrict court, and 
when. 
CHAPTER 79. 
OF COLUMBIA. 
SBOTIOH 
3. Who shall hold the district court in case
of sickness or disability of judge. 
4. Judge may sit in appeal upon bis own
decieion, 
SEC. 1. There shall be sad hereby is continued a court in this
District to be called the district court of the United States for the 
District of Columbia, which court shall have and exercise within this
District the same powers and jurisdiction which are by law vested in 
the district courts of the United States, except where it is otherwise
expressly provided. 
SEC. 2. The chief judge of the circuit court of this District shall
hold a district court of the United States in and for this District on
the first Mondays in June and December in every year, and shall 
have, exercise, and perform within this District all the powers and
duties possessed, exercised, and performed by the district judges of 
the United States within their respective districts, except where it is
otherwise expressly provided. 
SEC. 3. In case of the sickness or other disability of the judge of the
district court of the United States for this District, which shall pre­ 
vent him from holding any stated or appointed term of the district
court, upon the fact of such sickness or other disability being certified
by the clerk of said district court to the assistant judges of the circuit
court of this District, it shall be the duty of the senior assistant judge 
of said court to hold the district court, and discharge all the judicial
duties of the district judge who shall be sick or otherwise disabled, so 
long as such sickness or disability shall continue. In case of the
sickness or other disability of said senior assistant judge, the same 
duty shall devolve on the junior assistant judge of said circuit court.
The acts and proceedings in said district court, by or before either of 
the said assistant judges so required to hold said district court, shall
have the same. force, effect, and validity as if done and transacted by 
and before the district judge of said district court. 
SEC. 4. The associate judge holding the district court shall be em­
powered to sit in the circuit court in any case of appeal or of error
from his own decision in said district court in the same manner as if
said district court had not been held by him. 
Of the proceedings in civil cases in the circuit court of the
District of Columbia. 
CHAPTER 80. Of the forms of civil aetlone, and of the partiee thereto.
Csursa 81. Of the manner of commencing civil actione. 
Ceuna 82. Of the pleadinge in civil actions.
Cn.&.PT&R 83. Claim and delivery of personal property. 
Ceuna 84. Of injunctions.
Cauua 85. or attachments.
CHAPTER 86. or receivers and depoeit in court. 
CHAPTER 87. Of iuues. 
Cn.&.PTI.R 88. Of trial by jury. 
Ceuua 89. Of trial by the court. 
TITLE II. 
CHAPTER 90. Of trial by referees. 
CnAPTER 91. Of oxceptions. 
CR.&.PTER 92. Of new trial. 
Ce.&.PTER 93. Of judgments. 
CH.&.PT&ll 94, Of executions. 
Cu.&PTER 95. Of proceedings supplementary to execution. 
CHAPTER 96. Of eommiesioner to convey real estate. 
Cu.&.PTER 97. Of the limitation of actions. 
Cu.&.PTER 98. Of coete. 
Ce.APTER 99. Of proceedings to reYiew judgments. 
Cn.&.PTEll 100. Of appeal1. 
OF THE 1''0RMS OF CIVIL ACTIONS, AND THE PARTIES THERETO. 
8BOTJOK 
1. Distinction between forms of action and
between actions at law and suits in
equity abolished. 
i. Deeignation of parties.
3. Actions; how commenced. 
4. Assignment of thing in action, not to
prejudice defence. 
5. What parties may bring actions, without
joining the person beneficially inter­ 
ested.
6. Represent.atives may bring actions and 
defend the same, when they survive.
7. l Regulation• respocting a married wo, 
8. S man, when she is a party.
9· 
} Rules whon an infant is a party.
10. 
11. Parties in interest must join as plaintiffs.
12. Who may be made a defendant. 
SEC. 1. The distinction between actions at law and suits in
equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits heretofore existing,
are abolished ; and there shall be in this District hereafter but one 
form of action for the enforcement or protection of private rights and
the redress of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a. civil 
action. 
CHAPTER SO. 
S1:ar1os
13. Parties to be plaintiff's or defendants, ac- 
cording to interest. 
1'. When ono person or mere may sue or
defend for the benefit of many. 
15. Parties severally liable, may be included
in an action. 
16. When an action shall not abate.
17. When the court may decide the con· 
troversy, or order other parties to be 
brought in.
18. Persons having an interest may, on ap· 
plication, be made partiea.
19. When a party may substitute another in 
his place.
20. When an unmarried fem&le may bring 
an action for seduction.
21. When father, or mother, may bring an 
action for seduction. 
SEc. 2. In such action, the party complaining shall be known as
the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant. 
SEC. 3. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of the real
party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this chapter; but 
this section shall not be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing
in action not arising out of contract. 
SEC. 4. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action
by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other de­ 
fence existing before notice of the assignment; but this section shall
not apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, trans·
ferred, in good faith and upon valuable consideration, before due. 
SEC. 5. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express
trust, a person with whom or in whose name a contract is made for
the benefit of another, or a person expressly authorized by statute, 
may bring an action without joining with him the person for whoso
benefit it is prosecuted. It shall not be necessary to make an insane
person a joint party with his guardian or committee, except as may be
required by statute. 
SEc. 6. In all cases where actions survive, they may be commenced
by or against the representatives of the deceased, to whom the interest
of the subject-matter of the action has passed, 
SEC. 1. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be
joined with her; except-- 
First. When the action concerns her separate property, she may
sue alone. 
Second. When the action is between herself and her husband, she
may sue and be sued alone; but when her husband cannot be joined
with her, as is herein provided, and she is an infant under twenty-one 
years of age, she shall prosecute and defend by her next friend.
SEC. 8. If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife may de­ 
fend in her own right; and if the husband neglect to defend, she may
defend in his right also. 
SEC. 9. The action of an infant must be brought by his guardian or
next friend. When the action is brought by his next friend, the
court shall have power to dismiss it, if it is not for the benefit of the
infant, or to substitute the guardian of the infant, or any person as 
the next friend. 
SEC. 10. The defence of an infant shall be by guardian for the suit,
who may be appointed by the court in which the action is prosecuted.
Tho appointment may be made upon the application of the infant, if 
he be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within fifteen days after
the return of the summons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or 
neglect so to apply, the appointment may be made upon the applica­
tion of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the 
action. 
SEC. 11. All persons having an interest in the subject of the action
and in obtaining the relief demanded, shall be joined as plaintiffs)
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. 
SEC. 12. Any person may be made a defendant who has or claims
an interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff, or who is a
necessary party to a. complete determination or settlement of the
questions involved therein. 
SEC. 13. Of the parties to the action, those who are united in in­
terest shall be joined as plaintiffs or defendants ; but if the consent of
one who should have been joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he
may be made a defendant, the reason being stated in the complaint. 
SEC. 14. When the question is one of common or general interest
of many persons, or when the parties are very numerous and it may 
be impracticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may
sue or defend for the benefit of all. 
SEC. 15. Persons severally and immediately liable upon the same
obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, may all or any of them be included in the samo
action, at the option of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 16. No action shall abate by the death, marriage, or other dis­
ability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest therein during
its pendency, if the cause of action survive or continue. In the case
of the marriage of a female party, the fact being suggested on the
record, the husband may be made a party with his wife ; and in case
of the death or other disability of a party, the court may allow the
action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in
interest. In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be
continued in the name of the original party, or the court may allow 
the person to whom the transfer is made to be substituted in the 
action. 
SEC. 17. The court may determine any controversy between parties
before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others,
or by saving their rights; but when a complete determination of the 
controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
court shall cause them to be joined as proper parties. 
SEc. 18. When, in an action for the recovery of real or personal
property, any person having an interest in the property applies to 
be made a party, the court may order it to be done by the proper
amendment. 
SEc. 19. A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a
contract, or for specific real or personal property, may, at any time 
before answer, upon affidavit that a person not a party to the action,
and without collusion with him, makes against him o. demand for the
same debt or property, upon due notice to such person and to the ad­
verse party, apply to the court for an order to substitute such person
in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his
depositing in court the amount of the debt, or delivering the property 
or its value to such person, as the court may direct, and the court may,
in its discretion, make the order. 
SEC. 20. An unmarried female may prosecute as plaintiff an action
for her own seduction, and recover such damages as may be assessed 
in her favor. 
SEC. 21. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his
family, the mother, may prosecute as plaintiff for the seduction of
the daughter, though the daughter be not living with or in the
service of the plaintiff at the time of the seduction or afterwards, and 
there be no loss of service. 
SECTION
1. l Actiom ; how commenced. 
2. 5 
OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS. 
3. What the summons shall require.
4. What the summons shall contain. 
CHAPTER 81. 
5·
} How the 1ammon1 shall be aerved. 
6.
7. l When and how service by publication 
8. 5 may be allowed.
9. When a party proceeded against by pub­ 
lication may have a judgment opened'. 
SscnoK
JO. ,vhat proceedings ne~ssary before a 
Judgment shall be opened.
11. Purchuera in good f11ith not to be 
affected.
12. Proceedinga when the names of parties 
are not known.
13. When clerk may ilBlle another summons. 
14. Proceedings where there are several
defendants, and some only served. 
.15. Voluntary appearance equivalent to
summons. 
SEC. 1, Civil actions shall be commenced by. the. filing of a
complaint with the clerk, and the issuing of a summons thereon.
The action shall be deemed to be commenced from the time of issuing 
the summons;. but as to those .against whom publication is made,
from the time of the first publication. 
SEC. 2. The clerk shall endorse on the complaint, the day, month,
and year 'the same is filed ;· and at any· time after the filing, the 
plaintiff may have a 'summona issued, which shall be directed to the
defendant, and. shall be signed by the clerk, and issued under the
seal of the court, and shall be made returnable on the first day of
the next term of court. 
SEC. 3. The summons shall require the defendant to appear and
answer the complaint, or that judgment by default will be taken
against him. 
SEC. 4. There shall also be inserted in the summons a notice, in
substance, as follows : 
1. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of money or
damages only, that the plaintiff will take judgment for a sum specified 
therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint.
2. In other actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com­ 
plaint, the plaintiff will apply to the court for the relief demanded
therein. 
SEC. 5. The summons shall be served by the marshal of this Dis­
trict, or by his deputy, or by a person specially appointed by him, or
by a person appointed by the court. The summons shall be returned, 
with the certificate of the officer of its service, to the office of the
clerk from which the summons issued. 
SEC. 6. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof,
as follows: 
1. If the suit be against a corporation, to the president or head of
the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent thereof. 
2. If against a minor, to such minor personally, and also to his
father, mother, or guardian, or, if there be none within this District, 
then to any person having the care and control of such minor, or
with whom he resides, or in whose service he is employed. 
3. If age.inst a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian 
or committee has been appointed, then to such guardian or com­
mittee. 
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally.
SEC. 7. When the service of the summons cannot be made as pre­ 
scribed in the last preceding section, and when that fact appears, by
affidavit, to the satisfaction of the court, or any judge thereof, and it 
appears, in like manner; that a cause of action exists against the
defendant, and that the case is one ·of those mentioned hereafter in
this section, the court or judge may grant an order that service be
made by publication, in either of the following cases: 
1. In actions for the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein, or for the partition of real property, or for the sale
of real property under a mortgage, lien, or otherwise, where the real
property is within this District, and where any or all of the defendants
reside out of the same. 
2. In actions brought to establish or set aside a will, where any or
all the defendants reside out of this District. 
3. In actions brought against a non-resident of this District, or a
foreign corporation having in this District property or debts owing 
to them subject to the process of the court.
4. In actions which relate to, or the subject of which is, real or 
personal property in this District, where any defendant has or claims
a lien. or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief demanded
consists wholly or partly in excluding him from any interest therein, 
and such defendant is a non-resident of this District or a foreign
corporation. 
5. In all actions where the defendant, being a resident of this
District, has departed therefrom with intent to delay or defraud hie
creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself 
concealed therein with a like intent.
Any person absent from this District shall be deemed to reside out 
of the same, within the meaning of the first four subdivisions of this
section, whether he shall have acquired a residence elsewhere or not. 
SEC. 8. The order shall direct the publication to be made in a
newspaper to be published in this District, and for such a length of 
time as may be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for six
successive weeks, unless where otherwise provided. In case of publi­ 
cation, the court or judge shall direct a copy of the summons and
complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the 
defendant at his place of residence, unless it shall appear that such
residence is not known. When publication is ordered, personal ser­ 
vice of a copy of the summons and complaint out of this District
shall be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post office. In 
either case the service of the summons shall be deemed complete at
the expiration of the time prescribed by the order for publication.
The publication shall contain a summary statement of the object and 
prayer of the petition, mention the court wherein it is filed, and
notify the person or persons thus to be served when they are required 
to answer. 
SEc. 9. Parties against whom a judgment has been rendered without
other notice than the publication in· the newspaper in this chapter
required, except in cases of divorce, may, at any time within five 
years after the rendition of the judgment, have the same opened, and
be allowed to defend. 
SEc. 10. But before any such judgment shall be opened, such party
shall give notice to the original complainant, or his heirs, devisees, 
executors, or administrators, of bis intention to make application to
have the judgment opened, and shall file a full answer to the original 
complaint, and an affidavit stating that, during the pendency of the
action, he received no actual notice thereof in time to appear in court
and object to the judgment, and shall also pay all such costs of the 
action as the court shall direct. The adverse party shall be allowed
to present counter affidavits to show that, during the pendency of the
action, the applicant had notice thereof in time to appear in court 
and make his defence. 
SEc. 11. If any property which was the subject of, or properly sold
under, any judgment sought to be opened as provided in the last two 
preceding sections, shall have passed into the hands of a purchaser
in good faith, he shall not be affected by any proceedings consequent 
upon the opening of the judgment.
SEC. 12. In cases where it shall be necessary to make any persons 
defendants to any action, and the names of any or all of them shall
be unknown to the plaintiff, and he shall annex to his complaint an 
affidavit of his want of knowledge of their names, and that their
residence is, as he verily believes, not in this District, proceedings
may be had against them without naming them; and the court shall
make such order respecting notice and the publication thereof as may 
be deemed proper.
SEC. 13. Whenever it shall appear by the return of the marshal, 
his deputy, or the person appointed to serve a summons, that he has
not served it upon the defendants as prescribed in the-sixth section of 
this chapter, the clerk shall, at the request of the plaintiff, issue
another summons, and so on until service be had; or the plaintiff
may proceed by publication in the manner before stated, at his
election. 
SEC. 14. Where the action is against two or more defendants, and
the summons is served on one or more, but not all of them, the 
plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1. If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon a con­ 
tract, he may proceed against the defendants served,. unless the court
otherwise direct; and if he recover judgment, it may be entered 
against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only as that it
may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate
property of the defendants served ; and if they are subject to arrest,
against the persons of the defendants served; or, 
2. If the action be against defendants severally liable, he may,
without prejudice to his rights against those not served, proceed
against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the 
only defendants.
SEC. 15. A voluntary appearance of the defendant shall be equiva­ 
lent to a personal service of the summons upon him. 
SECTION
1, ForlDI of pleadin1 incomist.ent with thi1
Code abolilhed. 
2• 
OF PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
l What pleadiop allowed.
3. S 
4. What the complaint shall contain.
5. When defendant may demur. 
6. Demurrer mU1t 1pecify the ground of
objection. 
7. Defendant may demur to the whele or
part. 
8. Proceedings when the complaint i1
amended. 
9. When objectionmaybe taken byamwer.
10. When objection ii deemed waived. 
11. What the answer •hall contain.
12. Defendant may eet forth u many 
ground, of defence u e.dlf..
13. What aball conltitute a counter-claim. 
14. No action allowed for a counter-claim
not set up. 
15. Party not to be deprived of counter-claim
or set-oft' by auignment or death. 
16. When set-off can be pleaded.
17. How defendant may bring a new part1 
into court.
18. Defendant, may,amwer jointly or eever­ 
ally.
)9. When plaintiff' may demur.
20. What party muat deny complaint with­ 
out oath.
21. All defenees, except a denial, mU1t be 
1pecialty pleaded.
22. When there shall be no reply.
23. When the plaintift'may reply or demur. 
24. When pleadings shall be filed.
. 25. Failure to plead ground for entering 
judgment as upon a default, unle• for
eause 1hown. 
·26. Pleadings; when to be verifiod.
27. How pleadinga may be verified.
28. Qualification of and ezceptiom to the 
rule of verification.
~. Rule u to itema of account. 
CHAPTER 82. 
81CT101' 
30. How pleadings ahall be construed,
31. Redundancy may be 1tricken out, and 
pleadines may be made certain by
amendment. 
3~ } The genuinenea and execution of cer-
tain imtrumeota admitted unle.. de- 
33. nied on oath.
34. All fiction• aboliahed.
35. How a judgment may be pleaded.
36, How conditio111 precedent ~ay be 
pleaded.
37. How a private ltatute may be pleaded. 
38. How libel and •lander may be ltate.-1 in
the complaint. 
39. An1wer in such CD.189, 
40. l When aeveral e&WlfJS of action may ~
41. S united in the samo complaint. 
42. When a.llegation1 not denied, to be
deemed true. 
43. Qualifica.tion and ozception to the rule
in cue of defendant.s comtructiYely
eummened, 
44. What need not be ,tated in a pleadin&
45. If original pleading or paper be Jost, 
copy may be subetituted. 
IIIBTilEB IN PLJUWXQ ilD .UlUDDlff8. 
46. ~ How material and immaterial vari·
47. 5 ance1 are provided for.
48. What shall be deemed a failure of proof. 
49. Amendment.s of course.
50. Pleadingoveraf\erdeciaion on demurrer.
51. What amendment.s may be allowed by 
the court.
52. The court may extend the time allowed 
for pleading 
and relieve again1t m~
takes • 
I 
53. How an unknown defendant may be
designated. 
54, Error or defect not affecting sabet&ntial
rights shall be disregarded. 
55. Supplemental pleadinp allowed.
56. When postponement or continU&DCN 
may be allowed, 
SEC. 1. A·n the distinct forms of pleading heretofore existing
inconsistent with the provisions of this Code, are abolished; and here­ 
after the forms of pleading in civil actions· in courts of record, and
the rules by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be determined,
shall be those· prescribed by this Code. 
SEC. 2. The only pleadings on the partof the plaintiff shall be:
1. The complaint; 
2. The demurrer ; or,
3. The reply. 
SEC. 3. The only pleadings on the part of the defendant shall be :
1. The demurrer ; or,
2. The answer.
SEc. 4. The complaint shall contain : 
1. The title of the cause; specifying the name of the court and the
names of parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant ; 
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action, without unnecessary repetition ; 
3. A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims. If the re­
covery of money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall
be stated. 
SEC. 5. The defendant may demur to the complaint only when it
appears upon the face thereof, eitber- 
1. That the court bas no jurisdiction of the person of the defend­
ant, or the subject of the action; or, 
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue; or,
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties 
for the same cause ; or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant ; or, 
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united; or,
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a 
cause of action.
SEC. 6. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the grounds of objec­ 
tion to the complaint ; unless it do so, it may be disregarded. 
SEC. 7. The defendant may demur to the whole complaint, or to 
one or more of several causes of action stated therein, and answer the
residue. 
SEC. 8. If the complaint be amended, the amendments shall be filed
and a copy served upon the defendant, or his attorn~y, if. he has 
appeared by attorney; the defendant shall answer the same within
such time as may be prescribed by the court; and if he omit to do so,
the plaintiff may proceed to obtain judgment, as in other cases of
failure to answer. 
SEC. 9. When any of the matters enumerated in section five of this chapter do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection 
may be taken by answer.
SEC. 10. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, 
the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting
only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and the objection
that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. 
SEC. 11. The answer of' the defendant shall contain-
1. In respect to each allegation of the complaint controverted by 
the defendant, a general or specific denial thereof, or a denial thereof
according to his information and belief, or of any knowledge thereof
sufficient to form a belief; 
2. A plain and concise statement of any new matter constituting a
defence, counter-claim or set-off, without unnecessary repetition. 
SEC. 12. The defendant may set forth in his answer as many grounds
of defence, counter-claim, or set-off, as he may have, whether they be
such as aave been heretofore denominated legal or equitable, or both. 
They shall be stated separately and refer to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer, in any manner by which they may be 
intelligibly distinguished. 
SEC. 13. The counter-claim mentioned in the last preceding section
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against a plaintiff
between whom a several judgment might be had in the action, and
arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the complaint
as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected with the sub­
ject of the action. 
SEC. 14. If any defendant personally served with notice omit to
set up a counter-claim arising out of the contract or transaction set
forth in the complaint as the ground of the plaintiff's claim, he shall
not afterwards maintain an action therefor. If the defendant omit to
set up the set-off, he shall not recover costs against the plaintiff in 
any subsequent action thereon.
SEC. 15. When cross-demands have existed between persons under 
such circumstances that if one had brought an action against the
other, a counter-claim or set-off could have been set up, neither can
be deprived of the benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the 
other, but the two demands must be deemed compensated so far as
they equal each other. 
SEC. 16. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action founded on con­
tract, and must be a cause of action arising upon contract or ascer­
tained by the decision of the court, held by the defendant at the time 
suit was commenced, and matured at or before the time it is offered
as a set off . 
SEC. 17. Where it is necessary for the defendant to bring a new
party before the court, he may state the matter relating thereto in
his answer, and demand relief; and thereupon a summons shall issue, 
and other proceedings be had against him, as if such matter had been
exhibited in the original complaint. 
SEC. 18. Several defendants may answer, jointly or severally, as
the facts set forth in the complaint may require. 
SEC. 19. When the facts stated in the answer are not sufficient to
constitute a cause of defence, the plaintiff may demur to one or more
of several defences, under the same rules and regulations as are 
hereinbefore prescribed for demurring to the complaint. Unless the
objection be taken by demurrer it shall be deemed as waived. 
SEC. 20. It shall be the duty of the guardian of an infant, or com­
mittee of a person of unsound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, 
to file an answer denying the material allegations of the complaint
prejudicial to such defendant, without oath. 
SEC. 21. All defences, except the mere denial of the facts alleged
by the plaintiff, shall be plee.ded specially. 
SEC. 22. There shall be no reply, except upon the allegation of a
counter-claim or set-off, in the answer. 
SEC. 23. When the answer contains new matter constituting a
counter-claim or set-off, the plaintiff may reply to such new matter,
denying, generally or specifically, each allegation controverted by 
him ; and he may allege, in ordinary and concise language, and
without repetition, any new matter, not inconsistent with the com­ 
plaint, constituting a defence to such new matter in the answer ; or 
he may demur ·to the same for insufficiency, stating in his demurrer
the grounds thereof; and he may demur to one or more of such 
defences set up in the answer, and reply to the residue. 
SEc. 24. The answer or demurrer by the defendant shall be filed
on or before the fourth Saturday, and the reply or demurrer by the
plaintiff on or before the seventh Saturday, after the return day of the 
summons or service by publication.
SEC. 25. If from any cause either party shall fai] to plead or make 
up the issues within the time prescribed by law and the rules of the
court, the court shall forthwith enter judgment as .upon a default, 
unless, for good reasons shown, further time be given for pleading,
on the payment of costs occasioned by the delay. 
SEc. 26. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the party or his
attorney, and when any pleading is verified every subsequent plead­ 
ing, except a demurrer, must be verified also, except as is provided
in the next two succeeding sections. · 
SEC. 27. The verification must be to the effect that the same is true
to the knowledge of the person making it, except as to those matters 
stated on information and belief, and as to those matters that he
believes them to be true, and must be by affidavit of the party, or if
there be several parties united in interest and pleading together, by 
one at least of such parties acquainted with the facts, if such party
be within this District and capable of making the affidavit. The 
affidavit may also be made by the agent or attorney, if the .action or
defence be founded upon a written instrument for the payment of
money only, and such instrument be in the possession of the agent
or attorney, or if all the material allegations of the pleading be with.in 
the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the plead­
ing is verified by any other person than the party, he sho.11 set forth 
in the affidavit his knowledge or the grounds of his belief on the sub­
ject, and the reasons why it is not made by the party. When a cor­
poration is a party the verification may be made by any officer thereof; 
and when the United States, or any officer thereof in its behalf, is a
party, the verification may be made by any person acquainted with 
the facts. The verification may be omitted when an admission of the
truth of the allegation might subject the party to prosecution for 
felony. And no pleading can be used in a criminal prosecution
against the party as proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such
pleading. 
SEC. 28. Verification of a pleading shall not make other or greater
proof necessary on the side of the adverse party, except where other­ 
wise expressly provided. The verification shall not be required to
the answer of a guardian defending for an infant, or insane person, 
or person imprisoned. In all cases where the party plea.ding is a
non-resident of this District, or if he shall be absent from this District,
an affidavit, made before filing the pleading, stating the substance of
the facts afterwards inserted in the pleading, shall be a sufficient
verification; and such affidavit shall be filed with the pleading 
intended to be verified thereby. 
SEc. 29. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in the
pleading the items of an account therein alleged; he shall deliver to 
the adverse party, within ten days after a demand thereof in writing,
a copy of the account, which, if the pleading is verified, must be 
verified by his. own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within
the personal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the effect that 
he believes it to be true, or be precluded from giving evidence
thereof. The court may order a further account when the one given
is defective; and the court may in all cases order a bill of partioulars
of the claim of either party to be furnished. 
SEc. 30. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed,
with a view of substantial justice between the parties. 
SEC. 31. If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading,
it may be stricken out on motion of any person aggrieved thereby. 
And when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite and uncer­
tain that the precise nature of the charge or defence is not apparent,
the court may require the pleading to be made definite and certain by 
amendment.
SEC. 32. When an action is brought upon a written instrument, 
and the complaint contains a copy of such instrument, or the original
or a copy annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execution of 
such instrument shnll be deemed admitted, unless the answer denying
& he same be verified. 
SEC. 33. When the defence to an action is founded upon a written 
instrument, and a copy thereof ie contained in the answer, or the
original or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due execu­
tion of such instrument shall be deemed admitted, unless the plaintiff 
file with the clerk, five days previous to the commencement of the
term at which the action is to be tried, an affidavit denying the same. 
SEc. 34. All fictions in pleading are abolish ed. 
SEC. 35. In pleading a judgment or decision of a court or officer of
special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts conferring 
jurisdiction ; but such judgment or determination shall be stated to 
have been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial the facts 
conferring jurisdiction. 
SEC. 36. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a
contract, it shall not be necessary to state the facts showing such
performance ; but it may be stated generally that the party duly 
performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be
controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on the
trial the facts showing such performance. 
SEc. 37. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom,
it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute by its title and the day of
its passage or approval, and the court shall thereupon take judicial
notice thereof. 
SEC. 38. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be necessary
to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the purpose of show­ 
ing the application to the plaintiff of the defamatory matter out of
which the cause of action arose ; but it shall be sufficient to state
generally that the same wa.s published or spoken concerning the
plaintiff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff' shall 
be bound to establish on the trial that it was so published or spoken. 
SEC. 39. In the actions mentioned in the last section, the defendant
may, in his answer, allege both the truth of the matter charged as
defamatory, and any mitigating circumstances, to reduce the amount 
of damages ; and whether he prove the justification or not, he may
give in evidence the mitigating circumstances. 
SEC. 40. The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint several
causes of action, whether they be such as have been heretofore denomi­ 
nated legal or equitable, or both, ~hen they are included in either
one of the following classes : 
. 1. The same transaction, or transactions connected with the same
subject of action. 
2. Contracts, expressed or implied.
8. Injuries, with or without force, to person and property, or 
either. 
4. Injuries to character.
5. Claims to recover the possession of personal property, with or 
without damages for the withholding thereof. 
6. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof, or for waste, aud the rents and profits of the
same. 
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by operation
of law. 
The causes of action so united must affect all the parties to the
action, and not require different places of trial, and must be sepa­ 
rately stated. 
SEC. 41. When the action arises out of contract, the plaintiff may
join such other matters in his complaint as may be necessary for a 
complete remedy and a speedy satisfaction of his judgment, although
such other matters fall within some other one or more of the foregoing
classes. When several causes of action are united belonging to any
of the foregoing classes, the court may order separate trials for the
furtherance of justice. 
SEC. 42. Every material allegation of the complaint not contro­
verted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter 
in the answer constituting a counter-claim or set-off, not controverted
by the reply, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true;
but the allegation of new matter in the answer not relating to a 
counter-claim or set-off, or of new matter in the reply, shall be
deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct
denial or avoidance, as the case may require. AUegations of value,
or of amount of damage, shall not be considered as true by failure to 
contradict them. 
SEC. 43. The allegations of a complaint against the defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, except such as 
are for his benefit, shall not be taken as true, but shall be established
by proof. If, however, the plaintiff in an action against a defendant
constructively summoned, and who has not appeared, files with the 
complaint his own affidavit, stating that any. of the allegations
thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and known to be so by the
defendant, and that they cannot be proved or shown except by his
answer, so far as the plaintiff' knows or believes, such allegations, 
unless denied by the answer, shall be taken as true. 
SEc. 44. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which judicial
notice is taken, need be stated in a pleading. 
SEC. 45. If an original pleading or paper be lost, or withheld by
any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be substituted. 
SEC. 46. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the
proof is to be deemed material, unless it have actually misled the
adverse party to hie prejudice, in maintaining his action or defence 
upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so
misled, that fact must be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and 
it must also· be shown in what respect be has been misled; and there­
upon the court may order the pleading to be amended upon such
terms as may be just. 
SEC. 47. When the variance is not material as provided in the last
preceding section, the court may direct the fact to be found according 
to the evidence, and may order an immediate amendment without
costs. 
SEC. 48. When, however, the allegation of the cause of action or
defence to which the proof is directed is unproved, not in some par­ 
ticular or particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it
shall not be deemed a case of variance within the ]a.st two sections, 
but a failure of proof. 
SEc. 49. Any pleading may be once amended by the party, of course,
without costs and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, 
at any time before the period of answering it shall expire; in such
case a copy of the amended pleading shall be served on the adverse 
party, and he shall have the same time to answer, reply, or demur
thereto as to the original pleading. At any time within ten days 
after a demurrer is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on
payment of costs since the defective pleading ; and in such case a copy 
of the amended pleading shall be forthwith served on the adverse
party, who shall have the same time thereafter to answer or reply 
thereto u to an original pleading. 
SEC. 50. After the decision upon a demurrer, if it be overruled,
and it appears that such demurrer was interposed in good faith, the
court may, in its discretion, allow the party to plead over upon such
terms as may be proper. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause
mentioned in _the fifth subdivision of section five of this chapter, the
court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as may be just, 
order tho action to be divided into as many actions as may be 
necessary to the proper determination of the causes of action therein
mentioned. 
SEC. 51. The court may, before or after judgment, in furtherance
of justice, and on such terms 88 may be proper, amend any pleading,
process, or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any 
party, or by correcting a. mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect, or when the amendment does not change 
substantially the claim or defence by conforming the pleading or
proceeding to the facts proved. . 
SEc. 52. The court may likewise, in its discretion, and upon such
terms 88 may be just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other 
act to be done, after the time limited by this chapter, or by an order
enlarge such time ; and may also, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as may be just, at any time within one year after notice thereof, 
relieve a party or his legal representatives from a judgment, order,
or other proceeding, taken against him through his mistake, inad­
vertence, surprise, or excusable neglect ; and may supply an omission
in any proceeding. 
SEc. 53. Whenever the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of
a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when hie true name shall be discovered,
the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly. 
SEC. 54. The court shall, in every stage of an action, disregard
any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings which shall not
affect the substantial rights of the adverse party ; and no judgment
shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error or defect. 
Sxc. 55. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively, may be allowed,
on motion, to make a supplemental complaint, answer, or reply, 
alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former com­
plaint, answer, or reply. 
SEC. 56. When any party shall amend any pleading or proceeding, 
and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or otherwise, that the
adverse party could not be ready for trial in consequence thereof, a 
postponement may be granted to some day in term, or a continuance
to another term of the court. 
SECTION
2 When and how penonal property may 
3 be cla.imed.
I. 
5. Proceedings by the marshal. 
SEC. 1. The plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of
personal property, may, at the time of issuing the summons, or e.t 
any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of such property
as provided in this chapter. 
SEC. 2. Where a delivery is claimed, an affidavit must be made by
the plaintiff, or by some one in his behalf, showing: 
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (particu,
larly describing it) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof
by virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which
shall be set forth. 
2. That t~e property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. That tho same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, 
pursuant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment
against the property of the plaintiff, or, if so seized, that it is by
statute exempt from such seizure ; and 
4. The actual value of the property.
SEc. 3. When such affidavit is filed with the clerk, he shall issue 
an order for the seizure of the property, and delivery thereof to the
plaintiff upon his executing the undertaking specified in section five 
of this chapter. 
CHAPTER 83. 
CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
SBC'l'IOlf 
6. Buildings and encJ09uret1 may be broken
open after demand. 
1. Attendance of defendant may be com­
pelJed for t,J:amination on oath u to 
11ituation of property. 
SEC. 4. The order shall be directed and delivered to the marshal.
It shall state the names of the parties to the action, and the court in
which the action is brought, and direct the marshal to take the 
property, describing it, and stating its value, as in the affidavit, and
deliver it to the plaintiff upon his executing the undertaking specified
in section five of this chapter. 
SEC. 5. The marshal shall forthwith proceed to execute said order,
but before taking possession of such property, be shall take from the
plaintiff, or some person in his behalf, a written undertaking, payable 
to the defendant, with sufficient surety to be approved by the marshal,
to the effect that the plaintiff will prosecute his action with effect and
without delay, and that he will return the property to the defendant
if return thereof be adjudged by the court, and that he will pay to
the defendant all such sums of money as may be recovered against
him by the defendant in the action for any cause whatever ; which
written undertaking shall be delivered to the marshal, and in default
thereof the property shall remain with the defendant, but the action
shall not be dismissed or delayed thereby. The return day of the
order, when issued at commencement of the action, shall be the same
as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty 
days after it is issued. 
SEC. 6. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the marshal shall demand its delivery; if it
shall not be delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to be 
broken open, and take the property in hie possession ; and if neces­
sary he may call to his aid the power of the county. If the marshal
cannot find the property, or any part thereof, the action shall not 
abate, but be prosecuted to final judgment. 
SEC. 7. When it appears by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or other
person in his behalf, or by the return of the officer, that the property
claimed has been disposed of or concealed, so that the order cannot
be executed, the court may compel the attendance of the defendant, 
examine him on oath as to the situation of the property, and punish
a wilful obstruction or hindrance of the execution of the order, and a
disobedience of the orders of the court in this respect, as in cases of 
a contempt. 
SECTION
I. Injunction may be gnnted by the court, j 5. Bond to be given.
or judge in vacation. · 6. Parties may be heard before injunction, 
2. In what call8S an injunction may be if deemed proper.
granted. 7. ! 
3. At what time an injunction may be 8. Proceedings for dissolution of injunc-
granted. 
4. Injunction af\er answer not allowed, I 
except upon notice. 
CHAPTER 84. 
OF INJUNCTIONS. 
SEC. 1. The writ of order or injunction requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act may be granted by the circuit court, or
by a judge thereof in vacation, and when made by a judge may be 
enforced as the order of the court. 
9.
tion. 
SEC. 2. An injunction may be granted in the following cases:
1. When it shall appear by the complaint that the plaintiff is 
entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or any part thereof,
consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act com­
plained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. 
2. When it shall appear by the complaint or affidavit that the
commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would 
produce great or irreparable injury to the plaintiff.
3. When it shall appear during the litigation that the defendant 
is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering
to be done, some act in violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting
the subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment 
ineffectual.
4. In any case where it is specially authorized by statute. 
SEC. 3. The injunction may be granted at the time of issuing the
summons upon the complaint, and at any time afterwards, before 
judgment, upon affidavits. The complaint in the one case, and the
affidavits in the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds
exist therefor. No injunction shall be granted on the complaint 
unless it be verified by the oath of the plaintiff, or some one in his
behalf, that the person making the oath has read the complaint, or
heard the complaint read, and knows the contents thereof, and the
same is true of his own knowledge, except the matters therein stated 
on information and belief, and that as to those matters he believes it 
to be true. When granted on the complaint, a copy of the complaint
and verification attached shall be served with the injunction ; when 
granted upon affidavit, a copy of the affidavit shall be served with the
injunction. 
SEC. 4. An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant has
answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause ; but
in such case the defendant may be restrained until the decision of the 
court or judge granting or refusing the injunction.
SEC. 5. On granting an injunction the court or judge shall require, 
except where the United States are a party plaintiff, a written under­
taking on the part of the plaintiff, with sufficient sureties, to the effect 
that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, as such party may sustain by 
reason of the injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the
plaintiff was not entitled thereto. 
SEC. 6. If the court or judge deem it proper that the defendant, or
any of several defendants, should be heard before granting the injunc­
tion, an order may be made requiring cause to be shown, at a specified
time and place, why the injunction should not be granted, and the
defendant may in the meantime be restrained. 
SEc. 7. A party enjoined may, at any time before judgment, upon
reasonable notice to the party who has obtained the injunction, move
the court for additional security; and if it appear that the surety in 
the undertaking has removed from this District, or is insufficient, the
court may dissolve the injunction, unless in a reasonable time suffi­
cient security is given. 
SEC. 8. If an injunction be granted without notice, the defendant,
at any time before the trial, may apply, upon reasonable notice, to
the judge who granted the injunction, or to the court, to dissolve or
modify the same. The application may be made upon the complaint
and the affidavit on which the injunction was granted, or upon affi­ 
davit on the part of the defendant, with or without answer. If the
application be made upon affidavits on the part of the defendant, but
not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other
evidence in addition to that on which the injunction was granted. 
SEC. 9. If upon such application it satisfactorily appear that. there
is not sufficient ground for the injunction, it shall be diasolved, or if 
it satisfactorily appear that the extent of the injunction is too great, it 
shall be moained, 
SECTION
J. l When and in what cue, an attach-
2. S ment may be i..u":d. 
,. Bond to be required of plaintiff:
4. What an attachment ehall require t.he 
manha] to do.
5. The return day of the writ. 
6. What may be taken on an attachment.
7. In what manner the writ ,hall be exe­ 
cuted.
8. How the writ shall be returned.
9. If real estate be attached, the return 
ahaJJ be filed with the recorder.
10. Garni.ehee liable to plaintiff for amount 
in his hands.
11. Officer of corporation, &.c., aha]] furnish 
certificate to the marahal.
12. The marshal may sell periahable prop­ 
erty.
13. The marshal may redeliver property 
upon bond being given.
14. Manihal may summon a jury to try 
validity of a claim by a third person to
personal property. 
15. A garnishee may be required in certain
cases to attend and be examined on 
oath. 
CHAPTER 85. 
OF A 'IT ACBMENT. 
SsorroN
16. Written allegations and interrogatories 
may be exhibited.
17. Gamlehee 1hall answer on oath. 
18. When judgment may be rendered against
garniahee upon default. 
19. Anawer of garni11hee may be excepted
to for insufficiency. 
20. Plaintiff may deny answer. 
21. When judgment may be given agaimt
prnishee. 
22. How garnishee may discharge himself. 
23. Rule as to debt. not due.
24. How coeta 1hall be adjudged. 
25. Plaintiff and defendant may be required
to attend and anawer. 
ss, } How judgment aha]] be satisfied.
27. 
28. If defendant recover judgment, bend and
property to be returned to him. 
29. l After appearance, attachment may be
30. 5 discharged on bond being given. 
31. Attachment may be discharged if im­
properly i•ued. 
32. The marshal shall return hi• proceedings
upon attachment. 
33•
} Attachment where debt is not due. 
34.
SEC. 1. In an action for the recovery of money, the plaintiff, at 
the time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may
have the property of the defendant attached, in the cases and in the 
manner hereinafter prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of 
such judgment as he may recover. 
SEC. 2. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk whenever
the plaintiff, or some other person in his behalf, shall make affidavit
that a cause of action exists against such defendant, specifying the
amount of such claim over and above all legal set-offs, and the nature
thereof, and that, as the affiant verily believes, the defendant is
either- 
1. A foreign corporation; or,
2. That he is not a resident of this District, or has departed there­ 
from with the intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a summons ; or: 
3. That he so conceals himself that a smnmons cannot be served
upon him; or, 
4. That he has assigned, secreted, removed, or disposed of, or is
about to assign, secrete, remove, or dispose of, his property not exempt 
from execution, or a part thereof, with the intent to defraud his
creditors ; or, 
5. That the debt was fraudulently contracted.
The affidavit required by this section shall be attached to the writ 
upon issuing the same. But no attachment shall issue on the ground
that the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of this 
District, except for a debt or demand arising upon contract, judgment,
or decree, or upon an injury to person or property committed within 
this District.
SEC. 3. Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall require a written 
undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, in a sum not less than two
hundred dollars, and not exceeding the amount claimed by the
plaintiff when the same is more than two hundred dollars, with 
sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment
the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant,
and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, 
not.exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking.
SEC. 4. The writ shall be directed to the marshal, and require him 
to attach and safely keep all the property of the defendant within this
District not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be
sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount of which shall
be stated in conformity with the complaint, together with costs and 
expenses.
SEC. 5. The return day of the attachment, when issued at the com­ 
mencement of the action, shall be the same as that of the summons;
when issued afterwards, it shall be twenty days after it is issued. 
SEC. 6. The rights or shares which the defendant may have in the
stock of any corporation or company, together with the interest or
profits thereon, all debts due such defendant, and all other property,
real or personal, in this District, of such defendant, not exempt from
execution, may be attached, and, if judgment be recovered against 
him, be sold or collected to satisfy the judgment and execution.
SEC. 1. The marshal to whom the writ is directed and delivered 
shall execute the same without delay, as follows : 
1. Real property shall be attached by leaving with the occupant
thereof, or, if there be no occupant, in a conspicuousplace thereon, a
copy of the writ and affidavit, certified by the marshal. 
2. Personal property capable of manual delivery to the mashal
shall be attached by taking it into custody. 
3. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares of any corpora­
tion or company, shall be attached by leaving with the president or 
other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof, a copy of the writ and affidavit, and a notice that the stock 
or interest of the defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ.
4. Debts and credits, and other personal property not capable of 
manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person
owing such debts, or having in his possession or under his control
such credits or other personal property, a copy of the writ and affi­
davit, and a notice that the debts owing by him to the defendant,
or the credits and other personal property in his possession or under 
his control belonging to the defendant, are attached in pursuance of
such writ. 
SEC. 8. The marshal shall note on the writ of attachment the day,
month, and year when the attachment was made, and shall make a 
full inventory of the property attached, and return the same with the
writ. 
SEC. 9. If real estate be attached by virtue of any writ of attach­
ment, the marshal shall make a certified copy of said writ and of his 
return thereon, and deliver it within three days from the time of
making such attachment to the recorder, who shall file and record 
the same in a book to be kept for that purpose in the recorder's office.
When so filed within three days, the same shall be and continue a
lien from the time of making the attachment, otherwise it shall be
and continue a lien from)he time it is filed, on the real estate men­ 
tioned or described in the return of the marshal, until the same shall
be discharged. When the said lien shall be discharged by order of
the court, or by satisfaction of the judgment rendered in the suit, it
shall be the duty of the recorder, when requested, to record the satis­
faction piece, or transcript of the record of such order, in the book
kept for recording such liens; and he shall enter on the margin of
the page or pages where the said writ and return are so recorded, a 
minute of such discharge or satisfaction. 
SEC. 10. All persons having in their possession or under their con­
trol any credits or other personal property belonging to the defend­ 
ant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon
them of a copy of the writ, affidavit, and notice, as provided in section 
seven of this chapter, shall, unless such property be delivered up or
transferred, or such debts be paid to the marshal, be liable to the 
plaintiff for the amount of such credits, property, or debts, until the
attachment be discharged, or any judgment recovered by him be satis­
fied; but where property is attached in the hands of a consignee,
his lien thereon shall not be affected by the attachment. 
SEC. 11. When the marshal, with a writ of attachment against the
defendant, shall apply to any person mentioned in the third and 
fourth subdivisions of section seven of this chapter, for the purpose of
attaching the property mentioned therein, such person shall furnish 
him with a certificate designating the number of shares of the de­
fendant in the stock of the corporation or company, with any dividend
or encumbrance thereon, or the amount and description of the pro­
perty or credits held by such corporation, company, or person for the
defendant, or the debt owing to the defendant. If such person refuse 
to do so, or if his certificate or statement be unsatisfactory to the
plaintiff, he may be required, by an order of the court, or of any judge 
thereof, to attend before the court or judge, and be examined on oath
concerning the same, as hereinafter prescribed in this chapter; and 
disobedience to the order may be punished as a contempt. 
SEC. 12. If any of the property attached be perishable, the marshal
shall sell the same in the manner in which such property is sold on 
execution. The proceeds thereof, and other property attached, shall
be retained by him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in 
the action, unless it be delivered over as prescribed in the next sec­
tion, or unless sooner subjected to execution upon another judgment
recovered previous to the issuing of the writ of attachment. Debts
and credits attached may be collected by the marshal, if the same can
be done without suit. The marshal's receipt shall be a sufficient 
discharge for the amount paid. 
SEC. 13. The marshal may deliver any of the property attached, to 
the defendant, or to any other person claiming it, and in whose pos­
session it was attached, upon his giving a written undertaking there­
for, executed by two or more sufficient sureties, engaging to redeliver 
it, or pay the value thereof, to be ascertained by appraisement, to any
marshal to whom execution upon a judgment obtained by the plaintiff 
in that action may be issued. If an action be brought upon such
undertaking against the principal or his sureties, it shall be a defence
that the property for which the undertaking was given did not, at the 
execution of the writ of attachment, belong to the defendant against
whom it was issued. 
SEc. 14. If any personal property attached be claimed by a third
person as his property, the marshal may summon a jury to try the 
validity of such claim, and the same proceedings shall be had thereon,
with the like effect, as in case of seizure upon execution. 
SEC. 15. Whenever the marshal, with a writ of attachment against
the defendant, shall apply to any person mentioned in section seven 
of this chapter, for the purpose of attaching the personal property
therein mentioned, and such person shall deny that he has any per­ 
sonal property of the defendant, or shall refuse to give the certificate
required in section eleven of this chapter, or if such certificate be 
unsatisfactory to the plaintiff, he may be required, by an order of the
court, or of any judge thereof, to attend before such court or judge 
at a time therein stated, not less than ten days thereafter, and be
examined on oath concerning the same. 
SEc. 16. At any time after the allowance of such order, and before
such person shall be required to attend, the plaintiff may exhibit 
written allegations and interrogatories touching the property, stock, 
or credits of the defendant, in the possession of, or held by such person 
as garnishee, or debts owing to the defendant by him; and such gar­
nishee shall be required to make full, direct, and true answers to the
same on oath. 
SEC. 11. On the day when the garnishee, duly summoned, shall be
required to attend before the court or judge, he shall exhibit on oath
his answers to the allegations and interrogatories of the plaintiff, un­
less for good cause shown a further time shall be allowed; in default
of such answer, such matters may be taken for confessed, or the court
or judge may, upon motion, compel him to answer by attachment of 
his body. 
SEC. 18. No final judgment, however, shall be rendered against the
garnishee, until the action against the defendant in attachment is
determined; and in no case for a greater amount than that sworn to 
by the plaintiff, with interest and costs. 
SEC. 19. The plaintiff may except to the answer of any garnishee
for insufficiency, and if the same shall be adjudged insufficient, the
court or judge may allow the garnishee to a.mend his answer, in such
time and on such terms as may be just, or the plaintiff may take as
confessed the allegations not denied by such answer, or move the
court or judge to attach the body of the garnishee to compel a sufficient
answer. 
SEC. 20. The plaintiff may deny the answer of the garnishee in
whole or in part, and the issues shall be tried as ordinary issues 
between plaintiff and defendant. If the answer be not excepted to,
or denied in such time as the court or judge may deem proper, it shall
be taken to be true and sufficient. 
SEC. 21. If by the answer not excepted to, nor denied, or if upon
trial it shall appear that the garnishee is possessed of property or
effects of the defendant, or is indebted to the defendant, the value of
such property or effects or of the debt being ascertained, judgment 
may be rendered against the garnishee for the proper amount in
money, and in such case the court may make him a reasonable allow­
ance for his trouble in answering, to be paid out of the funds confessed
in his hands. 
SEC. 22. Whenever any property, effects, money, or debts belonging
or owing to the defendant shall be confessed or found by the court, 
judge, or jury to be in the possession of the garnishee, he may at any
time before final judgment discharge himself dy delivering the same
to the marshal. 
SEC. 23. Debts not yet due to the defendant may be attached, but
no execution shall be awarded against the garnishee for such debts
until they shall become due. 
SEc. 24. In all cases of controversy between the plaintiff and gar­
nishee, the parties may be adjudged to pay or recover costs in the
discretion of the court. 
SEC. 25. The defendant or claimant may be required to attend before
the court, judge, or jury, for the purpose of giving any necessary or
proper information respecting the property attached, and may be
thereupon examined on oath concerning the same. 
SEc. 26. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff against the
defendant in such action, the marshal shall satisfy the same out of
the property attached by him, if it be sufficient for that purpose : 
1. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales of perishable
property sold by him, or of any debts or credits collected by him, or
so much as shall be necessary to satisfy the judgment. 
2. If any balance remain due, and an execution shall have been
issued on the judgment, he shall sell under the execution so much
of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the
balance, if enough for that purpose remain in his hands ; and in case
of the sale of any rights or shares in the stock of a corporation or
company, the marshal shall execute to the purchaser a certificate of
the sale, and the purchaser shall thereupon have all the rights and
privileges in respect thereto which were had by the defendant.
Notices of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted. as in
other cases of sales on execution. 
SEC. 27. If after selling all the property attached by him remaining
in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the proceeds 
of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to the
payment of the judgment and costs, any balance shall remain due, the
marshal shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in
other cases. Whenever the judgment and all costs of the proceedings 
shall have been paid, the marshal, upon reasonable demand, shall
deliver over to the defendant the residue of the attached property
remaining in his hands, and any proceeds of the property attached
une.pplied on the judgment. 
SEC. 28. If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff,
any undertaking received in the action, all the proceeds of sales, and 
money collected by the marshal, and all property attached remaining
in the marshal's hands, shall be delivered to the defendant or his
agent, and the order of attachment discharged. 
SEC. 29. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared in the action,
lie may apply, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, to the court, or 
any judge thereof in vacation, for an order to discharge the attach­
ment upon the execution of the undertaking mentioned in the next
section; and if the application be granted, all the proceeds of sales
and moneys collected by the marshal, and all the property attached 
remaining in the marshal's hands, shall be released from the attach­
ment and delivered to the defendant. 
SEC. 30. Upon such application, the defendant shall deliver to the
court or judge, an undertaking, executed by at least two sureties ap- 
proved by the court or judge, to the effect that the sureties will, on
demand, pay to the plaintiff the amount of the judgment that may
be recovered against tho defendant in the action, not exceeding the
sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be sufficient to satisfy
the amount claimed by the plaintiff in his complaint, and the costs.
The sureties may be required to justify, on application to the court
or judge, and the property attached shall not be released from the 
attachment without their so justifying, if it be required.
SEC. 31. The defendant may also, at any time before the time for 
answering expires, apply, on motion, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintiff, to the court or judge, to discharge the attachment, on the
ground that the writ was improperly issued. If the motion be made
upon affidavit, on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the
plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in ad­
dition to those on which the writ of attachment was issued. If upon
such application it shall satisfactorily appear that such writ was
improperly issued, it shall be discharged. 
SEC. 32. When the writ of attachment shall be fully executed or
discharged, the marshal shall return the same, with his proceedings 
thereon.
SEC. 33. Where a debtor has departed from this District with intent 
to defraud his creditors, or has assigned, secreted, removed, or dis­
posed of, or is about to assign, secrete, remove, or dispose of, his
property not exempt from execution, with intent to defraud his credit­
ors, a creditor may bring an action on his claim before it is due, and 
have an attachment against the property of the debtor.
SEC. 34. The attachment authorized by the last section shall only 
be granted by the court or by the judge thereof; but before such action
shall be brought, or such attachment shall be granted, the plaintiff,
or some other person in his behalf, shall make an affidavit showing
the nature and amount of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just, when
the same will become due, and the existence of some one of the grounds
for attachment mentioned in the preceding section. The order of the
court or judge granting the attachment shall specify the amount for
which it is allowed, not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the
plaintiff's claim and the probable costs of the action. The attach­
ment shall not be issued by the clerk until the plaintiff has executed
the undertaking required by section three of this chapter. In such 
action the plaintiff shall not have judgment on hie claim before it
becomes due. The proceedings shall be as in other cases of attach­
ment, except as otherwise provided. 
SECTION
1. When a receiver may be appointed.
2. No party or attorney 1ha.ll be appointed 
a receiver.
3. Receiver to take an oa.th and give a bond. 
4. Upon an admiaion, tho court may order
a fund to be deposited in court or de· 
livered over. 
SEC. 1. A receiver may be appointed by the court :
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of 
property, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim,
or between partners or others jointly interested in any property or 
fund, on tbe application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right
to or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof, is prob­
able, and where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger
of being lost, removed, or materially injured. 
2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of the mortgage
and sale of the mortgaged property, where it appears that the mort­
gaged property is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially in­
jured, or that the condition of the mortgage has not been performed,
and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge the mort­ 
gage debt.
3. After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
4. After judgment, to dispose of the property according to the 
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or
when an execution has been returned unsatisfied and the judgment
debtor refuses to apply hie property in satisfaction of the judgment. 
5. In such other cases as may be provided by law; or when, in the
discretion of the court, it may be necessary to secure ample justice t.o 
the parties. 
CHAPTER 86. 
OF RECEIVERS AND DEPOSIT IN COURT. 
SEO'l'loN 
5. Dlsobedienee of such order ma 1 be
puniahed u for a contempt. 
6. Receiver may bring and defend actions.
7. When plaintiff''• claim is admitted, the 
court may order it to be atwied. 
SEC. 2. No party, or attorney, or person interested in any action,
shall be appointed receiver therein. 
SEC. 3. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn
to perform them faithfully, and, with one or more sureties to be ap­ 
proved by the court, shall execute an undertaking to such person, and
in such sum as the court shall direct, to the effect that he will faith­
fully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders
of the court therein. 
SEC. 4. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession or under his control any money or
other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litiga­
tion, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or
is due to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited
in court, or delivered to such party, with or without security, subject
to the further direction of the court. 
SEC. 5. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall
have ordered the deposit or delivery of money, or other thing, and the
order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience, as
for a contempt, may make an order requiring the marshal to take the
money, or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with the 
direction of the court.
SEC. 6. The receiver shall have power, under the control of the 
court, to bring and defend actions ; to take and keep possession of the
property; to receive rents; collect debts ; and generally to do such 
acts, respecting the property, as the court may authorize. He shall
be allowed such compensation for his services as the court may deem 
just and proper, to be taxed as the court may order. 
SEc. 7. Whenever the answer of the defendant admits part of the
plaintift' s claim to be just, the court, on motion, may order the de· 
fendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order
by execution or attachment. 
SECTION 
2. Of iMuee of Jaw and fact.
3. 
4·
} H >w i11ue1 shall be tried. 
5.
6. Action, to be entered in the order in 
which they were brought. 
SEC. 1. Issues arise upon the pleadings where a fa.ct or conclu­
sion oflaw is maintained by one party, and controverted by the other. 
They are of two kinds:
1. Of law; and,
2. Of fact. 
CHAPTER 87. 
OF ISSUES. 
S1CTION' 
7. How the trial docket 1baJJ be made up.
8· 
l When actions thaJJ be tried.
9. S 
10. Either party may bring an i•ue to trial. 
]1. Of motions to postpone trials on the
ground of absence of evidence. 
SEC. 2. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the complaint,
answer or reply, or to some part thereof. 
SEc. 3. An issue of fact arises:
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint, controverted by 
the answer; or,
2. Upon a counter-claim or set-off in the answer, controverted by 
the reply; or,
3. Upon new material matter in the answer or reply, which shall 
be considered as controverted by the opposite party, without further
pleading. 
SEc. 4. An issue of law shall be tried by the court, unless it be
referred by consent, as provided by statute. .An issue of fact in any 
action for the recovery of money, or of specific real or personal
property, shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a
reference be ordered, as provided by statute. 
SEC. 5. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the court, subject
to its power to order any issue or issues to be tried by a jury, in its
discretion, or upon the application of either party, or referred as
provided by statute. 
SEC. 6. The clerk shall enter upon the appearance docket all ac­
tions in the order in which they were brought, the date of the Rum­
mons, the time of the return thereof by the officer, and his return 
thereon, the time of filing the complaint, and all subsequent pleadings 
SEC. 7. The trial docket shall be made out by the clerk at least
twelve days before the first day of each term of the court; and the
actions shall be set for particular days in the order in which the issues 
were made up, whether of law or fact, and so arranged that the causes
set for each day shall be tried as nearly as may be on that day. For
the purpose of arranging said docket, an issue shall be considered as 
made up when either pe.rty is in default of a pleading.
SEC. 8. The trial in each action shall be in the order on which it 
stands upon the trial docket, unless the court, for cause shown, shall
otherwise direct. 
SEC. 9. Actions shall be triable at the first term of the court after
the issues therein are or should have been made up; and when by
the times fixed for pleading the issues are or should have been made
up either before or during a term of court, but after the period for
preparing the trial docket of such term, the clerk, if required by the
court, shall place such actions on the trial docket of that term. 
SEC. 10. Either party may bring the issue to trial; and in the
absence of the adverse party, unless the court for good cause other­ 
wise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the
action, or a verdict or judgment, as the case may require. 
SEc. 11. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground of the absence
of evidence shall only be made upon affidavit, showing the mate­
riality of the evidence expected to be obtained, and that due diligence 
has been used to procure it. The court may also require the moving
party to state upon affidavit the evidence which he expects to obtain, 
and if the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would
be given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered subject to all proper objections, the trial shall not. be 
postponed, 
SECTION
1. Jurors ; how chosen.
2. Challenges ; how made.
3. Challenges for cause ; for what taken.
4. Challenges for cause to be tried by the 
court.
5. Oath to the jurora, 
CHAPTER 88. 
TRIAL BY JURY. 
SEO'l'IOX 
6. Ballots ; when to be returned to the box.
7. The order of trial. 
8. Jury may have u. view if the court think
proper. 
9, Duties of officer having charge of jury. 
SsOTioK
10. Before submieeion the jury may be kept 
together or allowed to eeparate, in the
dwcretion of the court. 
11. Jury may return to court for informa­
tion. 
12. Proceedings when a jaror is 1ick.
13. Papen wbich a jury may take with 
them. 
S&CTIOS 
14. l Proceedings when jury returns with
15. S verdict.
16• 
} or verdicts, general and ,pecial.
17. 
18. Bpecial finding to control general verdict.
J 9. Jury ,ball al!IE'• the amount of money 
recovered.
20. Verdict in actions for recovery of per- 
10nal property. 
SEC. 1. In any civil action where the parties are entitled to a
trial by jury, and either party shall demand such trial, the clerk shall 
prepare separate ballots containing the names of the jurors sum­
moned, who have appeared and not been excused, and deposit them 
in a box. He shall then draw from the box names sufficient in num­
ber to constitute the jury. If the ballots become exhausted before the
jury is complete, the marshal shall summon, under the direction of
the court, from citizens of this District, and not from bystanders, so 
many qualified persons as may be necessary to complete the jury.
The jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the parties consent to 
a less number. The parties may consent to any number not less than
three, and such consent shall be entered by the clerk on the minutes
of the trial. The parties may agree upon the jurors to compose a
special jury, and notify the court thereof, and the court shall there­
upon direct the clerk to empannel such special jury, if it can be done 
without unreasonable delay of the cause.
SEC. 2. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are 
several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge before it
can be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall 
be peremptory, or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to three
peremptory challenges. 
SEC. 3. Challenges for cause may be taken on one or more of the
following grounds : 
1. A want of the q ualiflcations prescribed by statute to render a
person competent as a juror. 
2. Consanguinity or affinity within the third degree to either party.
3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, master and ser­ 
vant, employer and clerk, or principal and agent to either party, or
being a member of the family of either party, or being security on
any undertaking or obligation in the cause for either party. 
4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial
between the same parties for the same cause of action. 
5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or in
the main question involved in the action. 
6. Having ·formed or expressed an unqualified opinion or belief as
to the merits of the action. 
1. The existence of a state of mind in the juror evincing enmity
against either party. 
SEC. 4. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the court. The juror
challenged, and any other person, may be examined as a witness on
the trial of the challenge. 
SEC. 5. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or affirmation
shall be administered to the jurors, in substance, that they and each
of them will well and truly try the matter in issue between the 
plaintiff and defendant, and a true verdict give, according to the
evidence. 
SEC. 6. When the jury is completed and sworn, the ballots con­
taining the names of the jurors sworn shall be laid aside till the 
jury so sworn is discharged, and then they shall be returned to the
box ; and every ballot drawn containing the name of a juror not so
sworn shall be returned to the box as soon as the jury is completed. 
SEC. 7. When the jury bas been sworn, the trial shall proceed in
the following order, unless the court for special reasons otherwise 
direct : 
1. The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and may briefly state
the evidence by which he expects to sustain it. 
2. The defendant must then briefly state his defence, and may
briefly state the evidence he expects to offer in support of it. 
3. The party who would be defeated if no evidence were given on
either side, must first produce his evidence; the adverse party will 
then produce his evidence.
4. The parties shall then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless 
the court for good reasons in furtherance of justice permits them to 
offer evidence in their original case.
5. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request 
instructions to the jury oa points of law, which shall be given or
refused by the court; which instructions shall be reduced to wi:iting, 
if either party require it. 
6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury. In
the argument, the party required first to produce his evidence, shall 
have the opening and conclusion, but shall disclose in the opening all
the points relied on in the cause; and if in the closing he refer to any
new point or fact not disclosed in the opening, the adverse party shall
have the right of replying thereto, which reply shall close the argu­ 
ment in the case. 
SEC. 8. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is proper for the
jury to have a view of the property which is the subject of litigation, 
or of the place in which any material fact occurred, it may order them
to be conducted, in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the place,
which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by the court
for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent, no person other 
than the person so appointed shall speak to them on any subject
connected with the trial. 
SEC. 9. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may
decide in court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they shall 
be kept together in a room provided for them, or some other conve­
nient place, under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon a 
verdict, or are discharged by the court. The officer having them
under his charge shall not suffer any communication to be made to 
to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they have
agreed upon their verdict ; and he shall not, before their verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, 
or the verdict agreed upon. 
SEC. 10. The jurors may, in the discretion of the court, at any
time before the submission of the case to them, be permitted to 
separate, or may be kept together in charge of a proper officer; in
either case they may be admonished by the court that it is their duty 
not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by, any
other person, on any subject connected with the trial, and that it ia
their duty not to form or expruss an opinion thereon until the case is
finally submitted to them. 
SEC. 11. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be a
disagreement between them as to any part of the testimony, or if
they desire to be informed as to any part of the law arising in the 
case, they may request the officer to conduct them to the court, where
the information upon the point of law shall be given, and the court 
may give its recollection as to the testimony on the point in dispute,
in the presence of or after notice to the parties or their counsel. 
SEC. 12. If after the empa.nneling of the jury, and before a verdict,
a juror become sick, so as to be unable to perform his dnty, the court 
may order him to be discharged. In that case, unless the parties
agree to proceed with the other jurors, o. new juror may be sworn,
and the trial begin anew ; or the jury may be discharged and a new 
jury then or afterwards empanneled. The jury may be discharged by
the court on account of any other accident or calamity requiring their 
discharge, or by consent of both parties, or after they ho.ve been kept
together until it satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of 
their agreeing.
SEC. 13. Upon retiring for deliberation, .the jury may take with 
them the pleadings in the cause, and all papers (except depositions)
which have been received as evidence on the trial, or copies of such 
parts of public records or private documents given in evidence as
ought not, in the opinion of the court, to be taken from the person
having them in possession. They may also take with them notes of 
the testimony, or other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves,
or any of them, but none taken by any other person, except by con­ 
sent of the parties.
SEC. 14. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must 
be conducted into court by the officer having them in charge, their
names called by the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman.
When the verdict is announced, either party may require the jury to
be polled. If any juror dissent from the verdict, the jury shall be 
again sent out to deliberate. 
SEc. 15. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and
read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made, whether it is their
verdict. If any juror disagree, the jury must be sent out again; but
if no disagreement be expressed, the verdict is complete, and the jury
is discharged from the case. If, however, the verdict be defectiee in
form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury before they are
discharged, be corrected by the court. 
SEC. 16. The verdict of a jury is either general or special, A gen­
eral verdict is that by which they pronounce generally upon a.II or any. 
of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special
verdict is that by which the jury find the facts only, leaving the judg­ 
ment to the court. The special verdict shall present the conclusions
of fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and those conclusions of fa.ct shall be so presented as that 
nothing shall remain to the court but to draw from them conclusions
of law. 
SEC. 17. In all actions, the jury, unless otherwise directed by the
court, may, in their discretion, render a general or special verdict ; 
but the court shall, at the request of either party, direct them to find
a special verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues ; and in all
cases, when requested by either party, shall instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular questions
of fact, to be stated in writing. This special finding shall be recorded
with the verdict. 
SEC. 18. When the special :finding of facts is inconsistent with the
general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall
give judgment accordingly. 
SEC. 19. In actions for the recovery of money, the jury shall assess
the a.mount of the recovery. 
SEc. 20. In actions for the recovery of specific personal property,
the jury must assess the value of the property, as also the damages 
for the taking or detention, whenever, by their verdict, there will be
judgment for the recovery or return of the property. 
SECTION
TRIAL BY THE COURT. 
1, How trials by jury may be waived. 
CHAPTER 89. 
I SECTION 
I 2. How the finding shall be stated in the 
I trial of quest.ion of fact. by the court. 
SEC. 1. The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in actions
arising on contract; and with the assent of the court, in other actions,
in the following manner: 
1. By the consent of the party appearing, when the other party fails
to appear at the trial by himself or attorney. 
2. By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the
clerk. 
3. By oral consent in open court, entered on the record.
SEC. 2. Upon trials of questions of fact by the court, it shall not be 
necessary for the court to state its finding, except generally for the
plaintiff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it, with a view
of excepting to the decision of the court upon the questions of law
involved in the trial; in which case, the court shall state, in writing,
the conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law,
and judgment shall be entered accordingly. 
SECTION
J. 1-uee may be referred.
2 When the court may order a reference.
3. How trial by referees ,hall be conducted, 
4. How refereea shall be appointed. 
CHAPTER 90. 
TRIAL BY REFEREE9. 
S•ano• 
5. Refereee shall sign exception,.
6. Judge in vacation may make a reference.
7. Referees shall be swom. 
8. Compensation of refereee. 
SEC. 1. All or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or
law, or both, may be referred upon the written consent of the parties,
or upon their oral consent entered on the record. 
SEc. 2. When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the
application of either, or of its own motion, direct a reference in either 
of the following cases :
1. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination 
of a long account on either side, in which case the referees may be
directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any
specific question of fa.ct involved therein; or, 
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the in­
formation of the court, before judgment in cases which may be deter­
mined by the court, or for carrying a judgment into effect; or, 
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall
arise, upon motion or otherwise, in any stage of the uction. 
SEC. 3. The trial before referees shall be conducted in the same
manner as a trial by the court. They shall have the same power to 
summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, to administer all
necessary oaths in the trial of the case, and to grant adjournmenta as 
the court upon such trial. They shall state the facts found, and the
conclusions of law, separately, and their decisions shall be given, and 
may be excepted to and reviewed, in like manner. The report of the
referees upon the whole issue shall stand as the decision of the court, 
and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the
action had been tried by the court. When the reference is to report
the facts, the report shall have the effect of a special verdict. 
SEC. 4. In all cases of reference, the parties may agree upon a suit­
able person or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall
be ordered accordingly; and if the parties do not agree, the court 
shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, who shall be
free from exception. 
SEC. 5. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any true exeep­
tions taken to any order or decision by them made in the case, and
return the same with their report to the court. 
SEC. 6. A judge of the circuit court in vacation, upon the written
consent of the parties, may make any order of reference which the 
court could make in term time. In such case the order of reference
shall be made on the written agreement of the parties to refer, and 
shall be filed with the clerk with the other papers in the case.
SEc. 1. The referees shall be sworn or affirmed well and faithfully 
to hear and examine the cause, and to make a just and true report
therein e.ccording to the best of their understanding. The oath may
be administered by any one authorized to take depositions. 
SEC. 8. The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their
services as the court may deem just and proper, which shall be taxed
as a part of the costa in the case. 
SECTION
1. What aball be deemed an exception.
2. The time and manner of an exception.
3. The form of an exception. 
4. How an exception may be taken when
decision ia entered of record. 
SEC. 1. An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the 
court upon a matter of law. 

SEC. 2. The party objecting to the decision must except at the time
the decision is made; but time may be given to reduce the exception 
to writing, but not beyond the term, unless by special leave of the
court. It shall not be necessary to copy a written instrument or any
documentary evidence into a bill of exceptions, but it shall be suffi­
cient to refer such evidence, if its appropriate place be designated by
the words '' here insert." 
SEC. 3. No particular form of exception shall be required. The
objection shall be stated with so much of the evidence as is necessary
to explain it, and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible. 
SEC. 4. Where the decision objected to is entered on the record, and
the grounds of objection appear in the entry, the exception may be
taken by the party causing to be noted at the end of the decision that
he excepts. 
SEC. 5. Where the decision is not entered on the record, or the
grounds of objection do not sufficiently appear in the entry, the party
excepting must reduce his exception to writing, and present it to the
court for its allowance. If true, it shall be the duty of a majority of
the judges to allow and sign it, whereupon it shall be filed with the
pleadings as a part of the record. If the writing is not true the court
shall correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and it shall then 
be signed as aforesaid. 
SEC. 6. No exception shall be regarded unless it is material, and
affect the substantial rights of the party excepting. 
SEC. 7. Exceptions taken to the decision of the court may, by leave
of the court, be withdrawn from the files by the party taking the
same at any time before proceedings in error are commenced, and 
before the exceptions are recorded. 
SECTION
} • For what reasons a new trial may be
had. 
2. When 1D1allne88 of damagee not a cauae. 
3. When application for a new trial must 
be made. 
4. How application malt be made. 
CHAPTER 92. 
OF NEW TRIAL. 
S1ono• 
5. When and how application mast be
made when a diacovery is made after 
the term. 
6. When motion 1halJ be beard.
7, Proviliom to apply to triall by court 
well u jW7. 
SEC. 1. A new trial is a re-examination in the same court of an
issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of referees, or a decision
by the court. The former verdict, report, or decision shall be vacated,
and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved,
for any of the following causes affecting materially the substantial
rights of such party: 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, referee, or
prevailing party, or any order of court or referee, or abuse of discre­
tion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of the jury, or prevailing party.
3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have 
guarded against.
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the 
influence of passion or prejudice.
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too 
large or too small, when the action is upon a contract, or for the
injury or detention of property. 
6. That the verdict, report, or decision, is not sustained by the
evidence, or is contrary to law. 
7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial. 
8. Error of law, occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party
making the application. 
SEC. 2. A new trial shall not be granted on account of the small­
ness of damages in an action for an injury to the person or reputation,
nor in any other action, where the damages shall equal the actual 
pecuniary injury sustained.
SEC. 3. The application for a new trial must be made at the term 
the verdict, report, or decision is rendered, and except for the cause
of newly discovered evidence material for the party applying, which
he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced
at the trial, shall be within ten days after the verdict, report, or
decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented. 
SEC. 4. The application must be by motion, upon written grounds
filed at the time of making the motion. The causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three, and seven of section one of this chapter,
must be sustained by affidavif.8 showing their truth, and may be 
controverted. by affidavif.8, 
SEC. 5. Where the grounds for a new trial could not with reasonable
diligence have been discovered before, but are discovered after the 
term at which the verdict, report of referee, or decision was rendered
or made, the application may be made by complaint filed as in other 
cases, not later than the second term after the discovery; on which a
summons shall issue as on other complaints, requiring the adverse 
party to appear and answer. The application shall stand for hearing
at the term to which the summons is returned executed, and shall be
summarily decided by the court, upon the evidence produced by the
parties. But no such application shall be made more than one year
after the final judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 6. The motion for a new trial shall be heard so soon as the
parties shall have had a reasonable time to prepare therefor. 
SEC. 7. The provisions of this title respecting trials by jury apply,
so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court. 
SECTION
I. } For and against whom a judgment
2. may be rendered. 
3. When an action may be dismiseed with­
out prejudice to a future action. 
4. Defendant may proceed on set-off or
counter-claim, after diuni8Bal by plain­ 
tiff.
5. Sale ordered on f orecloaure of mortgage. 
6. Effect of a judgment for a conveyance,
release, or acquittance. 
7. J udgment upon failure to answer.
8. Judgment, with the auent of the creditor, 
may be confeuec!.
9. Statement or the debt to be filed, and 
copied in judgment.
10. Defendant must make affidavit.
11. Parties may submit a controveray.
12. Statement, aubmi•ion, and judgment 
form the record.
13. Judgment may be enforced u in other 
ca.ea.
14. Offer to confe11 judgment. 
CHAPTER 93. 
OF JUDGMENTS. 
S1ar1ox
15. How judgment shall be entered. 
16. Judgment to be in favor of the party 
entitled, notwithatanding the verdict. 
17. Judgment may be given for nceu of
counter-claim or aet-off. 
18. Judgment in an action for the recovery
of penonal property. 
19. Any damage& to which plaintiff ia enti­
tled may be recovered. 
20. What relief may be granted to plaintiff
with and without anawer. 
21. J udgmentl!I and orders to be entered on
the journal. 
22. What conBtitutN the record.
23. The clerk to make a copy of record, 
when required.
24. How aatiafaction of judpent shall be 
entered.
25. Judgment docket shall be a record.
26. Proceedlngs before rendering judgment 
againat a defendant conatructively sum­
moned and who hu not appeared. 
SEC. 1. Judgment may be given for or against one or more of
several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; 
it may determine the ultimate rights of the parties on either aide, u 
between themselves.
SEC. 2. In any action against several defendants, the court may, in 
its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving
the action to proceed against the others whenever a several judgment 
may be proper.
SEC. 3. A'xi action may be dismissed without prejudice to a future 
action:
1. By the plaintiff, before the final submission of the case to the 
jury or to the court, where the trial is by the court.
2. Dy the court, where the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial.
3. By the court, for the want of necessary parties.
4. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, where 
there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence.
5. By the court, for disobedience by the plaintiff of an order con­ 
cerning the proceedings in the action.
In all other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision shall 
be upon the merits.
SEC. 4. In any case where a set-off or counter-claim has been pre­ 
sented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial
of his claim, although the plaintiff may have dismissed his action or 
failed to appear. 
SEc. 5. In the foreclosure of a mortgage, a sale of the mortgaged 
property shall, in all cases, be ordered. 
SEC. 6. When a judgment shall be rendered for a conveyance,
release, or acquittance, and the party against whom judgment shall
be rendered does not comply therewith by the time appointed, such 
judgment shall have the same operation and effect, and be as available,
as if the conveyance, release, or acquittance had been executed con­
formably to such judgment. If the judgment be for a conveyance 
of real estate, the same shall be duly recorded in the office of the
recorder. This section shall apply to decrees rendered, or to be ren­
dered, in suits now pending.  
SEC. 7. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or the
assessment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to pronounce 
judgment upon a failure to answer, or after a decision of an issue of
law, the court may, with the assent of the party not in default, take
the account, hear the proof, or assess the damages ; or may, with the
like assent, refer the same to a referee or commissioner, or me.y direct 
the same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. 
SEC. 8. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause of action
exists, may personally appear in a court of competent jurisdiction,
and with the assent of the creditor or person having such cause of
action, confess judgment therefor ; whereupon judgment shall be
entered accordingly. 
SEC. 9. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly stated in writing,
to be filed and copied in the judgment. The confession shall operate 
as a release of errors. 
SEC. 10. Whenever a. confession of judgment is me.de by power of
attorney or otherwise, the party confessing, at the time he executes 
such power of attorney, or confesses judgment, shall make affidavit
that the debt is just, and that such confession is not made for the 
purpose of defrauding his creditors. The affidavit shall be filed. 
SEC. 11. Parties to a question which might be the subject of a civil
action, may, without action, agree upon a case constituting the facts
upon which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the 
same to any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had
been brought ; but it must appear by affidavit that the controversy 
is real, and the proceedings in good faith to determine the rights of
the parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the case, 
and render judgment as if an action were pending. 
SEC. 12. The statement of the case, the submission, and judgment
shall constitute the record. 
SEC. 13. The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it
had been rendered in an action, and in like manner shall be with costs, 
subject to reversal, unless otherwise provided in the submission. 
SEC. 14. The defendant may, at any time before the trial, serve
upon the plaintiff an offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken 
against him for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified,
with costs. If the plaintiff accept the offer in court in the presence of 
the defendant, or give notice of acceptance in writing within five days
and before the trial, judgment shall be entered accordingly. IC the
offer is not accepted, or notice of the acceptance be not given as above
directed, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given
in evidence or commented on before the jury; and if the plaintiff fail 
to obtain a more favorable judgment, the defendant shall recover from
the plaintiff the costs incurred after the offer. 
SEC. 15. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment must be
entered by the clerk in conformity with the verdict, unless it is special,
or the court order the case to be reserved for future argument or con­ 
sideration. Where the verdict is special, or where there has been a
special finding on particular questions of fact, or where the court has 
ordered the case to be reserved, it shall order what judgment shall be
entered. 
SEC. 16. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is 
entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judgment shall be so rendered
by the court, though a verdict has been found against such party. 
SEC. 17. If a counter-claim or set-off established at the trial exceeds
the plaintiff's claim so established, judgment for the defendant shall
be given for the excess; or if it appear that the defendant is entitled
to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be given therefor. 
SEC. 18. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintiff may be had for the delivery of the property, 
or the value thereof in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages
for the detention. Where the property has been delivered to the 
plaintiff, and the defendant claims a return thereof, judgment for the
defendant may be for the return of the property, or its value in case
a return cannot be had, and damages for the taking and withholding 
of the same.
SEC. 19. Whenever damages art? recoverable, the plaintiff may 
claim and recover any damages to which he may be entitled for the
cause of action established. 
SEC. 20. The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer,
shall not exceed the relief demanded in the complaint; but in any 
other case the court may grant him any relief consistent with the
case made by the complaint and embraced within the issue. 
SEC. 21. All judgments and orders shall be entered on the journal
of the minutes of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted or
order made in the action. 
SEC. 22. The record shall consist of the complaint, the process,
returns, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdict, orders, 
judgment, and all material acts and proceedings of the court. ·
SEC. 23. Where any party to a cause requires it in writing, the 
clerk shall enter, into a well-bound book provided for that purpose,
a complete copy of the record in such cause, at the cost of the party
so requiring it. If neither party require it, no such copy shall be 
made. 
SEC. 24. Satisfaction of a judgment shall be entered by the clerk in
the judgment docket, when an execution shall be returned satisfied,
or upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with the clerk, made 
in the manner of an acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property,
by the judgment creditor, or within two years after the judgmers, by 
the attorney of record, unless a revocation of his authority be pre­
viously filed. Whenever a judgment shall be satisfied in fact, other­ 
wise than upon an execution, it shall be the duty of the party or
attorney to give such acknowledgment, and upon motion the court 
may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction to be made
without it. 
SEC. 25. Such judgment docket shall be a record, and open, during
the usual hours of transacting business, to the examination of any
person desiring it. 
SEc. 26. Before rendering judgment against a defendant construe·
tively summoned, and who has not appeared, the court may cause the
plaintiff to appear personally in court, or before a commissioner, and
answer under oath interrogatories concerning the matters in the com­
plaint, or any matters which might be set up in defence thereto,
including matters of set-off and counter-claim, and may order the 
examination to be reduced to writing, and filed with the papers in the
action. If, upon the examination, any matters of set-off or counter­
claim are disclosed, the same may be adjusted by the judgment. 
SECTION
1. Erecution may be issued at any time
within five years. 
20. l
21.
22. Who.t may be levied on. 
23 
24.
25. i Property designated by defendant to
26. { be first levled on.
27. Real estate to be exempt until personal 
28. 1 
29. 
30. 
is levied on and sold. 
J Proceedings when claim ia made by
31• 
32. 
BTAY OJ' J:llCUTJON. 
11. Defendant may have stay of execution
for one hundred and eighty days. 
12. The recognizance may be taken by the
clerk. 
13. Notice shall be given after execution to
the marshal of the stay. 
14. After stay, property and bonds Lo be re-
. linquished by the marshal. 
15. The effect of the recognizance.
16. Proceedings after the expiration of stay. 
17. l J
18• 
5 n what CU08 no stay allowed.
19. In what cue stay may ceue. 
Ll:VY, 
CHAPTER 94. 
OF EXECUTIONS. 
any other person than the defendanL I 
l 
37. } J 
Proceedings upon sale of rea estate.
38. 
!~: f How personal property shall be 90Jd. 
41. Sale may be postponed.
42. When another levy may be made,
43. Clerk to issue another execution upoo 
44. l Upon the sale of real 011tate, marshal
45. 5 to make a conveyance. 
46. Penalty upon officer, and person taking 
down notice.
47. Omiaaion not to affect validity of bona 
fide sale,
48. Proceedings against a purchaser failing 
to pay purchase money.
49. Surplus to be paid to debtor or his u­ 
aipa.
50. Provisions when non-resident's property 
i11 sold on execution.
51. Proceedings not to be affected by death 
52. Affidavit to be filed. 
53. What the affidavit shall specify.
54. Notice to be issued. 
55. Proceedings if the debtor fail to appear. 
56. Proceedings if the debtor appear.
57.!p .. b iud 
58. 
the return of the former unsatisfied. 
of execution defendant. 
•x1CUTlON8 AGA.Ill'BT TD BODY, 
rov1B1on11 w ere JU gment is agaiast 
59.
debtor. 
DILIYlllI' BOBDB, 
33. Penonal property may be returned upon
2. After five years, execution may be is- giving a delivery bond. 
H 34. !
3. ow judgments may be enforced.
35_ 
sued by leave of the court. I 
5
4. TWhhree kinds o_f e1:r.ecution. j 
. en a particu o.r execution shall not j
be issued. 
6. No execution against body, unless ex-
pressly provided. 
7. How an execution shall be i•ued, and
what it shall require the marshal to do. 
8. Within what time an execution is re­
turnable. 
9. Property of principal sold first, unless
surety direct otherwise. 
J.O. When an execution may be iaaued on
Sunday. 
Proceedings upon forfeiture of delis- 
36_
ery bond. 
8.lLI OR EXECUTION, 
60. How execution shall be served.
61. No female to be imprisoned. 
INSOLVENTS DlBCHABGID ROii CCSTOD\'. 
62. l How a person arrested may diecharge
63. 5 himself. 
8&CTIO!f 
64. CreJitor to be notified.
65. Property surrendered to be disposed of 
u if taken on execution.
66. Marshal to make return. 
SICTIOX 
67. Provisions if party die in custody.
68. Party escaping may be again arrested. 
69. Clerk to keep an execution docket. 
SEC. 1. The party in whose favor judgment has been heretofore,
or shall hereafter be rendered, may, at any time within :five years
after the entry thereof, proceed to enforce the same as prescribed in 
this chapter.
SEC. 2. After the lapse of five years from the entry of the judgment, 
an execution can be issued only on leave of the court upon motion,
after ten days' personal notice to the adverse party, unless he be 
absent, or non-resident, or cannot be found,' when service of notice
may be made by publication as in an original action. Such leave 
shall not be given, unless it be established by the oath of the party,
or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof, 
remains unsatisfied and due.
SEC. 3. When a judgment requires the payment of money, or 
delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in
those respects by execution, as provided in this chapter. When it
requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the 
judgment may be served on the party against whom it is given, or
upon the person or officer who is required thereby, or by law, to
obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced; if he refuse, he 
may be punished by the court, as for contempt.
SEC. 4. There shall be three kinds of execution: one against the 
property of the judgment debtor, one against his person, and one for
the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, or such 
delivery, with damages for withholding the same.
SEc. 5. No execution against the body shall be issued while an 
execution against the property remains unreturned, nor shall an
execution against the property be issued while there is an execution 
against the body unreturned.
SEC. 6. No execution shall be issued upon any judgment against the 
body of a judgment debtor, except where it is so expressly provided
by law. 
SEC. 7. The execution shall be issued by the clerk in the name of
the United States, sealed with the seal of the court, and shall be 
directed to the marshal. It shall intelligibly refer to the judgment, 
stating the court where and the time when rendered) the names of
the parties, the amount of the judgment, if it be for money, and the
amount actually due thereon, and shall require the marshal, sub­ 
stantially, as follows :
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor, it shall 
require the marshal to satisfy the judgment out of the property of the
debtor subject to execution. All property, real, and personal, of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, shall be liable to execution. 
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property, or
trustees, it shall require the marshal to satisfy the judgment out of
such property. 
3. If it be against the body of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the marshal to arrest such debtor, and commit him to jail until he 
shall pay the judgment, or be discharged according to law.
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal 
property, it shall require the marshal to deliver possession of the
same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto ; and 
may, at the same time, require the marshal to satisfy any costs,
damages, or rents and profits recovered by the same judgment, out of 
the property of the party against whom it is rendered, subject to
execution; the value of the property for which the judgment was
recovered shall be specified therein, so that if a delivery thereof
cannot be had, the execution shall, in that respect, be deemed an 
execution against property.
SEC. 8. The execution shall be returnable within one hundred and 
eighty days from its date. 
SEc. 9. If it appear upon the face of an execution, or by the
endorsement of the clerk, that, of those against whom it issued, any 
one is surety for another, the property of the principal shall be first
sold, unless the surety shall direct otherwise. 
SEC. 10. An execution may be issued and executed on Sunday,
whenever an affidavit shall be filed by the plaintiff, or some person 
in his behalf, stating he will lose his judgment, as he has reason to 
fear and believe, unless process issue on that day. The clerk shall
endorse on such execution that the defendant is not privileged from 
service on Sunday.  
SEC. 11. When judgment has been rendered against any person for
the recovery of money or sale of property, he may, by frocuring one 
or more sufficient freehold securities to enter into a recognizance,
acknowledging themselves bail for the defendant, for the payment of
the judgment, together with the interest and costs accrued and to 
accrue, have a stny of execution for one hundred and eighty days
from time of entering judgment. 
SEC. 12. The bail for stay of execution may be taken and approved
by the clerk, and the recognizance signed by the bail entered of 
record, at any time before the term of stay of execution expires. The
undertaking in the recognizance shall be for the payment of the 
judgment, interest, and costs that may accrue at or before the expira­
tion of the stay of execution. 
SEC. 13. When the bail is entered after execution issued, the clerk
shall immediately notify the marshal of the stay, who shall forthwith 
return the execution, noting his proceedings thereon.
SEc. 14. All property levied on before stay of execution, and all 
written undertakings for the delivery of personal property to the
marshal, shall be relinquished by the marshal, upon bail for the stay
of execution being entered. 
SEc. 15. Every recognizance of bail taken as above provided shall
have the effect of a judgment confessed, from the date thereof, against
property of the bail. The date of the recognize.nee and the names of
the bail shall be entered in the judgment docket. 
SEc. 16. At the expiration of the stay, it shall be the duty of the
clerk to issue a joint execution against the property of all the judg­
ment debtors and bail; but tho marshal shall first levy upon the
property of the judgment debtors, if sufficient can be found, if not,
he shall then, without delay, levy the execution upon the property of
the bail. Btit no property of the bail shall be sold when property of
the original judgment debtor subject to execution can be pointed out 
by the bail. 
SEc. 17. No stay of execution shall be allowed upon any judgment
recovered against any offlcer.person, or corporation, or the sureties
of any of them, for money received in a fiduciary capacity, or for a
breach of any official duty. 
SEC. 18. When any court shall render judgment against two or
more persons, any of whom are sureties for any other or others in the 
contract on which the judgment is founded, there shall be no stay
of execution on the judgment, if the sureties object at the time of
rendering the judgment, and it shall be so ordered by the court. 
SEC. 19. Any bail for the stay of execution may filo with the clerk
an affidavit, stating that he verily believes he will have to satisfy the 
judgment, interest, and costs thereon, unless execution issues imme­
diately; and the clerk shall thereupon issue execution forthwith,
unless other sufficient bail be entered before the clerk, as in other
cases. If other sufficient bail be entered, it shall have the force of
the original bail entered before the filing of the affidavit, and shall
discharge the original bail. 
SEC. 20. When an execution against the property of any person is
issued to the marshal, be shall proceed, without unreasonable delay, 
to levy the same upon the property, rights, credits, and effects of the
defendant subject to execution. 
SEC. 21. Current coin may be levied upon and retained on execu­
tion, without sale, as so much money collected. 
SEC. 22. Bills, notes, drafts, and checks, or other evidences of debt,
issued by any moneyed corporation, company, individual, or bank, or 
by any State or the United States, and circulating 88 money, may be
levied upon 88 personal property, and sold on execution. Bonds or 
other evidences of debt, capable of transfer by delivery, issued by any
corporation, or company, or town, county, State, or country, may be
levied upon as personal property, and sold on execution. 
SEC. 23. Shares of stock in any corporation or company may be
levied upon and sold, when the office and books showing the shares of 
stock and stockholders of the corporation or company are kept in this
District; and the marshal shall transfer the stock, subject to the
rights of the corporation or company. The marshal shall have access 
to the books of any such corporation or company for the purpose of
making the levy, and if .refused access, the court, or any judge in
vacation, shall enforoe .the right, and may proceed against any person 
so refusing as for a contempt, The shares of stock subject to be levied
upon shall be bound by the execution from the time of the levy, and 
when such levy is made, the marshal shall leave the notice with the
officers of the corporation or company, and such levy shall constitute
u lien upon such stock from the time of such levy. 
SEC. 24. Any debt or thing in action, legally or equitably assign­
able, may be levied on, when given up by the defendant, and sold on
execution, in the same manner as other personal property. The mar­
shal making the sale of any such debt or thing in action shall assign
and deliver the same to the purchaser, and the assignment shall have
the same effect as if made by the execution defendant at the time of
making the levy thereon, and shall be treated as so made. 
SEC. 25. When any execution shall issue against the property of
any person, it shall be the duty of the marshal to levy the same first
upon that part of the property designated by such person, if there be 
no reasonable doubt that he is the owner thereof, and if designated in
time to enable the marshal to levy and sell without unnecessary delay.
If no property be thus designated, it shall be the duty of the marshal
to levy the execution upon any property of the debtor which can be 
found subject to execution. 
SEC. 26. If the property thus designated shall be insufficient to
satisfy the execution, the marshal shall levy the same upon such other 
property subject to execution as can be most readily found, sufficient,
in addition to the property designated, to satisfy the execution. 
SEC. 27. The messuage, lands or tenements of the debtor, upon
which he may reside,· shall not be levied upon if other property 
subject to execution be found sufficient to satisfy the execution in the
hands of the marshal, unless the debtor shall otherwise direct. 
SEC. 28. When personal property shall be seized by virtue of any
execution, and any person other than the defendant shall file with the 
marshal his claim thereto, verified by affidavit, the marshal shall
summon six persons, qualified as jurors, to try the validity of the 
claim; giving three days' notice of the time and place of the trial to
the plaintiff in the execution or his attorney. 
SEC. 29. The marshal, at tho request of either party, shall summon
witnesses, and compel them to attend and give testimony; and he 
shall administer the necessary oaths to the jurors and witnesses.
The verdict of such jury being rendered in writing, and signed by
the foreman, shall be a full indemnity to the marshal proceeding in
accordance therewith. 
SEC. 30. The marshal may levy the costs of such proceeding upon
the goods and chattels of the party liable to pay them, as on execution. 
SEc. 31. If at any time before the jury return, the claimant withdraw
his claim, the trial shall proceed no further, and the claimant shall
pay the costs of such unfinished trial. 
SEC. 32. Notwithstanding the verdict of the jury be for the claim­
ant, yet the marshal shall proceed to sell the property seized in 
satisfaction of the execution, if the plaintiff tender to him a written
undertaking, executed by two or more good and sufficient sureties,
residents of this District, in double the value of the property, to the
effect that he will indemnify the marshal against all damages and
costs which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure and sale of
such property, and, moreover, that he will pay to any person claim­
ing title to such property all damages which he may sustain in conse­ 
quence of such seizure and sale. If such undertaking be given, it
shall be returned by the marshal, together with the execution, and
filed with the clerk; and the claimant may prosecute his suit upon
such undertaking, and recover such damages as may be assessed. 
SEC. 33. Any personal property taken in execution may be returned
to the execution defendant by the marshal, upon the delivery by the
defendant to him of a written undertaking, payable to the execution
plaintiff, with two good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the
marshal, to the effect that the property shall be delivered t.o the mar­
shal at a time and place named in the undertaking, to be sold 
according to law. 
SEc. 34. In case of the non-delivery of tho property according to
the undertaking, it shall be the duty of the marshal to levy upon and
sell the same, or any other property of the defendant subject to execu­
tion, as soon as practicable at any time before the return day of tbe
execution. Upon the forfeiture of tho written undertaking, the mar­
shal shall forthwith return it, endorsed "forfeited," to the clerk's 
office, for the use of the plaintiff, 
SEc. 35. An action may be bad on such undertaking, rhenever the
condition thereof is broken, and on recovery the value of the property
so taken, with ten per cent. damages, shall be assessed in favor of the
plaintiff; but the recovery shall not exceed the amount due on the 
execution and ten per cent. on the principal. 
SEC. 36. On judgment obtained on such written undertaking, execu­
tion shall forthwith issue, without stay, returnable in thirty days;
and the marshal shall not return any property to the execution
defendant levied on thereby, except upon payment of the judgment
and costs. 
SEC. 37. Real estate taken by virtue of any execution shall be sold
at public auction at the door of the court-house; and if the estate shall 
consist of several lots, tracts, and parcels, each shall be offered sepa­
rately; and no more of any real estate shall be offered for sale than
shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, unless the same is not 
susceptible of division. 
SEC. 38. The time and place of making sale of real estate on execu­
tion shall be publicly advertised by the marshal for at least twenty
days successively next before the day of sale, by posting up written
or printed notice thereof at the door of the court-house, and also by
advertising the same at least once a week for four weeks successively 
in one or more newspapers published in this District. 
SEC. 39. Previous notice of the time and place of the sale of any
personal property on execution shall be given for ten days successively,
by posting up a written or printed notice thereof at the place where
the sale is to be made, and also by advertising the same in some
newspaper published in this District, said advertisement to be inserted
at least three times, and the first insertion to be at least ten days
before the day of sale : provided, however, if the property be perish­
able, only such notice of the time and place of sale shall be given as
may be reasonable, considering the character and condition of the
property. . 
SEC. 40. Personal property capable of manual delivery shall not be
sold, unless the same shall be present and subject to the view of those
attending the sale; and it shall be sold at public auction, in such lots
and parcels as shall be calculated to bring the highest price. 
SEC. 41. If at the time appointed for the sale the marshal or other
officer shall deem it expedient, and for the interest of all parties con­ 
cerned, to postpone o. sale for want of purchasers, he may postpone
it for any time not exceeding ten days, and so from time to time, for 
such cause, until the sale shall be completed, giving notice of every 
such adjournment, by a public declaration thereof, at the time and
place previously appointed for a sale, and also by an advertisement 
inserted in some newspaper of this District three days at least prior
to such adjourned sale. 
SEC. 42. If the property levied upon shall not sell for a sum 
sufficient to satisfy the execution, the marshal shall make a further
and sufficient levy, if sufficient property can be found, and proceed as 
· upon the first levy, and return his proceedings thereon. 
SEC. 43. The clerk, upon the return of an execution unsatisfied,
shall, if required, issue another execution upon the judgment, and
endorse thereon the amount of money levied by the former, if any. 
SEC. 44. Upon the sale of real estate by virtue of an execution, and
the payment of the purchase money, the marshal shall execute and 
deliver to the purchaser a deed of conveyance for the premises, which
shall be valid and effectual to convey all the right, title, and interest
of the execution debtor to the purchaser. 
SEC. 45. In case the purchaser of any real estate upon execution,
having paid the purchase money therefor, shall die before a deed of 
conveyance shall have been executed to him, the marshal shall convey
such real estate to the heirs or deviseee of the deceased person. 
SEC. 46. Any officer selling without the notice prescribed by this chapter, shall forfeit and pay one hundred dollars to the party in­
fored, in addition to his actual damages; and a person wilfully taking 
down or defacing the notice posted, if done before sale or the satisfac­
tion of the judgment, (if the judgment be satisfied before sale,) shall 
forfeit one hundred dollars. 
SEC. 47. An omission by the marshal to give the notice of sale
required by law shall not affect the validity of any sale made to a
purchaser in good faith without notice of such omission. 
SEC. 48. Whenever the purchaser of any property sold on execution
shall fail or refuse to pay the purchase money, he shall be liable, on
motion to be made by the marshal or the execution plaintiff, in the
proper court, five days' notice being given, to a judgment for the
amount of the purchase money, and damages not exceeding ten per 
cent., and interest, with costs, and no stay of execution shall be 
allowed on the judgment ; or the marshal may re-expose and sell the
property on the same or any subsequent day according to law; and 
· if the amount bid at the second sale shall not equal the amount bid 
at the first sale and the coats of the second sale, the first purchaser
shall be liable for the deficiency, and damages thereon not exceeding
ten per cent., and interest and costs, to be recovered by a like notice
and motion as before provided. 
SEC. 49. When property shall be sold on execution for more than
will satisfy the execution, including interest and costs, the marshal
shall pay the overplus to the execution debtor of whom it was levied,
or to his assigns. - 
SEc. 50. When the marshal has sold the property of a. non-resident
or other person upon an execution issued on a judgment recovered 
against him in a case where publication is provided for, and no per­
sonal notice of the pendency of the action was given to such defendant,
the plaintiff shall not, be entitled to receive any of the proceeds of
such sale until be has filed in the clerk's office a written undertaking, 
with two sureties to be approved by the clerk, to the effect that he
will refund the money about to be received by him, or so much thereof
as shall be necessary, if the judgment shall afterwards be annulled or
set aside, and the defendant shall show the plaintiff's claim is un­
founded in whole or in part. But surety to refund shall not be 
required in cases of attachment.
SEC. 51. The death of the defendant, after the execution is placed 
in the bands of the marshal to be executed, shall not affect his pro
ceedings thereon. 
SEC. 52. Defore any execution shall be issued upon any judgment
against the body of the execution debtor, the plaintiff shall file with
the clerk an affidavit, charging the debtor with fraudulently conceal­
ing, removing, conveying, or transferring his property subject to
execution, with intent to defraud and delay the plaintiff, or charging 
that the debtor has money, rights, credits, or effects, with which the
judgment, or some pa.rt thereof, might be paid, and which he fraudu­ 
lently withholds, or conceals, with a view to delay or defraud the
creditor. 
SEC. 53. The affidavit need not designate specifically any property,
moneys, or effects, fraudulently removed, transferred, concealed, con­ 
veyed, or withheld by the debtor, but the jury or court, in determining
the matters in issue bet ween the parties, if the :finding be for the 
creditor, shall designate, in the finding, jhe moneys, effects, property,
debt or things in action subject to execution, which have been thus
removed, concealed, transferred, conveyed, or withheld, and the value
thereof. 
SEC. 54. Upon the filing of the affidavit, the clerk shall issue a
notice requiring the debtor to appear at the next term of the court, 
and show cause why such execution should not issue against him.
After ten days' notice, or after the return of two notices of "not
found," the court shall hear and determine the matters and things
contained in the affidavit. 
SEC. 55. If the debtor shall fail to appear and show cause, the court
may hear and determine the same in the absence of the debtor, or a 
jury for that purpose may be empanneled, if desired by the creditor. 
SEC. 56. If the debtor appear, and plead to the affidavit any suffi­
cient matter to bar the issuing of the execution, and an issue be taken 
thereon, the same may be tried by the court, or a jury, as in other
cases. 
SEC. 57. If the issue be determined against the debtor, the court,
unless good cause be shown, shall forthwith order an execution against
his body, subject to the rules and restrictions of the two next succeed­ 
ing sections. 
SEc. 58. If the debtor shall surrender such moneys, effects, prop­
erty, debts or thi~ge in action, to the use and for the benefit of the
creditor, or pay the value thereof, as found by the court or jury, no
execution shall for that cause be issued agai net his body. 
SEC. 59. If the debtor fail to surrender or pay, as provided in the
preceding section, upon the return of such finding, an execution shall
issue forthwith against his body upon the judgment. 
SEC. 60. The execution against the body shall be served by arrest­
ing the defendant, and unless discharged by due course of law, com­
mitting him to jail. 
SEc. 61. No female shall be imprisoned upon an execution against
the body.  
SEC. 62. Any person arrested or imprisoned on execution may dis­
charge himself from custody by delivering to the marshal a sufficiency
of property, either real or personal, to discharge the debt or damages 
due on the execution, together with the interest and costs thereon; or
by delivering to the marshal all the property, both resl and personal,
which he may have, not included in the finding of the court or jury,
subject to execution, if any, together with the property, credits, and 
effects, included in the finding of the court or jury, and all his choses
in action, if any, exceeding, with other property retained, the amount
exempt by law from execution. He shall also make oath that he has
no more or other property, either real or personal, subject to execu­
tion, and that he has no money, rights, credits or effects, in his pos­
session or under his control, or in the possession or under the control 
of any other person for his use, exceeding, with other property re­
tained, the amount exempt from execution, and that he has neither
directly nor indirectly disposed of, transferred, or concealed any of
his property, rights, credits, moneys, or effects, nor confessed or suf­
fered any judgment, with intent to delay or defraud any of his 
creditors.
SEC. 63. For the purpose of enabling the defendant to take the 
oath, it shall be the duty of the marshal, upon the prisouer's request,
to take him before some person authorized to administer an oath, 
who shall reduce the oath to writing, explain it to the prisoner, and
cause him to be sworn to and subscribe it, and having certified the
oath, deliver it to the marshal, who shall make it a part of his return
by appending it to the execution. 
SEC. 64. The execution creditor shall be notified of the time and
place at which the oath will be taken; the notice shall be served upon 
the creditor, or his agent or attorney, by the marshal. When the
oath is administered, the execution creditor, his agent or attorney,
may propound to the prisoner any relevant questions touching his
property, moneys, rights, credits, and effects, and the person adminis­ 
tering the oath shall reduce the questions and answers to writing, and
forthwith file the same with the clerk. When the prisoner has strictly
complied with the foregoing provisions he shall be discharged. 
SEc. 65. Any property given up by the person under arrest shall be
disposed of by the marshal in the same manner as property taken on 
execution against property. 
SEc. 66. The marshal shall make return of all his proceedings
therein, the discharge of the debtor, and the sale of the property, 
according to the facts, to the court. 
SEC. 67. The arrest of any person who may die while in custody
shall not discharge the judgment, or any lien upon property, but the 
same may be enforced by any legal proceedings.
SEC. 68. Any person escaping from custody may be retaken by the 
same or a new execution against his body, or his property may be
proceeded against in the same manner as if his body had never been 
taken in execution.
SEC. 69. The clerk shall keep an execution docket, in which he 
shall enter all executions as they are issued by him, specifying in
proper columns the names of the parties, the amount of the judg­
ment, and the interest due at the issuing of the execution, and the
costs, and prepare an additional column, in which he shall enter at
]ength the return of the marshal, and such docket entries shall be 
taken and deemed to be a record. 
CHAPTER 96. 
PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO EXECUTION. 
3, the court or judge and answer.
4. Not to be excused from answering by 
reuon of fraud.
5. Debtor of judgment debtor may pay 
marahal after execution iaued.
6. Any person or corporation indebted to 
judgment debtor may be required to
attend and answer. 
SIOTIOR 
7· 
l Witn811e8 may be required to attend. 
8. S 
9. Order of the court or judge upon such
proceedings. 
10, Court or judge may appoint a receiftr.
11. Receiver to give bond. 
12. Disobedience punishable u a contempL
13. Coltl shall be u in other cues. 
SEC. 1. When an execution against the property of the judgment
debtor, or any one of several debtors in the same judgment is returned
unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, after such 
return is made, shall be entitled to an order, to be issued by the
court, or any judge thereof, requiring such debtor to appear and 
answer concerning his property before the court, or any judge thereof,
mt a. time and place specified in such order. 
SEC. 2. After the issuing of an execution against property, and
upon proof by the affidavit of the judgment creditor or otherwise, to
the satisfaction of the court, or any judge thereof, that the judgment 
debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to the satis­
faction of the judgment, the court or judge may, by order, require
the judgment debtor to appear before the court, or any judge theteof, 
to answer concerning the same ; and such proceedings may thereupon
be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor
towards the satisfaction of the judgment as are prescribed by law. 
SEC. 3. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judg­
ment debtor, as provided in the two preceding sections, the court or 
judge may, upon satisfactory proof, by affidavit of the party or other­
wise, that there is danger of the debtor leaving this District or con­ 
cealing himself to avoid said examination, issue a warrant requiring
the marshal to arrest such debtor and bring him before the court or 
judge. Upon being brought before the court or judge, he shall be
examined on oath, and other witnesses may be examined on either
side, and if on such examination it appear~ that there is danger of
the debtor leaving this District, and that he has property which he
unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, he may be ordered to
enter into an undertaking in such sum as the court or judge may
prescribe, with one or more sureties, in the discretion of such court
or judge, that he will, from time to time, attend for examination
before the court or judge, as may be directed. 
SEC. 4. No person shall, on examination pursuant to this chapter, 
be excused from answering any question on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of a fraud, but his answers shall 
not be used as evidence against him in any prosecution for such fraud.
SEC. 5. After the issuing of execution against property, any person 
indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the marshal the amount
of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the 
execution, and the marshal's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for
the amount so paid or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor
on the execution. 
SEC. 6. After the issuing or return of an execution against property
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same 
judgment, and upon proof, by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction 
of the court, or any judge thereof, that any person or corporation has
property of such judgment debtor, or is indebted to him, the court or 
judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation, or any
officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and
answer concerning the same. The court or judge may also, in their 
discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be given to any party
in the action, in such manner as may seem proper. 
SEC. 8. Witnesses may be required, upon the order of the judge, or
by a subprena issued by the clerk, to appear and testify upon any 
proceedings under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial 
of an issue.
SEc. 8. The party or witness may be required to attend before the 
court or any judge thereof, or before a referee appointed by the court
or judge thereof. All examinations and answers shall be on oath, 
except that when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on the
oath of an officer thereof. 
SEC. 9. The court or judge may order any property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or
any other person or corporation, or any debt due to the judgment
debtor, to be applied to. the sati;faction of the judgment; but the
earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any time within
three months next preceding the time of the order, shall not be so 
applied.
SEC. 10. The court or judge may also, by order, appoint the mar­ 
shal or other suitable person a receiver of the property of the judgment
debtor, and may forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property 
of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution, and any inter­
ference therewith. 
SEc. 11. If the marshal shall be appointed receiver, he and his
sureties shall be liable for the faithful discharge of hisduties as such
receiver; if any other person shall be appointed receiver, he shall 
give a written undertaking, in such sum as shall be prescribed by the
court or judge, with one or more sureties, to the effect that he will
faithfully discharge the duties of a receiver, and he shall also take an
oath to the sapie effect, before acting as such receiver. The under­
taking mentioned in this section shall be to the United States, and 
actions may be prosecuted for a breach thereof, by any person inter­
ested, in the same manner as upon the marshal's official bond. 
SEc. 12. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the
court, judge, or referee, duly served, in any proceedings under this chapter, such person, party, or witness, may be punished by the
court or judge as for a contempt. 
SEC. 13. Costs shall be awarded and taxed in the proceedings under
this chapter as in other cases. 
SECTION I SECTION 
I. When real property may be conveyed I 7. The court may compel a conveyance or
by a commissioner. appoint a commissioner. 
2. l 8. Compensation of commissioner.
3· 
!: J by.the commissioner. I 
J Requisites and effect of a conveyance : 
& I 
SEC. 1. Real property may be conveyed by a. commissioner
appointed by the court: 
1. Where, by the judgment in an action, a party is ordered to 
convey real property to another, or any interest therein;
2. Or where real property, or any interest therein, has been sold 
and the purchase money paid. 
SEc. 2. The deed of the commissioner shall so refer to the judgment
authorizing the conveyance, that the same may be readily found, but 
need not recite the record in the case generally. 
SEc. 3. A conveyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass 
to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land. 
SEc. 4. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by the
court shall pa~s to the grantee the title of all the parties to the action 
or proceeding.  
SEc. 5. A conveyance by a commissioner shall not pass any right
until it has been examined and approved by the court, which approval 
shall be endorsed on the conveyance and recorded with it. 
SEc. 6. It shall be sufficient for the conveyance to be signed by the
commissioner only, without affixing the names of the parties whose title is conveyed; but the names of the parties shall be recited in the
body of the conveyance. 
SEc. 7. In case of a judgment to compel a party to execute a
conveyance of real estate, the court may enforce the judgment by 
attachment or sequestration, or appoint a commissioner to make the
conveyance. 
SEc. 8. The compensation of any commissioner appointed by the
circuit court to sell or convey real estate shall be regulated and 
determined by said court. 
CHAPTER 96. 
B•cr10• 
CHAPTER 97. 
OF THE LIMITATION OF ACTIONS. 
!• }Within what period action• mmt be
3: 
bronghL
4. When a caWJe of action ar.cruee in the 
case of motual, open, and current ac­
counts. 
5. Limitations to apply to action• brought
· by United States, or for their benefit.
6. When an action shall be deemed to be 
commenced.
7. Limitation in cue of abeence of the 
defendant.
8. Limitation where plaintiff' is an infant, 
inane, a married woman, or im­
prisoned. 
9, Proviaion when a person entitled dies
before limitation expires. 
10, Provision where a person subject to an
action dies before limitation expires. 
11. In action, by aliens, time of war to be
deducted. 
S•CTIOB
12. If judgment be reversed, &.c., action may 
be brought within one year afterwa.rda. 
)3. If action be stayed by injunction, b.,
the time of injunction, &.c., ahall not 
be included.
U. Provision where defendant conceal9 a 
fact, without any negligence of plain­
tiff'. 
15. When a person shall not avail himaelf
of a disability. 
16. Provision u to promise or acknowledg­
ment. 
17. Limitation where the eauee of action
arisee in another State. 
18. Rules where only part or plaintiff's ue
barred. 
19. Provision u to joint debtors.
20. Husband not barred from joining wife ua 
an action durinr coverture.
21. l Proviainns of this chapter not to extend
~. \ to certain actions. 
SEC. 1. Civil actions can only be commenced within the periods
prescribed in this chapter, after the cause of action shall have 
accrued, except where a different limitation is specially prescribed
by statute. 
SEc. 2. The periods prescribed in the preceding section for the
commencement of actions shall be as follows: 
Within ten years.-1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or
for the recovery of the possession thereof; and no action shall be
maintained for such recovery, unless it appear that the plaintiff, his
ancestor, predecessor, or granter, was seized or possessed of the
premises in question within ten years before the commencement of
the action; 2. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of
the United States, or of any State or Territory of the United States. 
Within six years.-1. An action upon any agreement, contract, or 
promise in writing, excepting those mentioned in the preceding subdivision; 2. An action for waste, or trespass upon real property. 
Within three years.-1. An action upon a contract not in writing,
express or implied ; 2. An action upon a liability created by statute, 
other than a forfeiture or penalty; 3. An action for taking, detaining,
or injuring personal property, including an action for the specific 
recovery thereof; 4. An action for an injury to the rights of the
plaintiff, not arising on contract, and not hereinafter enumerated ; 
5. An action for relief on the ground of fraud, the cause of action in
such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by 
the aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud. 
Within two yeara.-1. An action for libel, slander, assault, battery,
malicious prosecution, or false imprisonment; 2. An action upon a
statute for a penalty or forfeiture. 
SEC. 3. An action for relief, not herein before provided for, shall be 
commenced within five years after the cause of action shall have
accrued. 
SEC. 4. In an action brought to recover a balance due upon a mutual,
open, and current account, where there have been reciprocal demands
between the parties, the cause of action shall be deemed to have
accrued from the time of the last item proved in the account on either 
side. 
SEC. 5. The limitations prescribed in this chapter shall apply to
actions brought in the name of the United States, or for the benefit
of the United States, in the same manner as to actions by private
parties. 
SEC. 6. An action shall be deemed to be commenced, within the
meaning of this chapter, when the complaint has been filed in the
proper court, and a summons directed to be issued. 
SEC. 7. If, when the cause of action shall accrue against a person,
he is out of this Distriet, the action may be commenced within the
term hereinbefore limited, after his return into this District, and if 
after the cause of action shall have accrued, he depart from this
District, the time of his absence shall not be part of the time limited 
for the commencement of the action. 
SEC. 8. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this chapter, except for a penalty or forfeiture, be, at the time the cause of
action accrued, either within the age of twenty-one years, or insane, 
or a married woman, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in
execution under the sentence of a criminal court, for a term less
than his natural life, the time of such disability shall not be a part 
of the time limited for the commencement of the action. 
SEc. 9. If a per,on entitled to bring an action die before the ex­
piration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the 
cause of action survive, au action mn.y be commenced by his repre­
sentatives after the expiration of the time and within two years from 
his death.
SEc. 10. If a person against whom an action may be brought die 
before the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause 
of action survive, an action may be commenced against his represen­
tatives after the expiration of that time, and within two years after
the issuing of letters testamentary or administration. 
SEC. 11. When a person shall be an alien subject or citizen of a
country at war with the United States, the time of the continuance of
the war shall not be a part of the period limited for the commence­ 
ment of the action.
SEC. 12. If an action be commenced within due time, and a judg­ 
ment therein for the plaintiff be reversed, or if the plaintiff fail in
such action otherwise than upon the merits, and the time limited for
the same shall have expired, the plaintiff, or, if he die and the cause
of action survive, his representatives, may commence a new action 
within one year after such reversal or failure.
SEC. 13. When the commencement of an action shall be stayed by 
injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the
injunction or prohibition shall not be a part of the time limited for 
the commencement of the action. 
SEC. 14. If any person liable to an action shall conceal the fact from
the knowledge of the person entitled thereto, and there is no negli­
gence on the part of the latter, the action may be commenced at any
time within the period of limitation, after the discovery of the cause 
of action. 
SEC. 15. No person shall avail himself of a disability, unless it
existed when his right of action accrued. When two or more disabilities
co-exist at the time the right of action accrues, the limitation shall not
attach until they all be removed. 
SEC. 16. In any cause founded on contract, when an acknowledg­ 
ment of existing liability, debt or claim, or any promise to pay the
same shall have been made, an action may be brought on such case 
within the period hereinbefore prescribed for the same, after such
acknowledgment, or promise, but such acknowledgment or promise 
must be in writing, signed by tb.3 party to be. charged thereby.
When any part of the principal or interest shall have been paid, and 
that fact shall be evidenced by a memorandum in writing made or
signed by the party sought to be charged, the same shall be deemed
to be an acknowledgment within the meaning of this section. 
SEC. 17. Where the cause of action has arisen in another country
or State between non-residents of this District, and by the laws of the 
country or State where the cause of action arose an action cannot be
maintained thereon by reason of the Iapse of time, no action shall be 
maintained thereon in this District.
SEc. 18. In cases where part only of the persons entitled to bring 
an action are barred by limitation, all may be joined as plaintiffs;
and when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court, by admis­ 
sion or otherwise, that part of the plaintiffs are barred, the court,
upon motion, shall order the names of such plaintiffs to be struck 
from the record, and the action may be prosecuted by those not
barred. 
SEC. 19. Neither a joint debtor or his representatives, in whose favor
the limitation has operated, shall be liable to a joint debtor or surety, 
or their representatives, upon payment by such joint debtor or surety,
or their representatives, of the debt or any part of it. 
SEC. 20. The statute of limitations shall in no case bar the right
of the husband to join with his wife, at any time during ooverture,
in any action which would survive to her after the removal of her 
disability.
SEC. 21. The limitations in this chapter shall not extend to cases 
where the right of action has already accrued, but the laws relating to
limitations in force on the day before the passage of this act shall be
applicable to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and
without regard to form: provided, however, that nothing in this sec­
tion contained shall extend any limitation to any greater- length of 
time beyond the time of the passage of this act, than is in the preced­
ing sections of this chapter provided. No cause of action barred by 
the laws in force relating to limitations on the day before the passage
of this act shall be revived by the provisions of this chapter. 
SEC. 22. The limitations in this chapter shall not apply in the case
of a continuing and subsisting trust, or to an action by a vendee of 
real property, in possession thereof, to obtain a conveyance of it. 
SECTION 
1. Non-reaident plaintiff' to give aecurity
for coats. 
2. Without aecurity, action may be dis­
misaed. 
3. If plaintiff' become non· reaident, seeu-
rity must be given. 
4. Court n1ay require additional security.
5. Judgment may be given for coats.
6. Coats to be tued u the court may 
direct. 
CHAPTER 98. 
OF COSTS. 
7. l 
SICTIOJf 
8. How coats shall be allowed. 
9. 
10. Plaintiff' not to recover coats, when dam­
ages below ten dolJan. 
n. Coats on appeal from orpham' court.
12. Coats where an executor, tr.::atee, &c., ia 
a party.
13. What shall be tued aa costs. 
14. No attorney received u security. 
SEC. 1. In all cases in which the plaintiff is a non-resident of
this District, before commencing such action the plaintiff must furnish
a sufficient surety for costs. The surety must be a resident of this
District, and approved by the clerk. This obligation shall be com·
plete simply by signing his name on the complaint as surety for costs. 
He shall be bound for the payment of all costs which may be adjudged
against the plaintiff in the court in whith the action is brought, and
for the costs of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether the plaintiff obtain 
judgment or not.
SEC. 2. An action in which security for costs is required by the 
preceding section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed on the
motion and notice by the defendant, at any proper time before judg­
ment, unless in a reasonable time, to be allowed by the court, such
security for costs shall be given. 
SEC. 3. If a plaintiff in an action after its commencement become a
non-resident of this District, he shall give security for costs, in the 
manner and under the restrictions provided in the two preceding
sections. 
SEC. 4. In an action in which security for costs has been given, the
defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice
to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part of
the plaintiff; and if on such motion the court shall be satisfied that
the surety has removed from this District, or is not sufficient, the
case may be dismissed, unless in o. reasonable time, to be fixed by the
court, sufficient surety be given by the pla.intiff. 
SEc. 5. After final judgment has been rendered in an action in 
which security for costs has been given as required by this chapter,
the court, on motion of the defendant, or any other person having 
the right to such costs or any part thereof, after ten days' notice of
such motion, may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant or 
hie legal representatives, against the surety for costs, hie executors,
or administrators, for the amount of costs adjudged against the plain­
tiff, or so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be issued
on such judgment, as in other cases, for the use and benefit of the 
persons entitled to such costs.
SEC. 6. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs of motions, 
continuances, amendments, and the like, shall be taxed and paid as
the court, in its discretion, may direct. 
SEC. 7. Where it is not otherwise provided, costs shall be allowed,
of course, to the plaintiff, upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for
the recovery of money only, or for the recovery of specific real or per­
sonal property. 
SEc. 8. Costs shall be allowed, of course, to any defendant, upon a
judgment in his favor, in the actions mentioned in the preceding 
section. 
SEC. 9. In other actions, the court may award and tax costs, and
apportion the same between the parties on the same or adverse sides, 
as in its discretion it may think right and equitable.
SEC. 10. In all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, 
assault, assault and battery, false imprisonment, criminal conversa­
tion, or seduction, actions for nuisance, or against a justice of the 
peace for misconduct in office, if the damages assessed be under ten
dollars, the plaintiff shall not recover any costs. 
SEC. 11. Upon an appeal from the orphans' court to the circuit
court, costs shall be recovered in the circuit court by the party sub­ 
stantially prevailing.
SEC. 12. In an action prosecuted or defended by an executor, admin­ 
istrator, guardian, next friend, trustee of an express trust, or a person
expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered as in ar; 
action by or against a person prosecuting or defending in his own
-right, but such costs shall be chargeable only upon, or collected off, 
the estate, fund, or party represented, unless the court shall direct
the same to be paid by the plaintiff' or defendant personally, for mis­
management or bad faith in such action or defence. 
SEC. 13. When any party recovers costs, the clerk shall include io
the costs, for the fee of such party's attorney, (if he have one,) five
dollars. The clerk shall also tax, in favor of the party recovering
costs, the allowance to his witnesses, the fees of officers, the compen­
sation of referees, the necessary expenses of taking. depoaitions by 
commission or otherwise, and any further sum for any other matter
which the court may deem reasonable and direct to be taxed. 
SEC. 14. No attorney, counsellor, or other officer of the court shall 
be received as security for costs, or in any· proceeding in court. 
CHAPTER 99. 
OF PROCEEDINGS TO REVIEW JUDGMENTS. 
1. Who may have and when may be had a
review. 
2. Granting a review in the discretion of
the court. 
3. Notice to be given to the adverse party. 
SEC. 1. Any person who is a party to any judgment rendered in
the circuit court, or the heirs, devisees, or personal representatives of
a deceased party, may file in said court a petition for a review of the
proceedings and judgment at any time within three years next after
the rendition thereof. Any person under legal disabilities may file
such a petition at any time within one year after the disability is 
removed. But no petition shall be filed for a review of a judgment
of divorce. If any facts be set forth in the petition as grounds for a 
review, they shall be verified by affidavit. 
SEC. 2. The circuit court may, in furtherance of justice, grant a
review of such judgment on such terms as it may deem proper and
reasonable, or may, in its discretion, refuse the same . 
SEC. 3. Notice of the filing of any such petition shall be given
·to the ad verse party. If the review be granted, the parties shall 
proceed to form issues of law and fact, as in other cases.
SEC. 4. If the execution in the original action has not been satisfied, 
·the court may order a stay or supersedeas thereof, upon security being
.given by the petitioner to the adverse party to pay whatever shall 
appear to be due to him after the final judgment in the review, or
upon such other terms as the court shall deem just and reasonable. 
SEC. 5. Upon the hearing of the review, the court may reverse or
affirm the judgment, in whole or in part, or modify the same, as the 
justice of the case may require, and award costs according to iti
discretion. 
SECTION
.A.PPSA..L8 TO TBB SUPREKJ: COURT, 
CHAPTER 100. 
I. Final judgments or orders may be re·
examined, reversed, or affirmed in the
supreme court. 
2. An appeal or writ of error in certain
cases allowed in the dilcretion or judge
of supreme court. 
3. Provisions to apply to judgments, &c.,
rendered Ia circuit court on appeal. 
4. Cues may be removed on writ of error
or appeal. 
OF APPEALS. 
Si:cno•
5. Regulatiou respecting writs of error or 
appeals in circuit courts of the United
States, to apply. 
.A.PPJ:..lLS TO TIIII CIRCUIT OOUBT l'BOK TB8
08PHAN8' OOUBT. 
6. What may be appealed from.
7. How appeal may be taken. 
B, Bonda to be given.
9. Appeal u to what not a supenedeu. 
10. Circuit court to determine.
11. Judgment of circuit court to be trans­ 
mitted to orpham' court. 
OP APPEALS FROlll THB CIRCUIT COURT TO TRB SUPREME COURT OJ TBB
UNITBD STATJrS. 
SEC. 1. Any final judgment, decree, or order in the circuit court
wherein the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs, shall be of the value 
of one thousand dollars or upwards, may be re-examined and reversed
or affirmed in the supreme court of the United States by writ of error
or appeal. 
SEC. 2. Where the matter in dispute in the circuit court, exclusive
of costs, shall be of the value of one hundred dollars, and of less
value than one thousand dollars, upon the presentation to any judge
of the supreme court of the United States of a petition in writing,
accompanied by a copy of the proceedings complained of and an 
assignment of errors relied on, he may, in his discretion, upon the
execution of a proper undertaking, with sufficient security, by the 
party applying, by his order to the clerk of the circuit court, direct
an appeal to be allowed, or a writ of error to be issued ; which shall 
be done accordingly. When any writ of error or appeal shall be
directed in the manner prescribed by this section, and the order of 
the judge of the supreme court shall be filed in the office of the clerk
of tho circuit court within thirty days after the end of the term at 
which the final judgment, decree, or order shall have been rendered
or made, such writ of error or appeal shall operate as a supersedee
of all proceedings under such judgment or order. 
SEC. 3. The two preceding sections of this chapter shall extend to
any final judgment, decree, or order rendered or made in the circuit
court on an appeal from any inferior court, except that of a justice of 
the peace. 
SEC. 4. Cases in which either party would be entitled to a trial by 
jury, and when the amount in dispute is of sufficient value, may be
removed to the supreme court of -the United States by writ of error.
Other cases, where the amount in dispute is of sufficient value, may 
be removed to said supreme court by appeal. In cases where a party
would be entitled to an appeal, and where the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, shall be of the value of one thousand dollars or 
upwards, the evidence shall be reduced to writing, under the direction
of the circuit court. 
SEC. 5. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this chapter, writs of
error and appeals shall be prosecuted in the same manner, and the 
same proceedings shall be had therein, and with like effect, as is or
shall be provided in cases of write of error on judgments, or appeals 
upon orders or decrees, rendered in the circuit courts of the United
States.  
SEC. 6. Every final order, judgment, or decree of the orphans'
court, and every order of the said court for the granting or refusing
probate of a will or codicil} or for granting, or refusing, or revoking 
letters testamentary, or of administration, or guardianship, or for
passing a final account of administration or guardianship, or for the 
distribution of an estate, or for assigning dower, or confirming a sale
of real estate, may be reversed, affirmed, or modified by the circuit 
court, on appeal. 
SEC. 7. Any person interested in or affected by the decision of the
orphans' court, may appeal therefrom, by giving notice in open court 
during the term at which the decision complained of is made, (an
entry of which notice shall be made on the minutes of the court,) or
by filing a notice of appeal with the register of wills, and serving 
written notice upon all others interested, if within this District, at
any time within thirty days after the decision complained of is 
made. 
SEc. 8. The appeal shall be deemed waived, unless the appellant
shall, within ten days after the appeal is taken, file in the orphans' 
court the bond of himself or some other person, in a sum and with
security to be approved by the judge of the orphans' court, conditioned 
that he will prosecute the appeal, and pay such damages and costs,
and perform such order or decree in the cause as may be adjudged
against him by the circuit court. The bond shall be payable to the 
United States, and, upon any breach of the condition thereof, may 
be sued upon by any one or more of the parties interested, in his or
their own names; but the appeal of any executor or administrator
shall be complete and effectual without any bond filed. 
SEC. 9. The appeal shall not be a supersedeas in any other matter
relating to the administration of the estate, except that upon which
the appeal is specially taken. When the appeal is taken and perfected
by giving bond 88 aforesaid, when such is necessary, the register
shall deposit in the office of the clerk of the circuit court all the
original papers in his office relating to the subject-matter of .the
appeal, and shall also file in said clerk's office a copy of so much of
the record of the proceedings in the orphans' court as may be neces­ 
sary to elucidate the points in dispute between the parties.
SEC. 10. Upon the filing of the papers and a copy of the record in 
the circuit court, that court shall be possessed of the cause, and shall
proceed to hear, try, and determine the same anew, 88 in other civil
cases, without regarding any error, defect, or other imperfection in 
the proceedings of the orphans' court.
SEC. 11. When judgment upon an appeal from the orphans' court 
bas been rendered by the circuit court, the clerk shall return into the
orphans' court all the original papers, together with a certified tran­
script of the judgment or decree, and the orphans' court shall carry 
the same into effect. 
CHAPTER 1 o 1. or the foreclosure or mortgages.
OB.lPTBB 102. or actions ror a nuilance. 
OB.lPTD 103. or actions to recover poasesaion of real property, and to determine confiicliog
claima thereto. 
OB.lP"nB 104. or partition of real property. 
CB.lPTn 105. or the enforcement of mechanics' liens on buildings.
Oauna 106. or the enforcement or liens on boats, and other water craft. 
OluPna 10'1. or proceedings to enf'orce jadgmentl against joint debtors. and the real estate
of dcceued judgment defendants. 
OluPTD 108. Of remedies or sureties against their principals. 
Olunu 109. or actions by and against execaton and administrators.
Cll.lPHa 110. or the action for dower. 
Cll.lPna 111. Of mandamus and prohibition. 
CB.lPTn 112. Of certiorari.
OluPna 113. Of informations. 
Of actions in particular cases 
CH.lPTBB 114. Of habeu corp111. 
OF THE FORECLOSURE OF IIORTGAGE3. 
S1ono11
1. Equityofredemption may be forecloeed. 
2, } Judgment on foreclosure.
3. 
4. Proceedinp of marshal.
5. Plaintiff shall not foreclose when he has 
brought &nother action on the debt. 
SEC. 1. When default is made in the peformance of any con­
dition contained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or his assigns may 
proceed to foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the mort­
gage. 
SEC. 2. In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the court shall order
the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to
be sold to satisfy the mortgage and costs of the action. The payment
of the mortgage debt, with interest and coats, at any time before sale, 
shall satisfy the judgment. 
TITLE III. 
CHAPTER 101. 
SICl'ION 
6. Proceeding, when debt i1 due by instal­
mente. 
7. Property may be eold in parcele.
8. Surplus to be paid to mortgaie debtor. 
SEC. 3. The court shall direct in the order of sale that the sum 
due on the mortgage and costs which may remain unsatisfied after
the sale of the mortgaged premises, shall be levied on any property
of the mortgage debtor. 
SEc. 4. A copy of the order of sale and judgment shall be issued
and certified by the clerk, under the seal of the court, to the marshal,
who shall thereupon proceed to sell the mortgaged premises, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, interest,
and costs, as upon execution, and if any part of the judgment, 
interests, and costs shall remain unsatisfied, the marshal shall
forth with proceed for the residue against the other property of the 
defendant. 
SEc. 5. The plaintiff shall not proceed to foreclose his mortgage
while he is prosecuting any other action for the same debt or matter
which is secured by the mortgage, or while be is seeking to obtain 
execution of any judgment in such other action ; nor shall he prose­
cute any other action for the same matter while be is foreclosing his 
mortgage, or prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure.
SEC. 6. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a 
mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest, or instalment
of the principal, and there are other instalments not due, if the
defendant pay into court the principal and interest due, with costs,
at any time before final judgment, the complaint shall be dismiesed ;
if such payment be made after final judgment, proceedings thereon
shall be stayed, subjeet to be enforced upon a subsequent default in
the payment of any instalment of the principal or interest thereafter
becoming due. In the final judgment, the court shall direct at what
time and upon what default any subsequent execution shall issue. 
SEC. 7. In such cases, after final judgment, the court shall ascertain
whether the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done
without injury to the interest of the parties, the court shall direct so 
much only of the premises to be sold as will be sufficient to pay the
amount then due on the mortgage, with costs, and the judgment
shall remain, to be enforced upon any subsequent default, unless the
amount due shall be paid before execution of the judgment is per­
fected. If the mortgaged premises cannot be sold in parcels, the
court shall order the whole to be sold, and the proceeds of the sale
shall be applied, first, to the payment of the principal due, interest, 
and costs, and then to the residue secured by the mortgage and not 
due ; and if the residue · do not bear interest, a deduction shall be
made therefrom by discounting the legal interest. 
SEC. 8. In all cases where the proceeds of sale shall be more than
sufficient to pay the amount due and costs, the surplus shall be paid
to the mortgage debtor, his heirs, or assigns. 
SECTION
2. Judgment in an action for a nuimnce.
8:scnos 
1. What ahaJJ be deemed a nuisance. 
OF ACTION TO RECOVER THE POSSESSION OF BEAL PROPERTY, AND TO
DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS THERETO. 
SJ:OTIOlf 
I 
CHAPTER I 02. 
ACTION FOR A NUISANCE. 
SEC. 1. Whatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or offensive 
to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as essen­
tially to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property,
is a nuisance, and the subject of an action. 
SEC. 2. Such action may be brought by any person whose property
is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the
nuisance, and by the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or abated
as well as damages recovered. 
TITLE 1. Interest in real property may be recov­
ered by the party entitled. 
2. Landlord may be substituted for tenant.
3. Service where defendant is a non-resi- 
dent.
4. Whal the complaint 11haJI contain.
5. Who.t the answer shall contain. 
CHAPTER 103. 
6. Judgment against tenant conclusive
where landlord baa received notice. 
7. No proof of poueuion neccllBllry where
there i.8 defence. 
I 
8BOTIOX 
Sscmox
8. When judgment for damages and coats 
only.
9. Action not prejudiced by alienation.
10. Foreclosure and sale neceBNry.
1 J. Provison as to lease,. 
12. Court may allow a party to enter for the
purpoee of survey or meaauremenL 
13. Jury may award exemplary damages. 
)4, Action for quieting title.
15. Provision aa to an action againat a co. 
tenant. 
SEC. 1. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in real
property, and a right to the possession thereof, may recover the same
by action, to be brought against the tenant in possession; if there is 
no such tenant, then against the person claiming the title or some
interest therein. 
SEC. 2. Whenever i.t appears that the defendant is only a tenant, the
landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice thereof being given. 
SEc. 3. When the defendant is a non-resident, service may be had
upon his resident agent for the property with the like effect as though
made upon tbe principal ; or service may be had by publication, as in 
other cases.
SEC. 4. The plaintiff in his complaint shall state that he is entitled 
to the possession of the premises, particularly describing them, the
interest he claims therein, and that the defendant unlawfully keeps
him out of possession, and the damages, if any, which he claims for 
withholding the property.
SEC. 5. The answer of the defendant shall set forth under what 
claim of right, if any, he holds possession; and if as mere tenant,
the name and residence of his landlord shall be given ; and if he does 
not defend for the whole premises, he shall specify for what particular
part he does defend. 
SEC. 6. In an action against the tenant, the judgment shall be
conclusive against a landlord who has received notice as hereinbefore
provided. 
SEc. 7. Where the defendant makes defence, it shall not be neces­
sary to prove him in the possession of the premises. 
SEC. 8. If the interest of the plaintiff expire before the time in
which he could be put in possession, he shall obtain a judgment for 
damages and costs only,
SEC. 9. An action for the recovery of real property against a person 
in possession, shall not be prejudiced by any alienation made by such
person either before or after the commencement of the action. 
SEC. 10. A mortgage of real property shall not be deemed a con­ 
veyance, so as to enable the owner of the mortgage to recover
possession of the real property without foreclosure and a sale accord­
ing to law. 
SEC. 11. When, in case of a lease of real property and the failure
of the tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a right to re-enter for 
such failure, he may bring an action to recover possession of the
property ; but if at any time before judgment in such action the
lessee, or his successor :in interest, pay to the plaintiff or bring into 
court the amount of rent then in arrear, with interest and the coats of
action, and perform the other covenants and agreements on the part 
of the lessee, he shall be entitled to the possession according to the
terms of the lease. 
SEC. 12. The court, on motion, and after notice to the opposite
party, may, for cause shown, grant an order allowing the party
applying therefor to enter upon the property in controversy, and
make survey and admeasurement thereof for the purposes of the
action. The order shall describe the property, and a copy thereof shall 
be served upon the owner or person having the occupancy and control
of the land. 
SEC. 13. In case of a wanton aggression on the part of a defendant,
the jury may award exemplary damages. 
SEC. 14. An action may be brought by any person either in or out
of possession, or by one having an interest in remainder or reversion, 
· against another who claims title to, or interest. in, real property,
adverse to him, although the defendant may not be in possession 
thereof, for the purpose of determining and quieting the question of title. The rules in this chapter prescribed shall in such cases be
observed as far as they are applicable. If in such cases the defendant
disclaim in his answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer 
judgment to be ta.ken against him without answer, the defendant
shall recover costs. 
SEC. 15. In an action by a tenant in common or joint tenant of real
property, against his co-tenant, the plaintiff must show, in addition 
to his evidence of right, that the defendant either denied the plain­
tiff's right, or did some act amounting to such denial. 
CHAPTER 104. 
OF PARTITIOY OF REAL PROPERTY. 
1. Who may be compelled to divide Iands, 
:: 11
4. Proceedings on a petition for a partition. 
5.
6.
7. No partition again,t the will ofa testator. 
i S•OTJOX 
8. Three commieeieners to bo appointed.
9. Commi•ionen to take an oath.
10. Two or more ebarea may be eet off' 
together. · 
u. Commiaionon to give notice.
12. Acts of a majority valid.
13, Guardians may act for their warde. 
S'ICTIOK 
14. Return or commillionen.
15. Return of commieelcners may be set 
aside.
16. Any lien to remain in full force upon 
the part Uligned.
17. Widow to be mado a party and have 
her dower ••iped.
18. Court may order a sale.
19. Sale to be made by a commiMioner. 
~. Court may.order a conveyance. 
SEC. 1. All persons holding lands as joint tenants, or tenants in
common, or tenants in coparcenary, may be compelled to divide the 
same in the manner hereinafter provided. 
SEC. 2. Any such tenant may apply to the circuit court by petition,
setting forth a description of the premises, and the rights and titles 
therein of the parties interested. 
SEC. 3. On the filing of such petition, a summons to appear and
answer thereto shall be issued by the clerk, and served personally on
each of tho said parties, if they shall be found ; if not found, by
leaving a copy thereof at their last place of residence; or if any of 
them are non-residents of this District, or if in the petition it is
alleged that their names are unknown to the petitioner, and such non­ 
residence or want of knowledge be verified by affidavit, or if it shall
appear by affidavit, or by the return of the officer having the sum­ 
mons to serve, that the residence of such defendants is unknown, the 
court, or any judge thereof, may order notice of the pendency of such 
petition to be given at least for three weeks successively in some
newspaper published in this District .. 
SEC. 4. It appearing to the court that such summons has been
served ten days before the first day of the term, and when publication
as aforesaid is required, that the same has been made thirty days
previous to such term, the court shall proceed to hear such petition.
Any person interested in such estate may appear and show why the 
petitioner ought not to have partition as prayed for; and the further
pleadings shall be conducted, and the issues joined shall be determined 
as in other cases.
SEC. 5. If any person not named in the petition shall appear and 
plead as a defendant, or allege any title to any part of the premises,
the petitioner may reply that such person has no estate in the premises, 
e.nd also any other matter in like manner as if he had not disputed
such person's right to appear. If it shall appear that such person
has no estate in the lands, the matter of his objection to the partition
shall be no further inquired of. 
SEC. 6. If, upon trial, or upon default, or otherwise, it shall appear
that partition ought to be me.de, the court shall make an order that 
partition be made to the parties who may desire the same, specifying
therein 'the share assigned to each, and taking into consideration the
advancements to heirs of a. person dying intestate ; and the residue
of the premises shall remain for the persons entitled thereto, subject 
to a future partition.
SEC. 7. The court shall not order or affirm partition of any real 
estate contrary to the intention of a testator expressed in his will.
SEC. 8. Upon an order for partition, the court shall appoint three 
disinterested freeholders, not of kin to any of the parties, as commis­
sioners, who shall make partition of such lands in pursuance of the
order of the court. 
SEc. 9. Before _proceeding to discharge their duties, such commis­
sioners shall take an oath faithfully to perform the same, which oath
shall be administered by any judge of the court, and a certificate
thereof shall be endorsed on the warrant issued to the commissioners 
to make such partition.
SEc. 10. Two or more persons may, if they choose, have their shares 
set off together. 
SEC. 11. The commissioners shall give sufficient notice of the time
and place appointed for making the partition to e.11 persons interested
therein who are known and within this District, that they may be
present at the making thereof. 
SEc. 12. All the commissioners shall meet for the performance of
any of their duties, but the acts of a majority of them shall be valid.
Vacancies shall be filled by the court, or by a judge ir; vacation. 
SEC. 13. In all proceedings under this chapter guardians may act
for their wards as their wards might have acted being of age. The
guardian of an infant, and the person entitled to the custody and 
management of the estate of an insane person, or other person
adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, may consent to a
partition without any proceeding by petition as aforesaid, and agree
upon the share to be set off to such infant or other person entitled, 
and may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the shares,
of the parts to which they may be respectively entitled, upon an order 
of the court to that effect.
SEC. 14. The commissioners shall make a return of their proceed­ 
ings, under their hands and seals, together with their warrant, to the
court, specifying by divisions, or by metes and bounds, each share,
whenever partition is made. They shall also report the value of the
whole and of each share. If their proceedings are confirmed by the
court, judgment shall thereupon be rendered that the said partition 
be firm and effectual forever ; and the return shall then be recorded
in the clerk's office, and also in the office of the recorder. 
SEC. 15. The court may, for any sufficient reason, set aside the
return and commit the duty of partition anew to the same, or other 
commissioners, to be appointed and qualified as aforesaid, whereupon
the same proceedings shall be had as before directed. 
SEC. 16. Any person having a mortgage, attachment, or other lien
on the share of any part owner, shall be concluded by the judgment 
of the court, so far as it respects the partition and assignment of tho
shares, but his lien shall remain in full force upon the part that shall
be assigned to or left for such part owner. 
SEC. 17. In all cases of petition for a partition of real estate, the
widow entitled to dower therein, if any there be, shall be made a
party to the proceedings, unless dower shall have been previously 
assigned. And whenever a widow is entitled to dower in real estate,
of which partition is demanded, the commissioners me.king partition
shall set off to such widow her dower therein. 
SEc. 18. When such commissioners shall report to the court that
the whole or part of the lands of which partition is demanded cannot 
be divided without damage to the owners, the court, in its discretion,
may order the whole or such part of the premises to be sold at public 
or private sale on such terms and conditions as it may prescribe.
And if a part only be sold, the remainder may be partitioned, subject 
to the rules provided in this chapter. If, under such partial partition,
duly confirmed, the shares assigned be full shares, the residue reserved 
for sale shall be discharged from all title or claim of the parties so
receiving assignment of their shares. 
SEC. 19. Such sale shall be made by a commissioner, to be appointed
by the court, other than one of the commissioners appointed to make 
partition; and such commissioner shall file bond, payable to the
United States, with such surety and in such penalty as the court may 
direct, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of his trUBt. 
SEC. 20. Whenever it shall appear to the court that the purchase­
money for the land sold has been duly paid, the court shall order euch 
commissioner, or some other person, to execute conveyances to the
purchaser, which shall bar all claims of such owners to said landus
effectually as if they themselves had executed the same. 
SEC. 21. Commissioners to make partition or to sell, shall not
become purchasers of said land. 
SEC. 22. The moneys arising from such sale, after payment of jDBt
costs and expenses, shall be paid by such commissioners to the persons 
entitled thereto, according to their respective shares, under the direc­
tion of the court. 
SEC. 23. If any party to such partition die, the proceedings therein
shall not abate, except as to him ; nor shall the same abate: as to 
him, if the heirs of such decedent are made parties instead.
SEC. 24. The court shall make such allowance to the commissioners 
for their services, and for surveying, marking, chaining, platting, and
the execution of the necessary conveyances, as to the court shall seem
reasonable; and all costs and necessary expenses shall be awarded
and enforced in favor of those entitled thereto, against the petitioners,
in such proportion against each, as the court may determine. 
SEC. 25. Any person who, before the partition or sale, was lessee of
any lands divided or sold, shall hold the same of him to whom such
land is allotted or sold, on the same terms on which by his lease he
held it before partition. 
SEC. 26. Upon showing sufficient cause, any person not served with
summons may, within one year after such partition is confirmed, ap·
pear and open the proceedings, and obtain a review thereof, and also 
any person of unsound mind, or any infant whose guardian did not
attend and approve such partition, may, within one year ofter the
removal of his disability, have a review of such partition. 
TITLE
OF THE ENFORCEMENT OF MECHANICS' LIENS ON BUILDINGS. 
1. Who may have a lien.
2. Notice of lien to be filed.
3. When lien •hall ceue. 
4. What the complaint shall contain.
5. Service of summons,
6. Ptoceedinga in such cues. 
7. Precedence of 1uch lien. 
CHAPTER ios. 
Bsanolf
8. What amount of land 1hall be 1ubject 
to such lien.
9. Several parties may join.
10. Satiafaction to be entered on the record
11 •. ! Provisions as to sub-contractor, or
12. S laborer, or journeyman. 
13. Lien, may be released by bond and
surety to be approved by the court, 
SEC. 1. Any person who shall hereafter by virtue of any contract
with the owner of any building, or with the agent of such owner, 
perform any labor upon, or furnish any materials, engine, or machinery
for the construction or repairing of such building, shall, upon filing
the notice prescribed in the next following section, have a lien upon
such building, and the lot of ground upon which the same is situated,
:for such labor done or materials, engine, or machinery furnished, when
the amount shall exceed twenty dollars. 
SEC. 2. Any person wishing to avail himself of the provisions of this chapter, .whether his claim be due or not, shall file in the recorder's 
office, at any time within three months after the completion of such
building or repairs, a notice of hie intention to hold a lien upon the 
property declared by this chapter liable to such lien, for the amount
due or to become due to him, specifically setting forth the amount
claimed. Upon hie failure to do so, the lien shall be lost. The recorder
shall file and record such notice .in a book provided for that purpose. 
SEC. 3. Such lien shall cease to exist at the expiration of one year
after the completion of the building or repairs, unless before that time
an action to enforce the same shall have been commenced in the circuit
court by the person having such lien against the owner with whom, 
or with whose agent, the contract was made, unless such claim be not
due at the expiration of one year after such completion, in which case 
the action shall be commenced within three months after the same
shall have become due. 
SEC. 4. The complaint of the plaintiff' shall contain a brief state­
ment of the contract on which the claim is founded, the amount due
thereon, the time when the notice was filed with the recorder, the 
time when the building was completed, if it be completed, with a
description of the premises, and any other material facts, and shall
pray that the premises may be sold, and the proceeds of the sale
applied to the discharge of the lien. 
SEc. 5. The summons shall be served as in other cases, or instead
of service by publication, it may be made by delivering a copy thereof 
to the person in possession of the premises. If the defendant shall
have sold or disposed of the premises before the service of the sum­
mons, the court shall direct notice of the proceedings to be served on
the purchaser or his agent for the premises, who may thereupon, if 
he desire it, be made a party defendant in the action. 
SEC. 6. The proceedings in an action to enforce such lien shall be
the same as in other actions, except as otherwise provided in this chapter; and if judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, he may have
execution issued against the premises, and thereupon the marshal
shall proceed as upon other executions against real property. 
SEc. 7. The liens created in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter shall have precedence 'over all other liens or encumbrances
which attached upon the premises subsequent to the time at which
the building was commenced, or the materials were furnished. If,
upon a sale of the premises on execution, the proceeds be insufficient
to pay all such liens, the court shall order them to be paid in propor­
tion to the amount respectively due to each, and any other property
of the defendant not exempt from execution may be sold to satisfy 
such execution.
SEC. 8. If the building be on any land lying outside the corporate 
limits of Washington City and Georgetown, the land upon which the
same is erected, together with the space around the same, not exceed­
ing five hundred square feet clear of the building, shall also be subject 
to the said lien, if the said land at the time of the erection or repair
of such building shall have been the property of the person contracting
for the erection or repair of the same. If the building be in Wash­ 
ington City or Georgetown, the ground on which the same is erected,
and a space of ground equal to the front of the building, and extend­
ing to the depth of the lot or lots on which it is erected, shall also be
bound by the said lien, subject to the foregoing proviso. 
SEC. 9. All or any number of persons having liens on the same
building pursuant to the provision, of this chapter, may join in one 
action, but their claims shall be stated distinctly as in a separate
action, and the judgment shall show the amounts to which they are
respectively entitled. If several such actions be brought by different 
claimants, and be pending at the same time, the court may order
them to be consolidated. 
SEc. 10. Whenever any person having a lien by virtue of the pro­
visions of this chapter shall have received satisfaction for his claim, 
and the costs of his proceedings thereon, he shall, upon the request
of any person interested, and upon the payment or tender of the costs 
of entering satisfaction, within six days after such payment or tender,
enter satisfaction of his demand in the office of the recorder, and upon 
failure to do so he shall forfeit fifty dollars to the party aggrieved,
and all damages which he may have sustained in consequence of such
failure or neglect. 
SEC. 11. Any sub-contractor, journeyman, or laborer employed in
the construction or repairing of any building, or in furnishing any 
materials or machinery for the same, may give the owner thereof
notice in writing, particularly setting forth the amount of his claim, 
and the service rendered, for which his employer is indebted to him,
and that he holds the owner responsible for the same ; and the owner
of the building shall be liable for such claim, but not to exceed the
amount due from him to the employer at the time of notice, or subse­
quently, which may be recovered in an action. 
SEC. 12. Whenever any sub-contractor, journeyman, or laborer
shall recover any such claim from the owner of the building, the same 
may be set off by such owner in any action brought against him by
the person who otherwise would be entitled to recover the same under 
the contract.
SEc. 13. In all proceedings commenced under this chapter, the 
defendant may file a written undertaking, with surety to be approved
by the court, to the effect that he will pay the judgment that may 
be recovered, and costs, and thereby release his property from the
lien hereby created. 
TITLE OF THE ENFORCEMENT OF L~ENS ON BOATS AND OTHER WATER CRAFTS. 
8•or10•
1, For what boats shall be liable. 
2. Claims to be Iiens.
3, Precedence of auch liena. 
4. Action may be had againat boat
owners. 
5. Several.parties may join. 
CHAPTER 106. 
I S•~;:dgment may be enforced by execution.
7. Attachment may be discharged by en· 
I
tering into bond with eurety.
or I 8. Upon whom a11mmooa may be eened.. 
9. When action may be brought before
justice of the peace. 
SEC. 1. All boats, vessels, and water crafts of every description,
found in the waters of this District, shall be liable: 
1. For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent, clerk, or
consignee thereof, on account of supplies furnished for the use of the 
same, on account of work done or services rendered for the same, by
boatmen or mariners, or any other persons, or on account of work
done or materials furnished in building, repairing, fitting out,
furnishing, or equipping such boat, vessel, or water craft. 
2. For all sums due for wharfage, anchorage, or tonnage of such
boats, vessels, or water crafts within this District. 
3. For all demands or damages arising out of any contract of
affreightment, or any wilful or negligent act of the master, owner, or
agent thereof, done in connexion with the business of such boat, 
vessel, or water craft, or any contract relative to the transportation of
persons or property entered into by the master, owner, agent, clerk,
or consignee thereof. 
4. For all injuries to persons or property by such boat, vessel, or
water craft, or by the officers or crew, done in connexion with the 
business of the same.
SEC. 2. Claims growing out of the above causes shall be liens upon 
the boat, vessel, or water craft, their apparel, tackle, furniture, and
appendages, including barges and lighters belonging to the owners
of the boat, vessel, or water craft, and used therewith at the time the
action is commenced. 
SEC. 3. Liens under the provisions of this chapter shall have prece­
dence of all other liens or claims against such boat, vessel, or water
craft; and, as between the liens enumerated in the first section 0£
this chapter, mariners' and boatmen's wages shall be first preferred. 
SEC. 4. .Any person aggrieved may have an action against such
boat, vessel, or water craft by name, or the owners thereof, to enforce 
any such lien ; and if the complaint in such action shows the particu­
lars of the demand, the amount due, and a demand made upon the
owner, master, clerk, or consignee thereof, and refusal of payment, 
and verified by the affidavit of the plaintiff, or other person in his
behalf, a writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the circuit 
court against the boat, vessel, or other water craft, and the tackle
and furniture thereof, which shall be directed, executed, and returned 
as a writ of attachment in other cases.
SEc. 5. In all actions contemplated in the section next preceding, 
all or any of the persons having demands of the description therein
mentioned may join in a complaint against such boat, vessel, or water
craft, either at the commencement of the action or at any time
afterwards before judgment, upon filing the requisite complaint and
affidavit. 
SEC. 6. In such actions proceedings shall be had, judgment rendered
and enforced by execution or other proper means, as in other cases. 
SEC. 7. If the master, owner, or consignee shall, before final judg­
ment in any action commenced in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, enter into a written undertaking in favor of the plaintiff,
with sufficient security to be approved by the marshal, conditioned
for the performance of the judgment of the court, the attachment shall
be discharged, and restitution made of the boat, vessel, or water craft. 
SEC. 8. In cases arising under the first section of this chapter the
summons may be served upon the officer or consignee making the
contract; if such cannot be found, then upon the clerk, or if he cannot
be found, upon any other officer of the boat, vessel, or water craft, or
any person having charge thereof; if that cannot be done, by affixing
a copy of the summons in some conspicuous place in tho boat, vessel,
or water craft. 
SEC. 9. The action may be brought before any justice of the peace,
when the amount claimed is within his jurisdiction; and in such 
actions justices of the peace shall have the powers and perform the
duties prescribed for the clerk and court, and constables shall have 
the powers and perform the duties of marshal. 
TITLE OF PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCE JUDGMENTS AGATNST JOINT DEBTORS, AND
THE REAL ESTATE OF DECEASED JUDGMENT DEFEND.ANTS. 
SJ!:OTIOlf I SBCTION 
J. Proceedings against parties jointly in- 4. What the mmmou shall contain.
debted. 56.. l The pleadings 
2. Hein, deviaeea, &c., may be aummoned. S 
3. An affidavit to be flied. 
CHAPTER 107. 
SEC. 1. When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more
persons jointly indebted upon contract as provided in section fourteen 
of chapter eighty-one, those who were not originally summoned to
answer the complaint may be summoned to show cause why they 
should not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as if they
had been originally summoned. 
SEC. 2. In case of the death of any judgment debtor, the heirs, devi­
sees, or legatees of such debtor, or the tenant of real property owned 
by him and affected by the judgment, and the personal representatives
of the decedent, may, after the expiration of one year from the time 
of granting letters testamentary, or of administration upon the estate
of the decedent, be summoned to show cause why tho judgment should 
not be enforced against the estate of the judgment debtor in their
hands, respectively. 
SEC. 3. The judgment creditor, his representatives or attorney, shall
file an affidavit that the judgment has not been satisfied to his knowl­
edge or information and belief, and shall specify the amount due
thereon; and in the cases arising under the second section of this chapter, shall also specify the property sought to be charged. 
SBC. 4. The summons shall describe the judgment, and require the
person summoned to show cause, and shall be issued, served, and
returned as a summons in an original action. 
SEC. 5. The party summoned may answer, denying the judgment,
or setting up any defence which may have arisen subsequently, or 
suffer a default; and, in addition thereto, if he be proceeded against
according to the first section of this chapter, he may make the same
defence which he might have originally made to the action, and no 
other.
SEC. 6. The party issuing the summons may demur or reply to the 
answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply; and the
pleadings shall be verified in like cases and manner as in an action, 
and issues may be tried and judgment rendered and enforced by
execution. 
CHAPTER 108. 
OF REMEDIES OF SURETIES AGAINST THEIR PRINCIPALS. 
1. Sureties, &.c., may give notice.
2. When anrety may be diacharged.
3. Tri.al of auretyship.
4. Execution first to be levied upon the 
property of principal.
5. In what cases judgment may remain 
open for the benefit of sureties, &te. 
Ssono~ 
6. Remedy against co-sureties.
7. Surety not lo confeu judgment. where be 
is notified of defence.
8, ThQ provisions of the chapter to eztend 
to heirs, eu1cutors, &c. 
SEC. 1. Any person bound as surety, guarantor, or endorser,
upon any contract in writing for the payment of money, or the per­
formance of any act, when the right of action has accrued, may 
require, by notice in writing, the creditor or obligee forthwith to
institute an action upon the contract. 
SEC. 2. If the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a reason­
able time to bring his action upon such contract, and prosecute the 
same to judgment and execution, the surety shall be discharged from
all liability thereon. 
SEC. 3. When any action is brought against two or more defendants
on a contract, any one or more of the defendants being surety for the 
others, the surety may, upon a written complaint to the court, cause
the question of suretyship to be tried and determined, upon the issue
made by the parties, at the trial of the cause, or at any time before or
after the trial, or at a subsequent term; but such proceedings shall
not affect the proceedings of the plaintiff'. 
SEC. 4. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the surety, the
court shall make an order directing the marshal to levy the execution 
first upon and exhaust the property of the principal, before a levy
shall be made upon the property of the surety; and the clerk shall
endorse a memorandum of the order on the execution. 
SEC. 5. When any person, being surety in any undertaking, has 
been or shall be compelled to pay any judgment, or any pan thereof,
or shall make any payment which is applied upon such judgment by
reason of such suretysbip, the judgment against the principal shall 
not be discharged by such payment, but shall remain in force for ihe
use of such surety making such payment ; and after the plaintiff is 
paid, so much of the judgment as remains unsatisfied, may be pr08e­
outed to execution for such surety's use. 
SEC. 6. Any surety, being one of several judgment defendants,
against whom a judgment has been obtained on the contract for
which he was surety, having paid and satisfied the plaintiff, shall 
have the remedy provided in the last preceding section against the
co-sureties, to collect of them the ratable proportion which each is 
bound to pay.
SEC. 7. No surety, or his representatives, shall confess judgment, 
or suffer judgment by default, in any case where he is notified that 
there is a valid defence, if the principal will enter himself defendant
to the action, and tender to the surety, or his representatives, good 
security to indemnify him, to be approved by the court. 
SEC. 8. The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall extend to
heirs, executors, and administrators of deceased person ; 'but the
provisions of the first section of this chapter shall not operate against 
persona under legal disabilities. 
CHAPTER
or ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS. 
811:cTIOR 
i, When an action may be brought by or
against repN1t1eDtatiYee. 
2. When ei:ecutor may maintain an action.
3. Action against executor for wute. 
4. Ezecuton who have qualified, only to
be joined. 
5. Profert only necemary; when.
6. Actions by or against executors not to 
abate. 
CHAPTER 109. 
811:CTIOR 
7. Executor may prosecute appeal.
8. Ezecutor of executor not to act. 
9. ,
IO. Powers of non-resident ei:ecuton, and 
U. juriediction of court over the ame.
Ii. By whom an u.ecutor may be med on 
hi, bond.
13. The effect of a judgment apimt an 
executor. 
SEC. 1. An action may be brought by or against the represent.a·
tives of a deceased person, where the cause of action survives. 
SEC. 2. Every executor or administrator shall have full power to
maintain an action, where the cause of action survives, in any court 
of competent jurisdiction, in his name, as such executor or adminis­
trator, for any debt or personal demand, which the testator or intestate
himself might have maintained, for the recovery of any property 
properly belonging to such executor or administrator, and for trespass
or waste committed on the estate of the decedent in hie lifetime. 
SEC. 3. .Any person or hie personal representatives may maintain
an action against the executor or administrator of any decedent for
any debt or personal demand which might have been maintained 
against such decedent, and against the executor or administrator of
any testator or intestate who in his lifetime shall have wasted, 
destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted to hie own use the
goods and chattels of any such person, or committed any trespass or 
waste upon the real estate of such person. 
SEC. 4. In actions brought by or against executors, it shall not be
necessary to join 'those as parties to whom letters shall have been 
issued, and who have not qualified. 
SEC. 5. In any action by an executor or administrator, it shall not
be neceasary to make profert of his letters, nor shall his right to sue
as such executor or administrator be questioned, unless the opposite 
party shall by affidavit deny such right; in which case a copy of such
letters, duly authenticated, shall be evidence to establish such right. 
SEC. 6. If at any time any executor or administrator shall die, or
resign, or be removed, and an action or proceeding be pending in any
court, in which his name, in his fiduciary capacity, is used, such
action or proceeding shall not abate or be discontinued, but the same
shall be prosecuted or defended by the remaining executor or admin­
istrator, if there be one, or by his successor ; the name of such 
survivor or successor being substituted in such action or proceeding
instead of that of the executor or administrator whose authority has 
ceased ; nor shall such action or proceeding be continued to another
term, unless at the option of such survivor or successor. 
SEC. 7. Any executor or administrator shall have power to prosecute
any writ of error or appeal taken by the testator or intestate, or by 
bis predecessor, and may have execution and other legal. process
issued on a judgment obtained by the testator or intestate, without 
further proceedings against, or notice to the judgment defendant. 
SEC. 8. An executor of an executor shall have no authority to com­ 
mence or maintain any action or proceeding relating to the estate or
rights of the testator of the first executor, or to take control thereof 
as such executor. 
SEC. 9. A non-resident executor or administrator duly appointed in
any State or country may commence and prosecute any action in any 
court of this District, in his capacity of executor or administrator, in
like manner and under like restrictions as a resident; and a copy of 
his letters, duly authenticated, being produced and filed in the court
in which the action is brought, shall be sufficient evidence of his doe
appointment: provided, however, that he shall give security for costs 
as other non-residents.
SEC. 10. When a will is executed in another State or country and 
admitted to record in this District in pursuance of law, the executor,
or administrator with the will annexed, and any trustee appointed by 
such will, or by any court of this District, to perform any duty or
carry into effect any trust created by such will, shall have all the 
rights, powers, and authority, and shall be subject to the same liabili­
ties respecting their respective duties and trusts, as executors, admin­
istrators with the will annexed, and trustees under wills duly executed
and admitted to probate in this District, except where otherwise
expressly provided. 
SEC. 11. The court having jurisdiction of the subject-matter shall
in all cases have the same jurisdiction and powers over the apppoint·
ment, :filling vacancies, requiring sureties, and enforcing directions,
and restraining the performance and execution of the duties and trust.s
of such executors, administrators with the will annexed, and trustees, 
as are given to such court respecting the same matters arising under
wills duly executed and admitted to probate in this District. 
SEC. 12. An executor or administrator may be sued upon his bond
by any creditor, heir, legatee, or succeeding executor or administrator,
co-executor or co-administrator of the same estate, for a violation of 
the duties of his trust.
SEC. 13. In an action against an executor or administrator the 
judgment shall determine the rights of the parties; but execution
against such executor or administrator shall only issue for such sum 
as, in tlie due course of administration, shall appear to be the proper
share of such judgment plaintiff. Such judgment shall not be a lien 
upon the property of the estate. 
CHAPTER 110. 
OF THE .ACTION FOR DOWER. 
!: 1 Proceedings for the asaignment of dow­
a. 5 er by the orphana' court. 
4. When circuit court may uaign dower.
5. Action to be brought against tenant. 
8ECT1011 
6. \ Proceedings in circuit court for the
7. J aBSignment of dower.
8. When orphans' court sh&ll not Ulign 
dower.
9. Entire dower may be a11igned. 
SEC. 1. When a widow is entitled to dower, and her right to 
dower is not disputed by the heirs or devisees, or any person claiming
under them, or either of them, it may be assigned to her by the judge 
of the orphans' court, upon application of the widow, or any other
person interested in the lands; notice of which application shall be 
given to such heirs, devisees, or other persons, in such manner as
such judge shall direct. 
SEc. 2. For the purpose of assigning such dower, the judge of the
orphans' court shall issue his order to three discreet and disinterested
persons, authorizing and requiring them to set off the dower by
metes and bounds, when it can be done without injury to the whole 
estate.
SEc. 3. The said commissioners shall be sworn by a judge of any 
court of record faithfully to discharge their duties, and shall, as soon
as may be, set off the dower according to the command of such order, 
and make return of their proceedings, with an account of their
charges and expenses, in writing, to the orphans' court; and the
same being accepted and recorded, and an attested copy thereof filed 
in the office of the recorder, the dower shall remain fixed and certain,
unless such confirmation be set aside or reversed. 
SEc. 4. When any woman is entitled to dower, and it is not set out
to her by the heir or other tenant of the freehold to her satisfaction,
nor assigned to her by the judge of the orphans' court according 
to the foregoing provisions of this chapter, she may recover the
same by an action in the circuit court, in the manner hereinafter 
provided.
SEC. 5. The action shall be brought against the person who is 
tenant of the freehold at the time when it is commenced.
SEC. 6. If the demandant recovers judgment for her dower, tho 
circuit court shall appoint three discreet and disinterested persons to
act e.s commissioners, whose duty it shall be to set off the dower by 
metes and bounds, when it can be done without injury to the whole
estate. 
SEC. 7. The commissioners shall be sworn by a judge of any court 
of record faithfully to discharge their duties, and shall, as soon as
may be, set off the dower according to the order of the court, and 
make return of their proceedings, with an account of their charges
and expenses, in writing, to the circuit court; and the same being
acoept,ed and recorded, and an attested copy thereof filed in the office 
of the recorder, the dower shall remain fixed and certain.
SEC. 8. When the estate out of which dower is to be assigned con­ 
sists of any tenement which cannot be divided without damage to the
whole, and in cases where the estate cannot be divided by metes and
bounds, the judge of the orphans' court shall not assign dower, but the 
same may be assigned by the circuit court, or a sale of the premises
ordered by said crcuit court as is provided in section thirty-five of chapter forty-nine.
SEC. 9. Where there are several tracts of land, entire dower may 
be assigned out of one or more of such tracts. 
SECTION
1. Circuit court may i11ue mandamua and
prohibition. 
2. To whom, and for what il8Ued.
3. How the writ may be mued.
4. When not to iuue. 
5. May be in the alternative or peremptory. 
6. Issues oflaw and fact may be joined.
7. If jadgment be for applicant he may 
recover damages. 
CHAPTER 111. 
OF MANDAMUS AND PROHIBITION. 
SSCTJow
8. How writ shall be se"ed. 
9. Court may enlarge the time, 8t.c.
10. How obedience enforced. 
11. Writ of prohibition.
12. Any judge in vaca.tion may imue writl 
of prohibition, or alternative wriu of
mandamua. 
SEC. 1. Write of mandamus and prohibition may issue from the
circuit court. 
SEC. 2. Writs of mandamus may be issued to any inferior tribunal,
oorporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of an act 
which the law specifically enjoins, or a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station. 
SEc. 3. The writ shall be issued upon an affidavit and motion, and
made returnable as the court shall direct ; and the person, body, or 
tribunal to whom the same shall be directed and delivered, shall
make return, and for neglect to do so shall be proceeded against as
for a contempt. 
SEC. 4. The writ shall not issue where the applicant has a plain,
speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course oflaw. 
SEC. 5. The first writ shall be in the alternative or peremptory, as
the court shall direct. 
SEC. 6. Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ, Issues
of law and fact may be joined, and like proceedings shall be had for
the trial of issues and rendering judgment as in civil actions. 
SEC. 1. If judgment be given for the applicant, he shall recover the
damages which he shall have sustained, together with costs; and a 
peremptory mandamus shall be granted without delay.
SEc. 8. The writ shall be served in the same manner as a summons 
in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order
of the court. 
SEC. 9. The court shall have the same power to enlarge the time of
making a. return, and pleading to such writ, and for filing any subse­
quent pleadings, and to continue such cause, as in civil actions. 
SEC. 10. Obedience to such writs may be enforced by attachment
and fine, or imprisonment, or both. 
SEc. 11. The writ of prohibition shall command the court and
party to whom it shall be directed to refrain from any further pro­ 
ceedings in the matter therein specified, until the return of the writ
and the further order of the court thereon ; and upon the return to
show cause why they shall not be absolutely restrained from any
further proceedings in the matter. The court shall render judgment.
either that a prohibition absolute, restraining the court and party
from proceeding in the matter, do issue, or authorizing the court and
party to proceed in the matter in question. 
SEC. 12. Any judge of the circuit court shall have power, in vaca­
tion, to issue writs of prohibition and alternative writs of mandamus, 
and for good cause to rescind any such order made by himself previous 
to the next session of the court ; and may, in case of disobedience to
any such writ, proceed against the party as for a contempt. 
SECTION
1. When and by whom certiorari may be 
granted.
2. Application to be made on affiduit. 
:· l To whom the writ ma1, be directed, 
s: 5 and wha.t it shall command. 
SEC. 1. The writ of certiorari may be granted by the circuit
court, or by any judge thereof in vacation. It shall be granted in all 
cases where an inferior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial
functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or
officer, and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the court or
judge, any plain, speedy, and adequate remedy. 
SEc. 2. The application shall be made on affidavit by the party
beneficially interested, and the court or judge may require a notice of 
the application to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an
order to show cause w by it should not be allowed, or may grant the
writ without notice. 
SEC. 3. The writ may be directed to the inferior tribunal, board, or
officer, or to any other person having the custody of the record or
proceedings to be certified. When directed to a tribunal, the clerk, 
if there be one, shall return the writ with the transcript required. 
SEc. 4. The writ of certiorari shall command the party to whom it
is directed, to certify fully to the circuit court, at a special time, and
annex to the writ a transcript of the record and proceedings, that the
same may be reviewed by the court; and requiring the party in the
meantime to desist from further proeeedings in the matter to be 
reviewed. 
SEC. 5. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the words requiring
the stay shall be omitted from the writ ; these words may be inserted
or omitted in the sound discretion of the court or judge; but if omitted, 
the power of the inferior court, board, or officer shall not be sus­
pended nor the proceedings stayed. 
SEC. 6. The writ shall be served in tho same manner as a summons
in a civil action, except where otherwise expressly directed by the 
court or judge. 
CHAPTER 112. 
OF CERTIORARI. 
S&CTIOK 
6. How writ to be served.
7. Bond to be giYen.
8. Proceeding upon return. 
9. Copy of judgment to be transmiltod. 
SEC. 7. Before any writ of certiorari shall be granted, the party
applying, his agent or attorney, shall execute a written undertaking 
to the adverse party, with one or more sureties, and in a sum to be
approved by the court or judge, to the effect that the party applying
will prosecute the writ of certiorari to final judgment, and abide the
order which the court may make therein. 
SEC. 8. If the return to the writ be defective, the court may order
a further return to be made. When a full return shall be made, the
court shall, after hearing the parties, determine whether the inferior
tribunal, board, or officer has regularly pursued the authority of such 
tribunal, board, or officer, and may thereupon give judgment, either
affirming, annulling, or modifying the proceedings below, and issue
execution thereon as upon other judgments. 
SEC. 9. A copy of the judgment, signed by the clerk, shall be trans­
mitted to the inferior tribunal, board, or officer having custody of the
record or proceeding certified up. 
SECTION
1. For what. an information may be filed.
2. By whom the information may be filed. 
3·
} Of what a.n information may consist. 
4.
5. After information filed, a summon, shall 
i1&ue. 
CHAPTER 113. 
OF INFORMATIONS. 
~: l Of the judgment, and how it 1hall be
B. 5 enforced. 
SBCTlOR 
9. Plaintiff may have his action for dam­
ages, if he has not claimed them in the
information. 
10. Provision where several peno111 claim.
11. Of judgment in certain caae1.
12. Of judgment &4r&inst a corporation.
13. Information on escheat.
14. District attorney not liable for co.ts on 
informations. 
SEC. 1. An information may be filed against any person or
corporation in the following cases: 
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold
or exercise any public office or any franchise within this District, or
any office in any corporation created by the authority of the laws of 
this District.
2. Whenever any public officer shall have done or suffered any act 
which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office.
3. Where an association or number of persons shall act within this 
District as a corporation without being legally incorporated. 
4. Or where any corporation does or omits acts whioh amount t.o a
surrender of its rights and privileges as a corporation, or where it
exercises powers not conferred by law. 
SEC. 2. The information may be filed by the district attorney in the
circuit court, on his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty 
to do so, or shall be directed by the circuit court, or any judge thereof,
or by any other person on his own relation, whenever he claims an
interest in the office, franchise, or corporation which is the subject of
the information. 
SEC. 3. The information shall consist of a plain statement of the
facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding, addressed to the 
court. 
SEc. 4. Whenever an information shall be filed against a person
for usurping an office by the district attorney, he shall also set forth
therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with
an averment of his right thereto; and when filed by any other per­ 
son he shall show his interest in the matter, and he may claim the
damages he has sustained. 
SEC. 5. Whenever an information is filed, a summons shall issue
thereon, which shall be served and returned as in other actions. 
The defendant shall appear and answer, or suffer default, and
subsequent proceedings be had as in other cases. 
SEc. 6. In every case contesting the right to an office, judgment
shall be rendered upon the rights of the parties, and for damages the
relater may show himself entitled to, if any, to the time of the 
judgment.
SEC. 7. If judgment be rendered in favor of the relater, he shall 
proceed to exercise the functions of the office after he has been q uali­
fied as required by law ; and the court shall order the defendant to 
deliver over all the books and papers in his custody, or within his
power, belonging to the office from which he shall have been ousted. 
SEC. 8. If the defendant shall neglect or refuse to deliver over the
books and papers, pursuant to the order, the court shall enforce the
order by attachment and imprisonment. 
SEC. 9. When the judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintiff,
he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the information, have
his action for the damages at any time within one year after the 
judgment, and within the time limited by law for maintaining such
an action. 
SEc. 10. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same
office or franchise, one information may be filed against any or all
such persons, in order to try their respective rights to the office or
franchise. 
SEC. 11. Whenever any defendant shall be found guilty of any
usurpation of, or intrusion into, or unlawfully exercising any office 
or any franchise within this District, or any office in any corporation
created by the authority of the laws of this District, or when any 
public officer thus charged shall be found guilty of having done or
suffered any act which by the provisions of law shall work a forfeiture 
of his office, or when any association or number of persons shall be
found guilty of having acted as a corporation without being legally
incorporated, the circuit court shall give judgment of ouster against 
the defendant, and exclude him from the office, franchise, or corpo­
rate rights, and in cases of corporations, that the same shall be 
dissolved> and said court may adjudge costs in favor of the plaintiff.
SEC. 12. If under the proceedings authorized by this chapter judg­ 
ment be rendered against any corporation, or against any persons
claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs to be 
collected by execution against the persons claiming to be a corpora­
tion, or by attachment against the directors or other officers thereof,
and shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property 
and effects, take an account, and make a distribution among the
creditors. The district attorney shall immediately institute proceed­ 
ings for such purpose.
SEc. 13. Whenever any property shall escheat or be forfeited to the 
United States, the legal title shall be deemed to be in the United
States from the time of the escheat or forfeiture ; and an information 
may be filed by the district attorney in the circuit court for the re­
covery of the property, alleging the ground on which the recovery is
claimed; and like proceedings and judgment shall be had as in a civil
action for the recovery of property. 
SEC. 14. When an information is filed by the district attorney, 
under the provisions of this chapter, he shall not be liable for costs ; 
but when it is filed upon the relation of a private person, such
person shall be liable for costs, unless the same are adjudged against 
the defendant. 
SECTION
3.} 
OF THE WRIT OF HABEAS CORPUS. 
~ Oftheaerviceand return of the writ.
6. 
~ l Proceeding& on the return. 
CHAPTER 114. 
f 
SEOTJOK 
1. Babeu corpus; to whom and by whom 11. Writ may be had for let.ting to bail.
granted. 12. Court or judge may compel the attend- 
2. What the writ shall command. ance of wiLneuea.
13. M&raha] not liable to act.ion for obeying 
9. When tho legality of a/ judgment or
proce• shall not be inquired into. 
10. When a person shall not be discharged
from an order of commitment. 
writ of habeas corpus.
14. 1 Proceedings when there is reuon to 
15. t believe a person will be removed
16. from the jurisdiction of conrt or 
17. judge.
18. Habeucorpua may be served on Sonday. 
19. How writ.a shall be issued and returned.
20. In favor of what parties writ may UIIUe. 
SEC. 1. The writ of habeas corpus shall bo granted forthwith by
the circuit court, or by the criminal court, or by any judge of either
of said courts in vacation, to any person who shall apply for the same 
by petition, showing, by affidavit or other evidence, probable cause to 
believe that he is detained without lawful authority. Application in
like manner for the writ may also be made by any person in behalf
of the person illegally restrained. 
SEC. 2. The writ shall be directed to the officer or party having the
person under restraint, commanding him to have such person before 
the court or judge, at such time and place as the court or judge shall
direct, to do and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and 
to have then and there the writ. If the person to whom the writ is
directed is absent from the place where the petitioner is confined, it
may be served on the person having the immediate custody of such
petitioner. 
SEC. 3. If the writ be directed to the marshal, it shall be delivered
by the clerk to him without delay. If the writ be directed to any
other person, it shall be delivered to the marshal, and shall be served
by him by delivering the same to such person without delay. 
SEC. 4. If the person to whom such writ is directed cannot be found,
or shall refuse admittance to the marshal, the same may be served by 
leaving it at the residence of the person to whom it is directed, or by 
affixing the same on some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling­
house or where the petitioner is confined or under restraint. 
SEC. 5. The marshal or other person to whom the writ is directed
shall make immediate return thereof, and if he refuse, after due ser­
vice,eto make return, the court or judge shall enforce obedience by 
attachment.
SEC. 6. The return must be signed by the person making it, and 
shall be sworn to by him, unless he is a sworn public officer and shall
make the return in his official capacity. The person making the 
return shall state:
1. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party in hie 
custody.
2. If the authority be in writing, he shall return a copy and pro­ 
duce the original on the hearing.
3. If he has had the party in his custody, or under his restraint, 
and has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the time,
place, and cause of the transfer. He shall produce the party on the 
hearing, unless prevented by sickness or infirmity, which must be 
shown in the return.
SEC. 7. The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth of the allegation 
of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to decide on the return, or the
hearing may be adjourned until the party can be produced, or for other
good cause. The petitioner may except to the sufficiency of, or con­
trovert the return or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in 
avoidance; the new matter shall be verified, except in cases of a com ..
mitment on a criminal charge. The return and pleadings may be 
amended without causing any delay.
SEC. 8. The court or judge shall thereupon proceed, in a summary 
way, to hear and determine the case ; and if no legal cause be shown
for the restraint, or for the continuation thereof, shall discharge the 
party. 
SEc. 9. No court or judge shall inquire into the legality of' any
judgment or process whereby the party is in custody, or discharge him 
when the term of commitment hae not expired, in either of the cases
following: 
1. Upon process issued by any court or judge of the United States,
where the court or judge has conclusive jurisdiction; or, 
2. Upon any process issued on any final judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction; or, 
3. For any contempt of any court, officer, or body having authority 
to commit; 
4. Upon a warrant issued from the criminal court, upon an indict­
ment or information. 
SEC. 10. No person shall be discharged from an order of collmit·
ment, issued by any judicial or peace officer, for want of bail or in
cases not bailable, on account of any defect in the charge or prOCCS8, 
or for alleged want of probable cause ; but in all such cases the court or 
judge shall summon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the criminal
charge, and discharge, let to bail, or recommit the prisoner, as may
be just and legal, and recognise witnesses to appear. 
SEc. 11. The writ of habeas corpus may be had for the purpose of 
letting a prisoner to bail in bailable cases. 
SEc. 12. The court or judge shall have power to require and compel 
the attendance of witnesses, and to do all other things necessary to 
determine the case. If it appears that any person has an interest
in the detention of the prisoner, the court or judge shall cause such
person to be duly notified. 
SEC. 13. The marshal or other officer shall not be liable to a ciril
action for obeying any writ of habeas corpus, or order of discharge
made thereon. 
SEC. 14. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit that any one is 
illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is good reason w 
believe that such person will be carried out of the jurisdiction of the
court or judge before whom the application is made, or will suffer
some irreparable injury before compliance with the writ can be en·
forced, such court or judge may cause a warrant to be issued, reciting
the facts and directed to the marshal or any constable, commanding 
him to take the person thus held in custody or restraint, and forth­
with bring him before the court or judge to be dealt with according
to I,lw. 
SEC. 15. The court and judge may also, if the same be deemed
necessary, insert in the warrant a command for the apprehension of
the person charged with causing the illegal restraint. 
SEC. 16. The officer shall execute the writ by bringing the person
therein named before the court or judge, and the like return and 
proceedings shall be required and had, as in case of writs of habeas
corpus. 
SEC. 17. The court or judge may make any temporary orders in the
cause, or disposition of the party, during the progress of the proreed· 
ings, that justice may require. The custody of any party restrained
may be changed from one person to another, by order of the court or 
judge. 
SEC. 18. Any writ or process authorized by this chapter may be
issued and served in cases of emergency on Sunday. 
SEC. 19. All writs and other process authorized by the provisions of
this chapter shall be issued by the clerk of the court, sealed with the 
seal of such court; and shall be served and returned forthwith, unless
the court or judge shall specify a particular time for such return. 
And no writ or other process shall be disregarded for any defect
therein, if enough is shown to notify the officer or person of the pur­ 
port of the process. Amendments may be allowed, and temporary
commitments, when necessary. 
SEC. 20. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in favor of
parents, guardians, masters, married women, and husbands; and to 
enforce the rights, and for the protection of infants and insane per·
sons; and the proceedings shall in all such cases conform to the 
provisions of this chapter. 
TITLE IV. 
CHAPTER I lo. 
s.orioll OOKPETBMCY o, wrrnssn. i 
OF EVIDENCR. 
8':.1~o
deemed incompetent witne1881 : 
J. Parties or persona interested or cenvicted J. Persona of unsound mind.
of crime not disqualified as witnesses. 2. Children incapable of receiving jaat 
2. Not to extend to the settlement of es- Impreesione, 
tales of infants, or persons deceased, 3. Husband and wife, for or against
or insane. each other. 
3. Nor to certain cases where the adverl8 4. An attorney; when.
party is an executor or administrator. 5. Clergyman, priest, surgeon, et('.; 
4. Party, before testifying, to give reason- when.
able notice to the adverse party, hi1 6. Public officers; when.
agent, or attorney. 9. Party off'erior himself u a witnea 1hall 
5. Witness not incompetent from want of be deemed to have consented to the
religious belief, &c. examination of an attorney, clergy- 
6. Want of religious belief; how estab- man, etc.
limed. 10. Presumption u to the capacity of ehll- 
7. Facta which heretofore rendered a wit- dren, etc.
nea incompetent may now be shown 11. Negroes; how far incompetent u wit- 
to aff'ect hie credibility, DNllel. 
Saar10• 
JIBAB8 Or PRODUCING WITD:SSB& 
12. When clerk or register of court may
i•ue summona. 
13. When judge, ju8tice or the peace, com- 
miuioner, ete., may.
14. Character and form of 1ummotu1. 
15. Summone; bow and by whom 1e"ed.
16. When no coet of serviee allowed.
17. Pereon1 prcaent in court, etc., may be 
compelled to teetify u if 1ummoned.
18. Witneu failinc to attend, etc., reepollli­ 
ble to party in damagee.
19. Disobedience to a summons, ete., pun­ 
ished u a contempL
iO. Person, in confinement ; bow examined 
u witne11e1. 
JIODB 01' TAXING TD TBSTDIONY or Wlff&SSU. 
21. Testimony of witneeeeB taken :
1. By affidavit.
2. Ry depoei\ion. 
3. By oral e:ii:amination.
22. For what an affidavit may be used. 
33. Before whom an a8idavit may be made.
24. DepoBition may be used : 
1. When witne• ii beyond prOcell of
court. 
2, When, from age, etc., be i• unable
to attend, or i1 dead. 
3. When eame hu been taken by con­
eent. 
25. Deposition may be taken ; when.
26. Before whou1 dep<>lritione may be taken 
in thi• DiatricL
27, Before whom depoeitiona may be taken 
without thi1 District.
~. Officer not to be a relative, etc., of either 
party. 
29. Commiuion; when neceasuy •
.30. Notice to be given to advene party. 
31, Manner of serving notice.
32. How deposition reduced to writing. 
33. l How certified and transmitted by
34. S officer. 
35. Official character of officer ; how evi-
denced. 
36. Depositions ; how published. 
37. Depositions ; when filed.
38, Deposition may be used in another 
action, for same cause, etc., first being
diamiue'd. 
Ssar10•
39. Depositions 10 taken, etc., may be u.d 
before a justice of the peace, and
arbitrators. 
40. Fees of officer for taking depo9itioa, etc. 
41. } i;,_ • • , L-- ._1,._
42 ~oepllODI todepomtiODI; ·--....-, 
43:
and when tried. 
44. When commiuion set aside, ete., coart,
in itll discreticn, may continue came. 
45. Testimony ; how perpetuated.
46. Petition to be filed with the clerk of the 
circuit court ; its contents.
47. Order by circuit court, or judge; ita 
character. 
48. Preceedinp when notice cannot be gina
to adverse parties. 
49. How deposition taken and returned.
50. When and how deposition may be med 
on beinc approved by court.
51. Applicant to pay coats. 
DEPOBinONB Dr OSXBB.U., 
52. Commission may be remanded for the
correction of erron. 
53. Enon unimportant and not prejudicial,
not to e:a:clode a depoeition. 
DEPOSITIONS TO B• tJUD OtJT Or THIS DISTalCT. 
54. Commiaioner may iuue subpcenu. 
DOCU.llElh'TARY ilD OTBBB WBITTU KTIDUCS. 
55. How the law, of the District may be 
evidenced.
56. Statute law of any State, or fonip 
government, etc.; how evidenced.
57. LegislatiYe acts of any State or foreign 
government, etc.; how evidenced.
58. Common law of any State or foreip 
rovernment, etc.; bow evidenced.
59. Records and judicial proceedings of a 
court of record of or within the U oitecl
Statea and territory ; how evide11ced,
etc. 
60. Office books, etc., in a foreign country ;
how evidenced. 
61. Deeds, etc., recorded, etc., in a fore~
country ; how evidenced. 
62. Deeds, etc., recorded in District ; how
evidenced. 
63. Receipt of same, and time thereof; how
evidenced. 
64. Certain book accounta ; how proncl. 
S•moH 
65. Serviee or proce11 or notice ; how evi­
denced. 
66. Clerk '1 endorsement of time of filing
paper, evidence thereof. 
ADX18810N AXD INBPJ:CTIOX 01' PA.P&WI. 
67. A party may be required to admit the
genuinenea of a paper, or pay COit of
proving it. 
68. Inspection and copy of a paper, etc., 
how obtained. 
COKPBTBNOY OP WITNJESBB. 
SEC. 1. No person shall be disqualified as a witness, in any civil
action or proceeding, by reason of his interest in the event of the 
same, as a. party or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a
crime; and any party to a civil action or proceeding may compel an 
adverse party, or person for whose benefit the same is instituted,
prosecuted, or defended, to testify as a witness at the trial, or by
deposition, in the same manner and subject to the same rules as other 
witnesses. 
SEC. 2. Nothing in the preceding section contained shall in any
manner affect the provisions of the Code relating to the estates of
infants, or persons deceased, or insane, or the attestation of the execu­
tion of last wills and testaments, or any other instrument required by
law to be attested. 
SEC. 3. No person shall be allowed to testify by virtue of the provi­
sions of section one, when the adverse party is the executor or 
administrator of a deceased person; when the facts to be proved
transpired before the death of such deceased person. 
SEC. 4. No party shall be allowed to testify unless be has given
reasonable notice to the adverse party, his agent or attorney. 
SEC. 6. No religious opinions, or the want thereof, shall render a
witness incompetent. 
SEC. 6. No witness shall be compelled to answer any question
touching his religious belief, but want of the same may be established
as heretofore. 
SEC. 7. Any fact which might heretofore be shown to render a
witness incompetent, may hereafter be shown to affect his credibility, 
SEC. 8. The following persons shall, as herein provided, be incom­
petent to testify : 
1. Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of their production
for examination. 
2. Children who appear incapable of receiving just impressions of
the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating them
truly. 
3. Husband and wife, for or against each other, or concerning any
communication made by one to the other during the marriage, whether
called while that relation subsists or afterwards. 
4. An attorney concerning any communication made to him by his
client in that relation, or his advice therein, without hie client's 
consent.
5. A clergyman, priest, physician, or surgeon, concerning any 
communication entrusted to him in his professional capacity, and
necessary and proper to enable him to discharge the duties of his 
.profession, according to the usual course of practice or discipline,
unless with the consent of the party in whose favor this provision is 
enacted.
6. A public officer, concerning any communication made to him in 
official confidence, when, in the opinion of the court, the public
interest would suffer by the disclosure. 
SEC. 9. If a party offer himself as witness, that is to be deemed a
consent to the examination also of an attorney, clergyman, priest, 
physician, or surgeon, on the same subject, within the meaning of the
fourth and fifth subdivisions of the preceding section. 
SEC. 10. Children under twelve years of age are presumed to be
incompetent witnesses; those over twelve are presumed to be compe­
tent; but the court may examine children of tender age, and persons
of alleged unsound mind, as to their capacity, and decide upon their 
competency.
SEC. 11. Negroes shall be incompetent witnesses, as provided in 
section six, chapter forty-seven, Part I of this Code. 
MEANS 011' PRODUCING WITNESSES. 
SEC. 12. The clerk or register of the proper court shall, on the
application of any person having a cause, or any matter depending 
therein, issue a subpcena for witnesses. 
SEC. 13. When the attendance of the witnesses is required before
any judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee, or other officer
authorized to administer oaths or take testimony, the subpcena shall
be issued by such judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee, or
other officer, except where otherwise specially provided. 
SEC. 14. The names of all or any portion of the witnesses required 
by the applicant shall, when desired by him, be inserted in the same
snbprena. All subpoenas shall be directed to the officer or person who 
is to serve the same, and shall req nire the person therein named as
witness, to attend at a particular time and place to testify. They may 
also contain a clause directing the witness to bring with him any
book, writing, or other thing under his control, _which he is bound 
by law to produce as evidence. 
SEC. 15. A snbprena may be served by the marshal, coroner, or
any constable of the county, or by the party or any person designated
by him. Such service shall be by reading it to the witness, so far as
it relates to him, or giving him a copy of the same, or by leaving a
copy thereof at his usual place of residence. 
SEC. 16. No costs shall be allowed for the service of a subpcena,
except when served by an officer. 
SEC. 17. Any person present in court or before a judicial officer may
be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance 
upon a subpoena issued from such court or by such officer. 
SEC. 18. If any person duly served with a subpoena as a witness
shall fail to attend, without any reasonable excuse, he shall be liable 
to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure, to 
be recovered in a civil action. If a witness being present refuse to be
sworn, or refuse to testify, or give his deposition, or produce any book,
writing, or other thing under his control, in accordance with the 
tenor of the subpoena, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for
all damages occasioned by such refusal. 
SEC. 19. Disobedience to a subpcena, or a refusal to be sworn or to
answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when 
required, may be punished as a contempt; and if the witness be a 
party, his complaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out.
SEC. 20. A person confined in any prison within this District may, 
by order of any court of record therein, be required to be produced
for oral examination before such court; but in all other cases his 
examination must be by deposition, an order of access having been fint 
obtained from the circuit or criminal court, or, in vacation, from one of
the judges thereof. Such order in either case shall only be made upon 
affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony
expected from the witness, and its materiality. While a prisoner's
deposition is being taken, he shall remain in the custody of the officer 
having him in charge, who shall afford reasonable facilities for taking
such deposision. 
SEC. 21. The testimony of witnesses may be taken in three modes:
1. By affidavit, or a written declaration under oath, made without 
notice to the adverse party.
2. By a deposition, or a written declaration under oath, taken upon 
notice to the adverse party for the purpose of enabling him to attend 
and cross-examine, or upon written interrogatories.
3. By oral examination, or an examination in the presence of the 
jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact, or act upon it, the testimony
being heard by the jury or tribunal from the lips of the witness. 
SEC. 22. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading, to prove 
the service of a summons, notice, or other process in an action to 
obtain a provisional remedy, an examination of a witness, a stay of 
proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other case permitted by
law. 
SEC. 23. An affidavit may be made in and out of this District before
any person authorized to take depositions, and must be authenticat.ed
in the same way, except that in case of an affidavit for the verificanon
of a pleading made beyond the District, the certificate of such officer, 
signed officially by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly 
made, and that he was such officer.
SEc. 24. The deposition of any witness may be used only in the 
following cases :
1. When the witness is beyond the reach of the prcoess of the 
court.
2. When from age, infirmity, or imprisonment, the witness is 
unable to attend court, or is dead.
3. When the deposition has been taken by the agreement of parties. 
SEc. 25. Either party may commence taking testimony by de}'O" 
sitions as hereinafter provided, at any time after service of summons
upon the defendant; but when it is offered to read the same in 
evidence, a sufficient cause therefor must appear to the satisfaction
of the court. 
SEC. 26. Depositions may be. taken in this District before any judge
of the circuit court, the judge of the criminal or orphans' court, or
any clerk or register thereof, before a justice of the peace, notary 
public, mayor of the city of Washington, or of Georgetown, or before
a commissioner, or any person specially empowered. 
SEC. 27. Depositions may be taken out of this District by a judge,
justice, or chancellor of any court of record, a justice of the peace, 
notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of any city or a town
corporate, a commissioner appointed by the President of the United 
States, or any of the circuit courts of the United States, to take
depositions, or any person specially authorized by a commission from 
the clerk of the circuit court of this District.
SEc. 28. The officer before whom depositions are taken must not be 
a relative or attorney of either party,· or otherwise interested in the
result of the action or proceeding. 
SEC. 29. When a deposition is to be taken within this District, no
commission shall be necessary for taking the same. When taken out 
of the District, the clerk of the circuit court shall, upon the request
of a party taking the deposition, issue a commission therefor generally, 
or to the officer or commissioner designated; and no affidavit or order
of the court shall be necessary to authorize the issuing of such com­
mission. 
SEC. 30. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless taken under
a special agreement, a written notice, specifying the action or pro, 
ceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which it is to be used,
and the time and place of taking the same, shall be served upon the 
adverse party, his a.gent or attorney of record, or left at his usual
place of abode. The notice shall be served so as to allow the 
adverse party sufficient time to attend by the usual route of travel,
and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and the day of 
notice; and the examination may, if so stated in the notice, be
adjourned from day to day. . • 
SEC. 31. The notice may be served in the same manner and by any
person, other than a party, authorized to serve a subpoena for witness. 
When the party against whom the deposition is to be used is absent
from or a non-resident of the District, and has no agent or attorney
of record therein, he me.y be notified of the taking of the deposition 
by publication. The publication must be made three consecutive
weeks in some newspaper of general circulation printed within the
District, and must contain all that is required in a written notice. 
The same may be proved as required in the manner prescribed in
section sixty-five of this chapter. 
SEC. 32. The deposition shall be written down by the officer, or the
deponent, or some disinterested person, in the presence and under the
direction of the officer, and after the same has been carefully read to 
or by the deponent, it shall be subscribed by him. 
SEC. 33. The officer taking the deposition shall annex a certificate
thereto stating the following facts : 
1. That the deponent was sworn according to law.
2. By whom the deposition was written ; and, if written by the 
deponent, or some disinterested person, that it was written in the
presence and under the direction of the officer. 
3. That the deposition was read to or by the deponent, and signed
by him. 
4. The time and place of taking the deposition.
SEC. 34. The officer taking the deposition shall sign the certificate, 
giving his title, and if he have a. seal of office, shall affix the same
thereto. He shall then seal up the deposition, endorse on the envelope 
the title of the cause, and address and transmit the same to the clerk
of the court where the action or proceeding is pending, or to such
other tribunal or person as hereinafter provided in section thirty-nine
of this chapter. 
SEC. 35. Depositions taken pursuant to this chapter, by any judicial
or other officer herein authorized to take the same, having a seal of 
office, shall be admitted in evidence upon the certificate and signature
of such officer under the seal of the court of which he is an officer, or
his official seal, and no other or further act of authentication shall be
necessary. If the officer ta.king the same have no official seal, the 
deposition, if not taken in this District, shall be certified and signed
by him, and shall be further authenticated either by parol proof 
adduced in court, or by the official certificate and seal of any secretary
or other officer of state keeping the great seal thereof, or of the clerk 
or prothonotary of any court having a seal, attesting that such judi­
cial or other officer was at the time of taking the deposition authorized
to take the same, within the meaning of this chapter. But if the
deposition be taken within this District by an officer having no seal,
or within or without this District under e. special commission, it shall 
be sufficiently authenticated by the official signature of the officer or
commissioner taking the same. 
SEC. 36. Depositions, after being filed, may be published by the
clerk at the request of either party, after giving to the other, his agent
or attorney, reasonable notice of the time thereof, or they may be
published by order of the court, on the motion of either party. 
SEC. 37. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence must be
filed in court at least one day before the time at which the cause in
which the same is to be used, stands on the docket for trial; or if filed 
afterwards and claimed to be used on the trial, the adverse party shall
be entitled to a continuance in the discretion of the court. 
SEC. 38. When an action has been dismissed and another instituted
for the same cause, depositions ta.ken in the first action may, subject
to all proper exceptions, be used in the second or other action between
the same parties or their representatives, if it appear that the same
were duly filed in the court when the previous cause was pending, and 
have remained on file since.
SEC. 39. Depositions taken pursuant to this chapter may be used as 
provided in section twenty-four, on the trial of any civil action or
proceeding pending before any justice of the peace or before any
arbitrator or referee, and the same shall be sealed up and endorsed as
before prescribed, and be addressed and transmitted by the officer
taking them to such justice of the peace, arbitrator, or referee. 
SEc. 40. Every person authorized to take depositions shall receive
for reducing the same to writing, one dollar for every hour he shall
be so engaged, not to exceed five dollars a day. For all other services
attending the execution of the same, he shall be entitled to such fees 
as are allowed to a justice of the peace for like services. Witnesses
attending before him shall be each entitled to one dollar per day. He
may retain the depositions until his fees and charges are paid. He 
shall also tax the costs of the marshal or other party who shall serve
the process aforesaid, and fees of the witnesses, and may, if directed
by the persons entitled thereto, retain the depositions until such fees
are paid. 
SEC. 41. Objections to the competency of a deponent, or to the
propriety of any question put to him, or answer given by him, may 
be made at the time of taking his deposition, or afterwards in coo.rt,
whether made at the time of taking the deposition or not. 
SEC. 42. No exception other than for incompetency or irrelenncy
shall be regarded unless made and filed before the commencement
of the trial. But any deposition may, after the commencement, be
suppressed, if any matter which is not disclosed in the deposition
appears sufficient to authorize such suppression. 
SEC. 43. Such exceptions shall be in writing, specifying the grounds
of objection, and filed with the papers in the case, and the court shall,
on the motion of either party, hear and determine the questions
arising thereon before the commencement of the trial. 
SEC. 44. Whenever any testimony taken under a oomtmssron ii
suppressed, or the commission, on return thereof, set aside for any
irregularity or omission in the commission, or proceedings under it,
the court or tribunal, or officer before whom the cause is pending,
may, in his or its discretion, continue the same. 
SEC. 45. The testimony of witnesses may be perpetuated in the
following manner : 
SEC. 46. The applicant shall file in the office of the clerk of the
circuit court a petition, to be verified, in which he shall set forth
specially the subject-matter relative to which the testimony is to be
taken and the names of the persons interested, if known to the appli­
cant; and if not known, such general description as he cau give of
them, as heirs, devisees, alienees, or otherwise. The petition shall
also state the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the inter­
rogatories to be propounded to each ; that the applicant expects to be
a party to an action in a court of this District, in which such testimony
will, as he believes, be material, aud the obstacles preventing the
immediate commencement of the action, when the applicant expects 
to be the plaintiff. 
SEc. 47. The court, or, in vacation, a judge thereof, may forthwith
make an order allowing the examination of such witnesses. The 
order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination, how
long and the manner in which the parties interested shall be notified 
thereof. 
SEC. 48. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or judge that
the parties interested cannot be personally notified: such court or 
judge shall appoint a competent attorney to examine the petition, and
prepare and file cross-interrogatories to those contained therein. The
witnesses shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the appli­ 
cant, and upon cross-interrogatories, when they are required to be
prepared, and no others shall be propounded to them ; nor shall any 
statement be received which is not responsive to some one of them.
The attorney filing the cross-interrogatories shall be allowed a rea­ 
sonable fee therefor, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
SEC. 49. Such depositions shall be taken before some one authorized 
by law to take depositions, or before some one specially authorized by
the court or judge, and shall be returned to the office of the clerk of
the circuit court, certified in the manner hereinbefore prescribed. 
SEC. 50. The court or judge, if satisfied that the depositions have
been properly taken, shall approve the same and order them to be filed; 
and if a trial be had between the parties named in the petition, or their
privies or successors in interest, such depositions may be given in evi­
dence by either party, when the witnesses are dead or insane, or when
their attendance for oral examination cannot be had ; but such depo­ 
sitions shall be subject to the same objections for irrelevancy or incom­
petency as may be made to depositions taken pending an action. 
SEc. 51. The applicant shall pay all costs under this proceeding to
perpetuate testimony. 
SEC. 52. Upon the return of a commission to take testimony, the
circuit court, if in session, or a judge thereof in vacation, may remand 
the commission for the correction of errors or supplying omissions,
and if the same be not returned in time for the trial, the cause may,
at the discretion of the court, be continued. 
SEc. 53. An unimportant deviation from any direction relative to
taking depositions shall not cause a deposition to be excluded where 
no substantial prejudice would he done to the opposite party. 
SEC. 54. Any commissioner or other officer authorized by any State,
Territory, or District of the United States to take depositions within 
this District shall have power, at the instance of the party wishing to 
obtain the deposition of any witness therein, to cause such witness, by
process of subpoena, to appear before him, .on reasonable notice, at a 
certain time and place therein specified. 
SEC. 55. The laws of the District of Columbia, printed and pub­
Iisaed under the authority of Congress, shall he received as evidence
in the courts of this District, and in all the tribunals and public
offices of the United States, for any purpose for which the original acts
could be received, and with as much effect. 
SEC. 56. Printed copies, in volumes, of statutes, code, or other
written law enacted by the United States, or any State or Territory of
the United States, or any foreign government, purporting or proved 
to have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be
commonly admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the eourta or 
tribunals of such State, Territory, or government, shall be admitted
by the courts and officers of this District, on all occasions, as pre­ 
sumptive evidence of such laws.
SEC. 57. The unwritten or common law of any such State, Terri­ 
tory, or foreign government may be proved as facts by parol evi­
dence ; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may 
also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law. 
SEC. 58. Every act of any one of the legislatures of the Stat.es or
Territories of the United States, certified by the secretary, and having 
the seal of the State or Territory affixed thereto, shall be deemed 
authentic, and receive full faith and credit when offered in evidence
in any court within this District. 
SEC. 59. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of the
United States, or of auy State, attested by the clerk thereof, with the
seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal, and certified by the judge, 
chief justice, or presiding magistrate of such court, to be attested in
due form, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every 
court within this District as they have in the courts of the State, 
Territory, or District whence the said records came. The records
and judicial proceedings of the courts of any foreign country, attested 
and certified in like manner, shall be admitted as evidence thereof in
the courts of this District. 
SEC. 60. All records and exemplifications of official books, kept in 
any public office of the United St.ates, or of a St.ate, not appertaining
to a court, shall be evidence in any court or office in this District, if 
attested by the keeper of the said records or books, and the seal of
his office annexed, if there be a seal, and certified by the presiding 
justice of the county or district in which such office is, or by the
governor, the secretary of state, the chancellor, or the keeper of the 
great seal of the State, to be attested in due form and by the proper
officer; such certificate, if given by the presiding justice of a court,
shall be certified by the clerk or prothonotary of the said court, who
shall certify, under hie hand and the seal of his office, that the said 
presiding justice is duly commissioned and qualified; or if said certifi­
cate be given by the governor, the secretary of state, the chancellor,
or keeper of the great seal, it shall be under the great seal of the St.ate 
or Territory in which the certificate is made. The records and exem­
plifications so certified shall have such faith and credit given to them 
in every court and office within this District as they have, by law or
usage, in the courts or offices of the State or Territory whence the 
same shall be taken.
SEC. 61. A copy of the record or register of any deed, will, or other 
instrument of writing, which the laws of any foreign country require
to be recorded, or lodged for safe-keeping in any office or court, and
which are recorded or so lodged agreeably to such law, under the hand
of the keeper of such record or register, and the seal of the court or
office in which the same is kept, shall be good and sufficient evidence
in any court of this District to prove such deed, will, or instrument of 
writing.
SEC. 62. The record of a conveyance or other instrument of writing 
authorized or required to be recorded in the recorder's office, and duly
recorded, or a transcript thereof, certified by the recorder to be a full,
true, and correct copy, may be read in evidence with the like force 
and effect as the original conveyance or other instrument of writing. 
SEC. 63. The endorsement by the recorder or clerk of any court on
any such deed or other instrument of writing, of the time it was 
received to be recorded, shall be evidence of such time as well as such 
receipt; and the copy from the record of the usual entry of such time
and receipt, certified as provided in the previous section, or the record 
itself, shall be evidence both of the receipt and the time in like man­
ner as the original endorsement. 
SEC. 64. On the trial of any action wherein any claim or defence ia
founded on book accounts, any original entry therein, on proof of the
death of the party making such entry, and that the same is in his 
handwriting, may be admitted as evidence, the weight to be given to 
it to be determined by the court or jury, as the case may be. 
SEC. 65. The proof of the service of any process issued by the court,
or of any notice to be served upon any party, shall be as follows: 
1. If served by the marshal or other officer, his certificate thereof; or,
2. By any other person, his affidavit thereof; or, 
3. In case of publication, a printed copy, with the affidavit of the
printer, his foreman or clerk, or any competent witness, and an affi­
davit of the deposit of a copy of the summons and complaint in the
poet office, if the same shall have been so deposited; or, 
4. The written admission of the defendant. The affidavit or admis­
sion must state the time and place of service. 
SEC. 66. The clerk's endorsement upon every paper filed in his
office or in open court, and upon every process returned to him or to
court, except subpcenas, shall be presumptive evidence of the time of
the filing and return. 
SEC. 67. Either party may exhibit to the other, or his attorney, at
any time before the trial, any paper or document material to the 
action, and request an admission, in writing, of its genuineness. H
the adverse party or his attorney refuse to give such admission within
five days after the request, and the party exhibiting the paper or
document be afterwards put to any cost to prove its genuineness, and 
the same be admitted on the trial, such costs, to be ascertained at the
trial, shall be paid by the party refusing to make the admission, 
unless it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that there were
good reasons for the refusal. 
SEC. 68. Either party, or his attorney, may demand, in writing, of
the adverse party, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a
copy, of a book, paper, or writing in his possession, or under his con­ 
trol, containing evidence relating to the merits of the action or defence
therein. Such demand shall specify the book, paper, or writing, with
sufficient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish it, and
if compliance with the demand within five days be refused, the court 
or in vacation a judge thereof, may, on motion, and notice to the ad­
verse party, order him to give· the other, within a specified time, an 
inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy, of such book, paper,
or writing; and on failure to comply with such order, the court may
exclude the book, paper, or writing from being given in evidence by
the party so refusing, or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying,
may direct tfie jury to presume it to be such as the party by affidavit
alleges it to be. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party 
from compelling another to produce any book, paper, or document
when he is examined as a witness. 
SEC. 69. Before testifying, witnesses shall be sworn to testify the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The mode of
administering the oath shall be such as is most binding upon the
conscience of the witness. 
SEC. 70. Interpreters may be sworn to interpret fully, when
necessary. 
SEC. 71. If any party summon more than three witnesses to prove
the same fact, he shall, in the discretion of the court, pay the costs
occasioned by the additional number of witnesses. 
SEC. 72. When counsel engaged in a case shall be examined as a
witness therein, on behalf of his own client, he shall thereupon retire 
from the same, and cease to take any part therein as counsel. This
section is not to preclude counsel from proving facts incidental to the 
trial, such as the loss of a paper, service of notice to produce, and the
like, without abandoning the case. 
SEC. 73. If any person who shall have resided in this District go
fromyand do not return to the same for seven years successively, he 
shall be presumed to be dead, in any case wherein his dee.th shall
come in question, unless proof be made that he was alive within that 
time.
SEC. 74. If the person so presumed dead be found to have been 
living, any person injured by such presumption shall be restored to
the rights of which he shall have been deprived by reason thereof. 
SEC. 75. A party producing a. witness shall not be allowed to 
Impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, unless it was indis­
pensable that the party should I rodnce him, or in case of manifest . 
surprise; but he may in all cases contradict 'him by other evidence,
and by showing that he has made statement.s different from his present · 
testimony.
SEC. 76. If the defendant in any action for slander, or for publishing 
a libel, shall plead in hia justification that the words spoken or pub· 
lished were true, such plea, though not maintained by the evidence,
shall not in any case be of itself proof of the malice alleged in the
complaint. 
SEC. 77. In actions for defamation, the defendant may prove, in. 
mitigation of damages, that subsequent to uttering the words, or
publishing the libel, he retracted the charge or imputation, or
acknowledged he had: been mistaken, or offered to apologize, or that
the words were not spoken in earnest, or circumstances which induced
him erroneously to make the charge, or he may show the general bad
character of the plaintiff in respect to the matter imputed, and the
jury shall allow to all such proof the weight to which they may think
it entitled. 
TITLE II Of justices of the peace, and their jurisdiction and procedure
in civil cases. 
Ciunsa 116. Of justices of the peace. 
OBAPTD 11 '1. Of proceedings in civil cases before justice, of the peace. 
SIOTIOB 
1. President may appoint justice. of the
peace. 
2. Justices to take an oath. 
3. Justices to give bond.
4. Where bond to be filed.
5. Jurisdiction CO·extenaive with the 
county. 
TITLE V. 
CHAPTER 116. 
OF JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
SIIOTIO•
6. l Powera of jWltices. 
7. S 
8. Docket record. to be depoeited with
clerk of circuit court, open termiaa· 
tion of office.
9. Penalty for not delivering docket, &.c. 
10. Justice may be remoftd for certain 
C&U181. 
SEC. 1. The President of the United States, by and with the
advice and consent of the Senate, may appoint such a number of 
proper and discreet persons to be justices of the peace for the county
of Washington, as he from time. to time shall think expedient, to 
continue in office three years.
SEC. 2. Every person appointed to the office of justice of the peace 
shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office, take an oath to
support the constitution of the United States, and to discharge faith­
fully and impartially the duties of his office. 
SEC. 3. Every person hereafter appointed to the office of justice of
the peace shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office, give
bond to the United States in the sum of five thousand dollars, with 
two or more resident freehold sureties to be approved by the circuit
court, conditioned for the faithful performance of hie duties, and for
paying over on demand to the person entitled or authorized to receive
the same, all moneys that may come into his hands as a justice of the
peace during his oontinuanee in office. 
SEC. 4. Such bond shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the
circuit court, and any person aggrieved by a breach of the condition
thereof may recover against the justice and his sureties such sum as 
he may show himself entitled to, with costs and twenty-five per cent.
damages. 
SEC. 5. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace shall be co-extensive
with the limits of the county of Washington, and no other or greater,
unless so expressly provided by law. 
SEC. 6. Every justice of the peace shall, by virtue of his office, be a
conservator of the peace. He shall have power to administer any
oath required by law to be taken or administered, except where other­
wise provided, and to grant and issue subpcenas for witnesses, and to 
coerce their attendance in a cause or matter pending before him, or
in any other cause or matter wherein he may be required to take 
testimony.
SEC. 7. Every justice of the peace shall have power to take all 
necessary recognizances and obligations for good behavior, to keep
the peace, to appear and answer any offence or criminal charge in the 
court having jurisdiction thereof.
SEC. 8. If any justice of the peace shall die, resign or remove from 
this District, or if his term of office be in any manner terminated, the 
docket, books, records, and papers appertaining to his office, or
relating to any action, matter, or controversy committed to him in
hie official capacity, shall be delivered to the clerk of the circuit court. 
In the event of the death of any justice of the peace, such docket,
books, records, and papers shall be so delivered to the said clerk by
the executor or administrator of such justice. 
SEC. 9. Every person whose duty it is to deliver over the docket,
books, records, and papers, as prescribed in the section next preced­ 
ing, shall forfeit and pay to the United States one hundred dollars for
every three months' neglect to perform such duty. 
SEC. 10. The circuit court may, for incompetency, habitual drunk·
enness, or any wilful misconduct in the discharge of the duties of his
office, remove any justice of the peace from office. The justice may be
proceeded against in the manner provided in chapter one hundred 
and thirteen. 
TITLE III PROCEEDINGS IN CIVIL CASES BEFORE JUSTICES OF THE PEACE. 
s.cno• 
1. J ultice may hold court, and general law•
made applicable. 
~. J uriadiction of j uaticea.
3. JW'Uldiction not to extend to cuee where 
title to real property i• involved, or to
certain per.onal action,. 
4 Pending proceedinp to conform to the
chapter. 
OOllKSJIO.IIDT 01' .A.O'l'IOM1 8&VIC8, AllD JLBTUlUf
01' PBOOl88. 
5. What the docket or a justice ,ball con·
lain. 
6. Ent.riea to be made under the tit.le of the
action, and at the time they occur. 
7. An omi•ion not to aff'ect validity of
proceedinp. 
8. Just.ice may require eecurity for coall,
where plaintiff ii a non-reaident. 
9. Form of proce111.
10. How actiona may be instituted. 
CHAPTER 117. 
11, Account, note, &c., or a statement in
writing, to be filed before 1ummons. 
SIOTIOX 
• 
!:: l Summon,; how and when it lhall be
1 
.(. 5 served and returned.
15. Summon• may be renewed. 
16. If ruled before another justice, proceed· 
inga to be bad before such juatice.
17. In action• for finea, the aummom to be 
retumed u directed by by-Jan.
18. 
} Partiea may appear by penon or aUor· 
19•
ney, and how authority mmt lie 
proved. 
~: I Regulation• where an infant is ~ party. 
22. Parties entitled to an hour. 
PLliDlllOB AllD .A.D.JOUUJIDTS. 
23. When pleading. 1hall take place,
24. ! What 1hall be the pleadings, ud wbell
25. S they shall be in writing.
26. Substance of oral pleading. to be ente,-1 
on the docket.
27. What ,hall be deemed equinlent to• 
denial • 
S•ono• 
28. Rule where the action or Nt-oft' ariNa
upon an instrument of writin,. 
29. Pleading to be verified.
30. Material allegation not denied to be 
taken u true.
31. When a pleading may be dill'ttgarded.
32. When a variance shall be deemed imma- 
terial.
33. When and what amendment.I allowed. 
3'.} 
35. v ........ 1 • 1r 
36•
-..uationa u to 1et-ou. 
37. 
38.1 
39. Regulations u to adjournment.I.
40. 
TITLB TO L.lKDI!, 
'1. How justice shall proceed, when title to
land i1 in question. 
TBLU,1 ilD TID-DfOIDDTI TllanO, 
42. If no jury i1 demanded, juatiee may
proceed to try the cue. 
43. Justice may try cue entered without
procea in the aame manner u other 
CIUeL 
44. Either party may demand a trial by jury.
45. J ustiee 1haU iNue a noire. 
46. Partie1 may agree upon a 1818 number
than twelYe juron. 
47. When plaintiff shall pay COila of jury
trial. 
48. How venire shall be executed.
49. } When ancl for what cauae challengee 
50. may be made.
51. Oath to be admini1tered to jury.
Si. Proof to be delivered publicly in pNIMlnce 
or the jury.
53. The rule1 of evidence, etc., to be the 
l&J'De a, in the circuit court.
54. How objection to competency er witnemr 
to be determined.
55. Jury to be kept..topther by the constable.
56. Verdict to be delivered publicly to the 
juatice. 
57. When jllltice may dilcbarp the jury.
58. When a penon summened u a juror 
SI. }aball be deemed guilty of a contempt. 
60. Rul• u to new triala.
61. 
Sscno• 
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94. 
95. 
.JUDQDIIT, 
62. When action may bo di1milled witbout
prejudice to a new ad.ion. 
63. } When and what judfment may be
64. rendered.
65• 
l Rule1 u to coall.
66. S 
67 • l Confe11ion of judgment before jllllicee.
68. S 
69. l Rule1 where 1111mmom ii 1erved on
70. S aome of the defendantl only. 
ST .1 Y OP H'.SCUTIOK, 
71. Stay for 1ix monthl allowed.
72. Bond to be given.
73. When another jmtice may grant atay. 
74. If judgment be not paid, execution 1ball
i11ue. 
75. Bail entitled to the judgment for amount
paid by him. 
76. Upon atay being granted, execution to
be revoked. 
mcoTJOKI, .A.•D PllOC.SDllfOI TIDll90X. 
77. When executions may i11111e.
78. When another juatice may illue exe­ 
cution.
79. What an execution ,hall command.
80. What the ju1tice •hall endone on his 
docket and the execution.
81. How an execution may be renewed. 
82. Sale1, and proceeclinl' under aale1, to be
u in circuit court. 
:· l Judgment deb&or and garnishee may
85: 
S be IIUJIUDoned and examined.
86. Debtor of judgment debtor may make 
payment.
87. No execution agai .. t body, unlea e:ii:­ 
prealy allowed. 
When an execution may imue aplmt
the body, and what 1ball be tho
proceedinga therein. 
DOCKftDfQ OJ' .JOSTICWI .JODGIIDTII. 
96. Justice'• judgment may be docketed in
circuit court. 
s.ano• S.OT10• 
UCOVUY OF P089118810M or PH80lU.L P&OPUTY. 122. Appellant to giTe bond.
97. Poaeaion may be claimed any time 123. Justice to make oot · a certified t.ra.nr- 
before an1wer. cript of proceedingt.
98. What the affidavit moat ,bow. 
99. Plaintiff may claim damages.
100. Justice', order for the delivery.
101. Proceedinp of the officer. 
102. EncJoeuree may be broken open. 
103. Property to be delivered to plaintiff'.
104. What j11dgmeot shall be rendered. 
105. Action ahall proceed, whet.her
property be found or not. 
106.} 
:: Proceedinge in cue of attachment. 
109. 
Ill. 
112.
113. 
114, 
115.
116.
117.
118. 
ATUCIDIIIT. 
l11'L.l W"1L DITSlffl01' 01' L.lNDS. 
110. Landlord entitled to land• may have
tenant removed. 
the 
1~4. If bond be insufficient, circuit court may
di1mi• the appeal, unleu su8iciD\
bond be given. 
125. Proceeding. before justice to ceue, upon 
fllina the bond.
l26· l Practice in circuit court on appeal. 
127. S 
128. How coltl shall follow jodpienl on
appealt from justice ia \he circait 
court. 
IIIBOBLL.l1'1008 PBOVISIOn. 
129. What. eba.11 be conaidered as contempt..
130. Proceedinga in cue of contempt. 
131. Puniehment for contempt.
132. Ju1tice may appoint a apecial comt..able. 
133, Juatice not to purchue judgment on his
docket. 
134. Jut.ice may receive money on judgment..
135. Effect of the death of a party a6er 
Proceeding., verdict, judgment, and judgment.
execution in an action against a 136. Scire faciu abolished. 
tenant holding onr. 137. Goods may be clelinred on the encu-
tion of a delinry bond. 
1)9. Provi1ion1 extended to unlawful or
39 
138, In cue of lickness or disability, another
j ustice may act in hie place. 
p di b .t! • • be
forcible detainer. 
11 
. rocee mgs erore _Just1c• to gov-
erned by the practice ud u.qea of the 
APPllI.8, circuit court, 
190. Appeal, from j udgrnent ofjoltice, allowed. I 140. f F . . . , 
Iii, One or more parti• may appeal without. 141. S orme lD JU8licet coart.L 
joininr the ot.hen. 
JUSTICES OF THB PEACE-JURISDICTION. 
SEC. 1. Every justice of the peace is hereby authorized to hold
a court for the trial of all actions in the section next succeeding
enumerated, and to hear, try, and determine the same according to
law; and all laws of a general nature shall apply to such justice',
court as far as the same may be applicable, and not inoonsiatent with
the provisions of this chapter. 
SEC. 2. Every justice of the peace shall have jurisdiction over and
cognizance of the following actions and proceedings, subject to the
provisions hereinafter made : 
1. Of an action ansmg on contract, express or implied, for the
recovery of money only, if the sum claimed do not exceed one hundred 
dollars.
2. Of an action for an injury to the person or to real property, or 
for taking, jletaining', or injuring personal property, if the damages
claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars. 
3. Of an action for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture less than one hundrd
dollars, imposed by the laws of this District or the ordinances of an 
incorporated city within the same, where such fine, penalty, or for­
feiture accrues wholly to any other party than the United States. 
4. Of an action upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money
not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that
sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due; when 
payments a.re to be made by instalments, an action may be brought
for each instalment a.a it shall become due, if not more than one 
hundred dollars be claimed.
5. Of an action to reoover possession of personal property, where 
the value of such property does not exceed one hundred dollars.
6. Of an action for damages for fraud in the sale, purchase, or 
exchange of personal property, if the damages claimed do not exceed
one hundred dollars. 
7. Of an action for a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or forcible
or unlawful detention of lands, tenements, or other possessions. 
8. A justice may take and enter judgment on the confession of a
defendant, when the amount confessed does not exceed one hundred
dollars. 
SEC. 3. The jurisdiction conferred by the next preceding section
ahall not extend, however, to a civil action in which the title to real
propert.y shall come in question, nor to an action for false imprison­
ment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation, 
seduction, or upon a promise to marry. 
SEC. 4. All actions and proceedings now pending in any justice's
court shall be conformed to the previsions of this chapter, so far as 
the same can be done. 
SEC. 6. Every justice of the peace shall keep in a bound book a. 
docket, in which he shall enter- 
1. The names of the plaintiff and defendant;
2. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum of money 
be claimed, the amount of the demand;
3. The date of the summons, and the time of its return; if a writ 
of attachment be issued, a statement of the fact ;
4. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their 
non-appearance, if default be me.de;
5. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintiff's demand; and 
if any set-off be claimed, a similar statement of set-off, and the amount
estimated; 
6. The demand of a trial by jury-when the same is made, and by
whom made ; the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the 
trial, and return of the jury ;
7. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the names 
of the witnesses sworn, and at whose request;
8. The verdict of the jury, and when received ; if the jury disagree 
and are discharged, the facts of such disagreement and discharge ;
9. The judgment of the court, specifying the costs, and the time 
when rendered ;
10. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to 
whom delivered; the renewals thereof, if any, and when made;
11. The fact of an appeal, if any, having been made and allowed, 
and the time when ;
12. Satisfaction of the judgment, or any money paid thereon, and 
when, and to whom, and by whom;
13. Any such other entries as may be material.
SEC. 6. The several particulars of the last preceding section specified 
shall be entered under the title of the action to which they relMe,
and at the time when they occur. Such entries in a justice's docket,
or a transcript thereof certified by the justice, or by the clerk of the
circuit court after the docket has been delivered to him, shall be prima
faoia evidence to prove the facts so stated therein. The justice or the
clerk, as the case may be, shall, on being paid at the rate of ten centa
per hundred words therefor, furnish to any person demanding the 
same, a certified transcript of such docket entries.
SEC. 7. An omission to keep a docket in the manner prescribed by 
the fifth section of this chapter shall not affect the validity of the
justice's proceedings. 
SEC. 8. Whenever the pl~\~tifl" is a non-resident of this District,
the jnstice may require of him security for costs. 
SEC. 9. All processes issued by justices of the peace shall run in
the name of the United States, be dated the day they issued, and
shall be signed by the justice granting the same, and shall be directed
to the marshal, or any constable of the county of Washington. 
SEc. 10. Actions may be instituted before a justice of the peace by the
voluntary appearance and agreement of the parties, or by process. 
SEC. 11. Before the issuing of any summons, the plaintiff' shall file
with the justice the account, note, bill, bond, or instrument, or a 
copy thereof, upon which the action is brought, or a concise statement
in writing of the cause of action. 
SEC. 12. In all cases not otherwise specially provided for, the first
process shall be a summons, directed to the marshal or constable, 
commanding him to summon the defendant to appear before such
justice, or some other justice of the peace of the county of Washing­ 
ton, at a certain time,. (not more than twenty days from the date
thereof,) to answer the complaint of the plaintiff. In an action for
money or damages, the summons shall state the amount claimed. In
an action for the recovery of personal property, the property claimed 
shall be described with reasonable certainty, where no affidavit is
filed at the time of issuing the summons for the immediate delivery
thereof. 
SEC. 13. The summons shall be served by delivering a copy thereof
as follows: 
1. If the action be against a corporation, to the president or
other head of the eorporatian, secretary, cashier, or managing agent 
thereof.
2. If the action be against an infant, to such infant, and also his 
father, mother, or guardian; or if there be none within this District,
then to any person having the control or care of such infant, or with 
whom he resides, or in whose service he is.
3. If against a person judicially declared of unsound mind, or 
incapable of conducting his affairs, and for whom a committee has
been appointed, to such committee, and to the defendant personally. 
4. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or, if he be not
found, to some white person of the family, above the age of fourteen
years, at the dwelling-house or usual place of abode of the defendant. 
If, however, the defendant shall be absent from this District, eenice
of the summons shall not be made by leaving a copy thereof at hie 
dwelling-house or usual place of abode. 
SEC. 14. The marshal or constable serving any pr00088 shall return
thereon, in writing, the time and manner of service, and shall sign
his name to such return. 
SEC. 15. If the summons be returned not served, it shall be the
duty of the justice to renew the same from time to time ~ occasion
may require. 
SEC. 16. If the defendant on service shall rule the action for trial
before some other justice than the one who issued the summons, the 
papers in the cause shall be delivered or transmitted by the justice
who issued the summons to the justice before whom the action may
be ruled, who shall proceed therein and have the same jurisdiction,
powers, and duties in all respects, as if such action had been origi­
nally instituted before him. 
SEC. 17. In an action for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture imposed by
the laws of the corporations of Washington City and Georgetown, the
summons shall be returnable, 88 may be directed by the ordinances of
said corporations respectively, both as.to the time of the return and the
justice before whom the summons is returnable. If said ordinancee
do not make any direction as to the return, the summons shall be 
returnable before the justice issuing the same, and none other ; and in
all other actions for fines, penalties, and forfeitures before justicee, 
the same regulation shall be observed.
SEC. 18. Parties in justices' courts may prosecute or defend in per­ 
son or by attorney, and any person may act as attorney in justices'
courts, except such 88 are prohibited by law. 
SEC. 19. The authority of a person to act as attorney for another
may be oral or written, but, unless admitted by the adverse p~rty, 
must be proved, by the oath of the attorney or otherwise, to the
satisfaction of the justice. 
SEC. 20. No action shall be commenced by an infant plaintiff", exoept
by his guardian, or until a next friend for such infant shall have been
appointed. Whenever requested, the justice shall appoint some sui~ 
able person, who shall consent thereto in writing, to be named by
such plaintiff, to act as his next friend in such action. 
SEC. 21. After the service and return of process against an infant 
defendant, the action shall not be further prosecuted until a guardian
for such infant shall have been appointed. Upon the request of such 
defendant, the justice shall appoint some person, who shall consent
thereto in writing, to be guardian of the defendant in defence of the 
action; and if the defendant shall not appear on the return day of
the process, or if he neglect or refuse to nominate such guardian, the 
justice may, at the request of the plaintiff, appoint any discreet person
as such guardian. The consent of the guardian or next friend shall
be filed with the justice. 
SEC. 22. The parties shall be entitled to one hour in which to make
their appearance after the time mentioned in the summons for appear­
ance, but shall not be required to remain longer than that time, unless 
both parties appear, and the justice being present, is actually engaged
in the trial of another action or proceeding ; in such case, he may
postpone the time of appearance until the close of such trial. 
SEC. 23. The pleadings in justices' courts shall take place upon the
appearance of the parties, unless they shall have been previously filed, 
or unless the justice, for good cause shown, allow a longer time than
the time of appearance. 
SEC. 24. The pleadings in justices' courts shall be:
1. The complaint of the plaintiff, which shall state in a plain and 
direct manner the facts constituting the cause of action.
2. The answer of the defendant, which me.y contain a denial of the 
complaint, or any part thereof, and also a statement, in a plain and
direct manner, of any facts constituting a defence. 
8. When the answer claims a set-off by way of defence, the reply
of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 25. The pleadings shall be in writing, when the action is for
a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful detention 
of lands, tenements, or other possessions. In all other cases the
pleadings may be oral or in writing. 
SEC. 26. When the plea.dings are oral, the substance of them shall
be entered by the justice in his docket; when in writing, they shall 
be filed in his office, and a reference me.de to them in his docket.
Pleadings shall not be in any particular form, but shall be such as to 
enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended. 
SEC. 21. A statement in answer or reply, that the party has not
sufficient knowledge or information in respect to a particular allega­ 
tion in the previous pleading of the adverse party to form a belief,
shall be deemed equivalent to a denial. 
SEC. 28. When the cause of action or set-off arises upon an account
or instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be sufficient
for the party to deliver the account or instrument, or a copy thereof,
to the justice, and to state that there is due to him thereon from the
adverse party a specified sum, which he claims to recover or set-off. 
SEC. 29. Every complaint, answer, or reply shall be verified by the
oath of the party pleading ; or if he be not present, by the oath of
his attorney or agent, to the effect that he believes it to be true ; the 
verification shall be oral, or in writing, in conformity with the plead­
ing verified. 
SEC. 30. Every material allegation in a complaint, or relating to a
set-off in an answer not denied by the pleading of the adverse party,
shall on the trial be taken to be true, except that when a defendant 
who has not been personally served with a copy of the complaint fails
to appear and answer, the plaintiff cannot recover without proving 
his case.
SEC. 31. Either party may object to a pleading by his adversary, or 
to any part thereof, that it is not sufficiently explicit to enable him to 
understand it, or that it contains no cause of action or defence, although
it be taken as true. If the justice deems the objection well founded,
he shall order the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse to 
amend, the defective pleading shall be disregarded.
SEC. 32. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allege­ 
tions in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the
justice be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his
prejudice thereby. 
SEC. 33. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the
trial, or during the trial, or upon the appeal to supply any deficiency
or omissions in the allegations or denials, necessary to support the
action or defence, when by such amendment substantial justice will
be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue, and it be 
made to appear to the satisfaction of the justice that an adjourn­
ment is necessary t() the adverse party in consequence of such amend­
ment, an adjournm nt shall be granted. The justice may also, in his 
discretion, require, as a condition of an amendment, the payment of
costs to the adverse party. 
SEC. 34. To entitle the defendant to any set-off he may have against
the plaintiff, he must allege the same in his answer, and the laws 
regulating set-off in the circuit court shall in all respects be applica­
ble to a set-off in a justice's court, if the amount claimed to be set off 
do not exceed the plaintiff's demand more than one hundred dollars,
and judgment may, in like manner, be rendered by the justice in 
favor of the defendant for the sum found due from the plaintiff.
SEC. 35. If the defendant have a set-off exceeding the plaintiff's 
demand to an amount which, if found for him by the justice or the
jury, would be more than the justice is authorized to render judgment 
for, such defendant may withhold setting off such excess, and a
recovery for the amount set off and allowed, or any part thereof, shall
not be a bar to his subsequent action for the amount so withheld. 
SEC. 36. Whenever any judgment shall be set oft', it shall be the
duty of the justice before whom such set-off is allowed, to give the
plaintiff a certificate thereof, under his hand and seal. Such certifi­ 
cate, when filed with the proper justice or clerk, shall stay all further
proceedings on the judgment so set oft' and allowed, and shall be a
satisfaction thereof, except in cases where the judgment so set oft' and
allowed exceed the plaintiff's demand more than one hundred dollars; 
and in such cases so much of the judgment as was set off and allowed
before the justice shall be specified in such certificate, and shall be a 
credit on such judgment when filed as aforesaid. 
SEC. 37. No judgment upon which an appeal has been taken, and 
is pending, shall be allowed as an offset. 
SEC. 38. When the pleadings of the parties shall have taken place,
the justice may, upon the application of either party, and upon suffi­
cient cause being shown on oath, adjourn the case for any time not 
exceeding forty days. If the adjournment be on account of the
absence of testimony, it shall be for such reasonable time as will
enable the party to procure such testimony, and shall be at the cost 
of the party applying therefor, unless otherwise ordered by the
justice. 
SEC. 39. An adjournment on account of the absence of testimony
shall only be allowed upon affidavit showing the materiality of the
testimony expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been 
used to procure it. The justice may also require the pariy applying
to state upon affidavit the evidence which be expects to obtain, and if
the adverse party thereupon admit that such evidence would be given,
and that it be considered as actually given on the trial, or offered and 
subject to being overruled as improper, the trial shall not be pos*­ 
poned. 
SEC. 40. The party applying for the adjournment shall alao, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of any 
witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance, be taken by
deposition before the justice, which shall be done accordiug ly, and 
the testimony so taken may be read on trial with the same effect aai
subject to the same objections as if the witness were produced.  
SEC. 41. If it appear in any action instituted before a justice of the
peace, at any time before trial, by the pleadings, or if it appear from
the evidence of either party on the trial, that the title to lands is ia 
question, which title is disputed by the other party, the justice shall 
immediately make an entry thereof in his docket, and cease all
further proceedings in the cause, and shall certify and return to the
circuit court a transcript of all the entries made in his docket relating 
to the case, together with all the process and other papers relating to 
the action, in the same manner and within the same time as upon an
appeal ; and thereupon the circuit court shall proceed in the cause to
final judgment and execution in the same manner as in an action 
originally begun therein, and the costs shall abide the event of the
suit; provided, however, if such transfer of the cause be made upon 
the answer of the defendant, he shall file an undertaking, with two
sufficient sureties to be approved by the justice, to the effect that they
will pay all costs of the action if it be decided ag11inst him in the
circuit court. 
SEC. 42. At the time and place appointed for the trial, if no jury
shall have been demanded by either party, the justice shall proceed
to try the cause, to hear the proofs and allegatlons of the parties, and
to determine the same according to Jaw and the right of the case,
and give judgment accordingly. 
SEC. 48. When partiee agree to enter without procees before any
justice any action in this chapter made cognizable before him, such
justice shall enter the same in his docket, and proceed to trial, judg­ 
ment, and execution, in all respects in the same manner as if a sum­
mons had been issued, served, and returned. 
SEC. 44. Before the justice shall commence an investigation of the
merits of the cause by an examination of the witnesses or the bearing
of any other testimony, either of the parties may demand of the justice 
that the cause be tried by a jury, whenever the sum claimed shall
exceed twenty dollars. If such demand be made by one of tile 
parties only, the other may have his election entered upon the docket
of the justice that the case be transferred to the circuit court, and if 
auch election be made, the justice shall cease all further proceedings in
the case, and shall certify and return to the circuit court a transcript
of all the entries made in his docket relating to the case, together with 
all the processes and other papers relating to the action, in the same
manner and within the same time as upon an appeal ; and thereupon
the circuit court shall proceed in the cause to final judgment and
execution, in the same manner as in an action originally begun
therein, and the costs shall abide the event of the action: provided, 
however, that the party so electing to transfer the case to the circuit
court shall file an undertaking, wit'bi two sufficient sureties to be
approved by the justice, to the effect that he will pay all the coats of 
the action if it be decided against him in the circuit court. If no such
election be made the case shall be tried by a jury, and no appeal shall
be allowed from a judgment rendered upon the verdict of such jury. 
SEC. 45. Thereupon the justice shall issue a venire, directed to the
marshal or any constable, commanding him to summon twelve ( or 
such number as the parties may have agreed upon) good and lawfu
men of the county of Washington, qualified to serve as jurors in the 
circuit court, who shall be nowise of kin to either party, nor interested
in the action, to appear before said justice, at a time and place to be 
named therein, to make a jury for the trial of the cause between the
parties therein named. 
SEC. 46. Parties may agree upon any number of jurors less than
twelve to try the cause, in which case the jury shall consist of such 
number, not exceeding twelve, as the parties may agree upon.
SEC. 47. If the plaintiff' shall demand a jury in any cause where a. 
sum of money is claimed, and the jury shall not find a verdi~ for at
leasfi twenty dollars in his favor, such plaintiff' shall pay the feee of
such jury and all additional costs occasioned by auchjury trial. 
SEC. 48. The marshal or constable to whom the venire may be
directed shall execute the same fairly and impartially, and shall not
summon any person whom he has reason to believe is biased or preju­ 
diced for or against either of the parties ; he shall summon the jurors
personally, and shall make a list of the persons summoned, which he
shall certify and annex to the venire and return to the justice. Ha 
·sufficient number of competent jurors cannot be obtained from the
panel returned, the marshal or constable shall immediately summon
others to serve in their places. 
SEC. 49. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when there are
several parties on either side they shall join in a challenge before it 
can be made. The challenges shall be to individual jurors, and shall
be peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to a per­
emptory challenge of one-third of the jury. 
SEC. 50. Challenges for cause may be taken on any ground that 
would be a good cause of challenge on the trial of an action in the
circuit court. Challenges for cause shall be tried by the justice in a
summary way. 
SEC. 51. When the jury is selected the justice shall administer to
them the following oath or affirmation : '' You and each of you do 
solemnly swear (or affirm) that you will well and truly try the matter
of difference between -- --, plaintiff, and -- -, defendant, 
and a true verdict give according to the evidence: So help you God."
SEC. 52. After the jury are sworn they shall sit together and hear 
the allegations and proofs of the parties, which shall be delivered
publicly in their presence. 
SEC. 53. The rules of evidence and the competency of witnesses
shall be the same as in the circuit court, except as in this chapter is
otherwise provided. 
SEC. 54. If a witness, on being produced, shall be objected to as
incompetent, such objection shall be tried and determined by the
justice, and evidence may be given in support of or against such
objection ae in other cases, or the proposed witness may be examined
on oath by the party objecting ; and in such last case no other testi­
mony sh!f,ll be received from either party as to the competency of such 
witnees, 
SEC. 55. After bearing the proofs and allegations of the partie1,
the jury shall be kept together in some convenient place, under the
charge of a constable, until they have agreed upon their verdict, or
shall be discharged by the justice, and for that purpose the justice
shall administer to such constable the following oath : " You do
swear that you will, to the best of your ability, keep the persons
sworn as jurors on this trial together in some private and convenient
place, without meat or drink, except such as shall be ordered by me; 
and that you will not suffer any communication to be made to them ;
that you will not communicate with them yourself, unless by my
order, or to ask them if they have agreed on their verdict, until they 
shall be discharged ; and that you will not, before they render their
verdict, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, 
or the verdict which they have agreed upon.''
SEC. 56. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they shall 
deliver it to the justice publicly, who shall enter it in his docket.
SEC. 51. Whenever the justice shall be satisfied that the jury sworn 
in any civil action before him cannot agree on their verdict after
having consulted for a reasonable time, he may discharge them, and
issue a new venire, unless the parties consent that the justice may 
render judgment on the evidence before him, or upon such other
evidence as they may produce. 
SEC. 58. Every person who shall be duly summoned as a juror and
shall not appear, nor render a resonable excuse for his default, or, 
appearing, shall refuse to serve, shall be deemed guilty of a contempt,
and may be proceeded against as is hereafter in this chapter provided. 
SEC. 69. A new trial may be granted by the justice at any time
within three days after entering judgment, according to the regula­ 
tions to be observed in the circuit court, notice of the motion therefor
having been given to the adverse party, his agent or attorney. The 
justice shall name the time for hearing such motion.
SEC. 60. No more than one new trial shall be granted to either. 
party.
SEC. 61. When a new trial is granted, the justice shall set a day. 
for the same, and cause at least five days' notice thereof to be given
to the party against whom the motion was granted. 
SEC. 62. Judgment that the action be dismissed without prejudice
to a new action may be entered, with costs, in the following cases:. 
1. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action before it ia
finally submitted. 
2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons,
or upon adjournment, or within one hour thereafter. 
SEC. 63. When the defendant fails to appear and answer at the time
specified in the summons, or within one hour afterwards, judgment 
shall be given as follows:
1. When the defendant has been served with a copy of the com­ 
plaint, judgment shall be given in all cases founded on contract,
without further evidence, for the sum specified in the summons, pro·
vided the account, note, bill, or other instrument, or a copy thereof, 
upon which the action was brought, was filed with the justice at the
time the summons was issued. 
2. In all other cues the justice shall hear the evidence of the plain­
tiff, and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the 
evidence to be just ; but in no caae exceeding the amount specified in
the summons. 
SEC. 64. Upon the verdict of a jury the justice shall immediately
render judgment thereon. When the trial is by the justice, judg­
ment shall be entered within three days after the close of the trial. 
SEC. 65. If the defendant at any time before trial offer in writing
to allow judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the
plaintiff' may immediately have judgment therefor, with the costa then
accrued ; but if he do not accept such offer before the trial, and fail 
to recover in the action a sum greater than the offer, such plaintiff'
shall not recover any costs that may accrue after he shall have been
notified of the offer of the defendant, but such costs shall be adjudged
against him, and, if he recover, deducted from his recovery. But the
offer and failure to accept it, shall not be given in evidence to affect
the recovery otherwise than as to costs as above provided. 
SEC. 66. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs by this chapter, the justice shall add their amount to the judgment, and in
case of a failure of the plaintiff' to recover, or in case of dismissal of
the action, be shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant for
the amount of costs. 
SEC. 67. Whenever any person shall voluntarily confess judgment
in favor of another, before entering judgment on such confession,
the justice shall administer an oath or affirme.tien to the person so 
<k>nlessing, that he does not confess such judgment to defraud any of
his creditors, but that he is justly indebted to the person in whose 
favor such judgment is to be entered for the full amount for which he
so confesses judgment; which oath or affirmation, together with the 
grounds or considerations of such indebtedness, shall be reduced to 
writing, and filed with the justice; and no appeal shall lie from a
confessed judgment. 
SEC. 68. Every judgment confessed without a compliance with the
provisions of the section next preceding shall be void as against all 
persons except a purchaser in good faith of any goods or chattels,
lands, or tenements, under such judgment, and except as l;>etween the 
plaintiff or his assigns and the defendant, their heirs, executors, and
administrators. 
SEC. 69. When a summons issued by a justice of the peace shall be
returned served as to 'one or more of the defendants, and "not found" 
as to another or other of the defendants therein, the justice shall, if
the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, require it, enter the return on 
his docket, and proceed to trial and judgment against the parties
served with process or appearing, as in other cases where process has
been served on all the defendants; and the plaintiff may, at any time 
afterwards, proceed against those not found, or any of them. 
SEc. 70. It shall be the duty of such justice, on the request of such
plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, who may be desirous of proceeding
against the other defendants, to permit him to withdraw the note,
agreement, or obligation on which he may have obtained such judg­
ment, the justice retaining a copy thereof. 
SEC. 71. The execution upon a judgment by a justice of the peace
for a sum of money may be stayed in the manner hereinafter provided,
for a period of six months, to be calculated from the date of the 
judgment.
SEC. 12. To entitle any persoa to such stay of execution, some 
responsible person, to be approved by the justice rendering the
judgment, and not being a party to the judgment, must, within ten 
days after the rendering of the judgment, enter into an undertaking
before such justice, to the adverse party, in a sum sufficient to secure
the payment of the judgment and costs, conditioned to be void upon 
such payment at the expiration of the stay. Such undertaking shall
be signed by the person entering into the same. 
SEC. 13. If the justice rendering the judgment have no authority
to act as a justice of the peace at the time when a party may be 
entitled to a stay of execution, such party, upon filing a certified
transcript of such judgment with, and entering into the aforesaid
undertaking before, any other justice of the peace, shall be entitled
to a stay of execution as aforesaid. 
SEC. 74. If at the expiration of such stay the judgment be not
paid, the execution, upon which no stay shall be allowed, shall issue 
against both the principal and bail ; if the principal do not satisfy
the execution, and the officer cannot find sufficient property belonging 
to him upon which to levy, he shall levy upon the property of the
bail, and in his return shall state what amount of money collected 
by him on the execution was collected from the bail, and the time
when the same was received. 
SEC. 75. After the return of such execution, the bail shall be entitled, on application to the justice, to have the judgment, or so much 
thereof as may have been collected from him in satisfaction of the
execution, transferred to his use, and he may collect the same from 
the defendant, by execution, together with interest at the rate of
twelve per cent. per annum. 
SEC. 76. If a judgement be stayed in the manner above provided,
after an execution has been issued thereon, the justice shall revoke 
such execution. 
SEC. 17. Executions for the enforcement of a judgment in a justice's
court may be issued on the application of the party entitled thereto, 
in the manner hereinafter prescribed, but after the lapse of two years
• from the date of the judgment no execution shall issue, except by 
leave of the justice before whom such judgment may he, upon 
affidavit filed, showing that such judgment is unsatisfied, and upon 
reasonable notice to the defendant.
SEC. 78. When ·any judgment shall have been rendered by any 
.justice of the ·peace, and the same shall not be satisfied during his
continuance in office, any other justice of ihe peace may issue execu­ 
tion upon such unsatisfied judgment in the same manner and with 
like effect as if he himself had rendered the judgment, provided that
a certified transcript of such judgment be filed with such justice. 
But in no case shall execution be issued upon a judgment by any other 
justice than th\ one rendering the judgment, if the justice rendering
the judgment have authority to act as a justice of the peace. 
SEC. 79. The execution shall be directed to the marshal or any
constable; shall be dated on the day it is issued, and made returnable
within forty days from the date ; and shall be against the goods and 
chattels, rights and credits, not exempted by law, of the person
against whom it is issued. No execution against real property shall 
be issued by any justice.
SEC. 80. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice shall 
state in his docket, and also on the back of the execution, the amount
of the debt or damages and costs, and of the fees due to each person 
separately; and the officer receiving such execution shall endorse
thereon the time of the reception of the same. 
SEC. 81. If an execution be not satisfied, it may, at the request of
the party entitled thereto, be renewed from time to time 
who issued the same, or the justice with whom a certified transcript
of the judgment is filed as aforesaid, by an endorsement thereon to
that effect, signed by him, and dated when the same shall be made. 
0by
the justice 
If any part of such execution has been satisfied, the endorsement of
renewal shall express the sum due on the execution. Every such 
endorsement shall renew the execution in full force, in all respects,
for forty days and no longer, and an entry of such renewal shall be 
made in the docket of the justice. 
SEC. 82. The sales of property under execution issued by any justice,
and the manner in which the officer shall proceed under the same,
shall, except where otherwise provided in this chapter, be governed 
by the provisions of this Code which regulate the sales of personal
property under an execution issued from the circuit court. 
SEC. 83. After the issuing of an execution, and upon proof, by
affidavit of a party or otherwise, to. the satisfaction of the justice, that
the judgment debtor has property or effects which he unjustly refuses
to apply towards a satisfaction of the judgment, such justice may, by
an order, require the judgment debtor to appear and answer under
oath concerning the same before such justice at the time and place
specified in the order, and disobedience to suchorder may be punished 
as a contempt. 
SEC. 84. The judgment debtor, on his appearanoe, may be examined
on oath concerning his property, and his answers reduced to writing 
and filed with the justice. 
SEC. 85. If there be no goods and chattels found subjqpt to execution,
or if the goods and chattels levied on be not sufficient to satisfy such
execution, the justice shall, on demand of the plaintiff, summon in 
writing, as garnishees, such persons a.s may be named to him by the
plaintiff or his agent, to appear before such justice, on the return day 
of the execution, to answer such interrogatories as may be put to them
touching their liabilities as garnishees ; and the like proceedings shall 
be had thereupon before the justice to final judgment and execution 
as in proceedings by attachment.
SEC. 86. After the issuing of execution, any person indebted to the 
judgment debtor may pay to the officer to whom the execution may
be directed the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution, provided the judgment on which
such execution was issued be not subject to an appeal, and the officer's 
receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.
SEC. 81. Execution against the body shall not be issued by any 
justice, except as is provided in this chapter. 
SEC. 88. If the proceeding before the justice be an action for the
recovery of a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, brought by the corporation
of Washington City, Georgetown, or the levy court of Washingt.on
county, and judgment be against the defendant, an execution againd
the body of such defendant may be issued by such justice, either before 
the issuing of an execution against the goods and chattels of such de­
fendant or after the return of any such execution unsatisfied in whole 
or in part. Any person arrested on such execution against his person
shall be imprisoned in the public jail until such execution is satisfied 
or he is legally discharged.
SEC. 89. In other cases, any judgment creditor wishing an execu­ 
tion against the body, or the agent or attorney, of such judgment
creditor, me.y file with the justice an affidavit, charging the debtor
with fraudulently concealing, removing, or transferring his property
subject to execution, with intent to defraud or delay such creditor, or
that he has money, rights, credits or effects, with which the judgment
of such creditor or some part thereof might be paid, and which he
fraudulently withholds or conceals with a view to delay or defraud
his creditor. 
SEC. 90. Such affidavit need not designate specifically any property,
JPOney, or e1recta fraudulently removed, transferred, concealed, or
withheld by such debtor ; but the justice or jury in determining the
matters in iseue between the parties, if the finding be for the creditor,
shall designate in such finding the moneys, effects, property, or things
in action which have been thus removed, concealed, transferred, or
withheld, and also the value thereof. 
SEC. 91. Upon the filing of such affidavit, such justice shall issue a 
summons, requiring such debtor to appear and show cause why
execution against the body should not issue. Such summons shall 
be made returnable in five days from date, and be served and returned
as other summonses. 
SEC. 92. If such debtor fail to appear on the return day, after being
duly summoned, the justice may hear and determine the aame in
his absence, or a jury may be empanneled for that purpose at the 
request of the creditor.
SEC. 93. If such debtor appear to such affidavit and issue be taken 
thereon, it shall be tried by the justice, or a jury shall be empanneled
at the request of either pariy to try the same as in other cases. 
SEC. 94. No appeal shall be allowed in the cases provided for in
the two preceding sections, nor shall a request for a jury in such
cases authorize their removal to the circuit court. 
SEC. 95. If such trial be determined against such debtor, and he 
will not forthwith surrender, for the benefit of such creditor, the
moneys, effects, property, or things in action which may be found to 
have been removed, concealed, transferred, or withheld, or pay the
value thereof, an execution shall issue against his body, and he shall 
De arrested and committed to jail, there to be confined until duly
discharged according to law. 
SEC. 96. It shall be the duty of every justice, when requested by the
plaintiff or his agent, to make out and certify an abstract of any 
judgment rendered by him, if there be no outstanding execution upon
the same, for the purpose of having the same docketed in the office of
the clerk of the circuit court. After such abstract has been delivered
to the plaintiff or his agent, no execution shall be issued by any
justice of the peace on such judgment; but -.,xecution upon the same 
may be issued by the clerk of the circuit court, as upon a judgment
rendered in said court. 
SEC. 91. The plaintiff in an action before a justice to recover the 
possession of personal property may, at the time of issuing the sum­ 
mons, or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery of
such proporty, as herein provided. 
BBC. 98. When a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be made by
the plaintiff, or some person in his behalf, showing- 
1. That the plaintiff is owner of the property claimed, (particnlarly
describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof by
virtue of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall
be set forth; 
2.· That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant;
3. The alleged cause of detention thereof, according to his bed 
knowledge, information, or belief;
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, 
pursuant to a statute, or seized under execution or attachment as the
property of the plaintiff, or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt
from such seizure ; 
5. The actual value of the property, not exceeding one hundred
dollars. 
SEC. 99. The plaintiff' may also claim damages for the detention or
taking of such property, not exceeding one hundred dollars. 
SEC. 100. The justice shall thereupon, by an endorsement in writing
upon the affidavit, order the marshal or constable to take the said
property from the defendant, and deliver it to the plaintiff, upon 
receiving a proper undertaking.
SEC. 101. Upon the receipt of the affidavit and order, with a written 
undertaking, executed by two or more sufficient sureties approved by
the marshal or constable, to the effect that they are bound in double 
the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution
of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant if a re­
turn thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may for any cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the marshal or
constable shall forth with take the property described in the affidavit,
if it be in the possession of the defendant or his agent. He shall also,
without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, order, 
and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if he can 
be found in this District, or to his agent from whose possession the 
property may have been taken; or if neither can be found in this
District, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either within
this District ; or if neither have any known place of abode in this
District, by putting them in the post office, directed to the defendant
at the post office nearest to him. 
SEC. 102. If the property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a
building or enclosure, the officer shall publicly demand its delivery,
and if it be not delivered, he shall cause the building or enclosure to
be broken open, and take the property in his possession. 
SEC. 103. When the officer shall have taken property as in this chapter provided, he shall deliver it to the plaintiff, upon receiving 
his lawful fees for the taking and his necessary expenses for keeping
the same. 
SEC. 104. Such cause shall be tried as other causes before justices;
if the cause shall be dismissed or the defendant prevail, judgment
shall be rendered in his favor for his costs, and that he have return
of the property ; if the plaintiff prevail, he shall have judgment for
damages for the taking or detention of the same, not exceeding one 
hundred dollars, and costs.
SEC. 105. If the property claimed, or any part thereof, cannot be 
found by the marshal or constable, the action shall proceed as if it
had been so found; and if such property, not so found, is adjudged 
to be the property of the plaintiff, and liable to have been recovered
in that action if it had been found, he shall recover the value thereof 
in damages, whether he shall have claimed that amount in damages
in bis complaint or not. 
SEC. 106. Attachments against the property, rights, credits, moneys,
and effects of defendants may be issued in the cases mentioned in chapter eighty-five, upon any claim for the recovery of money within
the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, upon filing with the justice 
the affidavit and undertaking prescribed in said chapter. The justice
shall perform the duties required of the circuit court, or any judge or
clerk thereof, and the marshal or constable shall perform the duties
required of the marshal by the provisions of said chapter eighty-five, 
except so far as in this chapter is otherwise provided. The marshal
or constable shall return the writ of attachment within fifteen days,
with his doings thereon ; and in case where a summons has not been 
served, and property has been attached, the juatice shall require three
weeks' notice of the attachment to be given in some newspaper pub­
lished in Washington City, and fix the day of trial at the expiration 
of such notice.
SEC. 101. If the defendant does not appear and give bond witll 
security for the release of the property attached before the day of
trial, the justice shall proceed to hear and determine the cause. If 
the defendant appears, or appears and gives bond with security for the
release of the property attached, the proceedings shall be as in similar
cases before the circuit court, except as otherwise provided. 
SEC. 108. No attachment shall be issued by any justice on the
ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident
of this District, except for a claim arising upon contract, judgment, or
decree, or from an injury to person or property within the jurisdiction
of the justice, committed within this District -, 
SEC. 109. Garnishees may be summoned, judgment rendered, execu­
tion issued, and other proceedings in attachment be had before the
justice, as is provided in cases of attachment before the circuit court, 
except where otherwise specially provided. If real estate, however, be
attached, and judgment be rendered against the defendant, no execu­
tion shall be issued by the justice upon such judgment against such
real estate. In any such case, the abstract of the judgment may be 
docketed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court, and execution
may issue upon the same, as if such judgment had been rendered in
the circuit court. If, in such case, the summons had not been person­
ally served upon the defendant, and he had not appeared, he may, at 
any time within one year after such abstract is docketed, have the judg­
ment opened in the circuit court, and be allowed to defend, with the
same effect, as in similar cases in tho circuit court. And in every
other case of attachment, when the summons has not been personally
aerved upon the defendant, and he has not appeared, and judgment baa 
been rendered against him, the justice, upon the return of the execution,
shall certify and return to the circuit court a transcript of all the en­
tries made in his docket relating to the case, together with all the pro­
cesses and other papers relating to the action, and such defendant, at 
any time within one year thereafter, may have the judgment opened
in the circuit court, and be allowed to defend with the same effect, as 
as in similar cases, in the circuit court. 
SEC. 110. Whenever, in pursuance of legal notice or otherwise,
any landlord, or his legal representative, shall be entitled to the 
possession of lands, he may, by himself or his agent, have any tenant
who shall unlawfully hold over, removed from such lands, on com­
plaint in writing before a justice of the peace, specifying the matters
relied on to justify such removal, and the damages claimed for
detention. The premises shall be described in the complaint with 
reasonable certainty.
SEC. 111. The justice shall forth with issue a summons directed to 
the marshal or constable, commanding him to summon such tenant 
to appear before him not lees than three, nor more than ten, days
after the issuing thereof. A copy of the complaint shall be served 
with the summons.
SEC. 112. Such summons shall be served on such tenant, or, if he 
cannot be found, by delivering a copy thereof to some person of
proper age and discretion residing on the premises, or, if no such
person be found, by affixing a copy thereof on a conspicuous p,art of
said premises. 
SEC. 113. Subpomas may be issued and served, the attendance ot
witnesses enforced, continuance granted, pleadings amended, juries 
empanneled and sworn, and challenges allowed, as in other cases
before justices. If a jury be demanded by one of the parties, the
other may elect that the case be transferred to the circuit court; and
thereupon the justice shall proceed as is, in similar cases, herein before 
provided. 
SEC. 114. Where notice to quit is required by law, a copy of the
same, with proof of service, shall be necessary for the recovery of the
plaintiff. 
SEC. 115. If the verdict of the jury, or the finding of the justice,
be for the plaintiff', judgment shall be rendered thereon that he have
possession of said premises, and recover the damages assessed, and
hie costs ; and, if required by such plaintiff' or hie agent, the justice
shall issue a writ, directed to the marshal or constable, commanding
him to deliver said premises to said plaintiff, by removing the defend­
ant and his goods therefrom, or otherwise, so that the plaintiff have
complete possession thereof, and also to levy such damages and costs
of the goods of said defendant. 
SEC. 116. Such writ, as to delivery, shall, subject to the provisions
of the next succeeding section, be forthwith executed, and in other 
respects shall be governed by the regulations respecting executions
issued by a justice of the peace. 
SEC. 117. If, however, when there has been no trial by jury, a
party, at the time judgment is rendered against him, or within tweniy­
four hours afterwards, gives notice of an appeal and files a proper
appeal bond, all further proceedings before the justice shall cease and
be stayed. If there be a trial by jury, no appeal shall be allowed. 
SEC. 118. If the verdict of the jury or the finding of the justice be
for the defendant, he shall have judgment thereon for his costs. 
SEC. 119. Any person who shall make unlawful or forcible entry
into lands, and shall either peaceably or forcibly detain the same
against any person having right to possession thereof, or any person
having peaceably obtained the possession of lands, who shall unlaw­
fully and forcibly keep the same against any person having right to
the possession thereof, may be ousted from such premises, and the
possession thereof restored to the person entitled to the same, and
damages for the retention recovered, on complaint by him made in the
same manner as provided in the case of tenants holding over. 
SEC. 120. In all civil cases, where it is not otherwise provided,
either party may appeal from the final judgment of any justice of
the peace to the circuit court. 
SEC. 121. Where there are two or more plaintiffs or defendante,
one or more of such plaintiffs or defendants may appeal without 
joining the others in such appeal. 
SEC. 122. The party appealing shall, within ten days from the
rendition of the judgment, file a notice of the appeal with the justice,
and enter into an undertaking to the adverse party, with at least one
good and sufficient surety, to be approved by the justice, in a sum not
less than fifty dollars in any case, nor less than double the amount of
the judgment and costs, conditioned that the appellant will prosecute
his appeal to effect, and that, if judgment be rendered against him
on the appeal, he will satisfy such judgment and cost!3. If the 
appellant be a non-resident, any person may enter into the under­
taking in his stead. 
SEC. 123. On the filing of such bond, the justice shall make out
and certify a complete transcript of all the proceedings had before
him, and transmit the same, together with such bond and all the
other papers in the case, to the clerk of the circuit court, within
twenty days thereafter, or, failing so to do, shall forfeit all his costs 
in the case ; but no such appeal shall be dismissed for such failure of
the justice. 
SEC. 124. If it appear to the satisfaction of the circuit court that
such bond is insufficient, the said appeal may be dismissed, unless 
the appellant, within a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, file
a sufficient bond. 
SEC. 125. Upon the filing of the bond with the justice as aforesaid,
all further proceedings before the justice shall cease and be stayed.
If any execution has issued, the same shall be revoked. 
SEC. 126. The clerk of the circuit court, on the receipt of the tran­
script from the justice, shall docket the appeal, and issue a. · notice of 
such appeal to the appellee. If the appellee be a non-resident of this
District, or absent from the same, the notice may be served upon his
agent or attorney. If the appellant do not appear on or before the 
second day of the term next after such appeal be docketed, and file
his petition, such appeal shall be dismissed and the judgment affirmed.
The plaintiff' before the justice shall be the plaintiff in the circuit 
court, and the parties shall proceed as in cases originally instituted
before said court, and the said court shall render such judgment and 
issue such execution as shall be proper in the case.
Sec. 127. Such cause shall stand for trial in the circuit court at the 
:first term after the filing of the transcript as aforesaid, subject to the
power of the court to order the same to be tried during the term at 
which any transcript may be filed. The issue before the justice shall
be tried in said court, without other or new pleadings, unless other­ 
wise directed by the court. 
SEC. 128. Costs shall follow judgment in the circuit court on appeals
with the following exceptions : 
1. If either party against whom judgment has been rendered,
appeal and reduce the judgment against him five dollars or more,
he shall recover his costs in the circuit court, when the appellant
appeared before the justice. 
2. If either party in whose favor judgment has been rendered, 
appeal and do not recover at least five dollars more than he recovered
before the justice, the appellee shall recover his oosta in the circuit 
court.
But the foregoing exceptions shall not apply to any case pending 
on appeal in the circuit court when this Code takes effect. 
SEC. 129. A justice of the peace may punish as for contempt, per·
sons guilty of the following acts, or any of them : 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards the
justice while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of 
a trial, or other judicial proceeding.
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance 
in the presence of the justice, or in the immediate vicinity of the court
held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial, or other 
judicial proceeding.
3. Disobedience or resistance to any lawful order or process made 
or issued by him.
4:. Disobedience to a subpcena duly served, or refusing to be sworn 
or answer as a witness.
5. Rescuing any person or property in the cttstody of any officer b7 
virtue of any order or process issued by such justice. 
SEc. 130. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view
and presence of the justice, it may be punished summarily, for which
an order shall be made, reciting she facts as occurring in such imme­
diate view and presence, adjudging that the person proceeded against
is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as therein
prescribed. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate
view and presence of the justice, o. warrant of arrest may be issued by 
such justice, On which the person so guilty may be arrested and
brought before the justice immediately, when an opportunity to be 
heard in his defence, or excuse, shall be given. The justice may
thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of the offence. 
SEC. 131. A justice may punish for contempts by fine or imprison­
ment, or both; such fine not to exceed in any case twenty dollars,
and such imprisonment not to exceed one day. The conviction, speci­ 
fying particularly the offence and the judgment thereon, shall be
entered by the justice on his docket. 
SEC. 132. Whenever there shall be no constable convenient, and,
in the opinion of the justice, an emergency exists for the immediate
services of one, such justice may appoint a special constable to act in
a particular case; and shall note such appointment in such case on
the docket, and shall direct process to him by his name ; and such
constable so appointed shall discharge the duties, receive the fees, and
have the powers in such case appertaining to the office. The justice
appointing such special constable shall, with bis sureties, be liable on
his official bond for any neglect of duty or illegal proceedings by such
constable in such cause. 
SEC. 133. No justice or constable shall purchase any judgment or
interest therein rendered by any justice of the peace; and any such
purchase shall operate as a satisfaction of such judgment to the extent 
of the interest therein purchased. 
SEC. 134. Justices may receive money tendered them on any judg­
ment on their docket, and shall pay over the same on proper demand 
to the person authorized to receive the same. 
SEC. 135. When a judgment is obtained before any justice, and the
execution defendant shall die after levy and before sale, the property
levied on shall be sold in the same manner as if he was alive ; but if
no levy has been made in such case, such execution shall be returned
without further proceedings, and its lien on the goods of the defendant
divested ; and if the plaintiff die after execution has issued, the same 
shall be executed and returned as if such plaintiff were living. 
SEC. 136. Writs of scire facias before justices are abolished, and
actions by complaint and summons substituted. 
SEC. 137. The execution defendant shall be entitled to the custody
of goods levied upon by virtue of any execution issued by any justice,
by executing a delivery bond, with surety, payable to the execution
plaintiff, under the rules and provisions prescribed in chapter ninety­ 
four in respect to delivery bonds. 
SEC. 138. In case of the sickness, or other disability, or necessary
absence of a justice at the time appointed for trial, another justice 
may, at his request, attend in his behalf, and shall thereupon become
vested with the power, for the time being, of the justice before whom
the summons was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of the 
proceeding before the attending justice, subscribed by him, must be
made in the docket of the justice before whom the writ was returnable. 
If the case be adjourned, the justice before whom the summons was
returnable must resume jurisdiction, if his disability has ceased. 
SEC. 139. In all cases where it is not otherwise provided, proceed­
ings before justices shall be governed by the practice and usages of
the circuit court and the rules of the common law, so far as the same 
are in force in this District. 
SEC. 140. The following forms may be used by justices ae nearly as
circumstances will permit; but no writ or judgment shall be invalid
for want of form if it contain the substance : 
Summons. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, Washington County, BB. 
To the marahal or any constable of eaid couaty : 
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to 
summon A B to appear before me at my office, or before some other
justice of the peace of Washington county, on the -- day of --- 
'
--, at -- o'clock in the -- noon, to answer C D in a complaint
wherein he claims -- dollars; and return then and there this writ. 
Given under my hand, this -- day of --. 
-- --, Justice of the Peace. 
Subprena. 
;DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, Washingtmi County, es. 
To lhe marshal or any constable of eaid county : 
In tho name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to 
summon A B to appear before me at my office, on the -- day
of , --, at -- o'clock in the noon, to testify on the 
part of the plaintiff, (or defendant, as the case may be.) in the case
of C D YB. G H; and have then and there this writ. 
Given under my hand, this -- day of---, --. 
-- --, Justice of the Peace.
Venire. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, Wasltington County, s«. 
To the marBbal or any constable of 11:1id county : 
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to
summon good and lawful men of your county, to be and 
appear before me at my office, on the -- day of ---, --, at
-- o'clock in the noon, to make a jury in the case of AB 
vs. CD; and have then and there this writ.
Given under my hand, this -- day of , --. 
-- --, J'U,8tice of the Peace. 
Execution against goods and chattels. 
To the marshal or any constable of said county :
DISTRICT OP CoLUMBIA, Waihington County, ss. 
Whereas judgment against AB for the sum of --dollars, and
for -- dollars costs, was recovered on the -- day of , ,
before the undersigned, ( or before C D, whose term of office has
expired, and a certified transcript of whose judgment is filed with 
the undersigned,) at the suit of G H: You are, therefore, in the
name of the United States, commanded to levy on the goods and
chattels, rights and credits, of the said AB not exempt by law, and
make sale thereof according to law to the amount of said sum and 
all accruing costs ; and make return thereof within forty days from
date. 
Given under my hand, this -- do.y of---,--. 
Execution against body.
-- --, Justice of the Peace. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, Washington Oounty, BB. 
To the marshal or any constable of said coonty : 
Whereas judgment against AB for the sum of -- dollars, and
for -- dollars costs, was recovered on the -- de.y of , --,
before the undersigned, (or before C D, whose term of office has 
expired, and a certified transcript of whose judgment is filed with
the undersigned,) at the suit of G H; and whereas an execution
against the body has been awarded on said judgment against A B:
yon are, therefore, in the name of the United States, commanded to 
take said AB, and, unless he pay said judgment, costs, and accruing.
costs, commit him to jail until discharged by law. 
Given under my hand, this -- day of---,--.
-- --, JUBtice of the Peace ... 
.Attachment. 
DISTBicr OF CoLUMBIA, Washington O<YUmy, 88. 
To the mubal or any comtable of aid county: 
Whereas AB has filed with me the affidavit and bond necessary
to entitle him to a writ of attachment against C D for the sum of 
-- dollars, claimed to be due said A B from the said C D: You
, are, therefore, in the name of the United States, commanded to attach 
the goods, chattels, rights, credits, moneys, and effects of the said
CD, except such as the law exempts, to be kept and disposed of
according to law; and make legal return thereof. 
Given under my hand, this -- day of , --.
-- --, J'U,8lice of the Peace. 
Order in replevin. 
DISTBicr OB CoLUMBIA, Washington Oounty, 88. 
To the marshal or any conetable of said county: 
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to
take the personal property mentioned and described in the within
affidavit, and deliver the same to the plaintiff, upon receiving a
proper bond. 
Given under my hand, this -- day of ,
-- --, JU8tice of the Peace. 
Verdict and judgment in unlawful, detention of lands. 
We, the jury, find that A B did, at the commencement of this
action, unlawfully detain from C D possession of the following
described piece of land, to wit : (here describe it,) and that C D is 
entitled to the possession thereof, and to recover of said AB --­
dollars for its detention. 
-- --, Foreman. 
It is therefore adjudged that the said C D have restitution of the
premises in said verdict named, and that he recover of AB the sum 
of dollars, with interest from this date, and costs, and accruing
costs. 
SEC. 141. In all other cases not herein provided for, justices may
adopt and use the forms used in the circuit court in similar cases,
with such variations as circumstances may require. 
TITLE VI. 
Miscellaneous provisions. 
CHAPTER 118. 
OF ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELLORS. 
8mr.I01' 
3. Certificate of admillion to be a lioeDH.
4. Criminal court may admit attomey1.
5. Attomey1 to t&ke &D oath. 
S•orrox 
6. Attorneys of highest courts admitted to
practise in this District. 
7. Clerk to keep a roll of attomey1.
8. Persona not admitted, practising law, 
9. i
lO. Power of courts u to 1u1pen1ion of at-
l r. to~ey1. 
fUiJty of contempt, 
SKOTIOX 
SEC. 1. Any white male citizen of this District, of the age of
twenty-one years, of good moral character, and who possesses the
necessary qualifications of learning and ability, shall be entitled to 
admission as attorney in all the courts of this District.
SEC. 2. The circuit court shall have full power and authority, from 
time to time, to make such rules, subject to the provisions of this chapter, 88 said court shall deem proper, respecting the qualifications, 
examination, o.nd admission of attorneys to practise in the several
courts in this District. 
SEc. 3. If the applicant be found duly qualified, the said court shall
admit him as an attorney, and shall direct an order to be entered to 
that effect upon its records, and that a certificate of such record be
given to him by the clerk of the court, which certificate shall be his
license. 
SEC. 4. The criminal court of this District shall have full power
and authority to admit as an attorney in said court, any white male
citizen of this District, of the age of twenty-one years, and of good 
moral character, who possesses the proper qualifications, and may
direct the clerk of said court to give a certificate of such admission,
which certificate shall be his license to practise in said court. 
Sm. 5. Every person on his admission shall take an oath to suir
port the constitution of the United States, and to discharge the duties 
of attorney to the best of his knowledge and ability. A certificate of
such oath shall be endorsed on the license. 
SEC. 6. Any person who shall have been admitted as an attorney in
the highest courts of any State of which he is or was an inhabitant, 
may be admitted to practise 88 such in any of the courts of this
District. 
SEC. 7. The clerk shall keep a roll of attorneys of the court of which
he is clerk, which shall be a record of the court. 
SEC. 8. If any person shall practise law in any court of this District,
except a justice's court, without having received a license as aforesaid,
he shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and be punished as 
in other cases of contempt.
SEC. 9. Any court before which any attorney has been admitted to 
practise, on proof being made to it that he has been convicted of a
felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, committed since
his admission to practise, may suspend or annul his license. 
SEC. 10. Each of the courts of record in this District shall have
power to suspend or rev.oke the license of any attorney, as to such 
court, for any mal-practice therein, which mal-practice shall come
under the observation of such court. Such party shall have an oppor· 
tunity of being heard in his defence. The cause of such suspension
or revocation shall be entered of record. 
SEC. 11. Upon complaint in writing, verified by affidavit, made to
the circuit court, of mal-practice by any attorney concerning any
matter depending, or to be brought in any of the courts of this Dis­
trict, the party accused shall be summoned by said circuit court to 
show cause why an information should not be filed therein against
him ; and if such information be ordered, and the accused be found
guilty, the said court may suspend his license for a time, or revoke it.
Such suspension or revocation shall extend to practice in any of the
courts of this District. 
SEc. 12. Every attorney shall be liable to his client for any
damages sustained by such client in consequence of any neglect of 
duty by such attorney. 
SEC. 13. Every attorney receiving money belonging to his client,
and refusing to pay the same when demanded, shall be liable to be
proceeded against in the same manner as the marshal is for money
received on execution and not paid over, and may be proceeded against
as is provided in the eleventh section of this chapter. 
SEC. 14. Parties may manage, prosecute, or defend their own suits
personally, or by such attorney as they may see fit to engage, but no 
more than two persons for each party shall, without permission of the
court, be allowed to manage any case therein. 
SEC. 15. Every attorney who shall be lawfully possessed of an
execution in favor of his client, shall have a lien thereon for the
amount of his fees and disbursements· in the eause, provided that this 
shall not prevent the payment of the execution to the judgment
creditor, by any officer or other person, without actual notice of the 
lien.
SEc. 16. Neither any judge or clerk of any court in this District, 
or the register of wills, or the recorder, or marshal, or the deputy of 
any such clerk, register, recorder, or marshal, shall be permitted to 
practise as an attorney or conveyancer, nor shall any such ask or reeeire
any fee or reward for advice respecting anything to be brought before
or depending in any of the courts of this District. No justice of the 
peace shall practise as an attorney in any justice's court in this Dis­ 
trict. If any person shall violate the provisions of this section, he 
shall, in every case not otherwise specially provided for, be fined a
sum not exceeding five hundred dollars. 
SEC. 17. The word attorney in this chapter shall be construed to 
include counsellor. 
CHAPTER 119. 
OF ARBITRATIONS AND UMPIRAGES. 
1. Controvenies that may be submitted.
i. When 1ubmi•ion not to be made. 
3. Bond. to be executed.
4. In ablence of agreement, either party 
may fix a time and place for hearing.
5. Arbitrators to be ewom.
6. Witneaes may be required to attend. 
7. Award of a majority to be nlid, unle111
otherwiN 1tipulated. 
8. The award must be in writing.
9. Fees to be the ame as in euee before a 
justice of the peace.
10. Copy to be 1e"ed •>n each party,
Jl, If either party fail to comply, the award 
may be filed in the circuit court, and
rule illued. 
SEOTIOM 
12. A ward to be confirmed, an 1- n.emd.
13. CaUICe for vacating u award. 
14, For what caU1e1 an awud may be 
modified.
15· 
--------- 
l Judgment upon the award.
16, S 
17. COltl u in ci vii cuee.
18. When judgment may be enforced by 
attachment.
19. When proof aball be required by the 
court of aubmiuion, award, and
Nrvice 
iO. Submillion and award acconfutc kl 
common law, not precluded.
21. Fee1 of arbitraton. 
SEC. 1. All persons, except infants, married women,' and insane
persons, may, by an instrument in writing, submit to the arbitration
or umpirage of any person or persons, to be by them mutually chosen,
any controversy existing between them which might be the aubjed 
of an action, except 88 otherwise provided in the next succeeding
section, and may agree that such submission be made a rule of the
circuit court. 
SEC. 2. No such submission shall be made respecting the claim of
any person to any estate in fee, or for life to any real estate ; but any 
claim to an interest in a term for years, or for one year or less, in
real estate, and controversies respecting the partition of lands between 
joint tenants or tenants in common, or concerning the boundaries of
lands, or concerning the assignment of dower, may be submitted to 
arbitration.
SEc. 3. When an agreement is made according to the preceding 
sections, the parties shall execute bonds, with condition to abide and
faithfully perform the award or nmpirage, specifying therein the
name of the arbitrator or arbitrators, and the matters submitted to 
their determination, and an agreement to make the submission a rule
of the circuit court. After the execution of such bonds, neither 
party shall have power to revoke such submission, without the
consent of the other. 
SEC. 4. As soon as such bonds are duly delivered, if no time and
place be fixed by agreement, either party may appoint a time and 
place for the arbitrator or arbitrators to meet, by giving to the
opposite party and to such arbitrator or arbitrators at least five days' 
written notice.
SEC. 5. Before proceeding to hear any testimony, such arbitrator or 
arbitrators shall be sworn faithfully and fairly to hear and examine
the matters in controversy, and to make a just award, to the best of 
hie or their understanding. Such oath, and oaths to witnesses, may
be administered by any person authorized to administer oaths. 
SEC. 6. Witnesses may be required to attend before arbitrators on
behalf of either party by summons issued by any justice of the peace,
in the same manner and subject to the same process and penalties for 
disobedience, to be enforced by such justice, as in trials before justices
of the peace. 
SEC. 1. As soon as the arbitrator or arbitrators are ready to proceed
to business, the parties may exhibit their proofs. All the arbitrators 
must meet together and hear the allegations of the parties, but the
award of a majority shall be valid, unless otherwise required by the 
submission. The arbitrators may adjourn the hearing, from time to
time, 88 may be necessary. 
SEC. 8. The award shall be in writing, and signed by the arbitrator
or arbitrators agreeing thereto. 
SEC. 9. The fees of the justice issuing process, and of the witne88e8
in such case, shall be ascertained and estimated by the arbitrators, 
and returned with the award, including therein. their own proper
fees .. 
SEC. 10. A true copy of the award, and of the costs aforesaid, shall
be delivered to each of the parties, or left at his last usual place of
residence, by any one of the arbitrators, within ten days after the
signing of such award. 
SEC. 11. If either of the parties shall fail or refuse to comply with
such award, the other party may file the same, together with the
agreement of submission, in the circuit court, and thereupon the said
court shall grant a rule thereon, against the adverse party, to show
cause, at that or the succeeding term of the court, why judgment
should not be rendered by the court upon said award. 
SEc. 12. Upon the return of the rule, the court shall cause such
submission and award to be entered of record, and confirm the award
and render judgment thereon, unless the award be vacated. 
SEC. 13. In all cases where an award or umpirage shall be presented
to the court for a judgment to be entered thereon, the adverse party
may show for cause against the rendition of said judgment any 0£ 
the following grounds :
1. That such award was obtained by fraud, corruption, or other 
undue means; or that there was evident partiality or corruption in
the arbitrators, or any of them. 
2. That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct or committed
gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hearing, or
in refusing to hear pertinent and material evidence, or otherwise 
acted improperly, in a manner by which the rights of the party were
prejudiced. 
3. That the arbitrators exceeded their powers in making their
award; or that they refused, or improperly omitted, to consider a
part of the matters submitted to them; or that the award is indefinite,
or cannot be performed. 
SEC. 14. Any party to such submission may move the court to 
modify or correct such award or umpirage in the following cases:
1. When there is an evident miscalculation of figures, or an 
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing, or property
referred to or mentioned in such award or umpirage, or any evident 
mistake apparent on the face of such award or umpirage,
2. When the arbitrators shall have awarded upon some matter not 
submitted, and not. affecting the merits of the decision upon matters
which were submitted. 
3. When the award shall be imperfect in some matter of form, not
affecting the controversy, and when, if it had been a verdict, such 
defect could have been properly amended or disregarded by the court. 
SEc. 15. The court shall hear the proof and allegations of the
parties to invalidate or sustain such award, and decide thereon, either
confirming such award, or may modify and correct the same in the
cases prescribed in the last preceding section so as to effect the intent
thereof, and shall render judgment on such original or corrected
award; or the court may vacate such award for any of the causes
herein before specified, at the cost of the parties seeking to enforce 
such award. 
SEC. 16. If such award be confirmed, judgment shall be given in
favor of the party to whom any sum of money or damages shall have 
been awarded, that he recover the same; and if the award shall have
ordered any act to be <lone by either party, judgment shall be entered
that such act be done according to such award. 
Bso. 11. The costs of the proceedings in court shall be as in civil
actions; and if no provision for the fees and expenses of the arbitra­
tion shall have been made in the award, the court shall make the
allowance therefor. 
SEC. 18. When by any judgment of the court on the award, any
party shall be required to perform any act other than the payment of
money, the court shall have power to enforce the same by attachment 
until the terms of such judgment shall be complied with. 
SEC. 19. If the rule to show cause why judgment should not be
rendered on the award be not served personally on the party against 
whom it was issued, the court shall require proof of the submission
and award, and of service of the award. 
SEC. 20. Nothing in this chapter contained shall preclude the sub­
mission and arbitration of controversies according to the common law. 
SEC. 21. Arbitrators shall be allowed five dollars per day each for
their services, when there is no agreement otherwise. 
SECTION
I. } What actions do and what do not sur- 3. When death ensue, an action may be
2. vive. maintained. . 
SEC. 1. All causes of action shall survive except where otherwise
provided in this chapter. 
SEC. 2. All causes of action for an injury to the person or reputa­
tion shall survive against the personal representatives of the person 
committing the injury in favor of the party injured. If such action
be brought by the party injured in his lifetime, it shall survive also
in favor of bis personal representatives against the person committing 
the injury and his personal representatives. If it be not so brought,
it shall not survive, except in the case mentioned in the following 
section.
SEC. 3. When the death of one is caused by the wrongful act or 
omission of another, the personal representatives of the former may
maintain an action therefor against the latter and his personal 
representatives. Such action must be commenced within two years,
and the damages recovered shall inure to the exclusive benefit of the
widow and children, if any, of the deceased, to be distributed in the
same manner as his personal property. 
SECTION 
CAUSES OF ACTION THAT SURVIVE. 
OF THE ASSIGNMENT OF JUDGMENTS AND DECREES. 
I. Judgments may be UBigned. 
CHAPTER 120. 
CHAPTER 121. 
i. Payments before actual notice valid.
3, How execution shall iaue. 
SECTION 
4. How actions may be maintained by or
agaimt ulignee. 
SEC. 1. Judgments and decrees of a court of record for the
recovery of money, and judgments obtained before a justice of the
peace, may be assigned by the plaintiff or complainant, and the
assignees thereof, successively, by an entry on the judgment docket ; 
which assignment shall vest the title to such judgment or decree in
each assignee thereof successively. 
SEC. 2. Payments or satisfaction on such judgment or decree to the
assignor shall be valid if made before actual notice of the assignment
to judgment debtor, butnot otherwise. 
SEC. 3. In case of assignment, execution shall issue in the name of
the original plaintiff or complainant, but shall be endorsed, by the
clerk or justice, to be for the use of the assignee. 
SEC. 4. Any action or proceeding on such judgment or decree which
could have been had by or against the plaintiff or complainant, may
be maintained by or against such assignee in his own name. 
CHAPTER 122. 
OF THE CHANGE OF NAMES OF PERSONS AND CORPORATIONS. 
SSCT10•
I. Circuit court may change the names of 
resident penona or corporation&
2. Public notice to be given by applicant. 
CHAPTER 123. 
OF RENT, ITS RECOVERY AND APPORTIONMENT. 
S.ar10•
I. How rent may be recovered.
2. How warrant of distre• may be obtained.
3. What may be diatrained. 
4. Upon what terms holder of a lien may
remove good, aubject to rent. 
5. When officer may enter by force to levy
.. diltrnl. 
SSOTio•
3. Court, on proof of publication, may 
make the proper order. 
SEC. 1. The circuit court may change the names of persons and
corporations on application by petition. The applicant, if a person, 
must be a resident within this District; and if a corporation, must
have its principal office located therein. 
SEC. 2. Upon a petition being filed for such change, the applicant
shall give notice thereof, by at least four weekly publications in some
newspaper published in Washington City, twenty days prior to the
first day of the term at which such petition shall be heard. 
SEC. 3. l,pon proof of the publication required by this chapter, the
court shall proceed to hear and determine such petition, and make
such order therein as shall seem just and proper. 
SECTION 
G. Distreaa not void for subsequent irregu­
larity. 
7. Proceedings where rent is r8Nl'Yed
otherwise than in money. 
8. Apportionment of rent, hire, or money,
in cue of death of one interested. 
SEC. 1. Rent of every kind may be recovered by distress or by
action. It may be recovered from the lessee or other person owing
it, or his assignee, or the personal representatives of either. It shall
not, however, be recovered from a mortgage not in possession, or a
trustee not in interest, except by express agreement. 
SEC. 2. Rent may be distraincd for, within three years from the time
it becomes due, and not afterwards, whether the lease be ended or
not. The distress shall be made by the marshal or any constable, 
under a warrant from a justice of the peace, founded upon an affidavit
of the person claiming the rent, or his agent, that the a.mount of 
money or other thing to be distrained for, (to be specified in the
affidavit,) as he verily believes, is due to the claimant for rent reserved
upon contract from the person from whom it is claimed. 
SEC. 3. The distress may be levied upon any goods and chattels of
the lessee, or his assignee or under-tenant, found on the premises, or
which may have been removed therefrom not more than thirty days;
but the goods and chattels of the under-tenant shall be liable only
for rent becoming due after his under-tenancy commenced. If tbe
goods and chattels of such lessee, assignee, or under-tenant, when
carried on the premises, are subject to a lien which is valid against
his creditors, his interest only in such goods and chattels shall be
liable to distress. If any lien be created thereon while they are upon
the leased or rented premises, they shall be liable to distress, bot for 
not more than one year's rent, whether it shall have accrued before
or after the creation of the lien. No distress shall be levied on any 
goods and chattels exempt from execution ; and no other goods and
chattels shall be liable to distress than such as are declared to be so
liable by this section. 
SEc. 4. If, after the commencement of any tenancy, a lien be 
obtained or created by deed of trust, mortgage, or otherwise, upon
the interest or property in goods and chattels on premises leased or 
rented, of' any person liable for the rent, the party having such lien
may remove said goods and chattels from tbe premises, if in other 
respects entitled so to do, upon his paying to the person entitled to 
the rent so much as is in arrear, and securing to him so much as is 
to become due, the whole amount paid and secured not being more,
altogether, than a year's rent in any case. Nothing in this or the 
preceding section shall affect any lien for taxes. 
SEC. 5. Any officer having such distress warrant, if there be need
for it, may, in the day time, break open and enter into any house or
close in which there may be goods liable to the distress; and may
either in the day or night break open and enter into any house or 
close wherein there may be any goods so liable which have been
fraudulently or clandestinely removed from the leased or rented
premises. 
SEC. 6. Where distress shall be made for rent justly due, and any
irregularity or unlawful act shall be afterwards done by the party
distraining or his agent, the distress shall not be deemed to be un­
lawful, nor the party making it be therefore deemed a trespasser from 
the beginning; but the party u.ggrieved by such irregularity or unlaw­
ful act may, by action, recover full satisfaction for the special damage 
he shall have sustained thereby. 
SEC. 7. Where goods are distrained for rent reserved in a share of
the crop, or in any other thing than money, the claimant of the rent
having given the tenant ten days' notice, or if the tenant be out of 
this District, having set up the notice in some conspicuous place on
the premises, may apply to the circuit court; and said court having 
ascertained the value, either by its own judgment, or, if either party
require it, by the verdict of a jury empanneled without pleading, 
may order the goods distrained to be sold, to pay the amount so
ascertained. 
SEC. 8. On the determination by death or otherwise of the estate
or other thing, from or in respect of which any rent, hire, or money 
coming duo at fixed periods, issues, or is derived, or on the death of
any person interested in such rent, hire, or money, the person or the
personal representative or assignee of the person who would have 
been entitled but for such death or determination to the rent, hire,
or money coming due at any such period, shall have a proportion 
thereof, according to the time which shall have elapsed of the time
for which the said rent, hire, or other money was growing due, in­ 
cluding the day of such death or determination, deducting a propor­
tional part of the charges. For the recovering of such proportion, 
the said person, representative, or assignee shall, after such fixed
period, have such remedies as he would have had for recovering the
whole of such rent, hire, or other money, if entitled thereto. 
SECTION 
1, What eball be deemed contempte.
i. ·When the contempt is committed in 
presence of the court or judge.
3. Attachment may issue. 
•· 1 
5•
Proceedi1119 upon attachment. 
6.
7. J 
CHAPTER 124. 
OF CONTEMPTS. 
I SsOTros 
8.}
9. Proceedin11 upon the return of tie
10. attachment. 
11.
12. Joqment to be final. 
13. What oft'eocea before referem or arbitn·
ton shall be deemed contempt&. 
14. What oft"eocem before a commmioner te 
take depo,itiona eball be deemed COi· 
temple.
SEC. 1. The following acts or omissions shall be deemed con· 
tempt.a:
1. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior t.owards the 
court, or any judge thereof whilst holding court, or whilst engaged
in judicial duties at chambers, tending to interrupt the due coune 
of a trial or other judicial proceeding .
. 2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or violent disturbance 
in presence of the court or its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt
the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding. 
3. Disobedience of, or resistance to, any lawful writ, order, rule, or
process issued by the court, or judge at chambers. 
4. Disobedience of a subpcena duly served, or refusal to be sworn
as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when required. 
5. Rescuing any person or property, in the custody of any office 
by virtue of an order or process of the court, or judge at chambers.
6. Any other act or omission specifically declared by statute to be 
a contempt.
SEC. 2. When a contempt is committed in the immediate vie• 
and presence of the court, or judge at chambers, it may be punished
summarily; for which an order shall be made, reciting the facts a& 
occurring in such immediate view and presence, adjudging that the
person proceeded against is thereby guilty of a contempt, and that he 
be punished as therein prescribed. When the contempt is not com·
mitted in the immediate presence of the court, or judge at chambers, 
an affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts
constituting the contempt. 
SEC. 3. When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view
and presence of the court or judge, a warrant of attachment may be
issued to bring the person charged, to answer. 
SEC. 4. Whenever a warrant of attachment is issued pursuant to
this chapter, the court or judge shall direct whether the person
charged may be let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or 
detained in custody without bail ; and if he may be bailed, the amount
in which he may be let to bail. The directions given in this respect 
shall be specified in the warrant or endorsed thereon. 
SEC. 5. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the marshal
shall keep the person in custody, bring him before the court or judge, 
and detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the
person arrested entitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the 
next succeeding section. 
SEc. 6. When a direction to let the person arrested to bail is con­
tained in the warrant of attachment or endorsed thereon, he shall be 
discharged from the arrest upon executing and delivering to the
officer, at any time before the return day of the warrant, a written 
undertaking, with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that the person
arrested will appear on the return day of the warrant, and abide the
order of the court or judge thereupon, or they will pay as may be 
directed the sum specified in the warrant.
SEC. 7. The officer shall return the warrant of attachment and the 
undertaking, if any, received by him from the person arrested, by
the return day specified therein. 
SEC. 8. When the person arrested has been brought up or appeared,
the court or judge shall proceed to investigate the charge, and shall
hea.r any answer which the person arrested may make to the same,
and may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an adjourn­
ment may be had from time to time, if necessary. 
SEC. 9. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the court or judge
shall determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the 
contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the 
contempt, a fine may be imposed on him not exceeding two hundred 
dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceeding four days, or both.
SEC. 10. When the contempt consists in the omission to perform 
an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform, he may be 
imprisoned until he shall have performed it, and in that case the act
shall be specified in the warrant of commitment. 
SEC. 11. When the warrant of attachment has been returned served,
if the person arrested do not appear on the return day, the court or 
judge may issue another warrant ; or may order the undertaking to be
prosecuted, or both. If the undertaking be prosecuted, the measure
of damages in the action shall be the extent of the injury or Ioa 
sustained by the aggrieved party by reason of the misconduct for
which the warrant was issued, and the costs of the proceedings. 
SEC. 12. The judgment and orders of the court or judge made in 
cases of contempt shall be final and conclusive. The punishment
shall be by fine or by imprisonment, but no fine shall exceed the
sum of two hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the 
period of four days, except as is provided in section ten of this chapter. 
SEC. 13. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards
referees or arbitrators sitting on a reference or arbitration, tending to
interrupt the due course of the same, may be punished as a contempt
by the circuit court, or by a judge thereof in vacation, in the manner 
herein before provided, upon an affidavit being presented to the court
or judge of the facts constituting the contempt. 
SEC. 14. Disorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior towards 
any person duly authorized by law to take depositions within this
District, or duly appointed by any State or Territory of the United 
States to take depositions within this District, whilst engaged in the
taking of depositions, tending to interrupt the same, or disobedience
of a subpoena issued by such person and duly served, or refusal to be
sworn or answer as a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition
when required by such person, may be punished as a contempt by the 
circuit court, or any judge thereof in vacation, in the manner herein­
before provided, upon an affidavit being presented to the court or judge 
of the facts constituting the contempt. If such person authorized to 
take depositions be a justice of the peace, this section shall not apply;
but the offending party in such case may be proceeded against in the 
manner provided in cases of contempts before justices. 
SECTION 
1. Who ahall be privileged from arl'Nt.
2. Service of aummona may be made. 
SEC. 1. The following persons shall be privileged from arrest on
civil process, and from obeying any subpcena to testify: 
1. All voters, during attendance at and going to and returning
from elections. 
2. Members of the levy court, during the session of said court, and
'_Vhile going to and returning from the same. 
3. Justices of the peace, while engaged in hearing any trial.
4. All persons while engaged in necessary attendance upon any 
court, and in going to and returning from the same.
5. All persons while actually engaged in the discharge of military 
duty.
SEC. 2. Nothing in the preceding section contained shall be so con­ 
strued as to privilege any person therein named from being served at
any time with a summons or notice to appear. 
SEC. 3. Any person arrested contrary to the provisions of this chap­
ter shall be forthwith discharged, on motion before the court issuing
the process, or on habeas corpus, at the costs of the officer making the 
arrest. 
SEC. 4. An attachment of contempt, in not obeying the command 
of a subpcena to testify, shall be deemed a civil process within the
meaning of th is act. 
SECTION 
CHAPTER 120. 
or PRIVILEGE FROM ARREST. 
CHAPTER 126. 
OF PETIT JURORS. 
I . Who shall furnish liata of persona sub­
ject to 888898ment. 
2. Clerk, and recorder to depocsit one hun­
dred and fifty names in a box. 
3. Marahal to draw twenty-eix name, from
the box. 
SBCTIOM 
3. Penom wrongfully arreeted may be di1-
cbarpd on motion, or ha.beat corpus. 
-4. At.ta.chment of contempt, a civil proceaa. 
SKOTIOM 
-4. Court may order marshal to 1Ummon
talesmen. 
5. Persons eervinr u jurors not again to-be
required to serv:e until ot.bera have 
aerved. 
6. Who are competent to ""e- u juron. 
served as jurors for any term, shall not have their names again
deposited in said box until at least two-thirds of those who were 
qualified to serve, at the time their names were drawn, have served.
SEC. 6. A person shall not be competent to act as a juror unless he 
be a citizen of the United States, a resident of this District, over
twenty-one and under sixty-fl ve years of age, and in the possession of
his mental faculties ; nor shall any person be competent to act as a 
juror who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude. 
SEC. 7. A person shall be exempt from liability to act as a juror, if
hebe- 
1. A judicial officer ;
2. Any civil officer of this District or of the United States, whose 
duties are, at the time, inconsistent with his attendance as a juror ;
3. An attorney or counsellor;
4. A minister of the gospel, or priest of any denomination; 
5. A teacher in a college, academy, or school;
6. A practising physician; 
7. An officer, keeper, or an attendant of an alms house, poor house,
hospital, asylum, or other charitable institution, created by or under 
the laws of this District;
8. The captain, master, or other officer, or any person employed on 
board of a steamer, vessel, or boat, navigating the waters of this
District ; also keepers of public ferries. 
SEC. 8. A person may be excused by the court from acting as juror,
when, for any reason, his interests or those of the public will be 
materially injured by his attendance, or when he is a party in any
action or proceeding to be tried or determined by the intervention of 
a jury at the term for which he may be summoned, or when bis own
health, or the death or sickness of a member of his family, requires 
his absence. 
SEC. 9. Citizens of Washington Oity, Georgetown, or of that part
of Washington county which lies outside of said cities, if otherwise 
qualified, shall be competent jurors in a case or proceeding wherein
either or all of said places may be interested. 
SEC. 10. No exception or challenge shall be taken to a juror after
he shall have been sworn, unless by leave of the court ; nor shall any 
verdict be set aside for any exceptions to a juror which would have
been good cause of challenge. 
SEC. 11. A challenge to the panel shall only be allowed in the case 
of a material departure from the forms prescribed by law in respect
to the drawing and return of the jury. Such challenge shall be taken
before the jury is sworn, and shall be in writing, specifying plainly
and distinctly the facts constituting the ground of challenge. The 
court shall try the sufficiency and truth of such challenge. 
SEC. 12. The court, at any time during- the term, may discharge 
the whole or any number of the jurors, when their services are not
required; after such discharge, at the same term, should a jury be 
required, the court shall direct the marshal to summon one from
other competent residents of this District. 
SEC. 13. Jurors shall be entitled to two dollars for each day's
services, counting, in case of the regular panel, from the commence­ 
ment of the term to the time of their discharge, and deducting the
days on which they shall not have attended. Those casually sum­
moned shall only be paid for the time they actually serve. 
SECTION
1. Writing to a pel'IOn dead at the time 
of ita execution valid. 
CHAPTER 127. 
2. Joint obligations may be enforced apinst
repn,eentative of deceued. 
3. ProYision u to tender.
4, Where christian name is abbreviated.
5. How a partnenhip, company, or &880- 
ciation, not inr.orporated, may be pro­
ceeded apiut. 
6. Penon injured by violation of a statute
may recover damagee. 
7. lnaulting words actionable.
8, Any cue eeven yean pending, may be 
di8continued.
9. Courta or officers authorized to take bail 
or llll'ety may eumine a party 011 oath, 
S.anos 
10, When new party introduced, he is 
entitled to notice.
11. Notice to be ,riYen in writing.
12. Marshal may discba.rge debtor, if main- 
tenance be not paid. 
13. Rule u to actiona already commenced.
1', } Rul f ' d ' . 
15 
es o con1truct1on, an proT1sk)Da 
l6. u to the operation and efl'ect or Uae
17• 
Code.
18. No diacontinaance, when day for oom­ 
mencing any term is changed.
19. No discontinuance of any caUN or 
matter pending in any court on the
day before this Code takes efFect. 
SEC. 1. A bond, note, or other writing to a person who is dead
at the time of its -execution shall be as valid as if such person were 
then alive, and may be proceeded oa ia the name of the representative
of such person. 
SEC. 2. The representative of one bound with another either jointly
or as partner, by judgment or otherwise, for the payment of a debt, 
or the performance or forbearance of an act, or for any other thing,
and dying in the lifetime of the latter, may be charged in same
manner as such representative might have been charged if those 
bound jointly or as partners bad been bound severally as well as
jointly, otherwise than as partners. 
SEC. 3. If an action be brought on any writing obligatory, promise,
or contract, for the payment of money, and the defendant shall 
answer and prove that he did tender payment of the money due on
such writing obligatory, promise, or contract, at the time and place 
where he was holden to pay the same, or at any time before the
commencement of said action thereon, and shall bring into court the
money so due and tendered, the plaintiff' shall not have judgment for
more than the money so due and tendered, without costs, and shall 
pay the defendant his costs.
SEC. 4. In all actions upon bills of exchange, or promissory notes, 
or other written instruments, whenever any of the parties thereto are
designated by the initial letter or letters, or some contraction of the 
christian or first name or names, it shall be sufficient to designate
such person by the same initial letter or letters or contraction of the
first name or names, instead of stating the christian name or the first 
name or names in full.
SEC. 5. Any company or association of persons formed for the pur­ 
pose of carrying on any trade or business, or for the purpose of holding
any species of property in this District, and not incorporated as such,
may be sued by such usual or ordinary name as such company, 
partnership, or association may have assumed to itself or be known
by, unless the names of the persons composing such company, partner­
ship, or association be disclosed by a sign, in letters easy to be read,
placed conspicuously at the place where such trade or business is
conducted ; and in such case, it shall not be necessary to set forth in 
the process or pleadings, or to prove at the trial, the names of the
persons composing such company, partnership, or association. Pro­
cess against any such company, partnership, or association may be 
served by leaving a copy thereof at their usual place of business;
and execution issued on any judgment rendered in such proceedings
shall operate only on the partnership property. If such execution 
be returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, any one or more penona
oompoeing such company, partnership, or association may be sum­
moned to show cause why he or they should not be bound by the
judgment in the same manner as if he or they had been originally 
summoned, and proceedings may be had therein, and judgment
rendered, and execution issued, as in other cases. The remedies 
given by this section shall be construed as being in addition to such
as otherwise exist against companies, partnerships, or asaociations. 
SEC. 6. Any person injured by a violation of a statute may recover
from the offender such damages as he may sustain by reason of the
violation, although a penalty or forfeiture for such violation be
thereby imposed, unless the same be expressly mentioned to be in lieu
of such damages. 
SEC. 7. All words which from their usual construction and common
acceptation are construed as insults, and tend to violence and breach 
of the peace, shall be actionable.
SEC. 8. Any court in which is pending any case wherein for more 
than seven years there has been no order or proceeding but to con­
tinue, may, in its discretion, order such case to be struck from it&
docket; and it shall thereby be discontinued. Any such case, upon
good cause shown, may be reinstated, on motion, within two yean
from the date of such order, but not after. 
SEC. 9. Every court and officer authorized to take any bail or
surety shall have power to examine on oath the person offering to
become such bail or surety, concerning his property and sufficiency
as such bail or security. 
SEC. 10. When a new party is introduced into an action as a
representative or successor of a former party, such new party shall
be entitled, except where otherwise expressly provided, to the same
notice, to be given in the same manner as required for defendants in 
the commencement of an action.
SEC. 11. In all cases where notice is required by this Code, except 
where otherwise provided, it must be in writing.
SEC. 12. No person shall be detained in jail by virtue of any 
execution issued by any judgment creditor, unless such judgment
creditor, his agent, or attorney, shall, on demand of the marshal, 
pay the cost of the maintenance of the debtor in jail, or give such
security therefor as shall be satisfactory to the marshal. If such sum 
be not paid or such security given, the debtor may be discharged,
and no execution against the body of such debtor shall again issue
upon such judgment. 
SEC. 13. In actions already commenced, the pleadings to be~ had
to form issues, the manner of procuring testimony, the examination 
of witnesses, the trial and rendition of judgment, and all other
proceedings, shall conform to the provisions of Part III of this Code
as far as practicable. 
SEc. 14. The provisions of Part III of this Code shall be liberally
construed. 
SEc. 15. No part of this Code shall be retroactive, unless expressly
so declared. The liens of judgments and decrees rendered when it 
takes eff'r.ct, shall be preserved.
SEC. 16. All rights of action secured by existing laws may be 
prosecuted, subject to the provisions of the next succeeding section,
in the manner provided by this Code. If ever a case arise in which 
an action for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress
or prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under the provisions of this 
Code, the practice heretofore in use, subject to such modifications as
me.y be ordered by the court, may be adopted, so far as may be
necessary to prevent o. failure of justice. 
SEC. 11. Where by any statute in force a civil action, legal or
equitable, is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is prescribed, 
the same may be followed ; but in all such cases, as far as may be
consistent with the statute giving such action, and practicable, the
proceedings shall be conducted in conformity to this Code. Where
the statute designates by name or otherwise the kind of action, but 
does not prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such action shall
be commenced and prosecuted in conformity to the provisions of Part 
III of this Code. Where the statute gives an action, but does not
designate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding
therein, such action shall be held to be a civil action, to be commenced
and prosecuted in conformity to the provisions of Part III of this 
Code. 
SEC. 18. When the day for commencing any term of a court is
changed, there shall be no discontinuance, but every notice, recogni­ 
zance, or process given, taken, or returnable to the day fixed before
such change, and all matters ready for the court to act upon if it had 
been held on any such day, shall be in the s~me condition and have
the same effect as if given, taken, or returnable or continued to the 
substituted term.
SEC. 19. Nothing in this Code shall operate to discontinue any 
cause or matter, civil or criminal, which shall be depending and
undetermined in any court on the day before this Code takes effect; 
but every such cause and matter shall be proceeded in, tried, and
determined in such court. The papers and records of such causes and 
matters, and all books, records, and papers whatever, which on said
day may be in the custody of any clerk or register of a court, shall
remain in the custody of the clerk or register of the same, or be
delivered over to the proper clerk, or recorder, as the ease may be. 
