TITLE SIXTEEN TH .

Of Civil Actions in General.

Crur-ran 102. Of the commencement of actions.

103. Of bail.

104. Of attachments.

105. Of the survivency of actions.

106. Of pleading and practice in civil actions.
107. Of witnesses and evidence.

108. Of oaths.

109. Of juries.

110. Of judgments.

111. Of execution.
112. Of defects in pleading and the amendment thereof.

113. Of bills of exception cases stated and reserved questions.
114. Of costs in civil actions.

CHAPTER 102.

OF THE OOMMENCEMENT OP ACTIONS. .

Sac. 1. Writs; date; return day. Sec. 4. Bcire facias.
2. How‘ served. Return. 5. Capias. how served: boil.
3. Judgment by default. 6. Amicable actions; how entered.
May be taken off. on aflidnvit. 7. Actions against delinquent otlicers.

SEO. 1. Every writ used for the commencement of an action, shall
‘bear date on the day it was issued, and shall be returnable on the
first day of the term next thereafter.

SEC. 2. A writ of summons may be served on the defendant by
stating the substance of it to him personally, or by leaving a copy
of it at his usual place of abode, in the presence of some white adult
person, six days before the return thereof. , '

The officer serving a summons, shall state in his return the time
and manner of service.

SEO. 3. If the defendant in a writ of summons, shall not appear
at the return day thereof, and it shall appear by the return that he
was duly summoned, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff, having filed
his declaration, to take judgment thereon for default of appearance,
according to the rules and practice of the court.

But if the defendant shall, at or before the next term after such
judgment, by ailidavit deny notice, or knowledge, of such suit before the judgment was rendered, and shall allege that there is a
just, or legal, defence to the action, or some part thereof, such judgment shall be taken off and he shall be permitted to appear; any
execution which may have been issued thereon to remain cautionar .

£130. 4. In every case in which a writ of scire facias may by law

'be issued, it shall be served and returned in the same manner as is
provided in case of an original summons; and judgment for default

of appearance may be taken in like manner, unless it be otherwise
specially provided.

. SEO. 5. A writ of capias ad r ondendum is served by arresting
the defendant, but he shall be disedbarged upon iving suilicient bail.

SEC. 6. It shall be lawful for any persons wgling to become parties to an amicable action, to enter into an agreement in writing for
that purpose, either personally or by their agents, or attornies; and
on filing such agreement with the prothonotary, he shall docket the
suit, and from the time of such entry the action shall be deemed to
be depending in the same manner as if the defendant had appeared
to a summons issued against him by the plaintif.

SEO. 7. Action may be brought in the name of the State against
any officer for money received by, or legally chargeable to him, for
fines, forfeitures, or fees, appertaining either to the funds of the
State, or to the school fund.

4

CHAPTER 103.

OF BAIL.
sac. 1. How taken. ' Sec. 9. Person committed may give ball; when.
2. Amount of bail ; how llxed. 10. Special bail required in actions for pcAppearance on common bail. nalties.
On special bail. 11. Power ofball over his principal. BailPlaintiH"s atlidavit to show cause of piece.
bail. 12. Bail entitled to assignment of judg3. Bail bond shall be assigned; when; ment.
how. 80. one of several. paying it.
4. Persons under attachment of contempt 13. Proceedings by assignee against prinbailable, exce t. dzc. cipai.
ll’ no sum be in orsed. how fixed. And 9'0!’ 00113115111101!5. Actions on bail bonds; where brought, 14. Proceeding against an absconding

and how. debtorRelief of bail. Adidavit. capias. order ibr security.
6. Proceedings in Chancery against bail. If not given. attachment may issue.
7. Liability of-sheritf for insullicient bail. l If arrest improper. judgment for de8. Rule to bring the body into court. fendant.

- Of bail.

SE0. 1. Bail shall be taken by the joint and several bond of the
defendant and his bail to the sheriff, or oihcer to whom the writ is
directed, and his assigns, in the sum indorsed on such writ, with

‘condition, in substance,-—,that if the defendant shall appear before

the court mentioned in such writ, at the place and time of the return thereof, to answer as therein required, the said bond shall be
void.

SEC. 2. The sum in which bail is demanded shall be indorsed on

the writ. The Superior Court, or any judge thereof, may, on com-t
plaint, fix the amount of bail, pr discharge the defendant on com-.

mon bail.

The plaintif, or his agent, or attorney, if residing in the county,
shall have notice of the time and place of hearing such complaint,
and the plaintiif’s aiiidavit shall be received to show cause of bail.

When a defendant is discharged on common bail, his appearance
shall be entered on the return of the process. When a-bail bond
is given, the defendant cannot appear without giving special bail to
-the action, unless by order of court, or with the p1airitilf’s consent.

SEC. 3. The sheriif, or oflicer to whom a bail bond is given, or

his executors or administrators, shall, upon request, assign it to the
plaintiff, or his executors, or administrators, by indorsement under
seal, attested by one or more witnesses.

By special order of court the assignment may be to a person for
whose use the action is brou ht, or his executors, or administrators.

SEO. 4. A person arreste by virtue of any attachment for contempt (except attachments for non-performance of decrees, or the

,non-payment of money, or returnable forthwith), shall be admitted

'to give bail, and all the fore oing provisions shall apply to the case.
Afny judge of the court awarging the attachment may fix the amount
0 bail.

If no sum be indorsed on the writ, the oflicer executing it shall
set down a reasonable sum.

SEC. 5. Action upon a bail bond must be brought in the same
court as the original action; and when the bond is duly assigned,
the action shall be in the name of the assi nee, or his executors, or
administrators. The court may grant to t e bail and to the parties
respectively in the original action, such relief, upon such terms, and
in such manner as shall be just and equitable.

SEO. 6. Proceedings against bail, on a bail bond taken on an atrtachment issued out of the Court of Chancery, shall be by petition
‘to the said court, which shall decree thereon according to equity.

SEO. 7. Insuilicient bail shall be regarded as no bail. A sherid‘,
’ or oflicer, takin insufficient bail, shall be deemed to have voluntarily permitted t e defendant to escape, and shall be liable accordingly. One or more citizens of the county, of ability to answer the
sum in which bail is required, shall be suilicient bail.

SEO. 8. Although bail be taken, the court shall, upon application,
grant a rule upon the sheriff, or ollicer, to bring the body of the defendant into court, in the same manner as if no bail were taken; but
if the bail be suflicient, and the sheriff, or oilicer, will assign the
bail bond, no further proceeding shall be had against him, if he cannot find the defendant so as to compl with the rule.

SEC. 9. It shall be lawful for any ciefendant, committed to prison

' by virtue of a capias ad respondendum, or surrendered by his bail,
to enter special bail to the action at any time before final judgment
is obtained against him. A e

, SEC. 10. In every action for a penalty imposed by law, special
bail may be required in the amount of the penalty sued for, upon
aflidavit that the offence has been committed.

SEO. 11. Special bail shall have the right to take and render his
principal in his own discharge, and to commit him to jail, at any
time before the end of the term to which the scire facias, or other
lawful process, is returnable; and a cop of the entry of special
bail shall be his suflicient warrant. If t e first scire facias be returned “nihil,” a second shall be issued and returned before the
liability of the bail is fixed.

SEC. 12. Bail may satisfy any judgment rendered against his]
principal; and the plaintiff, or party having the interest therein,1
shall assign the same to the bail, or his executors, or administra-j
tors, at the risk of the assignee, whenever it is so satisiied.

If several persons be bail, one or more, satisfying the judgment, I
shall be entitled to the assignment. .

SEC. 13. The assignee may proceed in the name of the plaintiff, 1
or his executors, or administrators, for his own use, to execute the:
judgment against the principal, or his executors, or administrators,‘
or to recover from other bail, his proportionable share, or ma make
himself a party to the judgment by scire facias and proceed in his
own name as assignee. .

SEC. 14. If any person be indebted to an inhabitant of this State, 1
and the day of payment is not arrived, the creditor, or an one for:
him, on filing with the prothonotary an aiiidavit that the dyefendantl
is indebted to him in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, the time for pay-’
ment of which is not yet come, and that he, on good grounds, believes that said defendant is about to leave the State, and to remove
his effects, and has refused to give better security for the debt, may
issue a capias against such debtor, and have him arrested; and such‘
debtor, shall, on the return of the writ, be obliged to give better
security for the payment of such debt, if the court, on hearing, shall
see {it so to order, and he shall pay the costs. '

If he fail to give such security, a domestic attachment may be is-‘
sued against him without the aiiidavit required by chapter 104. But
if the court shall consider that there was not suiiicient cause for the
arrest, iudgment shall be given that the plaintiff pay to the defendant suc costs and charges as the court shall think fit to allow.

CHAPTER 104.

OF ATTACHMENTS.

Sac. 1. Dosrasno A-r1-scmuzrrs; when issued. SEO. 12. Exceptions to report.
2. Form. 13. Refunding recognizance. Trial.
3. Dissolved by special ball. 14. Creditors neglecting to prove claims.
4. Duty of ollieer executing it. barred.
5. Return ; appniscment; garnishees. 15. Judgment at second term. unless. &.c.
6. Sale of per shable goods. Order for sale of property.
7. GLBNISHEB compelled to appear. 16. Balance. Surplus.
When discharged. 17. Surety of defendant may prove claim.
. Special answer ; plea ; verdict 18. No second writ. unless. ac.
Judgment. Distribution. Proceeding not stayed by death or pay8. May he pleaded by garnishee. ment.
9. Csrus against garnishee: when. 19. Panama ATTACHMENT, when issued.
10. Aunrroas to be ap ointed. 90. Proceedings upon.
11. Oath; notice;au it; apportionment. 2.1. Force of sale.
Report ; payment. Evidence under genenl issue.

Of attaclmzents.

SEC. 1. A writ of domestic attachment may be issued against an
inhabitant of this State after a return to a summons, or capias, issued and delivered to the sheriff, or coroner, ten days before the return thereof, showing that the defendant cannot be found, and proof
satisfactory to the court, of the cause of action; or upon allidavit
made by the plaintiff, or some other credible person, and filed with
the prothonotary, that the defendant is justly indebted to the plaintif in a sum exceeding fifty dollars, and has absconded from the
place of his usual abode, or gone out of the State, with intent to defraud his creditors, or to elude process, as is believed.

SEO. 2. The writ of attachment shall be directed as other writs
are,,and shall command the ollicer to attach the defendant by all his
goods and chattels, rights and credits, lands and tenements, in whose
hands, or possession, soever, the same may be found in his bailiwick, so that he be and appear at the next Superior Court, to answer the plaintiif’s demand; and that he summon the defendant’s
garnishees to appear at the said court to declare what goods, chattels, rights, credits, money, or effects of the defendant, they have in
their hands respectively.

SEC. 3. If the defendant in the attachment, or any suflicient person for him, Will, at any time before judgment, appear and put in
special bail to the plaintiff ’s action, and to all other actionsbrought
against such defendant, to the value of the property, rights, and
credits attached, and the costs, then the garnishees and all property
attached, shall be discharged.

SEC. 4. The sheriff, or other oilicer, shall, under such writ, attach

'all the defendant’s property real and personal, and his rights and

credits that can be found; and shall take possession of the said personal property, rights and credits, and have them inventoried and
appraised, and shall be answerable therefor; but if he cannot have
actual possession thereof, ‘he shall notify the person in whose hands,
or possession, they are supposed to be, that he attaches the same at
the plaintiff ’s suit, for the use of all the defendant’s creditors, and
that he doth summon him, as a garnishee, to appear and answer as
commanded by the writ; from and after which answer, the personal
property, chattels and effects, so attached, shall be delivered to the
sheriff, unless the garnishee will give security for the same.

SEC. 5. The sheriff, or other officer, shall return a particular account of all property, rights, or credits, attached, and theappraised
value thereof, and the names of all garnishees summoned.

SEC. 6. If any property, so attached, is of a perishable nature,
or will cause expense in its keeping, the court, or any judge thereof,
may order the said oilicer, on due notice, to sell the same, and retain the money, subject to the order of court.

SEC. 7. If any garnishee, duly summoned, shall not appear as required, he may be compelled, by attachment, to appear and answer,
or plead; and he shall b'e so compelled within two terms, or the attachment shall, as to him, be dissolved.

If he appear, and at the request of the plaintiff, or any other
creditor, answers under oath that he had no money, goods, chattels, rights, credits, or effects of the defendant, liable to attachment,

in his hands, or possession, at the time he was notified of the attachment, or at any time after, he shall be discharged.

, He may also, at the election of the plaintiff, or other creditor,
make a special declaration; upon which judgment shall be rendered
by the court according to law.

But if any creditor of the defendant shall require him to plead,
he shall not be permitted to answer, but shall plead “walla beam,”
on which the plaintiff, or any other creditor, may take issue and go
to trial.

And if it be found that the garnishee had, at the time he was notified of the attachment, or at any time after and before his plea
pleaded, any money, goods, chattels, or effects, of the defendant in
his hands, or possession, the jury shall render a verdict for the plaintill‘, or such other creditor, and assess damages to the value of such
property, and judgment shall be entered against such garnishee
therefor, with costs; but the money, levied thereon, shall be distributed among all the defendant's creditors as is hereinafter directed.

SEC. 8. Any judgment against a garnishee as aforesaid, shall be
pleadable in bar to any action at the suit of the defendant. . .

SEO. 9. If the plaintiff in any writ of attachment, or any creditor‘
of the defendant therein, or any credible person in behalf of such,
plaintiff, or creditor, will make aflidavit that any garnishee, summoned or to be summoned thereon, is not an inhabitant of the county where the attachment is depending, or that he believes such garnishee is about to leave the said county, and that he also believes
such garnishee has property of the defendant in his hands, or owes
the defendant money, whether it is due or not, then the said plaintill‘, or creditor, may issue a capias against such garnishee and hold
him to bail for his appearance at court to answer, or plead, as aforesaid.

SEO. 10. On the return of a writ of attachment, the court shall
appoint three suitable persons to audit the claims of the defendants
creditors (except such of them as have sued out attachment before
a justice of the peace, and attached any property, rights or credits
of the defendant, who shall be barred from any dividend or beneht
under this proceeding,) and shall adjust and ascertain all their demands, including that of the plaintiff in the attachment.

. SEC. 11. The auditors shall severally be sworn faithfully to dis-,
charge their duty according to the. best of their skill and knowledge.

They shall give thirty days’ notice to the creditors of the time]
and place of their first meeting, by advertisements posted at the
court-house door, and at least five other public places of the county;
and their subsequent sittings shall be by adjournment duly made
and publicly announced. T

They may investigate any claim presented, in any form they judge A
best, and may examine any of the creditors upon oath.

On the receipt of the proceeds of sale of the property attached, or
any part thereof, the auditors shall calculate and settle the propor- ;
tions, and dividends due the several creditors, allowing to the credi- ‘

tors attaching and prosecuting the same to judgmeutyaagdéarbléshbied
or dividend, if such shall not exceed their debt; amiitiliey-sl3‘all‘malse'
report to the next term of the court after such apportionment; and

on confirmation of the report, shall forthwith, on pain of’. awe-7011-‘l

ment, pay over to the several creditors their respeeti.'v»_c'is§ai!és'f‘of
such proceeds according to such apportionment. .' .3 I: -1}: ii Sr-=‘"

SEC. 12. The court may hear exceptions to. ::I'.rl e«-mm stich account and report, either in the allowance, or 1»;;:s1:£1i.«.:1 mi’ claims,
in the calculations, dividends, or a.ppOl‘tlOI1m€:uL,1o'£ U‘bl.u:1‘WlSe.

SEO. 13. Provided, that before any creditor shall receive any dividend, or share, so distributed, he shall, with suflicient surety, enter
into recognizance to the debtor, before the prothonotary, in a suiiicient sum, to secure the repayment of the same or any part thereof,
if the said debtor shall, within one year thereafter, appear in the
said court and disprove or avoid such debt, or such part thereof.

The proceeding for this purpose may be by motion to the court,
and an issue framed and tried before the same.

SEC. 14. Every creditor who shall neglect duly to present his
claim, in person or by attorney, to said auditors, according to notice, or to make proof thereof, as required, shall be debarred from
receiving any share, or dividend, in the distribution to be made by
the auditors.

SEO. 15. Judgment shall be given for the plaintid‘ in the attach- Tment the second term after issuing the writ, unless the defendant
shall enter special bail as aforesaid; whereupon, the court shall
make an order that the sheriff shall sell the property attached, on
due notice, and pay the proceeds (deducting legal costs and charges)
to the auditors for distribution.

SEC. 16. Any balance remaining due to the creditors, after such
distribution of the proceeds, may be collected as other debts; and
any overplus, after paying all the claims allowed and costs, shall be returned to the defendant, or his executors, administrators, or assigns.

SEO. 17. Any surety of the defendant by recognizance, bond, bill,

, assumption, or otherwise, shall be entitled to prove the claim, arising
on such liability, before the auditors, and to share in the distribution.

' SEO. 18. N o second writ of domestic attachment shall issue against

I the defendant, unless the first shall not be executed, or shall be quashed, or dissolved by the court, or discontinued by the plaintiff with
consent of a majority of the creditors: and if the plaintiff shall die,
or be satisfied of his debt, it shall not stop the proceedings; but the

rthe name of his executor, or administrator, or of anyother creditor,
may, on- suggestion of the fact, be substitued in his stead.

SEC. 19. A writ of foreign attachment may be issued against any
person not‘ an inhabitant of this State, after a return to a summons,
for capias,‘ issued .and delivered to the sheriff, or coroner, ten days
before the return thereof, showing that the defendant cannot be
found, and proof, satisfactory to the court, of the cause of action; or
upon aflidavit made by the plaintiff, or some other credible person,
and filed with the prothonotary, that the defendant resides out of the

State, and is justly indebted to the said plaintzf in a sum exceeding
fifty dollars.

_ SEO. 20. The said writ shall be framed, directed, executed and
returned, and like proceedings had, as in the case of a domestic attachment, except as to the appointment of auditors and distribution
among creditors; for every plaintiif in a foreign attachment shall
have the benefit of his own discovery, and, after judgment, may proceed, by order of sale, fierz'fact'as, capias ad satisfaciendum or otherwise, as on other judgments.

Provided, that before receiving any sum under such judgment,
the plaintiff shall enter into recognizance as required by section 13
preceding.

SEC. 21. All sales under this chapter shall be good ‘against the
defendant, his executors, administrators and assigns; and if action
be brought against any oflicer, or other person, acting under the
authority of this chapter, he may, under the general issue, give this
chapter in evidence in his justification.

’ CHAPTER 105.

OF THE SURVIVENCY OF‘ ACTIONS.

Ban. 1. Action does not an-rs: on the death 8:0. 4. These provisions apply to write of erof one of several plaintilfs or defen- tor.

dants. 5. Judgment may be executed by or against
2. When the cause of action survives. a succeeding administrator.
3. No abatement on death of an adminie- He may be made a party on motion.
trator. 6. Statutory rights of action survive.

SEO. 1. Upon the death of one, or more, of several plaintiffs, or
defendants, in an action, wherein the cause of action survives, such
action shall not abate, but may be prosecuted by, or against the
surviving plaintiff, or defendant.

SEC. 2. In all personal actions, except actions for assault and
battery, defamation, malicious prosecution, or any injury to the person, or upon penal statutes, the cause of action shall survive to and
against the‘ executors, or administrators, of the person to, or against
whom, the cause of action accrued. Accordingly, all actions, so
surviving, may be instituted, or prosecuted, by, or against, the executors, or administrators, of the original party. But this provision:
shall not affect the survivorship among the original parties to a joint
cause of action.

SEC. 3. An action commenced by, or against, an executor, or administrator, shall not be abated by his death, or removal from oiiice ;i
but a succeeding executor, or administrator, may be admitted a par-I
ty plaintiff, or made a party defendant, to such action. ‘

SEC. 4. Writs of error are within the foregoing provisions. ‘

SEO. 5. The beneiit of a judgment for, or against, an executor, or.
administrator, shall not be lost by his death, or removal from oiiiccg;

but proceedings may be had upon such judgment either at the suit
of, or against a succeeding executor, or administrator.

An executor, or administrator, may be admitted a party plaintiff
to a judgment, on motion, without scire facias. '

SEC. 6. A statutory right of action, or remedy, against any oilitcer, or person, in favor of any person, shall survive to, or against
the executor, or administrator, of such oflicer, or person, unless it be
.specially restricted in the statute.

CHAPTER 106.

OF PLEADING AND PRACTICE IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
See. 1. The judges to make rules regulating See. 15. Recognizance to be given on carnpleadin s. oauu.
9. General esign. 16. Points stated on appeals from Orphans‘
4-3. Bpecitic objects. Court.
Entire revision of rules to be made. 17. Security on writs of error and appeals.
4. Judgment at first term. unless there be 18. Testimony in freedom cases, how
a sworn defence. taken.
Copy of cause of action to be filed. 19. Replevin lies for unlawful detention.
Stay of execution. on security. 90. And for goods taken in execution;
Such judgment may be taken off. when.
Judgment for want of special bail. 21. What debts may be srr-on.
Amount. how ascertained. 22. In case of executors, ace.
5. In actions on deeds. &.c., when execu- 23. On proof of srr-on and tender of baltion admitted. ance. plaintiff to suifer nonsuit.
0. Proof of partnership.when unnecessary. 24. Action by public otiicer does not abate
7. When jud ment may be taken. in ac- by his death or removal. tions on orfeited recognizances. &.c. 95. Verdicts may be general or special.
8. When plaintitf must give security for 96. What papers may be taken by the jury.
costs. 27. Payment of money due by obligation.
9. Trial causes not to be continued with- &.c., may be l’0VBd without seal.
out sworn defence. 28. Marriage ofa emale plalntitl’ does not
10. In trespass q. c. i'.. the close must be abate her action.
described in narr. Proceedings stayed until husband is
11. No distinction between case and tres- made a party.
pass. 29. Infant sues by guardian or next friend.
12. Venue unnecessary when not traversa- The parol does not demur.
ble. 3). I! plaintitf become utsurs; suit how
13. The date of an instrument may be laid conducted.

truly, without other suggestion.
14. III‘l:(IlI!0l'ill allegations may be omitSEC. 1. The Judges of the Superior Court, or any three of them,
shall have power, by any rules to be, from time to time, by them
made, in term or vacation, to make such alterations in the mode of
pleading in said court, and in the mode of entering and transcribing
pleadings, judgments, and other proceedings in actions of law, and
such regulations as to the payment of costs, and otherwise for carrying into effect the said alterations, as to them may seem expedient: provided, that no such rule shall have the effect of depriving
any person of the power of pleading the general issue, and of giving
the special matter in evidence, in any case where such power is, or
shall be given by act of the general assembly.

SEO. 2. Such rules shall be so framed asto promote and require

. conciseness, brevity and plainness in pleading, without regarding

form, further than it is necessary, or conducive to these objects.
SEO. 3. The said judges, shall also have power, by such rules, to
regulate the taking depositions, or excepting thereto, the distribution of money in court, the order and manner of trying causes andf
of pleading, of notices, and all other matters regulating the practice
and mode of conducting the business of said court, in all cases not
expressly provided for by law. a

They shall, before the next fall term, revise the rules of said court ,
with a view to the attainment, as far as practicable, of the following
improvements in practice: ' A

First, simplifying and shortening the pleadings and other proceedings; ’

Second, presenting more distinctly the questions to be tried by a
jury, particularly in some of the actions on promises, by a more full
and precise statement in the declaration, or by a bill of particulars,

and by a more definite statement of the ground of defence;

Third, excluding unnecessary and immaterial averments and recitals, and prohibiting useless repetitions.

Fourth, the expediting the decision of causes;
Fifth, the diminishing of costs; and

Sixth, the remedying of all abuses and imperfections that may
be found to exist  the practice.

SEO. 4. In all actions in the Superior court upon bills, notes, A
bonds, or other instruments of writing for the payment of money, or,
for the recovery of book accounts, and in all actions of scire facias
on judgments, judgment by default may be entered upon motion by7
the plaintiff, on the last day of the term to which the ori 'nal pro-I
cess is returnable, notwithstanding appearance by the efendant,
unless the defendant shall have previously filed in the cause an ailidavit stating that he verily believes there is a legal defence to the
whole or part of such cause of action, and setting forth the nature
and character of the same; if the defence be to a part only of the
cause of action, the defendant shall, in such atlidavit, specify the
sum which he admits to be due, and judgment may be entered for
the plaintiff, at his election, for the sum acknowledged to be due:
provided, that no judgment shall be entered by virtue of this section, unless the plaintiif, within ten days after the issuing of the
original process, and at least ten days before the first day of the
term to which the process is returnable, shall file in the ofiice of the
prothonotary a copy of the instrument of writing, book entries, or
claim, with an ailidavit stating the sum demanded, and that the
plaintiff verily believes the same is justly and truly due: and provided also, that upon any judgment under this section, a stay of execution for six months shall be granted on security being given by
the defendant for the payment of such judgment, with interest and
costs, in such form as by the rules of the court shall be prescribed.

Upon suiiicient cause shown, the court may open such judgment
and let the defendant into a trial, security being first given, in manner and form as aforesaid, for the payment of such judgment, with
interest and costs, as the plaintiff may recover in such action.

In rwtirans C-rmn*nr~nr'ml by ft r'r"r;>r'«r.<- Hr? 2-.-gar":-22r?wm?2:m., if F_1]\f_'('l:Il
bail be not given at the term tuswliiuh the p1'uUca:gB -is returnalile, the
plaintiff may, at his election,>'on.the last daygof ,’the term, cause a

{common appearance to be ‘entered ‘for the defendant, and move for
is 'udgment, under theprovisions of this section, in like manner as if
dpecial bail had been {given as aforesaid. ' The amount of a judgment by virtue of this section, shall be ascertained under the order of the court, and shall not exceed the sum
demanded in the affidavit to ‘ be filed by the plaintiif as aforesaid;
but if, such judgment be~not entered, any afiidavit filed, under this
section, by either party to the action, shall not be "used in such action for any purpose whatever.

. SEC. 5. In any action brought upon any deed, bond, bill, note, or
other instrument of writing, a copy of which shall have been filed
',with the_ declaration, the defendant, not being an executor, or ad'ministrator, shall not, on the trial, be allowed to deny his signature
or that of any other party to the instrument, and the execution of
.such instrument shall be taken to be admitted, unless the defendant
shall have filed an aiiidavit, denying the signature, at the time of
filing his plea, or within such further time as the court shall, on
motion, allow. I I

SEC. 6. In any action by, or against partners; it shall not be necessary for the plaintiff, on the trial, to prove the partnership, but
the same shall be taken to be admitted as alleged on the record, unless some one of the defendants shall, at or before the time of filing
his plea, file an affidavit, denying the existence of the partnership
as alleged, and stating, to the best of. his knowledge and belief,
whether there is an partnership in relation to the subject matter
of the action, and w o are the partners therein.

SE0. 7. In any action on a forfeited recognizance, or bond, to
keep the peace, or for the appearance of a defendant, or of a. wit,ness, in the Court of General Sessions of the Peace and Jail Delivery, or in the Court of Oyer and Terminer, if a copy of the bond, or
-recognizance, shall have been filed on or before the return day of
the writ, and the service of such writ be duly verified, the attorney
general, or other attorney on behalf of the State, ‘or plaintiff, shall
be at liberty to move for judgment in open court on the last day of
the term to which such writ is returnable,' unless the defendant, or
some- one for him, shall have filed an allidavit of defence, stating
therein the nature and character of the same.

SEO. 8. In case where the plaintiff resides out of the State, in
qui tam actions, in suits on administration, or oflicial bonds, or where

;the plaintiff, after suit brought, has been discharged under any insolvent law, the defendant, on motion and aliidavit of a just, or legal
defence against the whole demand, may have a rule for security for
costs by a certain day, or that nonsuit be entered.

SEC. 9. No cause, at issue and advertised for trial by jury, shall
be continued without an aiiidavit that the defendant has a just, of
legal defence to the action, or some part of it; and for want of such
ailidavit, judgment shall be rendered for the plaintiff.

_ t'€d»;" unless when they ar_e -.re;q}‘1i1“

SEO. 10. In actions of trespass quare'clauD1aDvf2'e_q'it,‘the close, or:
place of the’ alleged -trespass‘ shall be.de_sig‘lfaf£d in the declaration;
by name, or abuttals, or other proper ,de€8ription.'  ' .r 2

SEC. 11. In all actions on the«casti',1~'.it' shall be no objection to?
maintaining such actions that, but,-fdiv this "section, the form thereof 1‘
should have been trespass; and'rif1‘*allf actions of trespass it shall be:
no objection to maintaining su‘dh actions that, but for this section,—
the form thereof should have been case. . _ ‘

SEC. 12. It shall not -bedeemed necessary, in any declaration, or.
other pleading, to lay thh venue in the county in which the action;
is brought, nor to sefforth in any manner the place in which an «
act is alleged to ba'i"e been done, unless when, fromthe nature of
the case, the plac‘é'may be material, or traversable. . 4

SEC. 13. Wlién any deed, note, or other instrument, bears date.
at any place,‘.“it may be alleged to have been made. at that place,3
without an‘)? averment, or suggestion, that it was within the countyi
in whiehitheaction is brought., ‘ ‘ 1

SEff‘.14; All allegations h_eretofor_e.‘usually i;_1serted'in declarationhf-"and other pleadings, which ’are.not._3 material, or _trav_e1_‘sable,;
arl'_E_l§_which the party could not,-htbeerequired to prove, may be ‘omit-.1
'_ e _, ed for‘-"the right understanding of
alle ations that are mat;e1'§igl;.‘_ e.; e_» i ' . " C". 15. On the issuiiig: of a.wr_it*o'f certiorari to a justice of the
peace, the party applyiiiig therefor, shall enter into a recognizance
to the defendant in a‘ reasonable penalty, and with suilicient surety
to be approved by the. prothonotary, with condition to be void if the
plaintzf therein shall: prosecute said writ to efect and pay the condemnation money and all costs, or otherwise abide the judgment of
the Superior Court in ‘the case  he fail to‘malce his plea good.

The recognizance shall be entered by the prothonotary in the
docket where the certiorari is entered, and a note of the recognizance having been taken, shall be indorsed on the writ, or the justice shall not obey it.

‘ N 0 further surety shall be required, although other writs may be
issuedto complete the record; but the court ma order better security.

SEO. 16. When an appeal is taken from the Orphans’ Court to
the Superior Court, one of the judges of the Orphans’ Court shall,
at the request of the party appealing, sign a paper, in the nature of
a bill of exceptions, presenting fairly and fully the points decided,
for which the exception is taken.

SEC. 17. On a writ of error to the Superior Court, or an appeal
from chancery, security shall be given as heretofore. ‘

SEC. 18. On the hearing of a petition for freedom, the testimony
may, in the election of the defendant, be reduced to writing by a
judge, or other person named by the court, to be read in the Court
of Errors and Appeals in case of an appeal; or the same witnesses
ma be heard in the appellate court.

EC.‘ 19. When any goods, or chattels, shall be unlawfully detained from the owner, or the person entitled to the possession thereof,
such-_owne‘r, or person, may have remedy by action of replevin.

vr

SEC. 20. An action of replevin shall lie to recover goods and chattels seized by virtue of any process of execution, or attachment, with
damages and costs for the taking and detention thereof, against the

loflicer seizing the same, at the suit of the owner of such goods and
chattels not being the defendant in the execution, or attachment,
the proper pledges and security being given, as in other cases, by
the plaintiff in the replevin, before delivery to him of the goods and
chattels replevied. _

SEO. 21. Mutual debts between parties «to an action, due, at the

-time of action brought, in the same right, and being for a sum liquidated, or which can be ascertained by calculation, may be the subject of set-off in such action. A

SEO. 22. If either party sue, or be sued, as an executor, or administrator, and there are mutual debts between his testator, or inteitate, and the other party, one debt may be set off against the

'01: or.

SEC. 23. If the defendant in an action, having a demand ‘against

‘,the plaintiff which is the subject of set-off to the plaintiff’ s cause of
-action, shall, before suit brought, have tendered to the plaintiff a
statement of such demand, or the written evidence of it where it is
evidenced by writing, as in case of a note, bill, bond, &c., and shall
also have tendered to the plaintiff as much money as upon trial shall
be found due to him over and above the set-oil‘, such plaintiff shall
suffer nonsuit and pay the costs.

, SEC. 24. An action brought b , or in the name of any public ofjficer, shall not abate by his death, resignation, removal from oflice,
{or the expiration of his term, but may be prosecuted by his successor, if there be a successor who might have originally commenced
and prosecuted the like action. ' SEC. 25. A jury may, in any case, find a general or special verdict. , .
SEC. 26. Papers read in evidence to the jury, although not under
seal, except depositions, may be carried from the bar by the jury.

SEO. 27. Payment of money contained in the condition of an obli-gation, or any part thereof, and also payment of money due by judgment, single bill, or other specialty, or any part thereof, is and shall
be pleadable in an action on such obligation, judgment, bill or specialty, although such payment may not be evidenced by instrument
under seal, or may not have been made strictly according to the
condition of the obligation.

SEC. 28. The marriage of a female plaintiff shall not abate the
action.

Her husband‘ may be made a party, on motion; and, on the defendant's motion, proceedings shall be stayed until he become a
party, unless there be another responsible p 

SEO. 29. A guardian shall be admitted to sue and defend for his
ward. An infant may also sue by his next friend. In ho suit at
law, or in equity, shall the parol denmr, or proceedings be deferred,
because of the infancy of a party plaintill‘, or defendant.

SEC. 30. If, pending an action, either party shall become insane,
the action may be prosecuted, or defended, by his trustee, or the
court may appoint a guardian ad litem as the case may require.

CHAPTER ‘I07. I

or wrrNEssEs AND EVIDENCE. ‘
BIG. 1. Witneueeiinbietoparty for not attend- Bar. 9. Certain Meryiendlend recordmevidence
ing. 10. On being recorded here, copy ofrecord.
2. Competency of corporators. evidence.
3. Special bail; how made competent. 11. Book of original entries evidence. with
4. Free negroee and mulnttoee; when any‘: oath.
competent. So ect tocrou examination.
5. Act: of auembly;how proved. 12. Evidence of the incorporation of n
6. Act: of other States. bank.
7. Common law of other States; how 13. Party may be required to produce his
proved. hooks in evidence.
8. Proof of foreign laws. 14. Copies of records. evidence.

Default of witnesses. ‘

SEO. 1. If any person, duly summoned by process to attend as a
witness before any court, magistrate, or other omcer, lawfully authorized to issue the same, shall,.without reasonable excuse, fail to
attend, according to the direction of such process; or attending shall
refuse to testify when required by such court, magistrate, or other
oilicer, he shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such failure, '0: refusal, to be recovered in an action on

the case.
Competency of certain iéitnesses.

SEC. 2. When any corporation shall be a party to, or interested
in an action, or proceeding, whether of a civil, or criminal nature,
a person shall not, by being a member of such corporation, be rendered incompetent to testify in such action, or proceeding.

SEC. 3. A person who is disqualified to testify in an action, by
reason of having become the special hail of a defendant, or surety
in a replevin bond, or in an appeal from a justice of the peace, or‘
for costs, may be discharged by order of the court, so as to be sworn
as a witness: provided another sufiicient bail, or surety, be first
substituted in his stead, to be liable inlike manner and to the same
extent as he would have been. Such substituted security.shall be
taken in such form as the court may order.

SEO. 4. In criminal prosecutions, a free negro, or free mulatto,
if otherwise competent, may testify, if it shall appear to the court]
that no competent white witness was present at the time the fact
charged is alleged to have been committed; or that a white witness,
being so present, has since died, or is absent from the State and
cannot be produced: provided, that no free negro, or £ree inulatto,1
shall be admitted as a witness, to charge a white man with being
the father of a bastard child. " Proof of laws, §'c.

SEC. 9. The printed copies of the acts and resolutions of the general assembly, whether of a public or private nature, published by
authority of the State, shall be admitted as evidence thereof in all
courts of law, or equity, and on all occasions whatever.

SEC. 6. Printed copies of statutes of any other of the United
States, if purporting to be published under the authority of their
respective governments, or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their courts, shall be prima facie evidence of such law.

SEC: 7. The common, or unwritten, law of any other of the United States, may be proved asfacts by parol evidence; and the reports of cases adjudged in their courts, and published by authority,
may also be admitted as evidence of such law.

SEC. 8. The existence, and the tenor, or effect, of all foreign laws,
may be proved as facts by parol evidence; but if it shall appear that
the law in question is contained in a written statute, or code, the
court may, in its discretion, reject any evidence of such law, that
is not accompanied by a copy thereof.

SEC. 9. All records, surveys, patents, deeds, or ‘other instruments
of writing, or exemplitications of oflice books, touching the title to
any lands and tenements in this State, which are kept in any public oflice in the State of Maryland, may be proved by copies thereof,
attested by the officer having legal custody of the same and the seal
of his office; and being so proved shall have such faith and credit
given to them in all courts of law, or equit , in this State, as they
have in the courts of the State of Marylin .

SEC. 10. Any copy, authenticated as efore provided, of such re‘cords, surveys, patents, <§eds, or other instruments of writing, and
exemplifications of oliice books, touching the title to lands and tenements in any county of this State, being recorded in the oflice of
the recorder of such county, such record, or a duly certified copy

thereof, shall be evidence in -all courts of law, or equity, in this
State. =

Other matters.

4 SEC. 11. A book of original entries, regularly and fairly kept,
shall, together with the oath, or aflirmation, of the plaintiff, be admitted in evidence to charge the defendant with the sums therein

‘contained for goods sold and delivered, and other matters properly
chargeable in an account. Cash items are not pro erly so chargeable. Such book may, in like manner, be admitted: with the oath,
or affirmation, of a defendant, to establish a set-off.

Provided, that the party proving his book of original entries shall

-be subject to cross examination touching the same, and the entries
therein, and'the transactions to which such entries relate.

, SEO. 12.’In' criminal proceedings, it shall be yrima facie evidence

‘of the incorporation of a bank, that it has been reputed to be an incorporated bank, or hasissued notes as a bank.

SEO. 13. In the trial of actions at law, the court, on motion and

due notice thereof, may order a party to produce books, or writings,

in his possession, or control, which contain evidence pertinent to
the issue, under circumstances in which the production of the same
might be compelled by a Court of Chancery; and-the court making
such order, shall have the same power for enforcing it which is exercised by a Court of Chancery in like cases. Upon failure of a
plaintiif to comply with such order, the court, on motion, may render judgment against him as in cases of nonsuit; and upon a like
failure of a defendant, the court, on motion, may render judgment
against him by default.

SEC. 14. A copy of any record, or paper, belonging to a public
office, or legally in the custodyof a public ollieer, being made under the hand of the officer and his seal of ollice, if there be such seal,
shall be deemed to be duly certified, and shall be competent evidence.

_ ,__._._;n__.._j___._ __ .aj ———-v

CHAPTER 108.

OF OATFIS.

Sec. 1. Who may administer oaths generally. Ssc. 4. Forms to be su led.
2. To members or the legislature. 5. Oath on the Ev gels.
3. To witnesses before legislature. 6. With uplthea hand.
4. Commissioners under order of court. 7. Alllrmations.
Surveyors; chain carriers. 8. Oath of Heathens.

SEC. 1. The chancellor, any judge, justice of the peace, or notary public, shall have authority, in any case in which an oath, or
aflirmation, is necessary, or proper, to administer such oath, or
ailirmation. SEC. 2. The proper oaths of oilice may be administered to members of either house of the general assembly by any other member
of the same branch; and to the clerk. and sergeant-at-arms of either
house, by the speaker thereof.

SEO. 3. Witnesses to be examined before either house, may be
sworn, or aflirmcd, by the speaker thereof, or if to be examined before a committee, then by any member of such committee.

SEC. 4. The persons appointed, or authorized, by any decree, order
rule, or commission, made in, or issued out of the Court of Errors
and Appeals, the Court of Chancery, the Superior Court, the Court
of General Sessions of the Peace and Jail Delivery, or the Orphans‘
Court, to perform any duty, or for any purpose, shall severally have
authority to administer to each other and to any surveyor, or person, by them employed, and to any witness produced before them,
any oath, or afiirmation, required or proper to be taken in- the case.

Every surveyor shall have authority to administer the proper
oath, or aflirmation, to chain carriers acting under him. The form of the oath, or allirmation, required to be taken by persons appointed, or authorized, as aforesaid, with directions for administering the same, shall accompany every commission, rule, or
order, issued out of any court as aforesaid.

, SEO. 5. The usual oath in this State, shall be by swearing upon the
Holy Evanyels of Almighty God; the person to whom it is administered laying his right hand upon the book, and kissing it.

_ SEC. 6. A person may be permitted to swear with the uplifted
hand ; that is to say, he shall lift up his right hand and swear by the
ever living God, the searcher of all hearts, that, g~c., and at the end
of the oath shall say, “as I shall answer to ‘God at the Great Day.”

SEC. 7. A person conscientiously scrupulous of taking an oath,
may be permitted, instead of swearing, solemnly, sincerely and truly
to declare and afirm to the truth of the matters to he testified.

SEC. 8. A person believing in any other than the Christian religion, may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any such.

CHAPTER 109..
OF JURIE8.
Sec. 1. Who are Italic to serve as jurors. Ex- sec. 12. Grand jurors to be sworn-atjeach term.
empts. 13. Tums na cinemas-nurriaos awarded.
2. Jurors ; how selected. 14. Jury ballots to be prepared.
Levy court in March to select names. Jury, how drawn ; names kept sepaTo provide boxes, ballots. to. rate.
And make and deliverlists. 15. Jury may be drawn from residue.
3. Grand jurors of previous year to be 16. Brscuu. war; when ordered.
omitted. How struck: list.
4. GRAND mar ; how drawn. 17. Jury to be drawn from this list.
5. Plrrrr muons; how drawn. 18. Expenses of special jury ; how paid.
6. Exempts drawn, to be returned to the 19. CHALLENGES; how many.
box. 5). VIEW; when ordered.
7. Recorder to act in absence. of either Expenses to be advanced.
clerk. When to be taxed as costs.
8. List ofjurors to be delivered to sherili‘. 21. Clerks to keep record of jurors‘ atten9. Jury boxes: how disposed of. dance.
10. Sharia‘ to summon juries. 29. Jury lists to be signed by the judges.
And return panels to court. Payment by treasurer; lists to levy
11. Grand jury to serve for the year. court.
Forty-eight petit jurors for Court of 23. Officers to be fined for neglect.
Oyer. 24. Pennltyyfor fraud.
Eighteen. when Superior Court is in 25. Penalty on jurors not answering.

session. Forfeiture ; tine ; remission.

Of Juries.
SEC. 1. All persons qualified to vote at the general election, shall
be liable to serve as jurors; except public oflicers of this State, or
of the United States, counsellors and attorneys at law, ordained
ministers of the gospel, oiiicers of colleges and teachers in public
schools, practising physicians and surgeons regularly licensed, cashiers of incorporated banks, and all persons who are more than seventy years of age. _

A SEC. 2. The levy court for each county shall, at its annual session in March, select from the list of taxable citizens of such county, in such proportion for each hundred as may be deemed proper,
the names of one hundred sober and judicious persons, to serve (if
summoned) as grand jurors at the several courts to be holden in that
year; and also the names of one hundred and fifty other sober and

judicious persons, to serve (if summoned as petit jurors at the several courts to be holden in that year. here shall be provided for

. each hundred two boxes, one of which shall be marked, or labelled‘

“ Grand Jurors,” and the other “Petit Jurors,” and each with the

name of the hundred. The names of the persons selected as aforesaid, shall be written each on a separate ballot, all the ballots being 1
of the same color, size and shape, and the ballots shall be folded so

as to conceal the names written upon them. Those containing the

names of persons selected for grand jurors, shall be deposited in the

boxes marked “ Grand Jurors,” the names selected from each hun(lred being placed in the box of that hundred; in like manner the 1
names of persons selected for pctit jurors, shall be deposited in the‘
boxes marked “Petit Jurors,” the names selected from each hundred

being placed in the box of that hundred; after which the boxes shall

be locked and delivered to the prothonotary, and the keys shall be :
kept by the clerk of the peace. The levy court shall preserve lists ;
of the persons so selected for jurors, and shall deliver to the said

prothonotary, with the boxes aforesaid, copies of said lists, signed

by the chairman of said court, and countersigned by the clerk thereof, showing the number selected from each hundred.

SEC. 3. The levy court, in selecting the names of persons to be,
drawn for jurors in any year, shall omit the names of,-any who may »
have served as grand jurors for the next previous year.

SEC. 4. The prothonotary and clerk of the peace shall, within
ten days after the delivery of the said boxes to the prothonotary as
above provided, meet in the prothonotary’s oiiice, and first shaking
the boxes so as to intermix the ballots, shall, in the presence of such
persons as may choose to be present, draw from the box marked
“ Grand Jurors,” in the same proportion for each hundred in which
they were selected by the levy court, the names of twenty-four persons to be summoned as grand jurors for that year.

SEC. 5. The prothonotary and clerk of the peace shall, at least
twenty days before the commencement of each term of the Superior
Court, and Court of General Sessions for the county, in like manner draw from the boxes, marked “Petit Jurors,” in the same proportion for each hundred in which they were selected by the levy
court, the names of thirty persons to serve as pctit jurors at the ensuing term of said courts.

SEC. 6. If, at the drawing of jurors under the two foregoing sections, the name of any person exempt by law from serving as a juror, or who is absent from the State, be drawn; or if at the drawing for petit jurors, the name of a person, who shall have served as
a petit juror at the next preceding term of the said courts, or who
shall have any matter of fact at issue pending for trial at the ensuing term of said court, be drawn, such name shall be returned to
the box, and another-‘drawn in its stead. If a person having any
matter of fact at issue as aforesaid, be drawn and summoned contrary to the foregoing provision, he shall be subject to be challenged.

SEO. 7. If, at any drawing for petit jurors, the prothonotary, or
clerk of the peace, be a party to any issue of fact for trial at the
ensuing term of said courts, or if, at any drawing for grand or petit
jurors, either of said officers be absent, his place shall be supplied
by the recorder of deeds for the county, who shall receive for his
service the same compensation and be subject to the same penalties
for default as by law is provided in the case of the prothonotary, or
clerk-of the peace.

SEC. 8. The oflicers drawing for grand and petit jurors as afore-said, shall, immediately thereafter, deliver to the sheriff of the county a correct list of names of the persons so drawn, with the date of
t e drawin indorsed thereon.

. SEC. 9. he said boxes shall, immediately after any drawing for
’- jurors, be locked and kept by the prothonotary, the keys being delivered into thecustody of the clerk of the peace.

SEO. 10. The sheriff of the county, upon receiving a list of persons drawn for grand jurors as aforesaid, shall, at least ten days before the next ensuing term of the Court of General Sessions for his
county, summon in writing each of the said persons to serve as the
standing grand jurors for that year at the said court. He shall, in
like manner, upon receiving a list of persons drawn for petit jurors
as aforesaid, at least ten days before the next ensuing term of the
Superior Court and Court of General Sessions, summon in writing
each of the said persons to serve as petit jurors at the then next
term of the said courts respectively.

The sheriff shall, within one hour after the opening of said -courts
respectively, on the first day of every term, return to each of said
courts a separate and distinct panel of persons summoned to attend
thereat as grand, or petit jurors, showing the christian and surnames, and places of abode of such jurors. '

SEC. 11.. The rand jurors for the year, drawn as aforesaid, shall
be summoned and returned to attend, as grand jurors, at any Court
of Oyer and Terminer, when the precept for holding such court directs a grand jury to be summoned.

For any Court of Oyer and Terminer, forty-eight petit jurors
shall, upon notice from the sheriff to the prothonotary and clerk of
the peace that such court is to be held, be drawn, summoned and
returned according to the foregoing provisions for drawing, summoning and returning petit jurors for the Superior Court and Court of
General Sessions: provided, that if the day, assigned for holding a
Court of Oyer and Terminer, shall be at a time when a petit jury

. is in attendance upon the Superior Court and Court of General Sessions, such jury shall constitute a part of the panel of the petit ju‘ rors to be summoned to attend the said Court of Oyer and Termner, and only the residue of the said number of forty-eight jurors
shall be drawn according to the foregoing provisions.

.3 SEC. 12. The grand jurors shall, at every term of any court which

3 they shall attend during the year for which they are drawn, be severally sworn, or ailirmed, to the faithful discharge of their duty and
trust.

SEC. 13. If, at any court, a sullicient number of grand, or petit
jurors, drawn and summoned as aforesaid, do not appear; or if thei
panel returned by the sheriff be quashed by the court, the court may
award a tales de circumstantibus, or make such other order as it may
deem expedient, for filling up the requisite number of jurors to serve
at such court. '

In like manner, a deficiency of petit jurors may be supplied, when
by reason of challenges, or otherwise, a sullicient number are not
ready for the trial of a cause.

SEC. 14. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace, shall, under
the direction of the judges presiding, write the name of each petit;
juror, returned and impanneled as aforesaid, upon a distinct ballot,l
all the ballots being of the same color and size; and shall roll up
the said ballots, all in the same manner, as near as may be, and put
them together in a box to be provided for the purpose.

When a cause is called for trial, an indifferent person shall, in
open court, draw out twelve of the said ballots successively; and if '
any of the jurors, whose names are so drawn, shall not appear, or
shall be challenged and,-get aside, then a further number shall be
drawn, until twelve jurors appear, and upon challenge are allowed.

The said twelve persons first drawn, appearing and allowed, their
names being marked in the panel, and they being sworn, or ailirm-i
ed, shall be the jury to try the cause. .

The names of the persons so sworn, or aflirmed, shall be kept.
apart in another box to be provided for the purpose, until the ver-;
diet of such jury shall have been rendered and recorded, or until
the jury shall be discharged by the court; when the same names
shall be rolled up and returned to the first mentioned box, to be
kept with the other names remaining then undrawn; and so toties
q-uoties, as long as any cause remains for trial.

SEC. 15. If, before the discharge of a jury impanneled in a
cause, another cause shall be called for trial, a jury to try such other
cause may be drawn from the residue of the ballots not containing
the names of the jurors drawn.

Special juries.

Snc’."16. A special jury for the trial of a cause, shall be ordered
by the court upon the application of either party and the mode of
striking the same shall be as follows, viz: the party applying for the
special jury shall give due notice to the opposite party, and to the
prothonotary, of the time and place of striking such jury; at which
time and place the prothonotary, or his deputy, or if the prothonotary be not indiiferent between the parties, then two proper persons
indifferent between the parties, appointed by the court, or any judge,
shall attend with a list of forty-eight indilferent and judicious citizens of the county, qualified to serve as jurors, showing their names
and places of abode. The party applying for the special jury, his
agent, or attorney, shall first strike out one of said names, and then
the opposite party, his agent, or attorney, shall strike out another;
and so on, until each shall have struck out twelve. If the opposite

party shall not’ attend, nor any person on his behalf, or shall refuse
to strike, the prothonotary, or his deputy, or the persons appointed
to strike the jury, as the case may he, shall strike for the party not
attending, or refusing to strike. After each party shall have struck
twelve names, the remaining twenty-four persons on said list shall
be the jury to be returned for the cause; and the prothonotary, or
his deputy, or the persons appointed to strike the jury, as the case
may be, shall thereupon deliver to the sheriff a certified list of the
names of such persons, with their places of abode, as the jurors to
be summoned for the cause, annexed to a vem're facias commanding
him to summon them; and the sherif shall, thereupon, summon the
persons named, according to the command of said writ, and shall
return the said list with the venire.

SEC. 17. At the trial of the cause, a special jury shall be drawn
from the list, returned under the foregoing section, in the manner
before provided for other cases.

_ SEC. 18. The party applying for a special jury, shall pay the expenses occasioned b the trial of the cause by such special jury, and
the same shall not e allowed to him as part of the costs in the
case, unless the court shall, immediately after the trial of the cause,
certify upon the record that the said cause was proper to be tried
by a special jury. The court, in its discretion, may order payment
of the costs of striking and summoning a special jury, or any part
thereof, before the trial of the cause wherein such jury shall be
summoned.

SEO. 19. In all civil suits each party may, by himself, or attorney, challenge, without cause, any juror, or jurors, drawn for the
trial of the cause, not exceeding three in number, and the deficiency,
so created, shall be supplied by drawing as many additional names
as are necessary to make up a full jury to try the cause.

, SEC. 20. Upon the motion of either party, the jury may be taken
to view the premises, or place, in question, or to which the controversy relates, when it shall appear to the court that such view is

{necessary to a just decision: provided, the party making the application, s all advance a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of the

2 jury and the oilicers who attend them in taking the view ; which expenses shall be afterwards taxed as part of the costs in the case, if
the party advancing them shall prevail’ in the action.

SEC. 21. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace shall keep, in a

ubook provided for that purpose, the surnames alphabetically of all
persons summoned and returned to serve as grand jurors, or as petit

' jurors, at the said courts respectively, together with their christian
names and places of abode; and shall mark the attendance of each
juror and the default of each juror in not answering every call of
his name by order of the court.

SEC. 22. The prothonotary, or clerk of the peace, shall, at each

lcourt, make a list of the jurors in attendance, showing the amount
due to each juror for his service at such court; and the said list
being approved and signed by the judges present, the prothonotary,
or clerk, shall draw an order payable to each juror, or his order,

for the sum so allowed for his service, upon the treasurer of the
county, who is hereby required to pay the same.

After the drawing of such orders, the said lists shall be transmitted hy the protl1o1iot:11'y, or clerl<., to the levy court.

Ste. 231;}. When, lay :1. 1ie;_c_leet of any of the duties enjeiiietl by this
chapter upon any of the ollicers l1e1'ein 1'nentione:_l, a jury shall not
be duly ilrawii and suuniieued to att.ein.l any court to wliich their attenslance is by law re.:p1irc:l, every person, gi1ilt.y of such neglect,
shall forfeit and pay a line of fifty dollars to he imposed by the court
upon :2. sulniuary i11V'est-ig:i tion, as for a contempt of court, and t.o be
for the use of the county in which the. 0il‘L‘I'lCt? is eoiumitted.

S150. 2-1. If any prethonotary, clerk of the peace, or recorrlcr,
Shall commit any fraud, either hy practising on the jury boxes previous to :1. tlraft, or in :lrawin;_=_; a ‘juror, or in 1'(_-tur11in~r_; into the box
the naiue of any .ji11~m' which lliltl heen lawfully d1'awn out, and drawing or substituting another in his stead, or in a.ny other way in the
tl1':1.wing of_ju1'ors: or if a sl1crill'sl1:i..ll commit any frautl in the sumIiioiiiiig, or l'L’.tLll'I1lllg., ofjurors_, either in the stiiiiiiioiiiiig, or returni11;;-, of persons who shall not liave been drawn as jurors, or in refusing to sulnmon and return persons who shall ll{l.\-'0 been drawn as

jurors, or otlierwise; every ollie-er so oil}:-n:lin;_:_, shall be tleeineil

guilty of :1 inisil:erne:1.nor, and shall forfeit and pay a fine not exceeding two llllll(il'C{l tlollars.
51-10. 235. If any person, SlJ.llll'l10llC(l to attenil as :1 ;_*;r:11ul, or pet-it

'uror at an ' court uucler any of the 'fo1'C*_tt_Iin:;' irovisions shall fail,
3 ’ 1' l_ (4 1 7

to comply with such sunnnons_, or to I111.‘-‘~l.\"L‘1"[l‘_l every call of his
name by orrler of tlie court, sncli ilcfaultin;_; juror shall forfeit his
fees for the tl:1y's :1tten«.lanee, or p:1y a fine not e.\‘t_:ee«li1ig ten :lol~
lars, at the LllSC1‘L'tlUI1 of the cou1't; the line, when i11'i1'i«isci-:1, to be for
the use of the county in wliieli the ofleiice shall he conunitted.

The court may, upon proper cause shown, remit a fine so imposed.

 

CHAPTER 110.

OF‘ JUDGMENTS.

Sec. 1. Judglnents bind only from entry. Etc. 12. The true date ofjudgments to be en2. Judgments upon VERDICT ; lien of. tered.
3. Judgments; usous-r 10 as A8Cli'.I'l'Al1l- 13. Lion of judgments entered by clerk
sn. WITHOUT ATTORNIY.
4. Judgments entered run s.\|ll on. 1-1 Judgments confessed BY u'-roltnr ;
5. Judgments entered DURING T118 TERI. written orders.
6. These provisions not applicable tojus- 15. Satisfaction ofjudgment to be entered
tices' judgments. in sixty days.
7 Jud ments of the Court of Errors; lien 16. Restrictions.
o ; proviso. 17. Entry to be signed.
ti. Duty of clerk to file record and make 18. Liability for neglect. _
entry. 19. Duty of otliccr receiving payment on
9. Force of such entry ; lien may be ex- execution.
tended. Payments alter return. to be certined.
I0. ll:-slrirliml. It--striction.

ll. Suicll judgments nut to bind otherwise. 20. Penalty on clerk or slierill for neglect.

8:0. 21. Judgment against administrators. &.c.. 8:0. 93. Reference may be bad on motion; when.
not conclusive of assets, unless so 24. Notice of meeting of referees.

found. 25. Reference may be entered after judg22. When séich Judgments bind land of de- men: by default, or on demurrer.
cease .

Lien of judgments.

SEC. 1. A judgment shall bind lands only from the time of actually entering, or signing it, and not by relation from the first day
of the term in, or of which it is entered.

SEC. 2. A judgment upon a verdict, if entered before the end of
the term next after that in which it is given, shall be deemed to be
entered at the same time as the verdict, and shall bind accordingly.

SEC. 3. A judgment given, amount to be ascertained by the prothonotary, or other person, shall bind from the time of its entry, if
the amount be ascertained and entered upon the docket before the
first day of the term next after that in which the judgment is given;
but otherwise only from the time of entering upon the docket the
ascertained amount.

SEC. 4. If several judgments be entered against the same person,
on the same day, the first entered shall have the priority. If where

there are several judgments against the same person, it does not
appear, by the entries, which was first entered, they shall, when
given in suits previously commenced, have priority according to the
priority of the dates of the suits in which they are respectively given.

SEC. 5. A judgment entered during a term, if the day of entering it does not appear by the docket, shall be postponed to a judgment entered during the period of the same term, the day of entering which does appear by the docket. None of the foregoing regulations shall contravene the provision of the second section respecting judgment upon a verdict.

SEC. 6. The foregoing provisions of this chapter do not extend to
judgments before a justice of the peace.

SEC. 7. A final judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals,
given upon the reversal of a judgment of the Superior Court, shall
‘bind real estate in the county wherein were the proceedings in the
court below, from the date of entering it in the Court of Errors and
Appeals: provided, that the record being remanded, the said judgment be entered upon the docket of the court below within twenty
days after said date; otherwise, the said judgment shall be alien
only from the time of entering it upon the docket of the court below.

SEC. 8. The prothonotary of the court below to whom a record
aremanded with a duly certified copy of the proceedings and judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals is delivered, shall without
delay file it, and enter upon the docket of the court below, in connection with the entries of the proceedings in the cause in said court,
the said proceedings and judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals, with the date of making such entry.

SEC. 9. The said entry, made under the foregoing section, shall
be a record, and the judgment, so entered, shall have the same force

and e&'ect as a judgment of the court below, and shall be executed
by the process of the said court in like manner as judgments of said
court; and the lien thereof may be extended to lands and tenements
in another county, by means of a testatum jierz' facias entered of
record in the office of the prothonotary of such county.

SEC. 10. The lien of a judgment shall not be extended, by affirmance, to real estate not bound by the original judgment.

SEC. 11. A judgment of the Court of Errors and Appeals shall
not bind real estate otherwise than as prescribed by the foregoing
provisions.

Entry of judgments.

SEC. 12. The true date of entering, or signing, every judgment
shall be entered on the docket thereof, as also the date of ascertaining the amount of a judgment given, the amount to be ascertained
by the prothonotary, or otker person; and all judgments shall be indexed according to the provisions of chapter 37.

SEC. 13. A judgment, entered by the prothenotary of the Superior Court upon an obligation, without declaration filed, according
to the provisions of chapter 37, section 5, shall have the same force
and effect as if a declaration had been filed and judgment confessed
by an attorney, or judgment obtained in open court.

SEC. 14. When judgment is confessed by virtue of a warrant of
attorney for a penalty, the attorney confessing the judgment shall,
in a written direction to the oflicer entering the judgment, set down
the real debt, and the time from which interest is to be calculated,
which shall be entered -by the said officer upon the docket of the

judgment.
Satisfaction of judgments.

SEO. 15. Every person, to whom a sum is due by judgment, or:
decree, receiving satisfaction of the same, shall, within sixty daysw
thereafter, "cause such satisfaction to be entered upon the record of 1
the judgment, or decree. ‘

SEC. 16. The foregoing section does not extend to cases where a,
sum due by judgment is received from the sheriff, or other oflicer, on '
execution; nor does it extend to a judgment of a justice of the peace,
unless a transcript thereof be entered in the Superior Court, in
which case satisfaction shall be there entered.

SEC. 17. Satisfaction, as aforesaid, shall be entered by the pro- I
thonotary, or by his deputy, upon application of the party, or his:
attorney, who must sign the entry.

SEC. 18. Any person committing a default under section 15 of I
this chapter, his executors, or administrators, shall be liable to the I
defendant in the judgment, or decree, or the executors, or administrators, of such defendant, in damages, to be recovered by an action
on the case. The damages shall not be less than ten, nor more than
fifty dollars, except when special damages to a larger amount shall
be alleged in the declaration and proved.

SEC. 19. When the sheriff, or other oflicer, to whom an execution I

is directed, levies, or receives the sum due thereon, or any part
thereof, or obtains a settlement of the execution, he shall make return of such receipt, or settlement, under his hand, indorsed upon
the execution, with the sum and date of each payment, if the execution be not fully satisfied. If the receipt. or settlement, be after
the execution is returned, it shall be certified, within thirty da s
thereafter, to the prothonotary in whose oiiice the execution is. n
such latter case, the prothonotary shall annex the certificate to the
execution; and he shall enter every return of payment, or settlement, as aforesaid, upon the docket of the execution. If the judgment is thus satisfied, he shall also note‘ it on the record of such

judlgment. . _ _
his section does not extend to an execution issued by a justice
of the peace.

SEC. 20. If any prothonotary, or sherih‘, shall refuse, or neglect,

to perform any of the duties enjoined upon him by the foregoing
section, he shall be liable in damages to any person, injured by his
default, in an action on the case; and such default shall also be a
breach of his oflicial obligation, or recognizance, as the case may he.‘

Judgments against executors and administrators.

SEC. 21. Judgment against an executor, or administrator, upon
the report of referees, shall not be conclusive that he has assets,
unless it be expressly found by the report that he has assets.

SEC. 22. The real estate of a deceased person shall not be liable
to be taken inexecution upon, and shall not be bound by a judgment against his executor, or administrator, unless such ‘judgment
be rendered upon a verdict, or an inquisition, or upon the report of
referees on a rule of reference entered, upon application of the pa!‘ties, by the prothonotary in vacation, or the Superior Court in term
time, referring all matters in controversy to three judicious and impartial freeholders (or more if the parties so request) to be appointed by the prothonotary, or court; judgment to be rendered on their
report, or the report of a majority of them.

SEO. 23. If a defendant, being summoned, fail to appear, or ap‘
pearin , neglect or refuse so to plead as to put the cause at issue In
order or trial by a jury, a rule of reference under the foregolpg
section may be made by the court upon the application of the plaintiff onl .

SEO.y24. When such rule of reference is entered by the c01_11‘t
upon the application of the plaintiff only,- at least ten days’ notice
of the meeting of the referees, shall be required.

. SEC. 25. Such rule of reference may be entered after a judgment
by default, or upon demurrer,‘as well as before judgment. Although
'it be entered after judgment, nevertheless judgment shall be rendered on the report made pursuant thereto, and such judgment 011
the report shall be regular, notwithstanding the previous judgmentBso.

« CHAPTER 111.

OF EXECUTION.

. Land is liable to be taken in execution.
. Certain personal property exempt.
Inquisition of rents to be held. Notice.
. Rule to hold inquisition.

. Form.

How served.

. How enforced.

Proviso.

If rents sutlicient, st.sot'r may issue.

. If_.not sumcient. veitnrrioxi sxroius.
ll. endant or his tenant to be removed.
12. t only from his share.

13. Ifothers in possession, sherin‘ to inquire

gppqpuapnu

of title.
14. Court to aw inn.  rossssstounit. a _
15. The linding not conclus .

16. Plaintif not concluded.
17. REl3edy where tenant by elegit is evicte .

18. Vsitn. nxrotus ; to whom directed.

19. Liability of otlicer.

20. Sale of land u n: how made.

21. Not to be ma e until thirty days.

Order to sell perishable goods.

22. Notice ofsale of oods. Restriction.
93. Notice of sale of and. Publication.
94. Sale of land: where made.

25. Omcer not to purchase at his sale.

Penalty.

26. Deed.

27. Title.

%. Rent; apportionment; remedy ; defence.
ll. Order on sheritf to make a deed for land
sold by his predecessor.
1!). Title under such order. Without prejudice. ..
31. Petition and order to be tainted.
32. Deed guy the preceding aherid’; when
goo .
33. Land may be delivered on Ltnsaaxt
' PACIAI. Valuation.

34. Execution may be had for residue.

35. Title under a iberari facias.

36. When a warr or rossxssioit will be

awarded.

see. 37. On! on a rule to show cause.

38. To e applied for within two terms.
39. How served.
40. Not to be awarded against the tenant
of another.
41. For undivided share.
42. Stay of execution to be allowed.
43. Form of the writ.
44. Not conclusive as to title; nor to bar
any remedy.
45. Execution attachment; proceedings on.
Sale of perishable goods.
46. Executions to be returned on second
day of court.
47. Inventory and appraisement of goods.
Description oflands. Inquisition.
Prior executions to be specitied.
. Liability of sherid‘ for not making return
. CA. as. not to issue. until. Jcc.
Nor without an atlidavit of fraud.
. Party arrested: summary remedy.
. Restriction of these provisions.
when act. in. son 1.! iron-r. may issue.
. Payment of part may be pleaded.
. Judgment if defendant fail to appear.
Levy and sale on urvaiu nous. Liberari lhcias.
. ._'.[‘itle of purchaser.
. Overplus to be paid defendant.
Sci. n. on Judgment; when sued out.
Limit of xecution on judgments by
nuitscit 1-. and on APPEAL.
Party plaintid' admitted on motion.
63. Execution binds on delivery if levied
in sixt days.
Lien lirn ted to two years. as against
subsequent executions.
64. Priority of lieu of executions.
65. Date to be indorsed.
66. Sheri3' to note and indorse time.
67. Restriction of these provisions.
68. Real debt to be indorsed on executions.
69. Imprisonment no satislhction, if party
die or escape.
70. Liability of otlicer for escapes: remedy.
71. Land sold not restored though Judgment reversed.

S-_98% §’6S8a‘_8i2&’3f£S8§'5$

Wiat subject to execution.

SEC. 1. Lands, tenements and hereditaments, where no suiiicient
personal estate can be found, may be seized and sold upon judgment
and execution obtained-. 1

SEO. 2. The following goods and chattels, the property of white.
citizens of this State, shall be exempt from execution process, toé
wit :—1st. The necessary wearing apparel _of the debtor and his wife
and children; one bedstead, bed, and the necessary bedding for every
two persons of the family; one iron stove used for warming the dwelling-house; and fuel, not exceeding the value of five dollars, procured and designed for the use of the family;

2. The bibles, and school books used in the family;
3. One cow, one swine, and one ton of hay;

4. The library, and tools, or implements, of the debtor, necessary for carrying on his profession, or trade, not exceeding in value
iifty dollars; ~

5. Rights of burial; and tombs whilst in use as repositories for the
dead;

6. Other household furniture necessary for the debtor and his
family, not exceeding in value twenty-five dollars:

Provided alwagus. that the value of the whole of the articles exI'l1'I1:Ie"l. .~-ll.1ll l:H'. t   w;=_» J._;iT'. E_: '. ‘LII! .':'5'-: mt.-.-r  ‘Fr’.
 x‘, lli.'il. ll. Elli‘ *l=‘1'*'.- .' ~]!'..'lil I:-‘I, HT 1- fl‘ ..- -E‘ 1l':I._'i'_‘-.1-rllillsliI-i'.~:::-l
l'1'w.-1-~'~', he in  .».?' nil. 'r1' :::;“-.'. ml" 1"‘-w til!-='.':' his--r}f"r.-«l:11'1:-rli--. {lir-1i:m\'-»1?1:._~:'1 ‘- :-=7"; it-.'.'..'--ii  7- “I-' F-.:".'L-31:i.?—:1---.4.-Lt-—~.-i-~11.
:1mnnm]1+r_" in \;:‘m«-   5:21!--[;»_~.1 «"- 5?  --ii.-ll '- «U-1:; 1~ ‘’ 1 
.-‘::l':l.1'_\r_'n’!IE in     5'1" - In u-':;E:=-.-'  27 ~ v .r::'.'.';.--- if
tl1i.~...“"-1:1:-.-.ni'i:i ll:=.' Hutu -'af' ‘\i";l:.-13:;-_-";'-.'.: ‘v-.E-.'.r-:1 .~':i§'l ::1‘:iv‘:'n-~: nu-i
ill" Y-‘il1l'..' il'u"l'('~'l- .~-.l:::il  r.-~-.' :':.'.-ii...’-_ 5:)‘H-.-:32"-.;a.'1i':i;Ll :-i'.':;<i-‘.1-~' r+1'
llii.‘ ("'!‘.l!i‘.“.' ‘-‘J-'J1"="'=I|' liii‘   =.‘  :i.: l'i1.'!:+ll.‘I'.‘. ;-"vi l‘-I‘  al'E?=x-"_ ‘:_ii'l
in in: .-'\*.'.-11:. In‘    -1  ii".  I'll It -. .«- -I-.11"--~ I-l
F:ll|l .'l];~,r=.'ll*.i'..=!'li"..  :1.':.'.'  '_-iii‘-'   '[:=' ‘1_' '- L" i; I !lul.-_ r:‘_‘ _"-l}'._',‘,.'l-I,
<_.-i' tluw .-<:{-l  

 .-'|'r‘ll-"._'  ‘mi i_'~;'. -‘_.  <   ."T.',".' -"'.T:i.":'wT_, »,.1' civil’.

lIl?,l*l('-9 r"-1' llJI.'|l'.".‘*.'-l. ]»"'l re’ 1 - 1'. - 59-   5  _\. l’.. E‘-Cl:

lfl Jill (‘ii-"" i I ‘I I :ll‘!.'_ l  I I. l’ I
I1: ~‘r ~'r'X ’ ‘H " I 1 ' ll.'l.'1l’1 I 'l,:~. T.<_r 43‘;<_-asiuium gal‘-;—._-_-_-.~'..~.. 1 ~I -i M '\ :1 -u .1

_.'_:i1t.l'.'.'."4‘,§L...i'4'...

SEO. 3. When lands and tenements have been seized and taken
in execution by virtue of any writ ofjierz'facz'as, the sheriff in ofiice,
or the person who shall have seized and taken in execution such
lands and tenements, shall, at the election of the plaintiff in the execution, inquire by two judicious and substantial freeholders duly
sworn, or afiirmed, whether the yearly rents and profits, beyond all
reprises, of such lands and tenements will be suiiicient, within seven
years, to satisfy the debt, or damages, and costs in such execution,
and shall certify and return such inquisition annexed to the writ
under which the same is made. Ten days’ written notice of such
inquisition shall be served personally on the defendant, or left at
his usual place of abode, if he reside in the county. If he does not
reside in the county, such notice shall be served on the tenant, or,
if there be no tenant, shall be left at the ma-nsion-house, or other
public place, on the premises.

SEC. 4. The plaintiff in an execution, his agent, or attorney, may,
upon motion to the court, or in vacation upon application to the
lprothonotary, obtain a rule upon the sheviif in ofiice, or the person
who shall have seized and taken in execution lands and tenements
by virtue of any writ of fieri facias, to hold an inquisition as aforesaid, upon such lands and "tenements, and to return the same within
thirty days after the date of such rule.

SEC. 5. If such rule shall be laid upon a sheriff who did not take
in execution the lands and tenements to be inquired on, it shall set
forth the names of the parties, plaintiff and defendant, the term to
which the writ of fieri facias, was made returnable, the amount of
the debt, damages and costs in said writ expressed, together with

I

the 1'L'I1-l debt antl inte1'e:5t, if any he tl1e1'eoi1 _i:1(lo1'seI.l, and :1, description of the lnntls :11:Il tene1'ne11ls ret.ur1:e(l on said Writ.

Slit). U. A rule to hold an ine|ui.-_¢it.io11 :-=h::ll he .se1'\'e:l, in writing, _
upon the per.~:on on wlmui it is litltl, at lt-::st ten :_l::.ys before the ex1':ir:‘:-tien tl1et'e<_»l".

:51-;::. T. A I'1t':__1'_ltf‘t':t to lml-fl an imptisitioii in obedience to :1 rule,
is;:=t1e:l and E-¥(.‘1"FL"Ll as :1,fer:-.~a::i¢l, .-'.h:1ll he <l:;+:'+1nc<_l a contempt of the.e«._»u1't issitiiig .~sm:l_: .1'ule, and 1n:|.y he 1'n1'(>C'.t'("I.l£.'ll ::gj::ir1;~=,t :lcc01'tliI1gly.

SI-:t_?.  :\Tt)l'lllll_i_’: (..'011lilll1t‘lllI1 the 'llJI'C‘j'_'__f0lI1‘5_{ seetio1:s,sl1:1ll disel:::.r;_-;e :1 sl1::1'iil"1"1-G111 the li:ihi_lit.\' lJ_L(_‘l.l1'l't.'Il by it 1'1e;,;_flt~(:t, or 1'el't1s:1.l, '
to make due 1't‘illl'll of :1. writ of lieri l';tei:1:~=._ as liereinuftt-1‘ prm.'i:le:l.

SI«;<_.‘. ‘J. lf from tlie 1'et111'n of the sherifli, or pe1'.~'_-:01: holding an
i1u111i.~sit.io11, :1.‘-J» :1fo1'e..~‘5::.i:l, it .~_~th:tll :'lI>1'>('*:l.1' that the 1'e11ts aml prelim‘,
l_:e.__ve:ul rep1'i:-:e.—-'., of the l::ml.~: 21-lltl tenements t.::l<e11 in exeetitien :11‘ci
:-_‘~.11lli(ri:"I1t., withiri t.~'t".‘\'L.'I1 ye:1.1'.-', tn .~'~':tti.~:.l'y the tleht, or t_l::1n:1ges, and
Ce.-st.-a in such trxt-t:11t—i:;_+1':, it writ of el:-_;rit 111:1}-' l.“_4:-311(_‘, Itmler which the
lzuul.-5 and tem_-ments llli.'['1.1i1'(.'|l on shall he tleliveretl t.o the lllttllltllf
in the cxe<:1_:ti.-:11, to he lleltl until the tleht, or tlztimiges, and costs
are l!;?\"lL‘!.l |_;_\_,-' :1. 1':-:1.;~:u_:11::l_:le (‘.\;tC‘:1l, in the s:1,1:1e m:‘:1111e1' as lzmlls are
tlL.'ll'l'tT1'(,'l.l 1tpo11w1'its ml" ele_«_cit in ]'i1'1,gjl:1n:.'l.

:51-Ltf. 10. ll’, upon im1ui:_+i:ion as ::l'«_>1'e.-'~_:::ixl, the rents and profits,
l:»e_);'en«_l 1'(_‘1JI‘l.'w'{':~‘, cf lilllllri :::ul tL"I1L'1llt_.'I1’E::%, t:tl;+_-11 in C‘.\'L‘L"-11tiLm,:1.1‘C
l'e:_11'ul not .--::ll'i::i:_-:1t., within sew.-‘t;-1'1 _}-':_'i1.i'.‘_-', to s:iti.~al'y the debt, or ll£1-1I1::,:_I_'_t.-.~_4, ::11:l eessts in such (‘.‘(L‘('311tlUIl, 01' if, l_ne.fo1'e. an extelit be out, any
<_:ther tlt-ht, t:1'rl:1111:1;';e.s, shall l_HC.! 1'ee:_n'e1‘e:_l :1g:1'i1i.<t the s:1.n1e «left-ml.-:L1t., his l1ei1':’~_=, e_\‘ecut.o1's, or :1cln;:iI1ist1':Ltors, which, with what
1'e1:1:ii11.~is lllltt lllmll th::.t extent, e:1m1r.,:t all he s:1t,i.sfie(l within seveii
'_ve:11'.~5 out of the 1'01it;~_= anal 1:n1'oflt.~_-'. ef the ]m;r:11ises oxtenrletl, the sl1e1'ii'l'sl1:1ll r<_~t:11‘n £lC(::)1'4ilII‘*,_"1l_y'_I, aml tllt;'1'L'11I'H'_JI1 :1 w.rit, or writs, ofve11—
«litioni (".,\'1H_nl‘.:.L.~3 m:1._§_.-' isszie to sell .~_~'1:el1 lzmtls :t.:1tl te1'1e1'ne11ts for the
s::til':1et.io11 of’ wh::.t :ah:1ll HI) _1'eu~.::it1 tlllt‘? upon such e.\:tt-ut, and also
tow:ml.~s s:rt::-_='f';:etie11 of all the 1':-.'-:.t of the saitl t.l(".‘lJt.‘3, or <l:i.1'n::ges_. as
iu other e;1:3e.~5.

Elegit.

SEC. 11. If a sheriff, on entering upon lands and tenements to
execute a writ of elegit, shall find the same in possession of the defendant in the Writ, his executors, or administrators, or of any person holding under him, or them, or any of them, he shall remove
theperson, or persons, so in possession, and deliver the premises to
the plaintiff, or his agent, Without inquiring into the defendant’s
title thereto. 

SEC. 12. If the defendant in the elegit shall hold only an undivided share of the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ, the
other owner, or owners, of a. share, or shares, shall not be removed
from the possession of the premises; but only the share of the defendant shall be delivered, and only the defendant, or person holding under him, shall be removed from the possession as aforesaid.

SEC. 13. If the sheriff, upon executing a. writ of elegit, shall not
find the defendant, nor any person holding under him, in possession

Iof the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ, he shall, upon
inquiring the value of such lands and tenements, also inquire by the
same jury, upon oath, or aflirmation, into the title of the defendant
in the elegit to the premises therein mentioned, and shall certify
and return such inquisition annexed to the Writ under which it is
made. '

SEC. 14. If, by such inquisition, it shall be found that the lands
and tenements, mentioned in the writ of elegit, are liable to be taken
in execution for-the debt, or damages, and costs therein, the court
shall award a writ in the nature of a writ of habere facias possessionem, under which the sherid‘ shall deliver to the plaintif, or his
agent, the said premises, and remove from the possession of the
same the person, _or persons, possessed thereof, and all persons who
may have become possessed thereof at any time after said inquisition. SEC. 15. The finding of the jury, upon an inquisition as aforesaid, shall not be conclusive; but a person removed from lands and
tenements under an elegit, or any other person, may maintain an
ejeetment, or any other proper legal remedy, for recovering possession of the premises, notwithstanding such finding, if the same were
not liable to execution for said debt, or damages, and costs.

SEO. 16. If the jury, upon an inquisition as aforesaid, shall find

‘that the lands and tenements mentioned in the writ of elegit are not
liable to execution for the debt, or damages, and costs therein, the
plaintiff shall not be thereby concluded, but may proceed in such
manner as he might do before the passing of this chapter.

SEC. 17. If a person holding lands under a writ of elegit, whether
the original tenant, his executors, administrators, or assigns, be
evicted, by due course of law, from the same, or any part thereof,
before the amount to be levied by said writ is satisfied, the court,
out of which the writ issued, shall, upon application, grant a rule
to show cause why the said writ and return thereupon shall not be
vacated and other execution awarded upon the judgment, or other
relief granted according to the circumstances of the case. Upon
this rule the court shall exercise equitable powers. They may direct an account of rents and profits, and in such account may allow
for expenses in defending against the suit in which the eviction was
determined, and all proper items.

Vcnditioni expands.

SEC. 18. A writ of venditioni ezrponas for the sale of any goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, taken in execution by virtue of
a writ of fieri facias, may be issued and directed either to the sherili‘
in oflice, or his immediate predecessor (be having seized and taken
in execution such goods and chattels, lands and tenements) at the
election of the plaintiff in the execution; and all proceedings had,
by virtue thereof, shall be valid in law. '

SEC. 19. The person to whom such writ of venditioni exponas
may be directed, shall, for neglect, or failure, in the execution
thereof, or in making return thereon, be subject to all such rules of

court, suits, lines, and ‘other process and proceedings, as any sheriff
is, or can be liable to in like cases.

Levari facias.

, SEC. 20._ By a writ of levarifacias, the sheriff, or other omcer, to
whom the same is directed to be executed, may seize and sell, at
public sale, unimproved lands, and lands yielding no year] profit,
with, or without a writ of venditioni ezvponas ; subject to t e same
provisions respecting notice of sale, application of the proceeds
thereof, the execution of a deed to the purchaser, the issuing of a
liberari facias for the delivery of lands which cannot be sold, and
the title under such sale, or delivery, as are hereinafter contained
for the sale of lands under execution process in other cases.

Sale under execution.

SEC. 21. Goods and chattels, taken in execution by a sherif, or,
coroner, shall not be sold until the expiration of thirty da s after;
the levy thereon and notice thereof to the defendant, un ess thej
court, issuing the execution, shall, in term time, or a judge thereof
shall, in vacation, upon application of the plaintiff, or of the ollicer
holding the execution, and on its being shown that the goods and '
chattels are-of a perishable nature, or will create a charge by keep-}
ing, order the same to be sold sooner. Such order shall direct reasonable notice of the sale, according to the circumstances.

SEC. 22. Public notice of the sale of goods and chattels by a]
sheriff, or coroner, under execution process, and of the day, hour, .
and place thereof, shall be given by advertisements posted, at least
ten days before the day of sale, in five, or more, public and suitable places in the county, two of which, at least, shall be in the hundred of the defendant's residence, if he reside in the county; and
one such advertisement shall, ten days at least before the day of
sale, be delivered to the defendant, and one to each plaintif in the
execution, and also to each plaintiff in any other execution, or executions, at the time in the hands of the sheriff, or coroner, or shall
be left at the usual place of abode of such defendant and plaintifs
respectively, if there be such place of abode within the county; and
if any plaintiff in any such execution as aforesaid, shall reside out
of the county, such advertisement shall be delivered to the attorney of such plaintiff, if there be an attorney of record, and one such
advertisement shall be transmitted to such plaintiff by mail, being
inclosed and addressed to him at the post oflice nearest his place of
abode; an advertisement shall also, at least ten days before the day
of sale, be delivered to the defendant's landlord, or his agent, if
there be such residing in the county. The provisions of this and:
the next foregoing section do not apply to execution process issued
by justices of the peace.

SEC. 23. Public notice of the sale of lands and tenements under
execution process, shall be given by advertisements, posted, at least}
ten days before the day of sale, in one or more of the most public
places of each hundred of the county where the premises are situate,

setting forth the day, hour and place of sale, and what lands and
tenements are to be sold, and where they lie; and one such advertisement shall, at least ten days before the day of sale, be delivered
to the defendant, or be left at his usual place of abode, if he have a
known place of abode in the county; if the defendant do not reside
in the county, notice shall be served on the tenant, or, if there be
no tenant, shall be left at the mansion-house, or other public place,
on the premises.

The provisions of the next foregoing section, respecting the delivery of an advertisement of the sale of goods and chattels under
execution process to each plaintiff in the execution, and also to each
plaintiff in an other execution, or executions, at the time in the
hands of the sheriff, or coroner, shall be, in all respects, applicable
to the case of the sale of lands and tenements under execution process.

Notice of such sale, as aforesaid, shall also be advertised in two
newspapers, to be designated by the defendant, for two weeks previous to the time of said sale; and the sheriff shall not be allowed to
pay for such advertisement more than one dollar per square for
every three insertions, sixteen lines of brevier type to constitute a
square: provided, that if the defendant shall neglect, or refuse, to
designate said newspapers, then the sheriif shall publish the same in
any two newspapers printed in this State.

SEC. 24. All sales of real estate, made by a sherid’ by virtue of
execution process, shall be made on the premises to be sold, or at
some public house, either in the hundred in which the premises are
situated or in the adjoining hundred, at the discretion of the sherif
selling the same.

SEC. 25. A sherif, constable, or other person making sale of

goods and chattels by virtue of any process, or order, shall not,

either directly, or by the agency of another, purchase any of such
goods or chattels; and any rson oifending against this section,
shall forfeit and pay double t e value of the oods or chattels so
purchased, to be recovered as debts of like umgountiare recoverable,
one-half for the use of the State, and the other half for the use of
the person suing.

SEC. 26. Upon confirmation by the court of any sale of lands and
tenements, made by virtue of execution process, the sheriff, or oilicer making the sale, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
pugclgigsgg a ggod andtsuflicient diced] for the tpgemizes 7:1)‘ scild. _ g

. . e gran ee in any ee execu » un er e oregoin
section, shall hold the premises therein conve ed, with all their appurtenances, as fully and amply, and for such estate and estates,
and under such rents and services as he or the for whose debt
or duty, the same shall be sold, might, or’could, db at or before tlld
taking thereof in execution. ,

SEC. 28. In any case of sale as’ aforesaid, the purchaser shall be
entitled to rent for the premises sold from the day of sale. If such
premises be in possession of a tenant under rent, such rent shall be
apportioned, according to the time; the proportion "for the time tlw

rent has been growing due to the day of sale, being payable to the lessor or his assigns, and the residue to the purchaser; and each party
shall have remedy by distress, or action, for his just proportion.

A purchaser may recover his proportion‘of rent, although such
rent be reserved by deed (as well as rent from the day of sale, in
case no rent has beenreserved) by an action of assumpsit for use
and occupation. In any action, or proceeding, ‘for such rent, any fair defence,
which would have availed against the person as whose property the
premises were sold, shall avail against the purchaser; but if a rent
reserved be not a fair rent for the premises, and the lease, or contract, be posterior to the order, or to the date of the judgment, in
execution, or by virtue whereof the sale shall be made, the purchaser shall not be limited by the rent reserved, but may demand
and recover a fair rent. If the crop be sold separately from the‘
soil, the demand of the purchaser shall proportionally abate.

SEO. 29. If a sale be made of lands and tenements by order of ,
the chancellor, or by virtue of an execution, and the ofiicer making‘
such sale, or the purchaser, be dead; or if such oilicer be out of of-,
fice, and the purchase money be paid, without a deed being made‘
pursuant to such sale; the purchaser, or other person having right
under him by descent, devise, assignment, or otherwise, may prefer
to the Superior Court, or Court of Chancery, at any term of said
courts, respectively, in the county wherein the premises are situate,
a petition representing the facts, ,and praying for an order authorizing and requiring the sheriff, or if there be legal exception to him,
the coroner of the county for the time being, to execute and acknowledge a deed conveying to the petitioner the premises so sold,
or a just proportion thereof; and thereupon the court, or chancellor, may make such order touching the conveyance of the premises
as shall be according to justice and equity.

SEC. 30. A deed, executed pursuant to an order‘ made under the,
foregoing section, shall pass to the grantee therein all the title and
estate to and in the premises therein conveyed, which, in pursuance
of the sale, and of the execution, or order by virtue whereof such
sale was made, can, or ought to be passed; but if the person, to,
whom such deed shall be executed, shall not be entitled to the same, ,
according to justice and equity, or if a greater estate be conveyed
to the grantee than he is justly entitled to, such deed, or order,
shall not prejudice any person having right; but such deed may be
decreed. to be upon trust, or any person, having right, may be otherwise relieved according to equity and good conscience.

SEC. 31. An order made upon such petition as aforesaid, being
duly certified, the petition and order shall be recorded in the ollicei
of the recorder of deeds for the county wherein the premises are‘
situate; -and such record, or a certified copy thereof, shall be competent evidence of such petition and order.

SEO. 32. A deed for lands and tenements, sold by virtue of a writ
of venditioni exponas, directed to the predecessor of the sheriff at
the time in oflice, (such predecessor havipg seized and taken in execution such lands and tenements), shall be valid in law, without
petition to, or order of, any court for making such deed.

Liberari facias.

SEC. 33. If lands and tenements, exposed to sale by virtue of ex‘ecution process, cannot be sold for want of buyers, the sheriff, or
oilicer, shall make return upon the writ accordingly. Such return
shall not make the oflicer liable for the debt or damages contained
in the writ; but a writ of liberari facias shall be awarded and directed to due proper oflicer, commanding him to deliver to the plaintill‘ such part, or parts, of the premises as shall satisfy his debt, or
damages, with interest and costs, according to the valuation of
twelve men, to hold to him as his free tenement, in satisfaction of
his debt, damages and costs, or so much thereof as the premises, by
the valuation of twelve men as aforesaid, will amount to.

SEC. 34. If lands delivered upon a liberari facias under the foregoing section fall short, according to the valuation aforesaid, of satisfying the whole debt, damages and costs for which they are delivered, the plaintiu‘ may have execution for the residue as in other
cases.

SEC. 35. The execution and return of a writ of liberari facias
shall, without deed, or other act, pass to the party to whom the
lands are delivered, the same title and estate therein which is taken
by a purchaser of lands sold under execution process, and conveyed
by deed from the sherilf, or oflicer selling the same.

Writ of possession.

SEO. 86. If lands and tenements be sold b order of the chancellor, or by virtue of execution process, and t e defendant, or one
or more defendants, or any person holding as tenant under such
defendant, or defendants, by lease, or contract, posterior to such
order, or to the date of the judgment whereon such execution was
issued, be in possession of the premises sold; or if such defendant, or
defendants, shall have died in possession of the premises sold within
one year next preceding the day of sale, and the person in possession either shall have come into possession after such defendant, or
defendants, and by means of his or their possession, or shall held
under, or through a person so coming into possession, the purchaser
ma have a writ of possession awarded, pursuant to such sale.

E0. 37. The chancellor, if the sale be by his order, or the courtout of which the execution issued, if the sale be by virtue of an execution, upon application of the purchaser, and oath or aliirmation
by him, or some credible person for him, in writing, stating a proper case for the awarding of such writ, shall grant a rule upon the
defendant, or defendants, owner or owners of the premises sold, and
also upon the person in possession of the premises, if any person
other than the defendant be in possession, to show cause, on a da
in said rule specified, why a writ of possession shall not be awarxz
ed for putting the purchaser in possession of said premises. A writ
of possession shall not be issued without such rule made absolute.

\

SEO. 38. A rule for a writ of possession shall not be granted un-,
less applied for at the term of the return of the sale, or at the next 2
succeeding term.

SEC. 39. Such rule shall be served at least two days before the,
expiration thereof; but if the defendant do not reside in the county
wherein the proceedings shall be, the court may order service on
the tenant in possession to be suilicient.

SEC. 40. If the defendant be in possession bona jide as tenant under, or by permission of another, a writ of possession shall not be
awarded. 1

SEC. 41. If the defendant be owner of an undivided share, the‘
writ shall be restricted to such share; and any holder of another1
share, or his tenant, shall not be removed, or further disturbed than '
by puttin the purchaser into peaceable possession of the undivided
share of t e defendant. ,

SEC. 42. On making the rule for a writ of possession absolute,
the court may direct a reasonable stay of execution. If the person}
in possession be a tenant, execution shall he stayed until the usual;
expiration of the year of tenants, according to the custom of letting
in the place, or neighborhood, wherein the premises are situate.

SEC. 43. A writ of possession may be according to the following
form, viz:

1
I

—— County, ss. The State of Delaware,
To the sherifof said county, greeting :

{mg We command you, that without delay you cause

~».~ to have peaceable possession of (here insert description of the
premises) which were late y sold by virtue of a writ of venditioni exponas issued out of our (here insert the style of the court) in the said
county, returnable to term, 18-, at the suit of
plainhf vs. defendant; and have this writ, with your
doings thereon certified, at our said cgrurt to be held at ———, on the

day of neirt. - °

Witness , at , the — day of
year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and.

   

 

   

—, in the

, Prothonotary.

If there be legal exception to the sheriii‘, the writ may be, directed to the coroner. If the sale be by order of the chancellor, omit
from the word “venditioni” to the word "defendant,” both inclusive, and instead thereof insert, an order of our chancellor, made in
our Court of Chancery, at , in a certain cause between
complainant and defendant ; and the writ may
be adapted to the case by any necessary variation in the form. SEO. 44. Nothing hereinbefore contained shall deprive a purchaser of his remedy by action of ejectment, nor debar from such
remedy a person removed from possession; and any proceedings under the foregoing section, shall not be conclusive as to the title of

either party.

Attachment.

SEC. 45. The plaintiii‘ in any judgment in a court of record, or
any person for him lawfully authorized, may cause an attachment,
as well as any other execution, to be issued thereon, containing an
order for the summoning of garnishees, to be proceeded upon and
returned as in cases of foreign attachment; and the said attachment,
condemnation, or judgment thereon, shall be pleadable in bar by the
garnishee as aforesaid in any action against him at thesuit of the

efendant in the attachment. Goods which are perishable, or will

create a charge by keeping, may be sold on the order of a judge as
in cases of foreign attachment.

Return of executions.

SEO. 46. Every fieri facias shall be actually returned by the
sheriff to whom the same was delivered before the rising of the court,
to which it is returnable, on the second day after the return day
mentioned in the writ, with the said sheriff’ a certificate of what he
has done thereon in usual and legal form.

SEC. 47. Where the levy, or seizure, by virtue of a iieri facias
shall have been of goods and chattels unsold at the return day, the
sherilf shall annex to the writ an inventory of each article of such
goods and chattels, with an appraisement of the same, duly made
and certified, so that their value may be judged of. ‘ e

SEC. 48. If there have been a levy, or seizure, of lands, the
sheriif’s return shall specify the principal improvements thereon, if
any, as well as the known, or computed, quantity and situation
thereof. The sheriff shall also annex to the writ an inquisition, testifying whether the yearly rents and profits, beyond all reprises, of
the lands and tenements, so taken in execution, be sufficient, within
seven years, to satisfy the debt and damages in such execution,
agreeably to the provisions in that behalf of this chapter.

SEC. 49. Where the levy, or seizure, in either of the cases aforesaid, shall be returned as made subject to prior executions, the sheriff
shall, in his indorsed, or annexed return, set forth as well the names
of the plaintiifs in such prior executions as shall have come to his
hands, as the sums thereby to be levied.

SEC. 50. If any sheriff shall neglect to make such return of any
writ of fieri facias to him directed, in due form and within the time
above limited, he shall answer for the debt, damages and costs in
the said iieri facias mentioned, in the same manner as if he had returned thereon, levied to the value of the sum or sums of money
therein mentioned, and may he proceeded against accordingly.

Capias ad satz'sfacz'e'nd-um.
SEO. 51. No writ of capias ad sa.tz'sfacz'cndum shall be issued upon

‘any judgment in a civil action against a citizen of the State, until a

writ of fieri facias on said judgment, shall have issued, and it shall
appear from the return of such iieri facias, that the defendant therein has not either real, or personal property within the county suili~
cient to satisfy the debt, or damages in said fieri facias expressed;

or until the plaintili‘ in such judgment, or some credible person for
him, shall make a written affidavit, to be filed in the prothonotary’s
office before the issuing of the writ, stating that he verily believes
that the defendant has not either real, or personal, estate su_h'icz'ent to
s»:tt¢'._sj‘,'y the debt, interest and costs coreitarned in such jatd_gime7z.t.

Any writ of capias ad S{l.lLlSftlCiCIl(l11I11 issued, contrary to the foregoing provision, shall be Void, and the plaintilli obtaining such Writ
shall be liable to all the costs of the same.

SEC. 52. No writ of capias ad s:1tisf'acicndun1 shall be issued out
of any court of this State upon a judgment ill a civil action, against}
a free white citizen of this State, nor shall any such person be im-'
prisoned for the non-performance of a decree for the payment of
money, until the plaintiff in such payment, or the party in whose
favor such decree shall he, or some credible person for him, shall,
in addition to the requirement of the preceding section, make 3
Written atlidavit, to be filed in the office of the prothonotary, or
register in chancery, as the case may be, before the issuing of the
process, stating, that the de_)"t-admit in such judgment, or decree, is
justly r.'-mlchtrd to the stall phzint in a sum e.z:c:eedz'n.g fifty dollars,
and that he ‘Z-'t‘?'Z7t_?/' lwlziercs the said tltft"Rtl(t7lC has secreted, conveyed
awe‘:/, ass2',:/nezil, settled, or tl-isposotl of either momfg/, goods, chattels,
stocks, sccm'2'tie.s for nzozzey, or other real, or personal estate, of the
ivalue of -more t/nmjr'f1'g/ dollars, with izttertt to clqfimutl his creditors;
and shall moreot-w', -in such a_y'i»;ltwz't, s1)t*e-zfy and set forth the supposed frcmtlulen.t ttra-n.sczetz'or2s.

Any writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, issued contrary to the foregoing provision, shall be void, and the plaintiff obtaining such writ
shall be liable to all the costs of the same.

No writ of capi-as ad satisf'acienr_lun1 shall, in any case, be issued
upon a judgment at the suit of :1 person not at the time such jut gment is recovered residing within this State, nor shall any person
be imprisoned for the non-performance of a decree for the payment
of money in favor of a. person non-resident as aforesaid, Without an
oath or allirmation first made and filed as aforesaid.

SEC. 53. Any judge in vacation shall, upon petition of the person
arrested, and reasonable notice in writing to the party in whose favor the process issued, his attorney, or solicitor, investigate the specifications of fraud i11 an ailidavit made under the foregoing section;
and, upon such investigation, may discharge the petitioner from imprisonment, or remand him for trial by a jury at the next term of
the Superior Court of the county wherein the process issued, upon
a plea denying the said specifications of fraud, or may make such
order in the premises as he shall deem just and proper.

SEC. 54. The provisions of section 5:2 of this chapter, shall not
apply to any person imprisoned by authority of the United States,
nor to any other than execution, or final process, or connnitlncnt,
for debt, or damages, or costs, of a civil suit, or non-performance
of a decree for the payment of money. or

Scire faeias on mortgage. ‘
SEO. 55. Upon breach of the condition of a mortgage of real esLtate by non-payment of the mortgage money, or non-performance
of the conditions stipulated in such mortgage, at the times and in

the manner therein provided, the mortgagee, his heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, may, at any time after the last day
whereon the mortgage money ought to be paid, or other conditions
performed, sue out of the Superior Court of the county, wherein the
mortgaged premises are situated, a writ of scire facias upon such
mortgage directed to the sheri&' of the county, and commanding him
to make known to the mortgagor, his heirs, executors, or administrators, that he, or they, be and appear before the said court to show
cause, if any there be, wherefore the said mortgaged premises ought
not to be seized and taken in execution for payment of the said mortgage money, with interestpor to satisfy the damages which the plaintiff in such scire facias shall, upon the record, suggest for the nonperformance of said conditions.

SEC. 56. The defendant in a scire facias on a mortgage, may
plead satisfaction, or payment, of all, or any part of the mortgage
money, or any other lawful plea in avoidance of the deed, as the
case may require.

SEC. 57. If the defendant fail to appear at the return day of the
scire facias, definitive judgment therein, as well as all other judgments to be given upon such scire facias, shall be entered that the
plaintiff have execution by levarifacias directed to the proper oflicer.

SEO. 58. Under a levari facias, awarded as aforesaid, the mort.gaged premises shall be taken in execution, and after notice given

in the same manner as in other cases of the sale of lands upon execution process, shall be exposed to public sale, and upon such sale,
and confirmation thereof, shall be conveyed by deed to thé purchaser; or if there be no sale for want of bidders, return shall be made

_accordingly, and thereupon a liberari facias may issue and be executed in the same manner, and with like effect, as hereinbefore is
provided in other cases of the sale of lands upon execution process.

SEC. 59. The person to whom any lands and tenements shall be

' sold, or delivered, under the next foregoing section, and his heirs

and assigns, shall hold the same, with their appurtenances, for such
estate, or estates, as they were sold, or delivered for,'discharged

- frbm all equity of redemption, and all other incumbrances made and

suffered by the mortgagor, his heirs, or assigns; and such sales shall
be available in law: provided, that such sale, or delivery, shall not
create any further term, or estate, to the veudees, mortgagees, or
creditors, than the said lands and tenements were mortgaged for.

SEC. 60. Any overplus of the proceeds of sale of mortgaged premises, as aforesaid, after satisfying the ‘principal debt in the mortgage, with interest and costs, shall be rendered to the debtor, or defendant; and until the same is so rendered, the oilicer making the
sale shall not be discharged upon the record of the court to which
said sale i returnable.

Scire facias on judgment.

SEO. 61. A writ of scire facias may be sued upon a judgment in a
personal, or mixed action, as well as upon a judgment in a real action, as also upon all recognizances, to obtain execution of such
judgment, or recognizances. Such writ may be sued by and against
the parties to the judgment, or recognizance, and also by and
against any other persons entitled, or liable, to the execution thereo , whether as executors, administrators, heirs, terre-tenants, or
otherwise.

SEC. 62. An execution may be issued u on a judgment recovered
before a justice of the peace, and of whic a transcript shall have
been filed and entered in the Superior Court, or on a judgment upon
an appeal from a justice of the peace, at any time Within five years
from entering the transcript, or iving the judgment on appeal,
without scire facias, unless it shall go necessary to make a party defendant. A party plaintiff may be made by suggesting the facts
and stating the proper party on the record, without scire facias,
and the proceeding shall he in the name of the proper party so

_3t3ted. L

Lien of executions.

SEC. 63. An execution shall not bind goods and chattels until it
is delivered to the sheriff, or other proper oflicer, to be executed.
An execution shall, from the time it is so delivered, bind all the.
goods and chattels of the defendant, within the bailiwick, which
shall be actually levied upon within sixty days thereafter.

No levy upon goods and chattels, made by virtue of execution
process, shall be of any force, or effect, as against a subsequent exe-i
cution levied upon the same goods and chattels, for a longer period:
than two years from the making of such first mentioned levy; nor‘
unless the execution, under which it is made, be continued by writs
of venditioni exponas regularly issued from term to term of the court.

SEC. 64. If several executions against the same defendant be de- ,
livered on the same day, the first delivered shall have priority. If '
several executions against the same defendant be delivered together, they shall have priority according to their respective numbers.

SEC. 65. The prothonotary, issuing an execution, shall indorse ,
thereon the date of its issue. '

SEC. 66. The sheriff, or other ollicer, receiving an execution, shall, E
in a docket, set down the date of receiving it; and when severaln
executions are delivered on the same day, the docket shall showthe d
order in which they are received. He shall also indorse upon an
execution, immediately on receiving it,‘ the precise time of its delivery to him.

SEC. 67. The provisions of the four next foregoing sections do not I

apply to eyecutions issued by justices of the peace.

Other matters.

SEC. 68. When an execution is issued upon a judgment»-for a. pe- n

nalty, the oflicer issuing the same shall indorse thereon the real
debt and the time from which interest is to be calculated.

SEC. 69. If a person arrested, or imprisoned, by virtue of an execution, die in execution, or escape; in either case the arrest, or im.prisonment, shall be no satisfaction of the jud ment, on which the
execution is issued: and the execution shall be ield to be in no part
executed by such arrest, or imprisonment. '

SEC. 70. If a person, arrested, or imprisoned, b virtue of an
execution, be suffered to escape, the sheriff, constab e, or other 05cer having the custody of such person at the time of his escape,
shall be answerable for the full amount payable according to the
efecution; and the person at whose suit the execution was issued,
or for whose use it is indorsed, his executors, or administrators,
shall have an action of debt therefor, against such sherif, constable, or other oiiicer, his executors, or administrators. The non-payment of said amount shall be a breach of the condition of the oflicial
recognizance, or obligation, of such sheri&', constable, or oflieer.

SEC. 71. If, after the sale of real estate upon execution process,
the judgment upon which such writ is awarded shall be reversed for
error, the real estate, so sold, shall not be restored, nor any part
thereof, nor shall the sale thereof be avoided; but in such case, restitution only of the money for which such lands may be sold, shall
be made. ‘ - .

 

CHAPTER 112. .

OF DEFECTS IN PLEADING AND THE AMENDMENT THEREOF.
sac. 1. What tickets are considered on de-_ Sac. 10. Record amendable in any clclaai armurrer. ror.
9. Judgments not to be reversed for for- Orin any respect, ifanythingtoamend
mal defects. by.
3. What defects are cured by judgment. Writs of scire faclas amendable.
4. Defects cured after verdict. Writs of execution ; or of error.
5. Death between verdict and jud men: 11. Any error is amendable before judgnot to be alleged for error a the meat.
judgment. , 12. And any formal error after judgment.
6. Errors released by a reference, orby 13. The common counts may be died in
confession of judgment. assumpsit. at any time before the
7. Error in stating representative charac- jury takes the case. ‘
ter. amendable. ll. Amendments allowable during the trial.
8. On marriage of a female plaintitl‘. no 15. The form ot action is amcndable.
error to proceed without the husband. 16. A verdict is ameadable during the term.
9. Oath presumed to be properly adminis- 17. A writ of error lies to decisions reatered. pectin; amendments.

SEC. 1. Upon a demurrer, the court shall not consider any defeet not specially alleged, if, upon the whole matter appearing, judg'ment can be given according to the merits of the case.
SEC. 2. N o judgment shall be reversed for any defect, or imper. feetion, in matter of form which might, by law, have beemamended.
SEC. 3. Judgment shall not be arrested, or reversed, for any variance between the writ and declaration; nor for any error in the
writ; new for want of a warrant of attorney; nor for want of entry

of the admission of next friend, or guardian; nor because an infant
plaintiff prosecuted, or appeared, by attorney; nor for the omission
of continuances: nor for default of a profert. or of a reference to
:L 1':_*<_'w1'~l: Imr I311‘ umi1Iin_'_{i_~'r:1ll:-;w.~ 111:1: ::n :I.<:'t. w::.<4 (lune “witll
i-I._ai'I'1_.‘ :l-llll :1.t‘m;~¥," H1‘ “:1_‘_:f.‘1{It-~'l2 tin‘ ]w:1:'_'.(_':'i uni‘ fur '\‘.'::1:t.u[' :m.\", or
fur :1. w1'rm_-_: H-1mr__+_; nor fut‘ :111!‘__._-' 11..-i1_'L:t., U1‘ HlI1i'.~i.~'-lull. in ;~-=_-1";.in_:‘ l'u1'fl1
tilt‘? s%111:'11I‘n'm1'1;j__r'._ or -']Il;1il'liv.:1.T‘lni1 «if _i111'=n'.<:: 11m.’ liar rm}: (‘M-1"n~::l mi.~:.pri-.~aiem_, 41-1' f.-n'm:1l :11.-1'4-ct.wl1:1Iw.'u_‘1': if. 1111011 rlwxv}:-.iv:‘s.~w1‘ul, tlu-1'0
:1.mn_~:r.1‘.'~; .'-".1l=~«‘T:lHi.i:".l ;_r1'v.»1m<l far‘ The _j'1:l‘-__-;r:'n_~1:.'*_.

>51-ls‘. --L .-\.ftm' \-'u1'='li(~.I'. j:1<l_';‘:m'-tit. :~'lz.-:1] nut lm r*.1‘r(~r-‘.t<'-Ii. 1'm1'1‘(_\—
\'m'.~:e.‘Il.. f3:1'('*1‘1'«_n' in tin‘ lir1‘:i1 ml’ :r.«-ti«:‘.:.: H-'-I‘ l‘-.11‘mi~<j-niinrlm‘n['«*:z11r4t_'%4
u|' :!!".l1IIl?. nun‘ I141‘ :1u_\; :’_'1'1'm' in :2::_xr {"=rt1I1i.. if ‘.I+v1'u lm :1. ,-'.n|li:.'im1't.
t"-srmt in the :'lm'*l:n‘:1rin11, Hula-~‘-;~‘_  ('_'-.'l')‘.':“ t-:l.\,' .‘3:'llT!'i3.‘.'.-4 ll‘;::1‘ -'..m1¢- ]:IIl‘t
mi’ tin? \':'1‘«li:.'t W:1.~a fumlul r-'1 *.'n:m<-1'1:-‘air. -:'-'=nE:':i1;.-wl  m

1

-.

' -1 cs.-Im1'.
5*‘-I-Iv‘. -1. rl'l1t"l{'°:illl Hi'<‘lI.l1:-1'} r«'1_:1‘ml llIfl‘_"_l'll~"lIf.,
Fillull 1103. ll-'.‘' ;Ill'."*__-‘fI.‘!l um‘ {"‘;'1'H1‘._,  _li.1<l_:‘.m._'I|t. in‘ r.'*TI[:‘;‘:_‘-l X".-iillilt t\'.'<_')
l\.'i'lll.'~' ::t'tr-1' 1‘:'u.-. ‘~.'i_-rnlia-t. I

5111?. ii. 'l.‘Iu.‘- :-1m'_\_,-' of :1. 11-f'v1‘«.'”:1.-,f(* .=«i1:'1ll l.~:i* :1. 1':-lm1.=::"-. of all prc-K-‘imI%_‘ m‘1'«>1'.~:. Tile w._.*s':11fc;r.~_<.—i~i11;__f :1._j11rl_:_jmt_'-mt. :—:l1:ill_ lac :1. 1‘(.*lL“:1.*%(’_'. of all 01‘l'|‘|l'.*i.

SEO. 7. If an executor be named as administrator, or conversely,
in any pleading, it may be amended.

SEC. 8. If a female p1aintid' marry, and the action proceed without making the husband a party, it shall not be error.

SEC. 9. When it appears that an oath, or allirmation, has been
administered by competent authority, it shall be presumed to have
been properly administered, unless the contrary appear. '

SEC. 10. Writs of scire facias, of execution, and of error, may be
amended; and, after judgment, the court before whom a record is,
may order the amendment of any clerical error in any part of such
record; and when there is matter to amend by, may order any
amendment that will tend to the furtherance of justice.

SEO. 11. In any civil cause pending before the Superior Court,
the said court shall have power, at any time before judgment, to
allow amendments either in form, or substance, of any process,

pleading, or proceeding, in such action, on such terms as shall be,

'.-1:'tv. l=--?_*.\.'m-H x'-..- '.

just and reasonable. 1

SEC. 12. After judgment rendered in any civil action, any de-:
fects, or imperfections, in matter of form, found in the record, or;
proceedings, in the action, may be rectified and amended by the J
court in which ‘the judgment is rendered, or by the court to which
it shall be removed by writ of error, if substantial justice requires
it, and if the amendment is in ailirmance of the judgment.

SEO. 13. In actions of assumpsit the plaintiff may, on motion,«
without costs, or continuance, at any time before the cause is com-;
mitted to the jury, file any of the common counts applicable to the:
case, including also the money counts, and the count on an account:
stated. It shall be no objection that the jury have been sworn. l

SEC. 14. In any civil cause pending before the Superior Court,

the said court shall have power, during the trial, to allow an amend-1

ment of the record when any variance shall appear between it and
any written, printed, or verbal evidence in any particular in the
judgment of the court not material to the merits of the case, and by
which the opposite party cannot have been prejudiced in the conduct of his action, or defence; such amendment shall be forthwith
made by the prothonotary with, or without, the payment of costs
to the other party, or on such other terms as the court shall think
reasonable, and thereupon the. trial shall proceed as if no variance
had appeared; or the court may, in its discretion, and upon such
terms as it shall consider just, order a juror to be drawn, and postpone, or continue the cause. -' "

SEC. 15. Whenever a plaintiff in an action shall have mistaken

the form pf action suited to his claim, the court, on motion, may

permit amendments to be made, on such terms as they-shall judge,
reasonable. SEO. 16. If there be a general verdict on a declaration containing several counts, the plaintiff may, at any time during the term,

on motion, have leave to amend the verdict and enter it on any count
on which the evidence by law would, at the trial, have entitled him

to recover, and may have leave to strike out of his declaration any
defective counts. '

SEO. 17. From any decision permitting, or refusing, an amendment during the trial, the party aggrieved may have a writ of error

as upon other judgments of the court; or shall have remedy, by

motion for a new trial, or nonsuit, or other motion, to bring the decision in review before the court itself; and the court may, on application, reserve such motion for hearing before all the judges in the
Court of Errors and Appeals.

CHAPTER 113.

OF BILLS OF‘ EXCEPTION. CASES STATED. AND RESERVED QUESTIONS.
Sec. 1. Bill of exceptions to he signed. when Sac. 3. And signed during thetertn, unless. te.

tendered. 4. A case stated is a part of the record.
9. What may he excepted to. 5. Reserved questions must he signed.
3. Must _ he proposed when the point is And certined to the Court of Appeals.
decided. v 6. security may he required on reserving
Must be in writing. questions.

SEO. 1. Upon the trial of any case on a judgment in which a writ
of error will lie, either party, in order to place upon record any
oint of law arising in the course of the trial and material to the
getermination thereupon, may propose an exception upon such point’
of law; and the chief justice of the court, or in his absence from the
trial, the justices present, shall sign a bill, if presented, truly stating
such exception, with all matters requisite for understanding the
same. The bill, so signed, shall be a part of the record, and the matter of law therein appearing shall be considered on a writ of error.
SEO. 2. Exception may be taken, as aforesaid, to the overruling
of a challenge; to the admission, or rejection of a witness, or of any

evidence; to the refusal of a demurrer to evidence; to the charge
delivered to the jury; to a refusal to charge the jury upon a point
of law duly made; or to the decision upon any point of lavv arising
in the course of the trial and material to the determination thereupon, wliit-.11 decision will not otlierwise appear by the record.

There ;sh:1ll be no exception to the allowzrnee of :1. el1:1lle11ge, nor
to any direction respecting the Ill:].I1l1(.‘l‘ of conducting the trial.

Site. 3-}. The exeeptioli must be proposed when the point is (loci-1
doll. Upon its being 1'l1‘01l{'l:-I~('§I,l either party may insist-, or the court I
mzty re:p_1ire, that the suh.~st:mce of it 51111.11 he immediately settled
and l'C(l1lC(!ll to writin_:_: zrnd si_:.rno<.l by the elliofjuetiee, or in his uh-'.
some by the other j1_1st.ices. 'J.'l1e bill of exception m11.~i~'t he dr:1.wn in ‘
form, and sigjriewl ilI11‘i1'1g the term in which the e.\'eept.ion is proposed, ;
tliiless the p:1.rtioS oth_erwi:5e :1_::ree with the :1SS01lt ofthe court.

SEC‘. «L. A case st:.1.to<_l in any notion slmll be 3. part of the record;‘
zmtl upon u. writ of e1'ro1' it Sliull he eonside1‘ed by the Court of e1'1'o1'. 1

See. 5. The p:1.rty, upon wl1o.~_=e applie:Lt.io11 any questions of law:
are 1'ese1're<l 1;)’ the Srlherior Court to he heard in the Court of Er-—
rors and .:'\ppe:1l.~_'», shall, if the cause require it, make 3. written state-*1
mt.-nt of the cpleetions reserve«_l, in such form as the court nuty upprove; and the smne ;~_;l'1nll be sif_-jned by one of the _jL1«;lges of the
Court in which the «pies-stions are reservetl, and shall he eertifled by
the p1'othonot.=.1ry of the Sztlll court to the Court of Errors and Appeals as at part of the record of the en.~se..

S150. U. The Superior Court Inzty require the party applying to.
hat-‘e any rplestions of law reservml For heziring in the Court of Errors and Appeztls, to enter into a bond, or reeognizaiicte, before the
court, or any ju:l_v_;e., with surety to be approx-'ed by such court, or
judge, uml ‘.1.-'itl1 eonditioii to Itllllltl the jurl;_:_1ne11t of the Court. of Errors ztncl .-'\ppe:1l.~'_«'. Itlltl pay the COI1tl(.‘1l1ll:Ltl0l1 money 3,111.1 all costs
which may be :L<.l_j11tlge«_l ::.ga.i_11st him; or the Superior Cou1't1n:1.y, i11
its «liseretion, prescribe my other security, or any other terms consistent with ju'.'~stiee.

CHAPTER 114.

OF‘ COSTS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sec. 1. When defendant shall have costs. 8:0. 10. When not allowed to appellee.

Party prevailing recovers costs. 11. Costs on certiorari.
2. Costs In suits by State for party's use. On reversal.
3. Costs on motions, rules, &c. On amrmance. _
4. Costs in equity. 12. Bill of costs to he docketed _|n twenty
5. Costs in the Court of Appeals. days. _
0. Costs on proceedings out of court; 13. And mdoraed on any execution.

order. 14. Clerk of the Orphans’ Court to docket
7. In cases cogni le by Justices of the ' costs on exceptions. Geo.

peace, costs n recoverable, unless. To.be indorsed on orders issued.
&c. 15. Penalty for neglect. Forfeiture.

8. Costs on appeal from a justice. 16. Costs to be taxed, in term or vacation.

9. When not allowed appellant.

SEO. 1. In a. court of law, whether of original jurisdiction, or of
error, upon a discontinuance, non pros, nolle prosequi, retraxit, or

non suit, there shall be judgment for costs for the defendant; and
generally, a party for whom final judgment is given in any civil ac. tion, or on a writ of error upon a judgment in such action, shall recover, against the adverse party, costs of suit, to be awarded by the
court.

SEO. 2. If final judgment be given for the defendant in a civil
suit, which is in the name of the State, for the use of any person,

_ or corporation, judgment for costs shall be given against such person, or corporation.

SEO. 3. Concerning costs on petitions, motions, ‘rules and interlocutory matters, not specially provided‘ for, the court shall make
such order in each case as it may deem proper.

SEO. 4. A court of equity, the Register’s Court, the Orphans’
Court, and the Superior Court exercising appellate jurisdiction from
the two last mentioned courts, shall make such order concerning
costs in every case as shall be agreeable to equity.

, SEC. 5. Upon aflirmance of a judgment in the Court of Errors and

- Appeals, the costs of the defendant in error shall be added, by way of
increase, to his costs in the first judgment, and be a part of said
judgment; and the amount may be stated accordingly in the process
and pleadings. . ,

SEC. 6. In any proceeding before a judge, or the chancellor, out

of court, there may be allowed for the service of process, or the at-tendance of witnesses, a reasonable fee, not exceeding what is allowable for like service, or attendance, in proceedings before a justice of the peace; and the judge, or chancellor, may make such order for the payment thereof as he shall consider just, and enforce
obedience by attachment.
‘ SEC. 7. If any person shall bring a suit in any court upon a cause
of action cognizable before a justice of the peace under chapter 99,
"and shall not recover more than fifty dollars, besides costs, he shall
_not recover costs; unless he, or some credible person, shall have previously filed in the office of the. prothonotary a written allidavit to
the effect, that the plaintiff has a just cause of action against the defendant exceeding in amount fifty dollars.

SEC. 8. Upon_ an appeal from a justice of the peace, the party re'covering judgment on the appeal, shall, as a part of said judgment,
recover his costs, as well those before the justice as those upon the
appeal, subject to the provisions of the,two sections next following.

SEC. 9. If a party appealing from a justice of the peace on the
special ground of his demand, or a part thereof, being disallowed,
shall not establish a demand exceeding what was allowed to him before the justice by at least the smallest sum for the disallowance
whereof he had the right of appeal, he shall not recover his costs on
the appeal, and shall pay to the appellee his costs on the appeal.

SEC. 10. If a party appealing on the ground aforesaid, shall establish a demand exceeding what was allowed to him before the justice by such smallest sum, then the appellee, although there may be
still a sum due to him, shall recover no costs on the appeal.

SEC. 11. If upon a certiorari, a judgment, given by a justice, be

reversed, the plaintiff in the certiorari shall recover his costs. If 1
such judgment be aiiirmed, costs shall be awarded to the defendant;
in the certiorari, except where the only exception being to the execution below, such exception is allowe ; in which case, the plaintiff
in the certiorari shall recover costs. ' r

SEC. 12. Within twenty days after the rendering of judgment, or]
other determination of an cause, or_ action, in the Court of Errors:
and Appeals, Superior Lyourt, or Court of Chancery, or criminal}
prosecution in the Court of Oyer and Terminer, or Court of General Sessions, the clerk, prothonotary, or register of said court shall
enter upon the docket of such cause, action,‘ or prosecution, a full
bill of the costs thereirq setting forth distinctly each item of the fees
of every ofiicer and person, so far as the same shall be known to
him, or he shall have in his oflice the means of ascertaining the
same.

SEC. 13. Upon every execution,’ order, or process in the nature
of an execution, whereby costs are to be levied and made, the clerk, J
prothonotary, or register, issuing the same, shall indorse all costs
up to the time of the issue, showing distinctly each item ‘of the
sherilf’s fees, the amount of the fees of every other oilicer and person, and the names of the oiiicers and persons respectively to whom
such fees are due; except that the fees of the jar , and baili&', and
of referees, may be indorsed in the aggregate under those heads.

SEC. 14. The clerk of the Orphans’ Court shall, within twenty days ‘
after the determination of a case of exceptions to accounts, entenon<
the docket thereof a full bill of the costs in such case; and also shall I
enter in the margin of the record of any order, return, or otherj
matter, at the time of recording the same, a full bill of the costs‘
upon such order, return, or other matter, showin distinctly each}
item of the fees of every oilicer, or person, so ar as as he shall
know, or have in his odicc the means of ascertaining the same; and:
upon issuing an order, he shall indorse thereon every item of his«
own fees accrued to the time of such issue. '

SEO. 15. If any clerk, prothonotary, or register, shall refuse, or
neglect, .to perform any of the duties enjoined upon them respectively by the three next foregoing sections, he shall forfeit all his
fees, which should have been set down in the bill, or indorsement,
that he ought to have entered or made,. and shall also be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and be fined thirty dollars.

SEO. 16. Each of the before mentioned courts in term time, or
any judge of the court in which any costs shall have accrued i1!vacation, shall, upon application of a party interested, and reasonable
notice to the adverse party, revise any bill of costs entered upon
the docket of such court, or of the court of which such judge is a
member; dud also‘ an return, or indorsement of fees upon any order or process of sue court; and also any bills of fees demanded
for services in such court, or for the execution of the order, or process thereof; and shall correct any errors appearing upon such revision. TITLI<l SEVENTEENTH.

of Proceedings in Special Cases.

Cnuvru. 115. Habeas corpus.
116. Of arbitration and awards.
117. Of recognizances and bonds and proceedings thereon.
118. Of‘ suits for legacies.

 

119. Of q°ectment. -'
190. ‘Of landlord and tenant.
121. Of insolvency. *CHAPTER 115.
HABBA8 CORPUS.
Sac. 1. Who are entitled to this writ. Sac. 13. Person discharged not to be again ar2. By whom to be issued. ‘ rested.
3. How applied for. Copy of commit- 14. Accused not to be discharged for dement. iect of commitment.
4. Writ to be issued without delay. To be properly committed.
How directed. By whom served. 15. Costs. how paid.
5. How. served. Return when to be made. Committing magistrate no compensaBody to be produced; return contra- tion;when.
dicted. «be. 16. Penalty for attempting to evade this
6. Hearing : notice; adjournment. writ.
7. Party to be discharged: when’. 17. Prisoner not tried at next term to be
8. When to be bailed. When remanded. . bailed. unless. &.c.
' Bail may be taken at any time. To be discharged after second term.
9. Reduction ofbail. 18. Party committed for contempt; relief.
{(1). When party shall be anally remanded. Notice to committing magistrate.

. Penalty for not giving copy of commit- 19. Evidence under general issue.

meat. ' _ , I
12. Penalty for disobeying a nuns coures.

SEC. 1. Every person imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty by
any oflicer, or person, for any cause, or under any color or pretence,
shall have remedy by the writ of habeas corpus, and may obtain relief; except— ‘ _[ ' ,

First, Persons committed,’ or detained, on a charge of ‘treason,
or felony, the species whereof is plainly and fully set forih in the
commitment ; "

Second, Persons convicted of, or; charged with treason, felony, ‘or
any offence in another State, who ought, by the constitution of the
United States, to be delivered to the executive of such State; and

Tcird, Persons imprisoned by the authority of the United States.

SEC. 2. The writ of habeas corpus shall be awarded and issued
by the Superior Court in term, or by any judge of that court, or by
the chancellor, in vacation. ~ , SEC. 3. Application ibr such writ may be made ‘by the party complaining, or any one for him, setting forth, upon oath, where, and
by whom, and for what cause, to the best of his knowledge, he is
imprisoned, or restrained of his liberty, and exhibiting a copy of
the commitment, if there be any, or showing why such copy could
not be procured. °

SEC. 4. The court, or judge, to whom such application is made,
shall, without delay, under penalty of a thousand dollars to the party
aggrieved, award and issue a writ of habeas corpus under seal of
the court, directed to the officer, or person, in whose custody the
prisoner is detained, returnable forthwith before such court, or
judge. The writ may be served by any one who will do the service.

SEC. 5. When the writ is served on the person to whom it is directed, either personally, or by being left with any deputy, or a ent,
of his at the place where the prisoner is detained, such person all,
without delay and within three days thereafter, if such place be not
more than twenty miles from the place of return, and, if otherwise,
within six days, make return of the writ, and produce the body of
the prisoner as therein commanded; and shall fully certify in writing and under oath, the true cause, or causes, of his detainer, and
a copy of all process under which he is detained.

The return may be contradicted, and may also be amended.

SEC. 6. The court, or judge, shall, upon such return, without delay, proceed to examine the causes of imprisonment, or restraint,
giving notice to any party interested, and to the attorney general,
or his deputy, in cases of felony; but the examination may be adjourned, if necessary, and the prisoner detained.

SEO. 7. If no legal cause be shown for the imprisonment, or restraint, the court, or judge, shall discharge the party therefrom.

SEC. 8. If the party is detained for any cause, or offence, for
which he is bailable, he shall be discharged on becoming bound, by
recognizance, in a proper sum and with suflicient surety, for his appearance at the court having cognizance of the matter; and if he do
not give such security, he shall be remanded with an order therefor
expressing the sum in which he shall be held to bail, and the court
at which he shall be required to appear; and any justice of the peace
may, at any time before the sitting of the said court, hail the party,
pursuant to such orders.

SEC. 9. If the party is committed on mesne process in a civil action for want of bail, and it shall appear that the sum required is»

° excessive, the court, or judge, shall decide what bail is reasonable,
and shall order that, on giving such hail, the party shall be discharged.

SEC. 10. If the party is lawfully imprisoned, or restrained, and.
is not entitled to be enlarged on giving bail, he shall be remanded,J
or otherwise properly committed.

SEO. 11. If any oflicer, or his deputy, shall neglect, for six hours
after demand, to deliver a true copy of any warrant, or process, by
which he detains a prisoner to any person who shall demand such
copy, and tender at reasonable sum for copying the same, such oilicer, or deputy, ‘shall forfeit and pay to such prisoner two hundred
dollars.

SEC. 12. If any officer, or person, to whom the writ of habeas
corpus shall be directed, or any deputy of such officer, or agent of i
such person, shall neglect to return the writ, and produce the body,
as required by section 5, it shall be a contempt of the court under

whose seal the writ issued, and a forfeiture of office; and such oilicer, or person, deputy, or agent, shall forfeit and pay to the prisoner
five hundred dollars. .

SEC. 13. N 0 person who has been discharged on a habeas corpus
shall be again imprisoned, or restrained, for the _same cause, unless
he shall be indicted therefor, or convicted thereof, or committed for

-want of bail by some court having jurisdiction of the cause; or unless, after a discharge for defect of proof, or for some material defeet in the commitment in a criminal case, he shall be again arrested on suflicient proof, and committed by legal process for the same
offence.

Sac. 14. But no person shall be dischargd for a mere defect in
the commitment, if the evidence before the court, or judge,-is suHi'cient to require that he should be committed, or bound for his appearance. In such case the committing magistrate shall be summoned, proper
witnesses examined, and the accused committed properly.

SEC. 15. The costs in any proceeding under this chapter, may be
ordered to be paid by the county, or otherwise; but if the commitment be insuiiicient, the justice, or oiiicer, who‘made it, shall have
no compensation for attendance. , SEC. 16. If any one who has in his custody, or under his power,
any person entitled to a writ of habeas corpus, whether any writ has

° been issued or not, shall, with intent to elude the service of such

1- writ, or to avoid the effect thereof, transfer such prisoner to the custody, or place him under the power, or control, of any other person,
or conceal him, or change the place of his confinement, the person,
so offending, shallforfeit and pay to the party aggrieved thirty-six
hundred dollars.

SEC.‘ 17. If any person shall be committed for treason, or felony,
and shall not be indicted and tried at the next term of the court

1‘ where such crime is cognizable, he shall be set at liberty on bail,
unless it appear by afiidavit that the witnesses for the State (naming
them) could not then be had; and if such prisoner shall not be indicted and tried at the second term after his commitment, he shall
be discharged from prison.

SEC. 18. A person committed by a justice, or justices, of the
peace, or by the mayor or any alderman of any city, or town, for a
contempt, shall be entitled to the writ of habeas corpus. '

Notice shall be given to the committing magistrate of the time
I and place.of hearing. The prisoner may deny the alleged contempt,
. under oath; and theacourt, or judge, may remand, ordischarge the

arty.

P SEC. 19. In any action, or proceeding, for an offence against

- this chapter, the defendant may plead the gcner issue, and give
the special matter in evidence. .

STATE OF DELAWARE.

CHAPTER‘ 116.

OF ARBITRATION AN D AWARDS.

Site. 1. Reference by rule of court. Site. 6. Report approved, of same force as a
2. Who Ina he a referee. verdict.
3. Penalty r neglecting to serve. Judgment, or sex. in. thereon. ‘ .

4. Referees to be sworn.
5. Regprt confirmed, not to be reversed
error. .

SEC. 1. In any action the matters in controversy in such action, 1
or all matters in controversy between the parties, may, by consent:
of the parties, their attorneys, or agents, and a rule of the court, be‘
referred for adjustment to three indifferent referees chosen by the
parties, or appointed by the court, or by the prothonotary in vacation. This provision shall extend to amicable actions.

SEO. 2. Every person, not exempt from serving as a juror may,
be named as a referee in a rule of reference entered in court, and:
re uired to serve as such. .

E0. 3. If a person appointed a referee, and duly notified thereof, 1
shall, without suihcient excuse to the satisfaction of the court enter-1
ing the rule, refuse or neglect to perform the duties of such appoint-‘
ment, he shall be fined by the court, not exceeding ten dollars, for
the use of the county. - _

-SEC.’ 4. Each referee, named in a rule of reference, shall, before]
signing a report, be duly sworn, or affirmed, to determine the matters in controversy faithfully and impartially, according to the best
‘of his skill and judgment. - ' ' '

SEO. 5. The report of referees upon a reference so made, being
approved by the court, shall not be reversed upon a writ "of error
for want of any writ, declaration, plea, joinder in issue, or on, ac-,
count, of any other defect, mis-entry, or error, in the proceedings
had in such action. ‘

SEC. 6. The award, or report, of referees, being approved by the
court, shall be as available in law as the verdict of a jury; and the
party to whom any sum of money shall be awarded, if he be plaintiif, _shall have judgment, or if he be defendant, shall have a scire
faeias, and an execution for the same, with the costs of the action.

 

CHAPTER 117.

OF RECOGNIZANCE8 AND DONDS AND PROCEEDINGS TIIEREON.

Sac. 1. Recognizances to the State In 'raus'r Sec. 8. Judgment must be for damages; not pefor party lnjured. nalty.

2. Such par y may sue thereon. 9. Reco izances. &c., not extinguished
3. Rule to consolidate such actions. bylii ment for less than penalty.
. 4. Breaches may be assigned; how. 10. But not etyond the penalty.
5. Damages may be assessed, at law, ‘or 11. Priority 0 claims where the penalty is
b inquisltion. inadequate.

6. Or y confession; or reference. 12. Delivery on elegit may be to represen7. Or on Judgment by dethult; how. _ tatives of a party.

Sac. 19. These may become party. hy auger cery and Inns‘ Court to be antertion. ed in sixty aya.
13. These provisions extendtoinatalmenu. Sac. 17. Penalty. Damages.
14. Not tojudgmenu confessed. 18. Copy of ublic bonds. kc. Evidence.
15. Lien of ofilcial bonds. arc. The o nals may be required.
16. Satisfaction of recognizance: in chanSEC. 1. Every recognizance and bond, acknowledged, or executed, pursuant to any law, or by the direction of the governor, or of
any court, by an executor, administrator, sheriR', or other oilicer, or
person, to the State, with condition for the payment of money, or
the execution, or performance, of any ofiice, trust, or duties, shall
be not only for the benefit of the State, but also upon trust for ever
person, or corporation, that may be injured by the breach of such
condition. '

SEC. 2. Every person, or corporation, injured by the breach of the
condition of any ublic recognizance, or bond, as aforesaid, may, in
the name of the tate, but for his or its own use, institute an action
upon such recognizance, or bond, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution; and for that purpose, may employ an attorney
of the court wherein the action shall be brought, who ma , in the
declaration and other pleadings, use his own name, instead of the
name of the_attorney general.

SEO. 3. If several actions shall be brought upon the same recognizance, bond, or, penal sum, whether for the use of the same, or different persons, or corporations, and the court shall consider that
the said actions, or any two of them, ought to be consolidated, it
shall make a rule for that purpose; and it may disallow any part
of the costs of the actions consolidated, or make any order concerning the costs, which it may deem proper. _

SEO. 4. In an action upon a recognizance, bond, or penal sum,
breaches as many as it shall be deemed proper to insist upon, may
be assigned in the declaration or other regular pleading, or by way
of suggestion entered upon the record; and the jury shall assess the
damages on occasion of the breaches assigned, as the truth thereof
shall appear. ’

SEO. 5. Upon judgment for the plaintiff by default, or on demurrer, or otherwise, without trial by a jury, and without an agreement
for ascertaining the damages, the breaches may be assigned, by way
of suggestion upon the record, after judgment, and the action being
put upon the trial list, the truth of the breaches suggested may be
inquired of, and the damages on occasion thereof assessed, either
by a jury at the bar of the court, or upon a writ of inquiry.

SEO. 6. Damages may also be ascertained by confession, by the
report of referees, or etherwise, according to the agreement of the
parties, with or without a formal assignment of breaches.

SEC. 7. If the condition, or a reem'ent for breach whereof the action is brought, he merely for t e payment of money, or interest,
by instalments, or on diiferent days, and there be judgment for the
paintiif by default, or upon demurrer, or otherwise, without trial

y a jury, or agreement for ascertaining the damages; in such case,
the damages, or the amount jutly due and payable according to

such condition, or agreement, may be ascertained as the court shall
order.

SEC. 8. In an action upon a recognizance, bond, or penal sum as
aforesaid, judgment shall not be rendered for the penalty ( except as
is 111‘.-1'ci1'1'.1l’t01' 111'1_1\'i1le1l:)_: but 1l:1111;1;1;u.~_s on ucc:1.:siu'111 of the lJl'(‘.'IL'.llf'_‘t'w'
Cr_111'1pl:LiI'1{r1l of, ln;-irlg :1:-'.-:L*>;-'.~=(-tl, 01‘ ast__'1_*1't.:1i110r.l, _j111l;:1111:+11t :5l111ll be for
the 911111 1_1l'.s11Cl1 :l:1111:1;_5_1_-5'. :15 vlulit, with 1;-n.~_~'t.~_e <_'»fs11i_t-.

81-11}. ‘J. A 1'1~m;;11iz:l111':c, l_11_}I1tl_, 111' 1_m11:1l .s:1111'1_. a~:l1:1.ll not be extinf;11i':.¢l1wl l'r_'_y' .11. _j111l;__g111(-11t. in 1111 :11.-tirm t.l1(.-1‘L-1.111, if fol‘ :1 511111 115 «_l1:-bt
lt‘..*4.:-‘~ tl1:111 the 1.1L.-n:1lt}'. lI11t5l1:1ll 1'(‘lll:llll :15 :1 :5(*1‘rI11‘lt_1,-' fut‘ :1.11}-' <,l111‘11:1;_"-33$
S11.=:t11i1'11‘1cl, 01' to lie .=_a11:'-_~‘l:1I11e1l 011 t_.>c.1':1:-:i<_111 :;'1l' e'1tl11‘:1' l11'1_.~:u_tl11_=:~_4._: :111<_l 1111'’tl1c 1'0c.<_n'1';-1'11’ of .=<1__1r:l1 1l:1111:1_:__rc_-.~:. :lL‘ll<_'|ll:_-'1 111:1y be i11.s:tit11tc1l l'1'1:»11_1 ti111e

to t.i1111‘_- 111_1u1‘1 .~a111'*l1 1'e:::n;_;11iz;:11<_:1i*, l1:_1I‘1tl. 01' 1:911:11 511111.

31-16‘. "W. N1_1t.l1i11;__; llL‘1'(.'lll 1:i<_11'1t:‘1i11<_i-«.l :'-:l1:1ll 1:1:1l<c :1. 1'cc-.r.'»,g11izn1', obli;‘_{<_11‘, <11.‘ 1‘_:tl1(.'.1‘ ]1:11't‘v_. ll:ll_1lI_‘ F111‘ I.l:1II'1:1_iI{?S l'J1:-_\,-‘nlltl tlle ]'1L‘11:1lt}-' of l1is
1'cc1:a;;;11i;a:11'1ce_._. lmml, or 2:-apt-ci:1lty; or i11 r111_y111:11111(:1' extt.-1111, :1l;1‘i1lg1i-,
u1*:1ltert.l1e lcgzil ope-1'-.1tiu;>11 of ;111y1'L+cc1guiz;1nec, or etl11:r i11st1'u—rm;-11t-.

S]-1.‘. ll. If tl'1C-. petlult-_V Ofzt 1'CL°r1_qr1i7.:11‘11"O, OI‘ l.;u_111rl._ :1.c'l{I10WlC1lg_';0t,l,
or ex0c11tc-1l, :13 1Il(','l'l[lOl1('_‘(l in the first; .51;-.c-ti<:111 of tl1i.~_1 (:ll:fl1'JtC1', sl1:1ll
not lac :11_lr.':q11;1.t1:- to 1:-.m'c1' :1ll t.l1(1 1_'l:111'1.-11g_:L=.~s s11st.:1i1'm1l (111 occ:1si011 of
the lJI‘t,‘:1.L'llL‘b‘ of t.l11_-. ct)11r.ll[l1.'1I'1 tl11;-1'Col',, :'111<_l :-_=11cl1 :'_l:11'11:1g1'-:5 .~;l1:1.ll be
S11st;1iI1L-cl l1_\_-' :+c\'t'1':1l 111-1'.-51-'_111:-.4, 111' 1;‘-u1‘]m1':1.tir11'1s; -.'*il.lL‘.ll pl‘;-1'.~,u11'1.-=., 01' em‘1)01‘:l'£lUJ'léi_, ;~sl'111ll .~_:1t:1111l in p1'iu1‘it_y, :1.c.c.o1'1_lir1_«_'_»; to the 1'c:~spec*.ti\'1: 1l:1.t.es
of c-o1'1111'1(_+11(:i1'1g tlu: :11.-tio11s fol‘ tl1ci1‘ 1,131..-.+_: 1‘c::111'-ct.i1'0l_y. A f:_1ilu1'e to
11:50 due <_lili,t__§1;.-11¢‘-.1“-. i11 p1_'1:1-.~=.ec.11ti1'1_«_'g 11.113’ :u;:'ti1:-111, .~sl1:1.ll c_'lc111*i\-‘<2 it of .~:_a111;'.l'1
p1*ir_11'it:_1-'7, aml 1;0sfp«'_111c it to.'.1ll the :1ct.im'1.‘~1 1'IUI1IllI1"" at the tilnc 01
such failure, such failure to be determined and certified by the court.

SEC. 12. In case of execution by writ of elegit, the premises shall,
be delivered to the person, or corporation, for whose use the judgment ;
shall have been recovered, or to the executors, or administrators,j
of such person; and the command of the writ shall be accordingly. 1

The names of such executors, or administrators, with the deceasel
of the testator, or intestate, may be suggested upon the record, with-.
out scire facias, in term time, or in vacation.

SEC. 13. The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall extend to.
an action upon a bond, or specialty, in a penal sum with condition«
for the payment of money, or interest of money, by instalments, or}
on diferent days; unless such action shall be commenced after all
the sums, whether for principal, or interest, which according to such
condition can become pa able, shall have become payable. But if
the action be commencedy after all the sums which, according to such
condition, can become payable whether for principal or interest,
shall have become payable; or if the action be upon a bond, or spe-.
cialty, in a penal sum with condition for the payment of money in
a gross sum, judgment for the plaintiff shall be for the penalty and
costs of suit, to be discharged upon the payment of the sum justly
due, with interest and costs; which said sum justly due shall be

found by a jury, or otherwise shall be ascertained as may be agreed
by the parties, or ordered by the cgart;

SEO. 14. None of the foregoing provisions shall extend to a warrant of attorney to confess judgment, nor to any action, or judgment entered, or confessed, in pursuance of such warrant of attorney.

Lien of public recognizances and bonds.

Spa. 15. Every recognizance, or obligation, acknowledged for a
penal sum, with condition for the performance, by an ollicer, of the
duties of his oflice, or of any public trust, shall, from the caption of
such recognizance, or from the time of the acknowled 'ng and approving 0 such obligation, be a lien u on all the laugh and tenements of the officer, being the principal) obligor therein, within the
county wherein such recognizance, or obligation, is taken or acknowledged; but the same shall not be a lien upon the lands and
tenements of the sureties therein.

Satisfaction of recognizances.

SEO. 16. Every person to whom a sum is due by a recognizance
takenin the Orphans’ Court, or in the Court of Chancery, receiving
satisfaction of the same, shall, within sixty days thereafter, cause
such satisfaction to be entered upon the record of such recognizance.
Such satisfaction shall be entered by the clerk, or register in chanelery, upon application of the party, or his attorney, who must sign
1; e ent .

SEo.?7. Eve person committing a default under theforegoing
section, shall be iable to the recognizer in such recognizance, or the
executors, or administrators, of such recognizer, in damages to be
recovered by an action on the case. The damages shall not be less
than ten, nor more than fifty dollars, except when special damages
to a larger amount shall be alleged in the declaration, and proved.

SEC. 18. If any recognizance, or bond, mentioned in the first sec'tion of this chapter, shall according to law be recorded, or deposited
in any public ofiice; a copy of such recognizance, or bond, or of the
record thereof, duly certified, shall be competent evidence.

Any court may, for suflicient cause, require the production of the
original recognizance, bond, or record; and it shall be the duty of
the olhcer, having custody thereof, to produce it as required.

CH_APTER 113.

or surrs 1-on Lncacxns.

Sec. 1. L acles are recoverable at law. Sac. 5. Exceptions to auditor's report.
If re are assets. 6. Abatement for deficiency of assets.
Value of specific legacy. recoverable. Sclre racias for balance.

2. Infant legatecs‘ suit.
3. When legacies shall abate.

4. Audgors to report on question of asse .

Costs.
. Refundln security. Specillc legacy.
Return 0 part of legacy; when.

9”?‘

S_Ec. 1. A legacy, when due, shall be recoverable at law by an‘
" actton of assumpsit, debt, detipue, or account render, as the case

may require, provided there be assets for the payment of the same.

Assets in the hands of an executor, or administrator, to pay a lega-1
cy, shall create a legal liability and raise a consequent promise to

pay it. .In case there be net assets to pay the whole legacy, a part

maI.y be recovered.

f the delivery of a specific legacy have been refused, the value .
of it may be recovered in this action. .

SEO. 2. An infant legatee may sue for his legacy by guardian, ori
next friend, as in other cases. ‘

SEC. 3. If there be assets suilicient to pay the debts of a testa--5
tor, with a surplus not sullicient to pay all the legacies bequeathed, _
an abatement from the legacies respectively, shall be made in pro-1

portion to their several amounts, unless it be otherwise provided by
the will. '

SEC. 4. Upon the plea of a want of assets to pay all the debts ,
and legacies, the court shall appoint auditors to examine the ac-1
counts of the executor, or administrator with the will annexed; who, 1
after full hearing of the parties_ upon notice to them respectively
of the times arid places of such hearing, shall report the condition
of the said accounts, what assets will remain after payment of the
debts aforesaid, and what proportion of such residue is properly applicable to the plaintiff ’s legacy, having regard to all such settlements of said accounts as may have been made. before any court, or
oliicer, having ‘authority to ‘settle the same. ° .

SEC. 5. Exceptions may be taken by either of the parties to the
report of auditors appointed as aforesaid; and thereupon the court,
upon hearing the exceptions, may correct any errors in such report.

SEO. 6. If, upon the aforesaid proceedings, the assets be’ found
insuflicient to pay all the debts and legacies of the testator, execution shall be awarded only for such proportion of the assets as may,
be properly applicable to the plaintiff ’s le acy; but judgment for
the whole legacy. shall be entered and shal stand. as a security for
the payment of the residue of the legacy, when suflicient assets for
such payment shall come to the hands of the executor, or administrator. A wire facias shall lie for further execution, suggesting

that other assets have come to the hands of the executor, or administrator. '

SEO. 7. The court shall exercise equitable powers in respect to
costs. In case of inexcusable neglect, or delay, on the part of the
executor, or administrator, to pay the legacy demanded, or a proportional part thereof, the court may, in its discretion, order that
the costs be paid by him. N 0 costs shall be gecovered in an action
brought for a legacy, without a,reasonable demand for the same

first made upon the executor, or administrator, who ought to pay
the same.

SEC. 8. ‘The court shall exercise equitable powers in requiring the
plaintiff to give security to refund the legacy, or any part thereof,

and also in respect to the delivery and acceptance of a. specific legacy. . .

Iv
. In

SE0. 9. If there be several legacies, and a return of part of ‘a
legac , which has been paid, becomes necessary, the legatee shall
only he required to return a proportional part of his legacy towards
taking up the whole sum wanting.

CHAPTER 119.

OF EJECTMENT.

Bee. 1. Mode of tryin title to lands. I Sec. 3. Tenant to give landlord notice.
9. Landlord adm tted to defend. on terms.

SEC. 1. The legal title to lands, or to any tenements whereon en.try can be made, may be tried in an action of ejectment; and no
objection shall be made to the form of action, or to the right of the
lessor of the plaintiff to make the demise, if i he could recover the
premises in any form of action. A ‘

SEC. 2. If a tenant, holding under a demise, be served with a
declaration in ejectment, his landlord, upon entering into the‘common rule, shall be admitted defendant with the tenant in such ejectment. If the tenant refuse to appear, and the landlord apply to
be admitted defendant, judgment shall be entered against the casual
e' ctor, with stay of ‘execution subject to the order of the court; and
t e landlord, on entering into the common rule and admitting on
record that he is and, at the time of commencing the action, was in
possession of the premises mentioned in the declaration, or any described part thereof for which he defends, shall be admitted defendant. ' ‘

SEC. 3. If a tenant‘, being served with a declaration in ejectment,
neglect to give a notice thereof, without delay, to his landlord, or

his agent, he shall be liable, as is provided in section 72 of chapter
120. '

w

u?

CHAPTER 120.

OF LANDLORD AND TENANT.

.1

Sec. 1. What constitutes a tenancy. Sac. 6. No attornment is necessary.

2. Hold from year to year. if no term lim- 7. Attornment to a stranger. void.
ited. 8. Debt lies for rent erreur.
3. Demise without deed. good only for a 9. Remedy for executors, &c.
year. ‘ 10. For husband alter wife‘: death.
‘I. Term extended. unless notice to quit. ll. Remedy of tenant for another‘s life.

5. Penalty for holding over after notice: 12. These provisions extend to all rents.
0

Sr-zc. lfl, .-\_-.-illlilp-‘ll fur use an-I m-.r'Itp::lmn. :':'-+;r‘. 41. \*nr rift:-r two _\-'1-.'1r:-I.

. . . _ 1' _ , . _ . .
H. l\ l'lt'H ll l|:'- ;i:::uI:-'f It pllrn-l1:1-r-r. ,| -1.: .\r-I nu:-r an ms-n1ll.~:. Ill rr:rI:un r't1:=I.:s.
I

1.3. .'\}'l'-rl; I'1u\'\1l~'.:\' 1' lwtx-. I‘('II lt‘ll.‘-llI'[ for l'.i. lit-.I’i.l~'\.1_\' I1rI.'iI: 1-: 1w ‘_’lW.'II.
liI'r- nml rw1n.1|:u!«-rIn:m_ -' -17. \'.«.'.\'r_\ : l|.m' murlur.
1!}. ll-'ruml_\ nit‘ gr-:1|:[:_-I.-.~; ml" ru-xi-r.~'IrIII.~'. &r_‘...l --l.-4. .lI:r\' InllI|:|;1m.sIlIIlnf rem.

:L:.'.'11n.-I. fr-.~'~I-r-~. .\'=sn.-HI! ll|+Il4I1lI'I'l:'f‘.lIl llli.-4.

IT. 01' I-*.-'~¢-’-‘:4 11.'.’iiHIhl '_'r:Iu1=*i'.-' Hf" rI'\"'r- 7 ‘lit .-lumunl; lmw rminrl, :Lt'tu-r nnnsuil,

-l4'|I-i. 311- &v.
1*‘. \\'|:i-n rvnt in :1rr:~;1r. ur¢ln1|:n'_rI':<. ran-l SH. .lmi;_r:m-nl :1n~l o-_\‘u-rut:--n {In-rr-I'ur.

urul:1~‘.-':I_:r|:1lvlv. |' 5|. :\.-.~i;_:'mnr.:nt flllll It'[III:1lJ.' ml rvplrzvitl
l‘|_ l\'l1~n :1 1ll.'~ill'l':-1:-I mn_\' lu' hm] fur ra-uI- lmml.
‘.'1I_ llnw ma::.'--_ I ."r.£_ .-\llIlI‘lll!]t'lll fur I'1'I|[ Mn" I11‘!-1.
‘J1 ‘WI!--II1II.'I'il* ' .311. (EImnl~'. .\:-'.. .'1tl;n_'l1-.-cl. ri1:=.t'llzir;;r-rl on
:.".'_ l\'I::|! m:1\' lw <!i.-'Ir:1in--ll. \\'lI:1t III-I. 5:-r-rarttv.
2'33. Um-Ii.-»'I:1.'1\ lu- l'nIIn\\v‘:l !'--rt} :!.'1_\'.~e Cal. Hrrlrr I‘-=r-sill»? I-t",:-an-lr-‘.
*_'l. |l:ma::-__---.~'Ihr1mrr:1:ann;1l:lr-nil:-lr:-as. .l.rirl;:nn.-1:1:iu:1in~:t §_fJl.l'lll.‘-il]l‘|':-G,
‘J3: \nHr.:- i.rt'tli.~<lru-_~.--_ .35. [.-.~‘m- nu IlI‘ll1.'I.l uI' l’l.'l1I_ Ve.:rilI'rt cun'.’!i. (2u...l-c In l1r':1;~pr:1is=‘-rl 11' run! l'|'[1la‘\'lml_ ;-|n|_~.w-:.
‘:7. ll.-I-.1 1.~.' h':‘s'iI. la-m-' \.‘;1lr1u~<l. ('I'rI|lir.'iIv. ."nIi. Iii-«c;n-rlinq rm=l-'.
"J" l|i~'[rr’.~.'_-; Ill.'l_\-' ruxznuxn. ur hr: 1In}mI1H:l- - .'a‘.', ll:-:-'ju[1l-1[nl1v'[‘r_---[r|rt‘(l_

ml. : ,3-'. Ii-~|uu-nly :1:;::in.-‘I: lu'n;ml. .um1.r'r '11) naJI. .\'--I In lw rr_'1I1nvI'-l fmrn the I“.t:IllIl}'_ ]*\|‘_':‘_

““"-"W, .'-'.;a_‘. .'3'.l. l.‘:1'."5lT|l'l.f'li In HII" _\'=':1r‘.~4 rrlll.
ZIH. l’r'u]I--rl1.'nl' I:1rullr-rd in tIn'rli~'Irw.-<~:. til). Win-rt ::c'mul.~: 1.1-.'xn:1a u.\‘ :1r._e.-_mhj4_.-t-1 to
Ill. Ila-mt--I_\' fur liflllllrl lirruc-lr. ur r:-_wuI1.~'4. lzr.-<1‘.
L-'.‘.!, ]ll.-lrt'.~‘.-‘. V. ll:-It Hnlnl. Nnllru. 9 l'.l_ _\ prmr .li;.'trm::; rlm-~.' |1nf [|rf‘{'lI](lC_
2l.'£_ .‘-‘-nirplns II: he l'|'l-|l|Hll'll_ ' 1'--"J ll:-M. in Iunal tn lw ‘-Till] ~.:'|-.n-:u"r.
ill. ,\'I-\\ Ill.-‘(I'M-:-i Iiurtl-'!i:'i+'I1:‘}'. Iill. 'l'lmI|r_*l: rmlrl, |:;1l-It-lr::l1_~'lra-.-us.
13.3. _\n_x' nlllf‘-'r n1.'1_\' :u-I. the-m_'l1 lu:u:liIl'. I I31. l.‘.u-.|.~<1mttu ln; r-*||1u\'u_'tl until rent I.-5
Ill-. liI'..'llI-‘ ..1‘ Iurnll-rrul. nr pure |:.':.—~'-~t'. :11 .-aulv. pninl.
15?, l.|-.lE-i11t_\' ‘anal lr_‘!il"nl_\.' lur ill--_:;;ll 1115' I3. 'l'l1~)'tun)’In-full:-\\I'tl.

Ir-'.-~_-:. l.3!i. 'I\uIi:_‘v1-Ilumllnrul.nt'sn|::hyexec-Htlun.
IE4. lrr'::=1lurir_\.'1.-.i.'l nut \':ti;1Ir-.. 1' HI. ll:-uL:u;i_vtn-_\'11um-.n.
Iii! .\I»-x‘_-.'\\1I|nutpr.-\':_-Int;1:l:.<lrc-as, ti.-4, _\I:i_\' In: tli<[r;1l“:-.-l fur. zlmgr attachl1I_ .VI!lll.T" L1rI‘_\.'I.'v'-Illnli I'r-'ilIlIrI‘_-~. ' l|lI‘l|l..
-ll_ Il1-'l|'r'.--e nut [Ii ml:-IrIH'l ll::' Ir-\'_1.', lill, ltd ra-plwxii-rlg Iurm1e~ml:'r|g_{_-.'_
l'.'. Vul I-I r-‘nmiu Inr-1'!‘ than :~i\l_~.':l.'1y5. ‘ TIL 'l‘n'r;.-' p.1i«l ln_\' In-nun! lI:;|._\‘ lm F-II-IT run.
13. .\'r- -':lti.-eI'.':ctinn \\'IIl:«-I11. .‘-.‘llI'. Tl. l‘r_-Iu:ll1_'.' I1-r rvm-Hyinul1u}'.s1r:1w.ext.

Nu.-+a_:r_:uHrld1:%In:3:< ll; l_H..' lllatil_.'_ 7'}. Fur HUI :1'l\'lIIg; i1HT.1r't!uf1-_im_-.l1m_-n1,

Of Zr’U.’.*‘s'¢-‘.3 n~(z'«:'r In «['u.a':_‘. ; /m?«.?-aim} r_‘n.w'_, .j'r'.

$'I'-11.‘. l. ,;\I1_\__-' ('Ulll.l’:'l(tl, or (.'.<_'»1:.~.~'un't.._. 1rlll'.:~‘ll:ll]L- to wllicli :1. tellmit
sliall (_.'IllL‘1‘ intn___ or L'Hlli.lIll.lI__*. in 1H_|."_~.‘:~L'."_~."_%lUll of‘ l:mtl.~=., ti-m«:m_-nt:~«', or
l1«_=rmlit:unvm><, l1I11l{.'l' an 1l_'_‘_'l'(_'(:lllL‘lll, In ]>:1._\_-' 1‘(+11l_, :~'l1;1ll lw :1. «ll-Ini.-'c.

Slit‘. 2.’. \l1lu'1'«_* nu term is t'.\']ll'("'.*-'«:'-'~l‘\" lllttitwl, :1. tli'1J'1lm'- slutll lug
(:r.1r1.~.=t1'11vrl to llL‘. l'u1' :1 _.\'r_.-:11‘, L-xt_'c1=t. of l1u11.'~5L-:5 ulul lutrs 11:%I1:Lll_'_; il.'lL fur
:1. ll":-4.‘-3 Illlltf.

S:-;4_". ii. Nu f_lL_?lI'l.l.'*§-t‘, t‘_\l'{‘IIL ii. ln_: lei.’ (lr..'Lr+.l_, b_~‘l1:Lll lit‘. t,'lll.'(_3tllll.l lint‘
a longer term than one year. .

SEC. 4. If there be a demise for a term of one or morey ears, and
three months, or upwards, before the end of the term, either the
landlord do not give notice in writing to the tenant in possession to
remove, or the tenant do not give like notice to the landlord of his
intention to remove from the demised premises, the term shall be
extended for another year, for which the tenant shall pay the rent,
and all the stipulations of the demise shall continue in force.

SEC. 5. If the tenant, or any person coming into possession by
his permission, or by collusion with him, shall hold over the demised

premises after the end of the term, and after notice as aforesaid‘

given either by the tenant to the landlord, or by the landlord to the
tenant, or other person at the time in possession of the demised
premises; the tenant, or person, so holding over, shall, either of them,
at the landlord’s election, be liable to pay double the rent that was
payable according to the demise, to be recovered by action, or levied
by distress, in the same manner as the single rent, if the demise had
continued, could have been; and in every such case the withholding

of possession shall be deemed a forcible detainer and may be proceeded upon as such.

Attornment.

SEC. 6. Grants of rents, of reversions, and remainders, shall be
good and effectual without attornment of the tenants; but if a tenant, without notice of a grant and in good faith pay to the grantor
rent in arrear, he shall have the benefit of such payment by way of
dischar e from the rent.

SEC.  The attornment of a tenant to a stranger, unless with the
written consent of his landlord, or pursuant to a judgment, or decree, shall be void.

Remedies.

SEC. 8: An action of debt shall lie for the arrears of any rent,
whether in fee, in tail, or for life, either during the cbntinuance, or
after the determination of the freehold.

SEC. 9. The executors, or administrators, of a person to whom
any rent was in arrear at the time of his death, whether such rent
were in fee, in tail, for life, or other estate, shall have the same
remedy by action, or distress, for such arrears, as the testator, or
intestate, if living, could have.

SEC. 10. The husband of a woman entitled to any rent in fee
simple, fee tail, for life, or other estate, shall have the same remedy by action or distress after her decease, as during her life, for the
arrears of said rent accruing during the marriage.

SEC. 11. A person entitled to any rent for the life of another
‘person, may distrain for any arrears of said rent, in the same man-,
ner after the death as during the life of such other person.

SEC. 12. The provisions of this chapter for the recovery of rent
[by action, or for levying the same by distress, shall extend to any
rent arrear, whether of money, or a quantity, or share, of grain, or
other produce, or of any thing certain, or that can be reduced to
certainty, or whether it be a rent-charge, rent-seek, quit-rent, or
otherwise (as well as rent accruing upon a demise), issuing out of,
or charged upon any lands, tenements, or hereditaments.

SEC. 13. Satisfaction for the use and occupation of lands, tene_ ments, or hereditaments, by permission of a person, without demise
by deed or contract under seal for the rent, may be recovered in an
action on the case upon assumpsit; and evidence of any demise
without deed, or of a contract not under seal, for a certain kent,
shall not defeat such action, but may be used to maintain the’ same.
. SEO. 14. An action of assumpsit to recover satisfaction for the
use and occupation of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall lie,
where the person holding the same entered into possession thereof
v- under a contract of purchase which shall be void, or shall, before
the action, have been avoided by consent of the parties, or otherwise than by default of the vendor.

SEC. 15. When any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, are held

l- by demise of a person having an estate therein determinable on a

life, or any contingency, and such estate shall determine before the
end of the year, or quarter (if the rent be payable quarterly), the
rent shall be apportioned according to the time; and the proportion
thereof for the time the same has been growing due, up to the determination of said estate, shall be paid to the lesser, or his executors,
or administrators, and may be recovered byaction of debt, or on
the case. If, in case of the determination of such estate before the
end of the year, or quarter, the whole rent for the year, or quarter,
shall have been paid before such determination, a just proportion
thereof, according to the time to run after such determination to
the end of the year, or quarter, shall be refunded.

This section shall extend as well to a rent in kind, as to a rent
of money. a ,_,__.A 

SEC. 16. Grantees of reversions and remainders in any lands,
tenements, or hereditaments let to lease, and their heirs, executors, .‘
administrators, or assigns, shall have the same remedies, by entry, f
or action, or otherwise, against the lessees, their executors, admin-1
istrators, or assigns, for waste done, or for the non-performance of
any condition, covenant, or contract, containedin the leases, as the
grantors could have.

SEC. 17. The lessees of any lands, tenements, or hereditaments,
for life, or years, or their executors, administrators, or assigns, shall i
have the same remedies and advantages against the grantees of the ;
reversions and remainders in such lands, tenements, or heredita-3
ments, or their heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, for nonperformance of any condition, covenant, or contract contained in
the leases (except a covenant of warranty of title), as they could
have against the grantors, or their heirs, executors, or administrators. T

SEC. 18. Rent in arrear before a grant of the reversion, or remainder, or damages for the breach of a covenant, or contract, com- 
mitted before such grant, shall not be assignable under the foregoing g
provisions. , '1

Distress.

SEC. 19. A distress will lie for any rent arrear either of money, i
or a quantity or share of grain, or other produce, or of any thing:
certain, or that can be reduced to certainty, and whether the same
be a rent accruing upon a demise for life, or~a term of one or more
years, or a less time, or at Will, or a rent-charge, rent-seek, quitrent, or otherwise, issuing out ‘of, or charged upon any lands, tenements, or hereditaments.

SEC. 20. The person entitled to such rent, whether the original F
lesser, or an assignee, heir, executor, or administrator, may distrain
for the same, either personally, or by his bailiii‘.

SEO. 21. A distress may be made either during the demise, or V
afterwards, while the tenant, or any person coming into possession
by, or under him, shall continue to hold the demised premises and
the title to said premises shall remain in the person to whom the

rent accrued, or his heirs, devisees, executors, or administrators, or
be in his immediate reversioner, or remainderman.

SEC. 2”. A distress may be as well of the grain, grass, and other
produce found upon the promises out of which the rent issues. or
Hpull '-.\'l:i«cl1 it is l'll:Il’..'__"t'tl. \\‘ll.1'lllt‘1' _'_:1'n\\i11;3', n1‘ :-L-.\'L'*1't'.*:l. in .S%l1(.':1\-'95:,
.~.~‘t:1.L'l\'.~a, n1‘ utl1v1'wi.~:~n:_-. us the lm1'.-c.-:., <#:m.h_: anti ut.lu~1' g«mtl.-5:11u.l cl1:1ttvlsla‘-i1':_gj11pu11said l)l'L'1Ill:4L'H_2 t.‘.\'(°t.‘]lT j_'u«"nl.-: :11n'l cl1:1.ttL-ls not 1.110
p1‘up01‘t.y of the tn.-n:1111‘__. hut lwizr-_r_ in his-_= p<'..a.-‘.~'st_*.~‘_-'.~sh::11i1'1 the way of l'1i.~'5
t1‘:ulC‘. 01' l,l]n'_1I1 the :—_'~:1i:l 1)l'(‘l]1l.‘-¥l'.‘~' in lln} 1'L":.'."11l.:11' Cm1.1‘.~5c Of 3113;’ 00011p:.1.tion._ 01' I_,l1.~_ai1u_-.-'_~'-t_, tliere c:11'1_‘iml on; which CX("f(‘]'ill0]1 shall C*XiC‘Il<.l

to l1«_:1‘:<{':a‘ anal cam'i:_:_<__::-.~a at :: li\'c1‘y >_~'.t:1hlo._ t'oprnpe1't\‘ oi'l:o:1r<_l(.-.1'.'~_: in '

it l_m::.1'<li11j_':-la:msv, :t_1'ult<_:tlw hu:1.-'t.-= of :1. «l1'«;m:1' clr.-1i:1r5t111'e:.l Wllllt‘
I-.;1s;,~_.i1._:__g th1-m.1;_-‘ll [hm I;-<>u1it__\'. :1.-‘.4. well :1.-‘ to ‘£111: 1no1'e nln-'ig11;~:4 cases of
cxelixptinn at ("t')I11l'IlUI1 l.—m‘_: :1l.-«:_> 4.+XL'tL"]1L :~ft.u\-‘L’:-‘~ not the p1'ope1't_V of.
but him-ul lijr the l-(§‘1'1.'11"li-, :1n«l_ l-1_~::.-:t.:-'_._ nut‘. the p1'upL:1't.y of the t.e11:mt-,
t'.~':~<,'::_1.1'>i11_:_>; into the >s:1l<l 1ll'('.'11ll.‘-'~l_'::% tlurnugli «la.-lhct of fciiccs, wliich the
lIL'.I1:H1l, 01‘ his l:1...11tll<_:1'{l_. ‘.x':1.~4 lmllllll tn 1'L.'p:1i1‘.

5'1.-:11. :3-‘J. _l_:i't.l1c tzgmmt, (_'lll1t_'l' <.lu1'iu;__:' his term, 01‘ cs.t:1.t.0._ 01‘ after
t-lug: Clirl. t-lu-1‘t?:')i', l'L'lllIJ\'L.‘ liis ‘:_I'r.H_'n..l.~_~' :t1'1I.l L".li:l—'Lt.Lf*l.~_=, 01' 1ll'l_‘_§' ul‘ them, l‘1'<;-I11
the :-:::,i:.l p1'<_-»a1:i.+w.s Willltllll p::_y1m~1'1t. of ihru rent. eliic, or ;;r1'mx'_i1:;_'; due,
fm‘ the .‘$:lltl pm"-111i,-:<-.~'a., xtlul ‘.\'llll'__.*i.It liw11.'~‘~u 1'1-0111 the l:u'i<ll:i»1'<l, or his
:1;'_r:_-11't_._ in w1'il.in;_-; lll1|'lLf1' h:n1rl: lhlrr 3-,:'n+nle~: flllll L'l'i:.'L.tl':;~l:'~_4, :50 1'(.*I'11U\"t'*:.l,
1_mlc_::<:5 .~_=«.>lrl 'l':1i1'l_x,' for :1. \':1lu:1lnh-r 4..-«m.-'i:le-1'::rim‘: and tlL*li‘.’L‘1‘L'tl to the
l_n_1_\_'«_-r, sliull he liuhh-, w_lu';-.1'(_*\'u1' 1"r_-mul._ to he lll.‘*il.l'.'llllL‘ll for s:1.iu.l rent.
for 1'-_+r1'_\_' <_la.j's :ift.c-1' the 1'L‘1ll(J\':ll'._ or if the rent he. not in :11'1't;-a1‘ at
the time (.Jl1ll1(_‘ 1'L'.I'1'1n\';1l, ll)!‘ i"u1'I_}-' t.l:1—'_}'.-_=.. :1l'L-cl‘ this 1'c11t £~'.l11Lll l)(.'.CO1DC
in :n'1':~:i1'.

.Nut.ice to t.l_1<: ‘tr.-n:1.11t. tn 1'("IHI'I\'L" l'1':;_m1 the s:_1i«_l 1_)1‘C111lSOS shall not
.113 :1. ll(3L‘l1:.-3L‘- \\'it.l1in this 1'm‘_n-"i:-_<i:__a11.

l‘3'l£<".. ill. i-'\ny I>L'l'.*%(_)l'l L:1l<i1'1;_: an 1l11I‘t"::l;-€0I1Itl_rlC' ¢list1'css, shall answer in <l:i111::ges to the p:z1'ty injiirul, to he 1'cco\'e1'c«l i11 an action.
"ml the (12150.

Sr-zrt. 23. The l'l(_'l'.‘_é£’)ll, or h:i_ili'll'_._ «li.~':.t.1':1_i:1i11g_, Slli-Ill L"ltl1C1' deliver
to the tenant, or leave at the mansion-house, or if there be none, at
some public place on the premises, written notice of the property
distrained and the cause of the distress.

SEC. 26. If the property distrained be not replevied within five

. days after the day of such notice, the sheriff, or any constable for
the county, or place, where the distress is taken, shall, upon application, summon two judicious and impartial freeholders of said county, who, being first sworn or affirmed by the oiiicer summoning them,
shall appraise the said property at its true value in money, according tq the best of their skill and judgment, and shall certify’ their
appraisement, with the date, under their hands.

SEO. 27. If the rent be not of money, the said sheriff, or constaEble, shall also summon the said appraisers and another judicious
and impartial freeholder of the county, to determine the value of
said rent in money; and shall administer to them respectively an
oath, or affirmation, to inquire diligently concerning the true value
in money of the rent, for which the distress was taken, in arrear at

l
I

the time of distraining, and faithfully determine the same. Upon
such inquiry the freeholders shall a&‘ord reasonable opportunity to
the parties to be heard, and they shall severally have power to administer an oath, or aiiirmation, to witnesses.

The said freeholders, or any two of them agreeing, shall certify,

under their hands the value of the rent in arrear, according to the"
following form:

County, ss. Upon a distress for rent, on the demand of

, again'st we, the freeholders, summoned to
determine the value If said rent in money, upon our oath and ajz'rmation respectively say, that, at the time of taking said distress, there

     

 

was rent in arrear from the said , to the said
, to the value of .
Witness our hands the day of , £. D., 18-.

   

The value, so certified, shall not be questioned, except upon replevin of the goods distrained.

No further certificate, either of the summoning, or the swearing,
or aiiirming, of the freeholders shall be necessary. If all’ the freeholders be sworn, or all aiiirmed, the certificate shall be adapted to the
case, by omitting the words “ and a_1?'irmatz'on,” or the words.“oath

SEO. 28. The person, or bailid‘, making a distress, may suifer the
property distrained to remain at large upon the premises, or may
impound the same either on the said premises, or in any other con-T
venient place in the same county.

S30. 29. A distress shall not be removed from the county where»
in it is taken; except, that if the premises lie in different counties, ~
a distress taken on any part thereof may be carried to the mansion-,‘
house, or _other most public place thereon, which shall, for all purposes, be deemed to be the place of the taking; and grain, or other
produce, growing on -any part of such premises, shall be subject to
be appraised by freeholders, and. to be sold by the sheriif, or constable, and to be replevied by a writ of rep evin directed to the
sheriif, or coroner, all of the county where the mansion-house, or
other most public place on said premises is situate, in the same
manner as if every part of the premises wasin said county.

SEC. 30. The person on whose demand a distress is made, shall
have a special property in the things distrained until replevin, or
sale thereof, so that he may take the same, wherever found, and recover damages for carrying away, or injuring them.

SEC. 31. If any pound breach, or rescous, be made of property
distrained, the party injured shall, in a special action on the case,
recover double damages and costs against the persons making such
pound breach, or rescous, or any of them, or against the owner of
the property, if it have come to his possession, or use.

SEC. 32. After the expiration of six days from the day of appraising property distrained and not replevied, the sheriif, or any constable of the county, or place, where the distress is taken, shall,
upon application, sell the same, or so much thereof as may be necessaryito satisfy the rent and all costs, at public vendue, to the
highest and best bidder, or bidders, first giving at least six days’
notice of said sale by advertisements posted in at least five public
places in the county.

SEO. 33. An surplus of the proceeds of such sale, after satisfying the rent an costs, shall, without delay, be refunded to the owner
of the property, or otherwise applied according to law.

SEC. 34. If, through mistake, or other cause, a sufficient distress
be not taken, distress may be made for the balance of the rent, in
the same manner as for the entire sum.

SEC. 35. It shall not be an objection to any oflicer acting in any
of the premises, that he, as bailiff, made the distress.

SEC. 36. In case of the property distrained, remaining, or being

, impounded on the premises, the distrainer and every other person
shall have right to go upon said premises to view, appraise, or purchase said property, or to take the same when purchased; and if
grain, or other produce in the ground, he sold, the purchaser shall
have right to do all acts requisite for saving, cultivating, gathering

and ta ' ' the same.
SEO. 3 . If any distress and sale be made for rent demanded

when no rent is inarrear, the person, upon whose demand such distress is made, or his executors, or administrators, shall pay to the
owner of the property so distrained and sold, or his executors, or
administrators, double the value of said property, to be recovered,
with costs, in an action of debt, in which a less sum than that demanded may be recovered. .

SEC. 38. When a distress is taken for rent justly due, no subsequent irregularity shall make it a trespass, or vitiate it; but the
party injured by such irregularity, may recover the damages sustained on occasion thereof, and no more, in a special action on the
case; unless suilicient amends shall have been tendered before action brou ht, in which case there shall be no recovery.

SEC. 3 . The levy of process of execution, attachment, or sequestration, upon goods and chattels, shall not prevent such goods and
chattels from being taken and sold as a. distress for rent.

SEO. 40. The landlord, or person making such distress, shall, at
least six days before the sale of the goods and chattels distrained,
give written notice of such distress, and the time and place of such
sale, to the plaintiff, or one of the plaintiffs, if several, in every such
process, or his attorney,  such plaintiif or attorney reside in the
county), or he shall forfeit the benefit of the foregoing section.

SEC. 41. Such distress shall not impair the levy, nor obstruct the
authority of the officer to sell the goods and chattels by virtue of
the process at any time before sale thereof pursuant to the distress;
and such distress, or a sale pursuant to it, shall not vary the rights
of the parties in respect to the application of the proceeds of the
goods levied on, so as to give to the demand for rent any additional
preference over the other process.

Sec. 42. N o distress shall remain in force more than sixty days
from the time of making it. If the property distrained be not sold

I’

within the said sixty days, it shall, at the expiration of that period,
be discharged from the distress.

SEC. 43. A distress without a sale, shall not satisfy the rent for,
which such distress was taken; but a second distress shall not be}
taken for the said rent.» 2

SEC. 44. In no case shall a distress be taken for rent after the‘
expiration of two years from its becoming in arrear. 4 

SEC. 45. An executor, or administrator, shall not distrain for:
rent in arrear to the testator, or intestate, after the expiration of '
six months from the death of the testator, or intestate; and any}
other person entitled to the rent of premises, but having no estate}
therein, shall not distrain for said rent after the expiration of six
months from the time of the same ‘becoming in arrear.

Replevin of goods distrained.
SEC. 46; Before service of any writ of replevin for goods distrain-.

ed, the plaintiff, or some substantial person for him, shall, withl

suflicient surety, enter into,bond to the oflicer to whom the writ is
directed, in a penalty double the value of said property, (to be estimated by the oflicer serving the writ, or if either party so ‘request;
to be appraised by two judicious persons summoned and sworn, or

aflirmed by such officer), with condition according to the following
form: '

The condition of the above written obligation is such, that  _

, at whose suit against , a writ o replevin has
been issued out of the Superior Court of the State 0 Delaware, for
county, returnable to term ne:ct, or his executors, or
administrators, shall prosecute said suit with efect, and shall fully
and without delay satisfy any judgment which shall be given against
the said , ,,or his. executors, or administrators, in the said
suit, then the said obligation shall be void.

   

SEC. 47. The defendant in the replevin may avow, or make cognizance generally for rent in arrear, stating to whom, for what premises, and for what time, without other particulars. Such avowry,
or cognizance, may be entered upon the record by way of suggestion, if in consequence of the plaintid"s being‘ nonsuit or judgment
being given on demurrer, or for other cause, it cannot be entered
in the regular course of the pleadings.

SEC. 48. The jury, upon the trial of the action, shall find the sum .
due for rent in arrear. After issue joined, the plaintiif becoming;
nonsuit shall not prevent the trial b jury. _

SEC. 49. If there be judgment 0 nonsuit, or upon demurrer, or
otherwise, without trial by jury, the sum due for the rent in arrear
may be found either by a jury at bar, or upon a writ of inquiry, or
otherwise, as the court may order; or the same may be ascertained,
with or without avowry, or cognizance, as the parties shall agree.

SEC. 50. Judgment shall be given for the defendant for any sum
found, or ascertained, to be due for rent‘ in arrear, as debt, with

costs of suit; and like execution shall be had, as on judgments for
debt.

S30. 51. If judgment be given for the defendant, or his executors, or administrators, the oiiicer, to whom the bond was taken upon the service of the writ, shall,- on request, assign the same, under
his hand and seal, in the presence of at least one credible witness,
to the person on whose demand the distress was made, or his executors, or administrators. - The assignee may sue on the bond in
his own name.

Attachment for rent.

SEO. 52. Upon ailidavit made by a landlord, or any credible person for him, and filed in the ofiice of .the prothonotary of the county
wherein the demised premises are situated, stating the rent which
his tenant is to pay, or render, and when it will be due, and that he
does on good grounds believe that the tenant intends to remove his
effects from the county, or otherwise dispose of the same, and will
so remove or dispose of the same before the rent becomes due, so
as to defeat a distress for said rent, a writ of attachment shall be
issued out of said Superior Court, returnable to the next term thereof, directed to the sheri&' of the county, a ainst the goods and chattels, rights and credits of such tenant an for summoning the garnishees.

SEO. 53. If the tenant shall give to the landlord bond with su1Iicient surety, to be approved by the oilieer serving the writ, before
the return thereof, or by the court at the term of the return, to pay
the rent when due, with the costs of the attachment, the goods and
garnishees shall be discharged.

SEO. 54.‘ If bond, as required by the foregoing section, be not
given, the court shall make an order for the sale of the goods and
chattels attached, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to pay
said rent with the costs, and shall render judgment against every

5 garnishee, summoned upon the attachment, on his answer confessing

goods, money, rights, or credits in his hands, or upon the verdict of
a jury against him, if required to plead, as in other proceedings by
attac ment. ‘

. SEC. 55. If the tenant deny the demand of rent, the court, whether
he have given bond as aforesaid or not, shall direct an issue to be
tried by a jury at the bar of the court, for ascertaining whether

there be a just demand of rent and the amount thereof. The verdict upon such issue, unless set aside by the court, shall be conclusive.

SEC. 56. In respect to costs and touching the premises generally,
the court may exercise equitable powers; and if it shall consider
that there was not sufficient ground for the attachment, the landlord
shall pay the costs.

' SEC. 57. The residue of the goods, or money, after satisfying the
rent and costs, shall be restored, or paid, to the tenant without delay, or otherwise applied according to law.

SEC. 58. If a landlord, or any credible person for him shall, in
manner provided in section 52, make oath, or affirmation, stating

the rent which his tenant is to pay, or render, and when it will be

due, and thathe does, on good orounds, believe that the tenant intends to leave the State, and will depart from the same before the
rent will become due, and that there are not goods and chattels,
rights and credits of said tenant that can be attached, suilicient to
secure said rent, and that said tenant does not intend to make provision for the payment of the rent, proceedings shall be had against
the said tenant according to section 14 of chapter 103.

SEC. 59. The foregoing provisions respecting attachment for rent,
shall not extend to more than one year’s rent.

Preference of rent in cases of execution.

SEO. 60. If goods and chattels of a tenant being upon premises
held by him by demise under a rent of money, be seized by virtue
of any process of execution, attachment, or sequestration, the said
goods and chattels shall be liable for one year’s rent of said premises, in arrear, or growing due, at the time of said seizure, in preference to such process; accordingly the landlord shall be paid such
rent (not exceeding one year's rent) out of the proceeds of the sale
of such gpods and chattels, before any thing shall be applicable to
such process. '

SEC. 61. If the landlord before the seizure of the goods and chattels of his tenant by virtue of such process as aforesaid, have distrained such goods and chattels for rent in arrear, such distress, or
the levying of the rent in arrear under it, shall not preclude him‘
from the preference given by the foregoing.section. SEC. 62. If the grain, or other produce, growing or being upon;
premises held by a tenant by demise under a rent of a quantity, or ;
share, of grain or other produce, be seized by virtue of any process ’
of execution, attachment, or sequestration, such grain, or produce,
shall be liable for the year’s rent proper to be rendered thereout in
preference to such process; that is to say, the Indian corn shall be

‘liable for the quantity, or share, of Indian corn to be rendered as

rent, the wheat shall be liable for the quantity, or share, of wheat to
be rendered as rent, and so of the -other produce; this preference
extending only to the rent for one year.

Such grain, or produce, if sold in pursuance of being so seized, ,
shall be sold subject to the rent, and the purchaser shall be liable i
for said rent and the delivery thereof according to the tenant's contract, and for the prpper cultivation and. care of the crop.

. SEC. 63. Grain, or produce, sold as aforesaid, may be distrained 1
for the rent proper to be rendered thereout, when due, in the same«
manner as if it had not been sold.

SEC. 64. It shall not be lawful to remove grain, or produce, sold,
as aforesaid, from the demised premises, without either paying the I
rent proper to be rendered thereout, or giving, or tendering, to the:
landlord, or person entitled to said rent, good_ security to pay the

same when due.
SEC. 65. In case of a removal contrary to the foregoing section, I

the landlord, or person entitled to rent, may immediately follow and:
distrain the grain, or produce, removed, and may proceed in the

same manner as if the rent had been in arrear at the time of removal.

SEC. 66. The sheriif, or other oilicer, who shall sell goods and
chattels of a tenant upon process of execution, attachment, or sequestration, shall, at least ten days before such sale, give written
notice of the time and place thereof to the landlord, if residing in

the county, and if not, to any known agent of the landlord in the
county.

Of attaching rent.

SEC. 67. Rent in arrear, or growing due, may be attached. If
the rent attached be not due at the return of the attachment, the
court may render judgment upon such terms, and make such order,
as shall be deemed proper to secure the parties and carry the attachment into eHect.

SEO. 68. After attachment served, distress may be made for the
rent attached if in arrear, unless the tenant will pay it to the sheriff
to be paid into court. In case of such distress, or of a distress made
before service of the attachment, the attachment shall not prevent
proceeding upon the distress; but if the distress proceed to sale, the
oflicer selling shall pay the money into court, where the attachment
is depending, to abide the order of the court.

SEC. 69. If goods, so distrained, be replevied, the court, in which
the attachment is, may order any assignment of the interest in the
action of replevin, and of the replevin bond, that may be necessary
to give efect to the attachment, and may enforce obedience to such
order by imprisonment. Such order, in respect to the interest in
the action, shall have the effect of an assignment; and any person

to whom said bond shall be assigned, pursuant to such order, may
sue thereon in his own name. ‘

Other matters.

SEO. 70. Any tax laid upon lands, or tenements, according to
law, which shall be paid by or levied from the tenant of such lands,
or tenements, or a person occupying and having charge of the same,
shall be a set-oil‘ against the rent or other demand of the owner for

‘the use, or profits, of such premises; and if there be not rent, or
other demand suliicient to cover the sum so paid, or levied, the tenant, or other person, shall have right to demand and recover the
same from the owner, with costs. This provision shall not aifect
any contract between the landlord and his tenant.

SEC. 71. If any person shall carry from demised premises, of the
quantity of five acres or more, any hay (other than ‘salt hay), straw,
corn-husks, or manure, without the consent of the owner of the premises, he shall forfeit and pay to such owner double the value of
such hay, straw, corn-husks, or manure, with costs.

SEO. 72. If a tenant on whom a declaration in ejectment is served, shall not give notice thereof to his landlord, or the agent of such
landlord, without delay; he shall forfeit and pay to such landlord

the value of two years’ full rent of the premises, to be recovered
with costs by action of debt.

CHAPTER 121. "

II.

_ OF INSOLVENCY.
Sac. 1. Who may take the bcnedt of insolvent Sac. 24. Insolvent cannot releae debts.

laws. 25. Proceeds of property assigned; how
2. Petition. applied.
3. Summons; service. 26. Demands not due. entitled to share.
4. Proofot’ service. 27. Disputes may be referred, &-.c.
5. Allegations of fraud; plea; trial. 98. Trustee‘: bond. Removal. Invento6. Hearing. _ ry. Accounts.
7. Interr atories to be answered on oath. 29. Party discharged not to be again ar:5. Surren er of property ma be ordered. rested.
9. Petitioner to e remande for fraud. But debt not discharged. unless paid.
10. Negro men may be adjudged to serve 30. No remedy after adjudication to serve.
creditors. unless, &.c.
11. Term; wages; how paid; power of 31. Proceedings for indemnity‘to county.
master. ‘ 32. Order on creditor to indemnify.
12. Order of service among creditors. 33. Prothonotary to take the security.
13. When etitioner shall be discharged. 34. If not given in ten days, party to be
14. Oath o insolvency. discharged. .
15. Assignment in trust for creditors. 35. Creditor may close his liability. Cer16. Relief in chancery, in case of insol- titlcate. Discharge.
vency. 36. Party not to be re-arrested.
)7. Proceedings to be recorded. 37. Hisappearance may be entered to suits.
18. The assignment isa record. Evidence. 38. Application of this chapter restricted.
19. Vests title in trustees. 39. Not applicable in casesot‘ fraud, dcc.
W. Their powers; exempt property; how Allegations of fraud. _Hearing.
valued. 40. Insolvent proceedings not to affect
21. Property so assigned. liable for rent. liens. ac.
22. Duty of trustees. 41. False swearing in; perjury.
93. Suits may be continued by assignees. 42. Evidence under general missus.

Proceedings for discharge.

SEO. 1. Any person who is imprisoned for debt," damages, or
costs, by virtue of any process, or commitment, in a civil action,}
(except process or commitment of a Court of Chancery), having re-}
aided in this State for one year next preceding such imprisonment, w
may obtain his discharge from such imprisonment upon petition tou
the Superior Court of the county wherein he is imprisoned, and:
compliance with the provisions hereinafter contained.

SEO. 2. Such petition shall set forth the imprisonment and the 1
cause thereof, the insolvency of the petitioner, a full and true account of all his real and personal estate, debts, credits, rights, money,
and edects whatsoever, with the sums and dates of all his bonds,
notes, or other securities, and a true list, according to the best of
his knowledge and belief, of all his creditors, with the sums due to
them‘ respectively. If the petitioner shall at any time have given,
conveyed, assigned, settled, or disposed of money, stock, or property
of any kind, upon trust, it shall be mentioned.

SEC. 3. Such petition being preferred, the court shall award pro-,
cess for summoning the creditors of the petitioner to appear in said
court, on some certain day, and show cause, if any they have, why
he should not be discharged from imprisonment upon assigning his
property for the benefit of his creditors. Service of such sum-=
mons upon the agent, or attorney, of a creditor not residing in the
State, shall be a valid service as to such creditor. And service of
a summons upon one of several parties, joint plaintiffs, or joint cregitlprs, shall be sudicient so far as concerns a partnership, or joint

e t.

S30. 4. Proof of the service of a summons, under the foregoing
section, shall be by the ailidavit of the person serving the same
written upon the summons.

An appearance entered, either personally or by attorney, shall
be as effectual as proof of the service of the summons.

SEC. 5. Any creditor, or creditors, in any sum not less than fifty
dollars, the amount of which shall be proved by ailidavit, may file
an allegation of fraud against the petitioner, specifying the supposed fraudulent transactions, to which allegation the petitioner may
plead; and thereupon the same shall be tried by a  at the same
term to which the petition is preferred. _' . .

SEC. 6. If an allegation of fraud be not tiled, or being filed shall
be withdrawn, the court shall hear what may be alleged and proved
for or a ainst granting the prayer of the petition.

SEO. . Interrogatories may be proposed by any creditor to the
petitioner, touching the causes of his insolvency, the ownership, disposal and state of any property, the time of contracting any debt,
or of executing any security, deed, or other instrument, and the consideration thereof, and any other matter which the court may deem
a proper subject of such inquiry; which interrogatories the petitioner shall, upon the requirement of any creditor, fully and distinctly answer upon oath, or affirmation; and his answers, being reduced to writing, shall be signed by him.

SEC. 8. Upon suflicient cause shown, the court may order the

petitioner to produce any money in his possession or control, or any

deeds, bonds, notes, books of account, or other writings relating to
his estate, and remand him until such order is complied with.

SEO. 9. If it shall appear to the court that the petitioner has
fraudulently secreted, transferred, disposed of, or removed any
goods, chattels, rights, credits, money, or other -property, or has
been guilty of deception, or fraud, in contracting any debt, or has
not fully and truly answered the interrogatories proposed, or has
committed any fraud b which his creditors may be injured, the petition shall be dismisse and the petitioner remanded. .

SEC. 10. If any creditor shall insist, and the court shall be of
opinion that the petitioner ought to make satisfaction to his creditors by servitude, he shall be remanded unless he shall, in writing
under his hand indorsed on his petition, declare his consent to be
adjudged to serve his creditors for such wages as the court may allow, to satisfy the debts due from him. But this consent shall not
be required of a female, or white man.

SEC. 11. If the petitioner shall so consent to serve his creditors,
the court, before pronouncing the order for his discharge, shall adjudge him to serve his creditors for a certain term, not exceeding
seven years, and for certain monthly wages, to be determined by
the court, in order to satisfy the debts due from him to them respectively, or such balance thereof as may remain unpaid after the
proper application of his estate; and the creditors shall have, respectively, all the power of master, or mistress, over the petitioner,
to demand and have his services for the purposes aforesaid.

The court may direct that a certain portion of the wages be applied monthly to the support of the petitioner's family, and the
balance thereof towards the debts aforesaid.

SEO. 12. The rights of creditors to the services of a person, ad-1

judged as aforesaid, shall stand; in priority, as follciws, viz: :

First: Creditors by judgments and by recognizances; and these‘
among themselves shall have priority according to the dates of the
judgments and recognizances respectively:

Second: Creditors by obligations and notes and instruments under seal, or only under hand; and these among themselves shall

have priority according to the dates of their causes of action respectively: ‘

Third: All other creditors, standing in priority to each other according to the amount of their respective demands, the larger being
preferred to the smaller. '

But any creditor, having had such person in'his service for three
days without adverse claim, shall continue to hold him until his debt
is satisfied according to the terms of the adjudication, without responsibility to any other creditor. A person adjudged shall not controvert the right of any creditor
to his immediate service, on the ground of the prior right of any
other creditor.

SEC. 13. If it shall appear to the court that there is no suilicient
cause for remanding the petitioner, it shall order that he be dis-l
charged from imprisonment, he first fulfilling the requirements of
the two sections next following.

SEC. 14. Before an order for his discharge, the petitioner shall.‘
take an oath, or affirmation, according to the following form, the.
same being first distinctly read to him, that is to say:

I —— , do solemnly swear (or aflirm) that the account set
forth in my petition to be discharged from imprisonment, is a full and
true account of all my real and personal estate, legal and equitable,
in possession, reversion and remainder, and of every’ nature and description, including all my debts, credits, rights, money and efects
whatsoever; and that I have not, at any time, given, conveyed, assigned, settled, disposed of, or delivered any lands, goods, money,
stock, securities, or other real or personal estate, so as to expect any
benejit or advantage therefrom, or upon any trust otherwise than as
mentioned in said petition ; that I have not contracted any debt, nor
executed any bond, or security, nor done any other act, or thing, to
defraud my creditors; and that I have not intentionally, or knowingly, omitted from the list set forth in my petition any oneof my creditors, nor mis-stated any debt due from me ; so help me God. (Or so
I do solemnly affirm.) ‘

SEC. 15. The petitioner shall also, before an order for his .discharge, execute a deed of assignment, to a trustee, or trustees, ap-i
pointed by the court. Such deed shall be indorsed upon, or an-‘
nexed to the petition, and shall be according to the following form,
m:

I -——- , do grant and assign to , their heirs
and assigns, as joint tenants, upon trust for all my creditors, all my

lands, tenements,_ hereditaments, goods, chattels, rights, credits, and
real and personal estate, of every nature and description, wheresoever
situate, or being.

Witness my hand and seal the day of , .8. D., 18-.

Signed, sealed and delivered "-M‘
in open court, before ’ i L‘ 8':

{I

If one trustee only be appointed, the deed may be adapted to the
case.

SEO. 16. Any person imprisoned for the non-performance of any
decree for «the payment of ‘money, or costs, by virtue of attachment,
or other process, issued out of the Court of Chancery, having resided within the State for one year next before his imprisonment,
may prefer to the Court of Chancery, held in the county wherein
he is imprisoned, a petition of the same purport prescribed in the
second section of this chapter; and thereupon the said Court of
ohancery shall have and exercise jurisdiction over’ the subject of
such petition, in the same manner and by like proceedings, as is
hereinbefore provided in the case of a petition to the Superior Court,
except as it regards the directing of an issue.

SEC. 17. Every petition, and all proceedings, orders and adjudi- cations in cases of insolvency, shall be recorded by the prothonotary,
or register in chancery, in suitable books kept for the purpose; and
to each book a correct alphabetical index shall be kept.

Proceedings under assignment.

SEO. 18. A deed of assignment, executed in pursuance of the {if' teenth section, shall be deemed to be a record of the court in which
it is executed; and a certified copy thereof shall be competent evidence. ' ’ '
SEC. 19. Such assignment shall vest in the trustee, or trustees,
therein named, all the property and estate of the petitioner at the
time of executing the same, real and personal, legal and equitable,
and of every nature and description, as well rights, whether real or
personal, credits and things in action, as property in possession.
SEC. 20. The said trustee, or trustees, shall take possession of
all said property and estate, except wearing apparel and the neces‘ sary bedding of the petitioner and his family, and the tools, or implements, of his trade or calling, not exceeding in value in the whole
iiifty dollars; which articles, and the value thereof, shall be ascertained by two judicious and impartial citizens of the county wherein
the petitioner resides, to be appointed and sworn, or aflirmed, to
the faithful performance of said duty by a justice of the peace of
the county. The articles, so ascertained, shall be exempt from any
execution, or legal process, against the petitioner, except distress
for rent and execution in a criminal case.
_ SEC. 21. If the petitioner be a tenant holding any lands, or tenements, under rent, his goods and chattels, being on the demised
' premises at the time of executing the said assignment, shall be liable
for the rent of said premises for the current, or precedin year, if
such rent be not paid, but for one year only; and the lan ord may

require that such rent be paid before the removal pf the goods, or
chattels, from the demised premises.

SEC. 22. The said trustee, or trustees, or the survivors or survi-.
vor of them, or the executors, or administrators, of such trustee, or1
survivor, shall collect, recover and reduce into possession all the
rights, Whether real or personal, credits and things in action of the
petitioner; and for that purpose may, in his or their own name or
names, institute and prosecute to judgment and execution any actions real, personal, or mixed; and shall also convert into money
all the property and estate assigned, and for that purpose shall
have full power to sell, dispose of and convey t-he same, in parcels
or otherwise, as may be deemed expedient. ,

SEC. 23. No suit, or proceeding, of the petitioner at law, or in,
equity, shall be abated by the assignment af'oresai_d; but such suit,]
or proceeding, may be continued, and execution may be issued on
any judgment recovered by the petitioner, as if no such deed of assignment had been executed; but such suit, proceeding, or execution, shall be for the use, or benefit, of said trustee, or trustees, or
the survivors, or survivor, of them, or the executors, or administrators, of such trustee, or "survivor.

SEC. 2-1. No release, acquittance, or receipt, made by the petitioner after executing such deed of assignment, of any debt, de-i
mand, right, action, suit, or cause of action, existing at or before.
the time of executing said deed, shall be of any force, or eifect.

SEC. 25. The nett proceeds of the petitioner’s estate, after deducting just expenses of executing the trust and a reasonable commission to the trustees, shall be applied towards payment of such.
demands against the petitioneras shall be exhibited to the trustees
within one year after the date of the assignment, and no others;
and if said proceeds be insufficient to pay the whole amount of the
demands, they shall be apportioned pro rata. Any overplus, shall
be returned to the petitioner, his heirs, executors, or administrators. .

SEC. 26. A demand existing at the time of executing the deed of
assignment, but payable at a future day (subject to the proper discount if payable without interest), shall be admitted in the distribution of»the petitioner’s estate.

SEC. :27. Controversies arising in the course of the execution of
the trust respecting any disputed demands, or claims, may be referred, compromised, or settled, as may be deemed expedient.

SEC. 28.\The court may,‘in its discretion, require the trustee, or
trustees, to give bond with security to the State for the faithful execution of the trust. It may, in its discretion, remove the trustee,
or trustees, and compel an assignment of the trust estate to others
appointed in their stead. It may order an inventory and appraisement of the trust estate and effects to be made and returned to the
court, and may require accounts, touching the execution of the trust,
to be rendered, and shall adjust and settle such accounts.

Any order by the court in the premises, may be enforced by attachment and imprisonment.

’ Eject of discharge.

SEC. 29. A person discharged from imprisonment, pursuant to the
foregoing provisions, shall not be afterwards arrested, nor imprisoned, for any debt, or demand, contracted or existing before such discharge, except debts and demands of the United States, and also of

;persons who shall not have been summoned, nor appeared. Such
discharge shall have no further eifect; and if any debt, or demand,

due or existing, at the time of such discharge, against the petitioner,
shall not be fully satisfied out of the estate and property assigned,
because of the insufliciency thereof, such debt, or any balance thereof remaining after a proper application of the estate and property
assigned, may be’ recovered and levied out of any property, or estate, which the petitioner may acquire, or become entitled to, after
the date of the assignment, excepting that hereinbefore exempted
from execution; subject only to the restriction of the next following
section in the case of persons adjudged to serve their creditors.

SEO. 30. If the petitioner shall have been adjudged to serve his
creditors for the satisfaction of their respective debts, or of a balance thereof after the application of the petitioner's estate, his creditors shall have no other remedy for the recovery of such debts, or
balance, except in the cases following, that is to say: if the petitioner, being so adjudged as aforesaid, refuse to serve any creditor
pursuant to the adjudication; of if any creditor, shall within sixty
days after the adjudication and without having had the service of
the petitioner, cause his refusal of such service to be entered upon
the record of the adjudication; in either of said cases the creditor
shall have the same remedies for the recovery of his debt, or balance thereof as aforesaid, as if the petitioner had not been adjudged
to serve his creditors.

The prothonotary, or register in chancery, in whose olhce the record shall be, upon application of the creditor shall enter his refusal as aforesaid, and the same shall be signed by the creditor. Such
entry shall vacate all rights of the creditor to demand service pursuant to the adjudication. '

SEC. 31. Any person imprisoned for debt, or damages, or costs,
of a civil suit, or non-performance of a decree for the payment of
money, by virtue of original, execution, or other process, or commitment, may prefer to the Superior Court of the county wherein
he is imprisoned, or to any judge residing in the county in vacation,
a petition stating the imprisonment and the cause thereof, and the
inability of the petitioner to maintain himself, or his family, and
praying for relief.

SEC. 32. If upon the hearing of such petition and reasonable
notice in writing of the time and place thereof to the party at whose
suit the petitioner is imprisoned, or his attorney, or agent, if there
be such party, attorney, or agent, within the county, it shall appear that there is ground to apprehend that the petitioner, or his
family, in consequence of his imprisonment, will be chargeable to
the county, the said court, or judge, shall order that the person at

whose suit the petitioner is imprisoned, shall with suilicient surety
enter into a recognizance to the State in the penal sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, with condition to be void if the recognizer,
his heirs, executors, or administrators, shall keep the said county
harmless and indemnified of and from all damages and charges in
consequence of the imprisonment of the petitioner, either for the
maintenance, or through the sickness of the petitioner, or his family;
such order with the petition shall be filed in the oflice of the prothonotary in the county wherein the petitioner is imprisoned.

If notice of such hearing, as aforesaid, cannot be given, by reason of the fact that the party, at whose suit the petitioner is impris-5

oned, resides out of the county, and has no attorney, or agent
therein, the same proceedings shall be had as if notice had been
duly served. ’ t

SEC. 33. The prothonotary shall have authority to approve the
surety and to take the recognizance directed by such order; which;
recognizance shall be joint and several. ' ‘

SEC. 34. If such order be not complied with by the person on
whom it is made (or by some one of them if there be several) within
ten days after the same shall be made, the prothonotary shall certify the said order and the failure to comply therewithrto the sheriff,
or jailer, of the county; and thereupon the petitioner shall be discharged from his imprisonment.

SEO. 35. The principal in any recognizance entered into under
the foregoing provisions, may, at any time, cause an entry to be
made upon the recognizance, or the record thereof, and signed by
him, to the effect that he is unwilling to continue liable touching
any further imprisonment of the person upon whose petition the said
order was made. ‘ The prothonotary shall forthwith certify the substance of such
order, recognizance and entry to the sheriff, or jailer, of the county;
and the petitioner sha'll thereupon be -discharged from imprisonment
at the suit of the party causing such entry to be made.

Such entry shall in no manner impair the said recognizance, nor
have any other effect than to discharge the petitioner ~ from further
imprisonment at the suit of the party causing it to be made.

SEC. 36. A person discharged from imprisonment pursuant to
either of the two next foregoing sections, shall not be again arrested upon the same process; but such imprisonment and discharge
shall have no other eifeet: and no judgment, debt, or demand, shall
be thereby extinguished, or invalidated. ‘

SEC. 37. The appearance of any person who shall be discharged
from imprisonment according to this chapter, may be entered in any}
suit, or action, from process in which such person shall be so discharged; and such suit, or action, may be proceeded in on the ground
of such appearance.

SEC. 38. An proceeding, or order,under this chapter, shall not.
discharge any erson imprisoned by the authority of the United
States from such imprisonment, and shall not discharge any person

from imprisonment for any other cause than that to which such proceedings, or order, relates; but such person; notwithstanding such
proceeding, or order, shall be detained for such other cause, according to the nature and effect thereof.

SEO. 39. The foregoing provisions for the discharge of a person
imprisoned on civil process, upon failure of the party at whose suit
such person is imprisoned to indemnify thedcécaunty is aforesaid, Bhtllllll
not apply to the case of a prisoner reman by t e court upon _e
trial of allegations of fraud, or for refusing his consent to‘ serve his
creditor; nor to the case of a white citizen of this State imprisoned
by virtue of a capias ad satisfaciendum, or for the non-performance
of a decree for the payment of money, upon an allidlavit of fraufd;npi1i
to the case of any person whatsoever imprisoned y virtue.o ci
process, whether original, or final, or whether issuing out of a court
of law, or equity if the plaintiff in such process shall within five
days after the imprisonment of such person, file in the odice of the
prothonotary, or register in chancery, issuin the process, an ailidavit of fraud against the person so imprisoned, in the same form as
by law is required to be filed before the issuing of a capias ad sausfaciendum against a white citizen of this Sta . .o ~

A person imprisoned as aforesaid, against whom such adidavilf of
fraud shall be filed within five da s after his imprisonment, as a ove
provided, shall have the same beyriefit of a hearing of the 
tions of fraud in such ailidavit set forth before a judge, and u
like proceedings, as in the case of an ailidavit of fraud filed 1'6
the issuing of a capias ad satisfaciendum.

SEC. 40. No proceeding under this chapter shall in any way_impair the lien of _ any mortgage, _j_udgment, recognizance, executlell,
nor any other hen, nor the l1ab_1l1ty of one who, as surety, or_]olnt
debtor, or otherwise, shall be liable for a debt, or demand, exlstlng
against the person to whom such proceeding relates. _

SEC. 41. If any person,'to whom an oath, or ailirmation, shall be
administered under this chapter, shall wilfully and falsely swear, or
ailirm, in any matter, such person, so offending, shall be deemed
guilty of the crime of wilful and corrupt perjury, and shall also forfeit all benefit under this chapter, and shall not be permitted to
plead, or ipstist upon the same, or to avail himself thereof in any
manner w a over. .

Sec. 42. In any action against, any person for any thing done
pursuant to this chapter, this chapter, with the matter of justification under it, may be given in evidence under the general issue.

TITLE EIGHTEENTH.

Of the Limitation of Actions.

Cnarrtn 122. Limitation of real actions. . «I23. Limitation of personal actions.
124. Limitation of appeals and exceptions.

CHAPTER 122.

LIMITATION QF REAL ACTIONS.

S10. 1. Right of entry barred in twenty years. Size. 4. Saving survives on death under disa. 2. Actual seisin within that time neces- bllity.

sary.
3. Saving to infants. married women,

&.c., &c.

SEO. 1.. No person shall make an entry into any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, but within‘ twenty years next after his
right, or title, to the same, first descended, or accrued.

SEC. 2. N 0 person shall have, or maintain any writ of right, or
action, real, personal, or mixed, for, or make any prescription, or
claim, .to, or in, any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, of the
seisin, or possession of him, his ancestor, or predecessor, and declare, or allege, in any manner Whatever, any further seisin of
him, his ancestor, or predecessor, but only an actual seisin of him,
his. ancestor, or predecessor, of the premises sued for, or claimed,
within twenty years next before such writ, or action.

* SEO. 3. If at any time when such right of entry upon, or action,
for any lands or tenements shall first -accrue, the person entitled to
such entry, or action, shall be an infant, or a married woman, in- i
sane, or imprisoned, such person, or any one claiming from, by, or}
under him, may make the entry, or bring the action, at any time ‘
within ten years after such disability shall be removed, notwith-'
standing the twenty years before limited in that behalf shall have
expired.

SEO. 4., If the person entitled to an entry, or action, die under,
any of the disabilities aforesaid, any other person claiming from,«
by, or under him, shall have the same benefit which the person}
first entitled would have had, by living until the removal of the‘

disability.

CHAPTER 123.

LIMITATION OF PERSONAL ACTIONS.

Bee. 1. Sheritl‘s recognizance. Adminietra- Sec. 9. Action for mesne pronto.

tion bonds: six years. 10. Action of waste: three years.
2. Guardian bonds; three years. 11. Bonds of corporate oliicers; two years.
3. Recngnizancesin Orphans‘ Court; three 12. Penal actions; one year.

years. . 13. Savings. Infancy. Coverture. Inn.4. Otficial bonds; three years. ni .
5. Escheator's bond; seven years. 14. Absence of defendant.
6. Certain personal actions; three years. 15. Time allowed after arrest, or reversal
7. Mutual accounts; when time begins ofjudgment, &-.c.

to run. 16. These provisions extend to err-on
8. Promissory notes. &c.. six years. claims.

SEC. 1. No action shall be brought upon the oflicial recognizance
of any sheriff, or upon any administration bond, or upon any testamentary bond, against either the principal or sureties, after the
expiration of six years from the date of such recognizance, or bond.

SEC. 2. N 0 action shall be brought upon any guardian bond.
against either the principal or sureties, after the expiration of three
years from the determination or ceasing of the guardianship.’

SEO. 3. No action shall be brought upon any recognizance taken
in the Orphans’ Court, with condition for the payment of the appraised value or purchase money of lands or tenements, against any
surety in such recognizance, or the heirs, terre-tenants, executors,
or administrators, of such surety, after theexpiration of three years
from the time when the value, or money, mentioned in the condition, or the last instalment thereof, (when it is payable by instalments) is due.

SEC. 4. N 0 action shall be brought upon the oilicial obligation of
any State treasurer, secretary of State, county treasurer, treasurer
of the poor, coroner, register of wills, recorder of deeds, prothonotary, clerk of the peace, clerk of the Orphans’ Court, collector, or
constable, against either the principal, or sureties, after the expiration of three years from the accruing of the cause of such action.

SEC. 5. No action shall be brought upon the oilicial obligation of
an escheator, against either the principal, or sureties, after seven

years from the expiration of his term of oiiice..

SEC. 6. N 0 action of trespass, no action of replevin, no action of
' detinue, no action of debt not found upon a record or specialty, no
action of account, no action of assumpsit, and no action upon the
-case shall be brought after the expiration of three years from the
accruing of the cause of such action; subject however, to the‘provisions of the three next following sections.

SEC. 7. In the case of a mutual and running account between
parties, the limitation shall not begin to run while such account
continues open and current.

SEC. 8. When the cause of action arises from a promissory note,
bill of exchange, or an acknowledgement under the hand of the
party of a subsisting demand, the action may be commenced at any
time within six years from the accruing of such cause of action.

SEC. 9. When, after a recovery in ejectment, an action is brought
for mesne profits, if such action be commenced Within six months

' after the judgment, or, if there be a Writ of error, within six months

after the aiiirmance of said judgment, or other determination of the
proceeding in error, the said action shall, so far as to avoid the intermediate operation of the sixth section, be deemed a continuation
of the proceeding in ejectment; and the plaintiff shall not be debarred from recovering mesne profits for three years next preceding
the commencement of the ejectment. r

SEC. 10. No action of waste shall be brought after the expiration
of three years from the committing of the Waste.

SEC. 11. No action shall be brought upon any bond given to the
president, directors and company of any bank, or to any corporation, by any oiiicer of such bank, or corporation, with condition for
his good behavior, or for the faithful discharge of the duties of his
station, or touching the execution of his office, against either the
principal, or sureties, after the expiration of two years from the accruing of the cause of such action; and no action shall be brought,
and no proceedings shall be had upon any such bond, or upon any
judgment thereon, against either the principal or sureties, for any
cause of action accruing after the expiration of six years from the
date of such bond.

The directors, or managers, of any bank, or corporation, are anthorized and enjoined to take from each officer thereof, required by
the charter or by—laWs to give bend, a new bond as often as may be
deemed expedient, but at farthest every six years; and so that the
date of the new bond shall not be more than six years posterior to
the date of the bond immediately preceding.

SEC. 12. No civil action for a forfeiture upon a penal statute,
Whether at the suit of the party aggrieved, or of a common informer,
or of the State, or otherwise, shall be brought after the expiration
of one year from the accruing of the cause of such action.

SEC. 13. If a person entitled to any action comprehended Within
either of the foregoing provisions, shall have been, a.t the time of the
accruing of the cause of such action, under disability of infancy,
coverture, or incompetency of mind, this chapter shall not be a bar
to such action during the continuace of such disability, nor until the
expiration of three years from the removal thereof.

SEC. 14. If at the t.ime when a cause of action accrues against
any person, he shall be out of the State, the action may be commenced, Within the time herein limited therefor, after such person
shall come into the State in such manner that, by reasonable diligence, he may be served with process; and if after a cause of action shall have accrued against any person, he shall depart from
and reside out of the State, the time of his absence until he shall
have returned into the State in manner aforesaid, shall not be taken
as any part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 15. If in any action duly commenced within the time herein
limited therefor, the writ shall fail of a sufiicient service or return
by any unavoidable accident, or by any default, or neglect, of the
ollicer to whom it is committed; or if the writ shall be abated, or
the action otherwise avoided, or defeated, by the death of any party
thereto, or for any matter of form; or if after a verdict‘ for the

plaintiff, the judgment shall be arrested; or if a judgment for the
plaintif be reversed on a writ of error; a new action may be commenced, for the same cause of action, at any time within one year
after the abatement or other determination of the original suit, or
after the reversal of the jud ent therein. If in the original action, t e benefit of this chapter be pleaded,
and a verdict upon such plea be found for the plaintiif, such verdict
shall be conclusive evidence that the original action was commenced

within the time limited therefor. s
SEO. 16. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any deb
alleged by way of set-03' on the part of a defendant; and the time
of limitation of such debt shall be computed in like manner -as if an
action therefor had been commenced at the time when the plaintiE’s

action commenced.

CHAPTER 124.

LIMITATION OF APPEALS AND EXCEPTIONS.
Ste. 1. Appeals from interlocutory decrees: Sac. 5. Defective records may be corrected.

limitation. 6. Extend to equity cases in Superior
2. But may be reviewed on final ap eal. Court.
3. Appeals from anal decrees; I mita- 7. Limitation of exceptions to administion. tration accounts. &c.
4. Saving to inhnta. kc. . 8. Saving to infants. Inc.

SEC. 1. No appeal from an interlocutory decree, or order, of the

chancellor, shall be received in the Court of Errors and Appeals,

unless the petition, or assignment of causes of appeal, with a certified copy of the record and papers of the case, be filed in the oilice
of the clerk of the said court, on or before the iirst day of the term
of said court next after the entering of the, said decree, or order.
But the court may extend the time, if this limitation shall not in
any case allow suilicient time for copying the record and papers.
SEC. 2. An omission to claim, or prosecute, an appeal from an
interlocutory decree, or order, as aforesaid, shall not debar a party
from making any objection to such decree, or order, upon appeal

from the final decree.
SEC. 3. N o appeal’ from a final decree of the chancellor shall be

received in the Court of Errors and Appeals, unless the petition, or
assignment of causes of appeal, with a certified copy of the record
and papers of the case, shall be filed in the oilice of the clerk thereof,
within two cars after the signing of said decree.

SEC‘. 4. he limitation of the foregoing section with respect to
any person under disability of infancy, coverture, or incompetency
of mind, at the time of signing a final decree, shall begin to run at
tlhe ceasing of such disability and not from the time of signing said

ecree.

