

§ 4043. (203.) Judicial power ^ where vested. The judicial power of W the State is vested in such tribunals as are created by the Constitu- tion, and such other inferior courts as are or may be established by law, and such persons as are or may be specially invested with pow- ers of a judicial nature. 

§ 4044. (204.) Rules of court. The rules of the respective courts, legally adopted and not in conflict with the Constitution of the United States, of this State, or the laws thereof, are binding and must be observed.

§ 4045. (205.) When judicial officer is disqualified. No judge or tice of any court, no ordinary, justice of the peace, nor presiding officer of any inferior judicature or commission, can sit in any cause or proceeding in which he is pecuniarily interested, or related to either party within the fourth degree of consanguinity or affinity, nor of which he has been of counsel, nor in which he has presided in any inferior judicature when his ruling or decision is the subject of re- view, without the consent of all the parties in interest: Provided, that in all cases in which the presiding judge of the superior court may have been employed as counsel before his appointment as judge, he shall preside in such cases if the opposite party or counsel agree in writing that he may preside, unless the judge declines so to do. 

§ 4046. (4711.) Powers of courts to punish for contempt. The pow- ers °f the several courts in this State to issue attachments and in- ^°* summary punishment for contempt of court shall not extend to any cases, except the misbehavior of any person or persons in the p resence G f said courts or so near thereto as to obstruct the adminis- tration of justice, the misbehavior of any of the officers of said courts in their official transactions, and the disobedience or resist- ance by any officer of said courts, party, juror, witness or other per- son or persons, to any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree or command of the said courts: 1. Provided, that in no case shall any person be imprisoned for contempt for failing or refusing to pay over money under any order, decree or judgment of any court of law or any other court of this State, when he denies that the money ordered or decreed to be paid over is in his power, custody or control, until he has a trial by jury as herein provided. 2. The allegation of the plaintiff, receiver, referee or any other person or persons that the defendant has a certain sum of money within his power, custody or control which he is withholding or re- fuses or fails to pay over, and the denial of the defendant that he has the power, custody or control of said money, shall form the issue to be tried by the jury, and the jury shall pass upon the fact. 3. The judge presiding shall cause questions to be propounded in writing to the jury; when every question propounded shall be an- swered by the jury in their verdict, and upon the answers made to such questions by the jury the judge shall adjudge or decree whether the defendant be or not in contempt, with the right to either party to move for a new trial and carry the case to the Supreme Court by bill of exceptions as in other civil cases. 4. The issue being made, a bond may be required in the discre- tion of the court for the appearance of the defendant for trial, which bond shall be of sufficient size to procure the attendance of defend- ant to appear and answer the final judgment or decree in the case, which shall be approved by the judge, and on failure to appear the bond shall be forfeited as in criminal cases, and in default of bond the defendant may be committed to jail for safe-keeping until trial. 

§ 4047. (206.) Powers of courts enumerated. Every court has power 1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence, and$ as near thereto as is necessary to prevent interruption, disturbance, or hindrance to its proceedings. 2. To enforce order before a person or body empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under its authority. 3. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders and process, and$ to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action or proceeding therein. . To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its officers^ and all other persons connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter appertaining thereto. 5. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding pending therein, $$4362,4382, and in all other cases, when it may be necessary, in the exercise of its powers and duties. 6. To amend and control its process and orders, so as to make them conformable to law and justice, and to amend its own records, so as to make them conform to the truth. 

§ 4048. (207.) Records not to be removed. No records or papers of any court must be removed out of the county, except in cases of in- vasion whereby the same may be endangered, or unless by order of the court. 

§ 4049. (208.) Minutes must be read and signed. The minutes of every court of record must be read each morning by the clerk in open court, and, on the adjournment of the court, must be signed by the judge, judges, or justices thereof; but, if not signed, are valid, un- less repudiated by the court. 

§ 4050. (209.) Where there is no clerk. The acts of a court shall not lack validity for the want of a clerk; and whenever there is no clerk, or none to be had, or he is incapable of discharging his duty, and any court performs that duty itself, its action as such is valid. 

§ 4051. (435.) One justice of the peace in each district. There shall be one justice of the peace in each militia district of the several counties of this State, elected by the people of each district in the manner hereinafter prescribed, who holds his office for four years, unless sooner removed. 

§ 4052. (436.) Notaries public, their appointment and term. Com- missioned notaries public, not to exceed one for each militia district, may be appointed by the judges of the superior courts in their re- spective circuits, upon recommendation of the grand juries of the several counties. They shall be commissioned by the Governor for the term of four years, and shall be ex officio justices of the peace, and shall be removable on conviction for malpractice in office. 

§ 4053. Commissions, when to be issued. The Governor shall not issue a commission to any notary public and ex officio peace, unless it shall appear from the order of appointment that such appointment was made at the term of the court next preceding the va- cancy, or at some succeeding term after such vacancy has occurred. 

§ 4054. List of notaries public, ex officio justices of justice of the the peace. The clerk of the superior court of each county shall prepare and keep in his office a correct list of all the notaries public who are ex officio the peace of the county, showing the time of the expiration of the term of office of each one; and each list shall be accessible to the grand jury of the county at each term of the court. justices of 

§ 4055. Suit aqainst justice. No suit shall be brought against any justice for anything done by him in the execution of his office, un-iGa.kw." til notice in writing shall have been given to him, or left at his usual place of abode, one calendar month. 

§ 4056. Contents of notice. Said notice shall clearly and explicitly state the cause of action which the party has or claims to have against said justice, and no evidence shall be permitted to be given by the plaintiff on the trial except such as relates to matters contained in the notice. 

§ 4057. Within what time suit brought. The action must be com-|^ menced within six months after the act committed by the justice. 

§ 4058. Tender by justice. At any time within one calendar month after such notice, the justice may tender amends to the party com- plaining, and if the same is not accepted, may plead such tender with a plea of ''not guilty," or other plea. 

§ 4059. (437.) How removed. Justices are removed from office in the manner prescribed by the Constitution, and also on conviction^ for malpractice in office, or for any felonious or infamous crime. 

§ 4060. (3961.) Justices of the peace and constables, where ruled. Jus- tices of the peace and constables shall be so far considered officers of the superior court, as to be subject to be ruled under similar regula- tions as are provided in relation to any other officer of said court, and shall be subject to all the pains and penalties as are provided, in case of a rule absolute against sheriffs and other officers of said court, when they, or either of them, shall refuse or neglect to collect or pay over any money which they may have received or collected in their official capacity. 

§ 4061. (438.) Vacancies, how filled. Vacancies are filled in the following manner: If there is a justice of the peace in the district where the vacancy occurs, he shall appoint some Saturday in a month and advertise the same at three of the most public places therein, at least fifteen days before the day appointed. 

§ 4062. (439.) Election, hoiv held. On said day said justice with two freeholders must hold said election in the same manner that a regular election for justice of the peace is held, and duly certify the same to the Governor, who must commission the person elected for the unexpired term. 

§ 4063. (440.) If no justice. If there is no justice of the peace in the district where the vacancy occurs, the ordinary of the county must order an election in the same manner, which may be held by three freeholders of the district, who must hold and certify said election in the same manner. 

§ 4064. (441.) Qualifications, etc.. All persons are eligible to the office of justice of the peace who are entitled, in the county in which the district is situated, to vote for the members of the General As- sembly, who have been three months in the district next preceding the election, and who do not labor under any disqualification. 

§ 4065. (442.) Failure to elect. When any district is without a justice of the peace, and an election has been legally ordered to sup- ply the vacancy, and none is bona fide held at the time and place appointed, it is the duty of the ordinary to appoint one person, resi- dent in the district, such justice to have it certified to the Governor, who must commission the appointee for the required term.

§ 4066. (443.) Oath. Justices of the peace, including commis- sioned notaries public who are ex officio justices of the peace, before entering on the duties of their office, besides the oath required for all civil officers, must take the following oath: "I do swear that I will administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal rights to the poor and to the rich, and that I will faithfully dis- charge all the duties incumbent on me as a justice of the peace for the county of , agreeably to the Constitution and laws of this State, and according to the best of my ability and understanding. So help me God." 
§ 4067. (444.) Oaths, before whom taken. Such oaths shall be taken and subscribed before the ordinary of the county. 
§ 4068. (446.) Civil jurisdiction. They have a general and original jurisdiction •' 1- : I n all civil cases arising ex contractu, and in cases of injuries or damages to personal property, where the principal sum claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars, and in cases where the debt has been larger and the balance due is not more than said amount. 2. Of contests for the mere possession of personal property. 3. Of forcible entries and detainers, or either, with the aid of a$ jury of twelve men, as prescribed by this Code. 4. Of all other causes when jurisdiction is constitutionally given them, in their capacity as courts of justice. 
§ 4069. (447.) Debts may be divided. Debts which in the aggre- gate amount to more than justice's-court jurisdiction, may be di- vided into liquidated demands, so as to bring them each within such jurisdiction. 
§ 4070. (448.) Limits of jurisdiction. Their civil jurisdiction ex- tends over persons resident of their respective districts, and itinerant persons, and to persons of other districts in certain particular cases provided for in this Code. 
§ 4071. (449.) Justice, when sued. One justice of the peace may- sue or be sued before the other in his own district. p 
§ 4072. (450.) Where justice is disqualified. When a justice of the eace | s disqualified from presiding, and there is no other justice °f th e peace in his district who is qualified, any justice of the peace of the county is qualified to issue all process and to preside in his district; and if a justice of the peace is sued under such circum- stances, the suit may be located in any adjoining district. Any jus- tice or notary ex officio justice of the peace may preside in any district of their county in all cases when the justice or notary of such dis- trict is disqualified. 
§ 4073. (451.) Where there is no justice. Where there is no justice of the peace in any district where a defendant resides, or there is one and he refuses to serve generally or in any particular case, the suit may be located in any adjoining district. 
§ 4074. (596.) Justice of the peace may act as coroner. When there is no coroner in a county, or he is absent from the county when needed, or will not or cannot take an inquest, any justice of the peace of the county may act as coroner. 
§ 4075. (452.) Suit may be transferred . If suits are already com- menced and are suspended for want of a justice of the peace to pre- side or competent jury to try such cases, such suits shall be removed to the adjoining districts, unless the evil is removed within sixty days, or upon the fact being made to appear to the court by affidavit of either party to such suits. 
§ 4076. (453.) Suits may be transferred to county-site . cause, all such suits cannot be located or prosecuted in some adjoin- ing district, they may be commenced or removed to the justice's dis- trict which embraces the county-site. 
§ 4077. (454.) Power of If, from any justices, etc. The justices of the peace and constables of any district where a suit is thus begun or removed, have the same power as those officers have in the proper districts. 
§ 4078. (455.) Makers, indorsers, etc., how sued. Suits against makers 3 , . V ' ' . & and indorsers, and against co-obligors, or joint makers, may be loca- ted in the district where the principal debtor or one of the co-obligors or joint makers can be sued, and the other parties, who may reside in a different district from such in the same county, may be joined in the suit on the same terms such persons residing in different counties may be sued in the superior courts, but by the process used in jus- tices's courts; and in such cases the constable of the district where the suit is located may serve such process in any part of the couuty. 
§ 4079. (456.) Residence, where sued. Persons resident in any por- tion of a county, whose residence, from any cause, is not embraced in any organized justice's district, are subject to suit in the district whose court-ground is nearest their residence where there is an act- ing justice of the peace. 
§ 4080. (340 a.) Dockets furnished to justices and notaries. The ordi- nai'i es 5 or other tribunal having control of county matters, shall furnish, at the expense of the county, good and durable dockets to each justice of the peace and notary public ex officio peace, in their respective counties. Said dockets shall not cost more than two dollars each. 
§ 4081. (840b.) Dockets and papers, how disposed of. of the peace and notaries public shall return their dockets when full, together with all the papers connected with the cases therein dis- justice of the posed of, and in like manner their old dockets and papers, when they shall receive new dockets, to the clerk of the superior court, whose duty it shall be to carefully file away and keep said dockets and papers in his office. 
§ 4082. (457.) Duties, etc., authority, and it is their duty — of Said justices justices. Justices of the peace have ... . 1. To select some central and convenient place in their respective districts at which to hold their courts, of which they shall give ample public notice, and also to keep their offices within said districts; but in towns or cities which embrace more than one district, they may hold their courts and keep their offices at some central and con- venient place within the limits of said towns or cities. 2. To fine not more than five dollars, nor imprison more than five hours, any person guilty of a contempt of court, and to pay the fine to the county treasurer for county purposes. 3 t i sgue attachments returnable to their own, and, in certain cases, to the superior courts of the county. 4 t issue all process necessary to maintain their jurisdictions and enforce their authority under the sanction of law. 5 'Pq administer oaths and take affidavits, except the power is expressly restricted to some other officer, and to take the acknowl- edgment or probate of any conveyances required to be recor'ded. 6. To keep a docket of all causes brought before them, in which must be entered the names of the parties, the returns of the officer, and the entry of the judgment, specifying its amount and the day of its rendition. 7. To carefully file away and label all papers appertaining to any$ cause, and all fi. fas. fied, entered "nulla bona,'' tions. and other process returned, after being satis- 1 or have otherwise discharged their func- 8. To attend the superior courts and courts of ordinary of their counties, whenever required, with such docket or papers of file. 9. To establish, when lost, in the manner prescribed by law, any$ paper appertaining to any suit or other proceeding in their respec- tive courts. 10. To answer interrogatories from courts of other counties, as to the contents or condition of any of the dockets, files or papers of their office, and to attach thereto copies of such, when such inter- rogatories are propounded and such copies required. 11. To make a list of names of all persons liable to tax on prop- erty or poll in their respective districts, and return the same to the$ receiver of tax returns, at his second round to receive tax returns in their respective districts in each year. 12. To perform such other duties as are or may be required by* law, or which necessarily appertain to their office. 
§ 4083. (463.) Constables, number, election, etc. There shall be two constables in each militia district of the several counties of this 
§ State, elected by the people of each district as in this Code pre- scribed, who hold their offices for two years unless sooner removed. 
§ 4084. (464.) How removed. They are subject to be removed from$ office on the same grounds and on the same proceedings as clerks of the superior court are, and on conviction for malpractice in office as justices of the peace are. 
§ 4085. (465.) Vacancies. Vacancies are filled by appointment of the justices of the peace of the district, in the following contingen- cies: 1. When, from any cause, there is a failure to elect, qualify, and give bond at the regular time. 2. When there is a death, resignation, or removal of constable. 3. When from sickness, or other providential cause, the district is without a constable, there may be an appointment, if an emergency arises, to continue until the regular constable enters on the discharge of his duties. 
§ 4086. Justices may appoint extra constables. When the consta- l^ies of the district are absent temporarily from the district, the like power may be exercised, or when the constable or constables of the district are engaged in attendance on the county, city, or superior courts, or there is manifest injury or delay to the business of the justices' courts, the justices of the peace shall have power to appoint one or more constables and discharge the same at discretion: Pro- vided, that the constables appointed hereunder shall be required to give the same bond required from the regular constables, if said spe- cial constables shall be appointed to serve for a period longer than ten days. 
§ 4087. (466.) Appointment of constables. If there are two justices of the peace, and they cannot agree upon an appointment, the one who has served longer as such continuously and immediately pre- ceding, shall appoint; if there are two constables to appoint, each justice shall appoint one. 
§ 4088. (467.) When but one justice, who may appoint. If there is only one justice of the peace, he may make the appointment, but it shall be in the discretion of the justices, whether one or two, to ap- point the second constable or not, if there is one in office, or one or two if there is none in office. 
§ 4089. (468.) When justice fails to appoint. If the justices of the peace of any district fail or refuse to have as much as one constable in their district, for as long as thirty days from the time such a va- cancy occurs, the ordinary of the county shall fill the appointment. 
§ 4090. (469.) Qualifications of constable. The eligibility for con- stables is the same as that for justices of the peace, but any persons may be appointed constables to fill vacancies or to answer some emergency, who are at the time residents of the district. 
§ 4091. (470.) Disqualifications. Constables cannot be sheriffs or sheriff's deputies, nor can they be clerks of the superior courts, nor can such officers be constables. 
§ 4092. (471.) Each constable, before entering on the du- ties of his office, must take and subscribe, beside the oath for all civil officers, before the ordinary of his county, the following oath: "I swear that I will duly and faithfully perform all the duties required of me as constable of the county of the best of my ability and understanding. So help me God." 
§ 4093. (472.) Constables anointed on emergency. Constables ap- pointed to answer some sudden emergency, as in section 4085, may^ take and subscribe said oath before the justices of the peace appoint- ing them, who shall file the same in the office of the ordinary. 
§ 4094. (473.) Bonds of constables. All constables, except those thus appointed, must, before entering on the discharge of their du- ties, give a bond payable to the ordinary of the county, and their successors, with two good securities resident in the county, in the$ sum of five hundred dollars, to be approved by such ordinary, which shall be by him filed in his office and recorded in a book kept for that purpose: Provided, that constables in militia districts outside of incorporated towns shall give bond for the sum of two hundred dollars. 
§ 4095. (474.) Ordinary must certify to filing, etc. When such oath is taken and filed and such bond given, such ordinary shall issue to such constable a certificate of such facts and make an entry thereof on his minutes, which certificate shall answer as his commission. 
§ 4096. (475.) Additional surety. Constables may be compelled to give additional bonds upon complaint made on oath before the ordi- nary, if after the hearing such ordinary so orders it done, and upon failure to do so, shall be removed by such ordinary. 
§ 4097. (476.) May be ruled in justice' 's court. They are liable to^?^ rule, attachment, and penalties in their respective districts, but in default of any justice of the peace in such district, or if there are such who refuse to serve, they may be ruled before any justice's court of an adjoining district, or the superior court. 
§ 4098. (477.) May be ruled in superior court. It is optional with parties to rule constables before the superior court of their respective counties, in term time, on the same terms that .justices of the peace are ruled. 
§ 4099 _ ( 478 ^ Special duties. It is their duty— 1To attend regularly all terms of the justice's court in their respective districts. 2. To attend all terms of the superior courts "of their respective counties, when summoned by the sheriff for that purpose. 3. To give receipts for notes or other liquidated demands placed in their hands for collection. 4. To pay over money promptly as collected to the party entitled thereto, and in cases of conflicting claims to any money, to report the same to the next justice's court of the district where they are amenable, for its order in the premises. 5 To execute and return all warrants, summons, executions, and other process to them directed by lawful authority. 6. To perform such other duties as are or may be required of them by law, or which necessarily appertain to their offices. 
§ 4100. (479.) Persons acting as constable after term of office If any constable exercises the duties of his office after removal from the district where he was elected or appointed, he is subject to a fine of fifty dollars for every such act, to be recovered before any justice of the county in which he resides, by any one suing for the same one half to the use of such person, the other half to the use of the county. 
§ 4101. (4130.) When term of justices' courts may be held. Justices of the peace, and notaries public who are ex officio justices of the peace, shall hold their respective courts monthly at fixed times and places; and when from any reason the business of such courts cannot be disposed of in one day, such courts may hold from day to day or to such time as may be agreed upon by the parties, with the consent of the court, until the business is disposed of. All continuances-} shall be from term to term. 
§ 4102. Places t ar y Public ex for officio holding court in cities. All. justice courts and no- justice of the peace courts for militia districts embraced in whole or in part within the corporate limits of any of the cities of this State, having by the United States census a popu- lation of over five thousand inhabitants, shall have jurisdiction as fixed by the Constitution in and over said district and in and over said city, and shall hold their courts monthly at fixed times and places at some convenient place within said district or city, said time and place to be fixed as now provided by law. Said justices and notaries public ex officio justices of the peace may hold their courts at the same or at different times or at the same or different places, as they may desire. 
§ 4103. (4131.) Court, when held. The justice's court shall be held at a place in each militia district as. nearly central as convenience will admit. 
§ 4104. (458.) Places of holding justices' courts, how changed. If any justice's court is held at an inaccessible or inconvenient portion of any district, or such a place is hereafter selected, the qualified voters of such district may petition such justice to change the place to some other place, naming it, and if he refuses to change, they may apply to the ordinary; and if said ordinary is satisfied that the place where such court is held works an inconvenience to a majority of the citizens of such district, he shall change the place, to take effect after the expiration of thirty days, have it entered on his minutes, and published in the district. 
§ 4105. (459.) How often changed. When a place for holding such court is once fixed, it cannot be changed except in the manner stated, and then but once during the four years official term: Provided, that the place for holding such courts in the town and city district in this State may be changed as often as may be necessary, under such terms and conditions as the ordinary of the county may direct. 
§ 4106. (460.) Time and place may be changed. When a new justice of the peace is qualified, and he desires to change the place of hold- ing such courts, he may do so by giving public notice of the fact, stating the place to which changed, and the first court to be thus held, which change shall not go into effect short of sixty days from the time of advertising. 
§ 4107. (461.) Time and place not disturbed by adoption The places now established for holding justices' courts are not dis- turbed by the enactment of this Code, and the militia districts now- established by law remain the same, but they may be altered and new districts formed by the ordinary of each county as hereinafter prescribed. 
§ 4108. (462.) Judgments, when void. All judgments of such tices rendered in any civil cause, anywhere else than at the place for holding their courts lawfully appointed, are void. 
§ 4109. Court-house for militia districts. The county authorities O v J having charge of the county revenues are authorized, upon the recom-^^P- mendation of the grand jury, to erect, at a cost not exceeding one hundred dollars each, a suitable court-house in each militia district in the counties of this State, and may levy a tax for that purpose, and select the place for said court-house. After said court-house has been erected, the court-grounds shall not be removed without the consent of the said county authorities. 
§ 4110. (4133.) Suits on several notes for same debt. The justices' ^ courts shall have jurisdiction of all suits brought on two or more J & promissory notes, or other evidences of debt, not exceeding one hun-^ dred dollars principal each, although given between the same par- J ties for one and the same debt or consideration. 
§ 4111(4134.) Ten days residence gives jurisdiction. Ten days residence of a party within a militia district shall be sufficient to give the justice's court of such district jurisdiction of suits against him. 
§ 4112. (4135.) Co-obligors sued in either district. When a bond, note, bill, open account, or other evidence of debt shall be against several persons residing in different counties or districts, the plain- tiff shall have his option to bring suit on such demand in either of such counties or districts. 
§ 4113. (4136.) If justice of the peace is a party. In all cases in which a justice of the peace is a party, the suit may be brought in the justice's court nearest to the residence of the defendant in the county, or in the district where the defendant resides, at the option of the plaintiff. 
§ 4114. (4137.) When adjoining district has jurisdiction. In such cases the justice of the peace in the adjoining district may issue sum- mons, and proceed against the defendant in the same manner as if the defendant were a resident of such adjoining district. 
§ 4115. (4138.) Suit against 'maker and indorser, where brought. The maker and indorser of a promissory note, or other evidence of debt, not exceeding one hundred dollars principal, may be sued in the dis- trict of the maker's residence, and the indorser may be served with process in the same manner as that prescribed in the case of joint contractors. 
§ 4116. (4139.) Suits, how commenced. All suits before justices of ^ ne peace and notaries public who are ex officio justices of the peace, 8 hall be commenced by written summons, which shall be issued and •> s igne( i by the justice of the peace or notary public of the district in which the suit is brought, and shall be directed to any lawful con- stable of the county in which the suit is commenced, commanding the defendant to appear at the time and place of trial, which time and place shall be specified in said summons, and such justice of the peace or notary public shall attach a copy of the note, account or cause of action sued on, to said summons at the time the same is issued. 
§ 4117. (4140.) What is commencement of suit. The date of the issuing of the summons shall be considered the commencement of the action. 
§ 4118. (4141.) Summons, how dated and served All summonses shall bear date fifteen days before the time of the trial of the cause, and shall be served upon the defendant either by giving him a copy /f; of the same in person, or by leaving such copy at his usual and most notorious place of abode, at least ten days before the trial. 
§ 4119. (4142.) Summons, by whom served. The summons may be served by the constable of the district in which the suit is com- mencec ^ <> or if there be no such constable, or if he be a party to or interested in the case, such summons may be served by any consta- ble of the county; and it shall be lawful for any constable of the several counties of this State to execute and return any process issued by a justice of the peace or notary public of said counties, but he shall return the said process to a justice of the peace residing in the militia district where the defendant or defendants resided at the time of issuing said process. 
§ 4120. (4142 a. ) In case of co-obligors. In case where suit is brought against joint obligors or joint promisors, or other joint debtors, and in cases where the justice of the peace is a party, and in cases where there is no justice in the district of the defendant's residence — in all these and like cases, the constable of the district in which suit is brought may serve all processes on all the parties, and do all other legal acts required of him in the progress of such suit, in any dis- trict of the county. 
§ 4121. (4142 b.) Where defendants reside in different counties. In suits in the justices' courts of this State against joint obligors, joint contractors, copartners, joint trespassers, makers and indorsers of promissory notes, drawers, acceptors and indorsers of foreign and inland bills of exchange, or other like instruments, if any of the defendants reside out of the county, the justice of the peace shall issue a second original and copy for such other county or counties, and forward the same to any constable of the county where such de- fendant may reside, who shall serve the copy and return the second original with his entry thereon to the justice of the peace before whom the suit is brought. 
§ 4122. (4143.) Summons must be filed and kept. The officer serv- ing the summons shall return the original, with his entry of service thereon, to the justice of the peace before whose court the suit is pending, and the justice shall file and preserve the said original summons with the other papers appertaining to his office. 
§ 4123. (4144.) Proceedings to be uniform. The proceedings of th© justices' courts shall be uniform throughout the State, and each jus- tice of the peace shall keep a fair and legible book of entry of all civil proceedings had before him for the recovery of debts. 
§ 4124. (4145.) Bail in justices' courts. The justices' courts shall have power and authority to hold to bail and to enforce the liability of bail, under the same rules and regulations as those which prevail on that subject in the superior courts; and when a bail process is placed in the hands of a constable against one who is moving about from one district to another, such constable may follow such itin- erant defendant, and serve the process in any district in the county. 
§ 4125. (4146.) Parties may settle cases. Any case in the justice's court may be settled at any time by the parties, upon the payment of the costs which have accrued up to the time of such settlement. 
§ 4126. (4147. ) Justice must receipt for claims. Whenever any claim is given to a justice of the peace or constable for collection, such$ justice or constable shall give a receipt therefor, and when the money is collected, such justice or constable shall pay the same to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, unless there be conflicting claims for the money, in which case the question shall be decided at the first court, unless a continuance be had according to law. 
§ 4127. (4148.) Defendant may plead as in superior court. The de- fendant may appear at the time and place specified in the summons served upon him, and plead any matter of defense to the action, which would be allowed to suits in the superior courts. 
§ 4128. (4149.) Dilatory pleas, and non est factum. All dilatory eas mus t De filed in the first instance, unless the failure to do so ^s shown to be the result of unavoidable cause; and all dilatory- pleas, and pleas of non est factum, must be verified by the affidavit of the defendant at the time of filing the same. 
§ 4129. (4150.) Best evidence required. In all cases in the justices' ' courts of this State, the best evidence the nature of the case will admit of shall be required. 
§ 4130. (4151.) Accounts, how proved. When suit is brought upon an open account in a justice court, such account may be proved by the written affidavit of the plaintiff, and when so proved, shall be received in evidence as if proved in open court; nevertheless, if the defendant will file his affidavit denying the justice and fairness of \ the whole or any part of such account, the court shall not give judgment in favor of the plaintiff for that part of the account so denied and controverted, unless supported by other proof. In all cases when such affidavit to prove the account is made, there shall be personal service upon the defendant before judgment is given for the plaintiff under the provisions of this section. In all cases where a counter-affidavit is filed by the defendant, and the plaintiff is not present, it shall be the duty of the justice of the peace to continue such case until the next term of said court. Nothing in this section contained shall apply to suits against administrators and executors on contracts of their deceased testators and intestates. 
§ 4131. (4152.) Witness may be subpoenaed. Either one of the jus- tices of the peace of the district in which a suit is pending may issue a subpoena, directed to any witness whose testimony may be desired by either party in any. case, which subpoena shall be served on the witness three days before the day of the trial. 
§ 4132. (4153.) Testimony may be taken by interrogatories. Testi- mony may be taken and brought into court by interrogatories and commission in any case pending in the justice's court, under the l 8 same rules and regulations which prevail on that subject in the supe- rior court, except that the interrogatories shall be filed with the justice of the peace instead of the clerk, and the notice required shall be five days instead of ten, after the expiration of which the justice shall issue a commission, which shall be executed as provided for in the superior courts. 
§ 4133. (4154.) Cases, when tried. All cases before a justice of the peace stand for trial at the time and place designated in the sum- mons, and shall be then and there tried, unless continued according to law. 
§ 4134. Defense at first term . Whenever the defendant in the jus- tices' courts on an unconditional contract in writing makes defense, ° 7 he shall make such defense at the first term. 
§ 4135. Trial term. When such defense is thus made, the cause shall stand for trial at the next term (subject, however, to contin- uance as provided by law): Provided, that said cause may be tried at the term when said plea is filed, if the plaintiff or his attorney is present consenting thereto. 
§ 4136. (4155.) Continuances. If either party is not ready for trial at the time and place designated in the summons, the justice or commissioned notary public may continue the case upon a sufficient legal showing. But neither party shall be entitled to more than one continuance, unless it be from providential cause. 
§ 4137. (4156.) Justice to give judgment. When cases are tried, the justices of the peace shall render judgment therein according to the law and the facts of each case, and such judgment shall be enforced by execution unless prevented by appeal or other lawful means. 
§ 4138. (4157.) Appeals, when and how entered. Either party being dissatisfied with the judgment of the justice of the peace or notary 1 >U °1 1C > an d upon all confessions of judgment, provided the amount claimed in said suit is over fifty dollars, may, as a matter of right, enter an appeal from said judgment, within four days (exclusive of Sundays) after the rendition of such judgment, under the same rules, regulations, restrictions, and liabilities as are provided on the sub- ject of appeals. 
§ 4136. (4155.) Continuances. If either party is not ready for trial at the time and place designated in the summons, the justice or commissioned notary public may continue the case upon a sufficient legal showing. But neither party shall be entitled to more than one continuance, unless it be from providential cause. 
§ 4137. (4156.) Justice to give judgment. When cases are tried, the justices of the peace shall render judgment therein according to the law and the facts of each case, and such judgment shall be enforced by execution unless prevented by appeal or other lawful means. 
§ 4138. (4157.) Appeals, when and how entered. Either party being dissatisfied with the judgment of the justice of the peace or notary 1 >U °1 1C > an d upon all confessions of judgment, provided the amount claimed in said suit is over fifty dollars, may, as a matter of right, enter an appeal from said judgment, within four days (exclusive of Sundays) after the rendition of such judgment, under the same rules, regulations, restrictions, and liabilities as are provided on the sub- ject of appeals. 
§ 4136. (4155.) Continuances. If either party is not ready for trial at the time and place designated in the summons, the justice or commissioned notary public may continue the case upon a sufficient legal showing. But neither party shall be entitled to more than one continuance, unless it be from providential cause. 
§ 4137. (4156.) Justice to give judgment. When cases are tried, the justices of the peace shall render judgment therein according to the law and the facts of each case, and such judgment shall be enforced by execution unless prevented by appeal or other lawful means. 
§ 4138. (4157.) Appeals, when and how entered. Either party being dissatisfied with the judgment of the justice of the peace or notary 1 >U °1 1C > an d upon all confessions of judgment, provided the amount claimed in said suit is over fifty dollars, may, as a matter of right, enter an appeal from said judgment, within four days (exclusive of Sundays) after the rendition of such judgment, under the same rules, regulations, restrictions, and liabilities as are provided on the sub- ject of appeals. 
§ 4139. Pleas must be in writing, when. It shall be the duty of the defendant, in cases appealed from the justice's court to the superior court, to reduce his defenses to writing before the case proceeds to trial in the superior court: Provided, he relies upon any other plea or defense than the general issue. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to abridge his right to amend his pleadings as in other cases. 
§ 4140. (4157 a.) Appeals in justices 1 courts. In any civil case in a justice's court, either party dissatisfied with the judgment of the justice may, as of right, enter an appeal to a jury in said court, un- der the same rules as now regulate appeals to the superior court: Provided, that by consent of parties, such a case may be passed to the appeal, before judgment of the justice, without giving bond for the eventual condemnation-money. 
§ 4141. Appeals, when allowed. In all cases in a justice's court where an appeal can be entered to a jury in the superior court, it shall be lawful for such appeal to be entered to a jury in either the justice court or the superior court; any case appealed to a jury in one court shall not be appealed to a jury in the other court. 
§ 4142. (4157 b.) Appeals to the superior court. Where the sum claimed exceeds fifty dollars, the law of appeals from the justice court to the superior court shall be the same as contained in this Code: Provided, that in any case referred to in this and the preceding section, appeals in forma pauperis may take place under such regula- tions as now exist for appeals in forma pauperis, and subject to such law as may be passed concerning proceedings in forma pauperis 
§ 4143. (4157 c.) Juries, how drawn. All appeals shall be tried be- fore the justice of the peace or notary public, or both, and five'^ jurors drawn, and impaneled as follows: The justice in each district shall, once in every two years, make out a list of all persons liable to serve as jurors in the superior court, who may reside in their respective districts, and shall write their names on separate pieces of paper and deposit them in a box marked "number one." If the list is in the discretion of the justice of the peace or notary public, as the case may be, too small, then the justice of the peace, notary public, and one of the jury commissioners, and if no notary, then the justice of the peace and two of the jury commissioners of the county may select from the list of the taxpayers of the district such number of the most upright and intelligent men as they may see fit and proper, to add to said list of jurors: Provided, however, that the list, when so increased, shall not exceed one-fourth of the voting popula- tion of the district. Said justices, or one of them, in public, on a court day, in conjunction with a constable, shall, if any appeal is pending or notice thereof given, draw, after shaking the box well, nine names therefrom, which names, after being recorded in a book, shall be deposited in a box marked "number two." After all the names are drawn from box "number one," then the drawing shall commence from box "number two," and so on alternately. The jurors so drawn shall be summoned by the constable of the district, or other lawful officer, at least five days before the court at which are called upon to serve; and if there should be a deficiency of jurors at the trial from cause or absence, the constable, by direction of the court, shall complete the jury by talesmen to nine, from whom the plaintiff and defendant shall have two strikes each. 
§ 4144. (4157 d.) Oath of jury. The following oath shall bead- ministered, to the jury, to wit: "You shall well and truly try the causes depending between the parties at variance, and true verdict give according to equity and the opinion you entertain of the evi- dence produced to you, to the best of your skill and knowledge, with- out favor or affection to either of the parties, provided the case or cases submitted shall not be withdrawn from your consideration. So help you God." 
§ 4145. (4157 e.) Jury drawn in vacation, when. In all cases where the justice of the peace, at the regular term of the court, shall from any cause fail to draw a jury, it shall be lawful for said justice, in conjunction with the constable or any two freeholders at any time, to draw a jury who shall serve on being summoned as aforesaid. 
§ 4146. (4157 f.) Defaulting jurors, how dealt with. Said justices of the peace shall have power to impose fines and issue executions against all defaulting jurors who refuse to obey the summons without a good legal excuse. Said fine shall not exceed five dollars, and shall be collected by the constable, unless the absentee by next court files his excuse under oath, or makes it in open court, to be passed upon in either case by the justice of the peace. 
§ 4147. (4157 i.) Compensation of jurors. The compensation of ju- rors for services in justice courts shall be as follows: For each verdict, the jury making and returning the same shall be entitled to the sum of one dollar and twenty-five cents, to be paid by the party in whose favor the verdict is rendered, and divided equally among the jurors, and taxed in the bill of costs, and said jurors shall not receive further compensation. 
§ 4148. (4157 g.) Ri <jht of certiorari. In all cases tried in the jus- tice court, either party shall have the right of review in the superior court by writ of certiorari. 
§ 4149. (4157 j.) Certiorari in appeals from justice to superior courts. When either party is dissatisfied with the verdict of a jury in any appeal case tried in the justice courts, such party may apply for and obtain a writ of certiorari, by petition to the judge of the supe- rior court in whose circuit the said justice court was held, in which petition he shall plainly and distinctly set forth the errors com- plained of, and all after-proceedings shall be under the same rules and regulations as are now established by law for the granting of writs of certiorari from the justice courts in this State. 
§ 4150. (4158.) Claims, when and how interposed. When an execu- tion rendered by a justice of the peace, or notary public who is ex officio justice of the peace, shall be levied upon personal property which is claimed by any person not a party to the execution, the^ claimant, his agent, or attorney, shall make oath that the property levied on is the right and property of the claimant, and shall also give bond and security in double the amount of the execution; which bond the levying officer is empowered to take, payable to the plain- tiff or assignee of the execution, as the case may be, with condition to pay all costs and damages which the said plaintiff or assignee may sustain, in case it shall appear that such claim was frivolous and intended for delay only; which bond, on breach of the condi- tion thereof, shall be recoverable in any court having cognizance of the same. 
§ 4151. (4159.) Claims, when, where and how tried. When the claim affidavit is made and the bond given, as directed in the preceding section, the constable shall postpone the sale of the property, and return the papers to the justice of the peace or notary public who issued the execution; and it shall be the duty of such justice or no- tary public to cause an issue to be made up, and try the right of property according to law, at the next regular term of the justice court held by said justice of the peace or notary public, occurring after ten days from the filing of said claim. 
§ 4152. (4160.) Continuance. Upon good cause shown, on oath, a claim case may be continued one time by each party, and no longer. 
§ 4153. (4161.) Garnishee must answer, when. When a process of garnishment is issued out, returnable to any justice's court and served upon the garnishee, it shall be the duty of the garnishee to answer at the term to which the garnishment is made returnable. And in case of failure so to answer, the justice of the peace shall en- ter a default against the garnishee, and shall enter up judgment in favor of the plaintiff against the garnishee, for such an amount as may have been obtained by judgment against the defendant, or for such amount as may thereafter be recovered in the pending suit. After judgment obtained, and when the garnishee appears and an- swers that he is indebted to, or has effects in his hands belonging to the defendant, the court shall proceed as prescribed in section 4552 of this Code. 
§ 4154. (4161a.) Persons in another militia district, how garnished, When any person or persons, sought to be garnished, resides in a$ militia district in the same county, different from the militia district in which suit is pending or judgment was obtained, the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, may make affidavit and give bond in the militia district where the person or persons sought to be gar- nished resides, before any officer of said district authorized to issue an attachment under the laws of this State, and it shall be the duty of the officer taking such affidavit and bond to make out a copy there- of, and certify the same to be true, and to issue summons of garnish- ment for such person or persons as he may be directed by the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, requiring such person or persons to ap- pear at the next notary public's or justice's court of the district of the garnishee's residence, according as such suit was pending, or judgment was obtained, in the notary public's or justice's court, then and there, on or before the time fixed in said summons of gar- nishment, to depose and answer according to law. And it shall be the duty of the officer serving such summons, to return or transmit the certified affidavit and bond, together with his actings and doings thereon, to the notary public's or justice's court, of the district in which suit is pending or judgment was obtained and to return the original affidavit and bond to the court of the district of the gar- nishee's residence, when such person so summoned shall appear, with his actings and doings thereon, and all subsequent proceedings shall be the same as are now provided for cases where the garnishee resides in a different county from the one where suit is pending, or judgment was obtained. 
§ 4155. (4162.) Traverse of answer, and proceedings thereon. If the plaintiff in such suit desires to traverse the answer of the garnishee, he shall do so when the same is filed; and if such traverse is filed, the issue shall be heard at the same term, unless continued for cause. 
§ 4156. (4163.) Illegalities in justices' courts. When an issue is mac ^ e ky an affidavit of illegality and returned to any justice court, it shall be tried at the next term of said court after said illegality has been returned to said court for five days. 
§ 4157. (4164.) Dignity and lien of judgments. All judgments that may be obtained in, and executions issued from, the justices' courts shall bear equal dignity with judgments obtained in, and executions issued from, the superior courts, and shall bind all the property of the defendant, and his securities, if any (except such as is exempt by law), from the date of such judgment until the same is fully sat- isfied. 
§ 4158. (4165.) Judgment and execution against securities. Where brought against joint obligors and joint promisors, and any one or more f them shall make it satisfactorily appear to the court that he signed the contract sued on as security only, and was not interested in the consideration thereof, the court shall enter up judgment and award execution against such party as security, and when the execution shall be satisfied by such security out of his own money or property, he shall have the right to control such judg- ment and execution for the purpose of remunerating himself out of the property of the principal, in the same manner that securities on stay of execution may do: Provided, the judgment and execution shall also be against such principal. 
§ 4159. (4166.) Judgments in cases of set-off. in preference When the defendant plea(is and establishes a set-off greater than the demand of the plain- t^' t n e court shall render judgment in favor of the defendant a g ams t the plaintiff for the excess or balance over and above the demands of the plaintiff, unless such balance exceeds the sum of one hundred dollars principal, in which event the set-off of the defend- ant shall be, by the judgment of the court, credited with the amount of the demand established and proven by the plaintiff, and the plaintiff in such case shall pay the costs. 
§ 4160. (4167.) Final judgment and execution. Staying and backing executions. When final judg- rendered in the justice's court, the party against whom the judgment is rendered, at any time within four days after the judg- ment, shall have the right, by paying all the costs which have ac- crued, and giving good and sufficient security for the principal and interest involved in the case, to stay the execution for sixty days, if the judgment is for more than thirty dollars principal; and if the judg- ment be for thirty dollars principal, or under that sum, the execu- tion shall be stayed for forty days; and when the time for which the execution is so stayed has expired, execution shall issue against the party and his security on stay for the amount of the judgment. In case any person, after being summoned on any complaint for debt in a justice's court, shall, before the sitting of such court, remove out of the district, such court may nevertheless give judgment against him; and if any person shall, after judgment of such court, remove out of the district or county, or holds property in a different dis- trict or county, before satisfaction is made, such justice may, in either case, issue execution against such person; which execution, being backed by any justice of the county where such person resides, or where his property may be found, may be levied by any constable of said county, and the after-proceedings shall be the same as pro- vided in other cases of levy and sale by virtue of executions from justices' courts. 
§ 4161. (4168.) When plaintiff liable for costs . When an execution issued from a justice's court shall be returned by the proper offi- cer, with an entry thereon that there is no property of the defendant out of which satisfaction of the execution can be made, the plaintiff in execution shall be bound and liable for the costs due thereon; and if the plaintiff, upon being notified of the return and the costs being demanded of him, shall fail or refuse to pay such costs, exe- cution therefor may issue against such plaintiff. 
§ 4162. (4169.) Liability of constable for misconduct . If any consta- ble shall fail to execute and return any process placed in his hands, or shall fail to account with and pay over to the person entitled thereto any money which he has received on any note, execution, or other paper placed in his hands as such constable, within ten days after the money is received, the person injured by such failure may apply to the justice of the peace of the district in which the default- ing constable is acting as such, or in which he did act as such, if he has gone out of office (and if there be no justice in such district, the party injured may apply to the justice of any adjacent district), and obtain a warrant against such constable; and upon satisfactory proofs of the facts, the justice to whom the application is made, may, either in term time or vacation, award judgment and execution against the constable for the full amount of money collected and withheld, or which might have been collected, and the justice may also fine the constable for such default in a sum not exceeding ten per cent, on the amount of said money so collected, or which might have* been collected. 
§ 4163. (4170.) Constables may be ruled. Constables may be ruled by their respective justices' courts and compelled to give an account of their actings and doings, or to pay over money received or col- lected by them in their official capacity, under the same rules and regulations as are pursued in the superior court in relation to officers of said superior court. 
§ 4164. (4171.) Witnesses failing to attend. Any witness failing to attend the justice's court, after being duly served with a subpoena, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding ten dollars, which may be collected by execution, unless good excuse be shown for such failure at or before the next court day after the default; and such witness shall also be liable to a suit for damages at the instance of the party injured by his default, in any court having cognizance of the same. 
§ 4165. (4172.) Executions, levies and sales. In all cases when no PP ea -l li° s or none is entered, a justice of the peace, or commissioned n°tary public, shall issue execution after the expiration of four days (Sundays excepted), and the levy shall be advertised ten days, in case of personal property, before the day of sale, which advertise- ment shall designate the time and place of sale, and shall give a reasonable description of the property to be sold, and shall be posted in three public places in the county, and the sale shall be at the place of holding justice's court in his district, and between the hours of ten o'clock a. m., and four o'clock p. m. In case the levy is upon real estate, it shall be turned over to the sheriff of the county and disposed of as now directed by law. 
§ 4166. (4172 a.) Time and place of constables' sales. Constables and bailiffs in the State shall be required to sell the property of defend- ants in execution on the regular monthly court days of their respec- tive districts at the place of holding such courts, after advertising the said property for ten days prior to such sale, and any other sales on any other days shall be absolutely null and void, and vest no title to the property in the purchaser: Provided, nevertheless, that the pro- visions of this section shall not be construed so as to prevent the sale of property ordered to be sold by the justice of the peace, as live stock or perishable property, and likely to deteriorate in value; such sales, when made, shall be valid and binding. 
§ 4167. (4172b.) Land may be levied on, when. No constable shall levy on any land unless there is no personal property to be found suf- ficient to satisfy the debt, which fact must appear by an entry on the execution, to be levied by a constable of the county where such execution was issued, or where the property to be levied upon may be found: Provided, that the defendant shall have the right in all cases to point out any portion of his property in his possession he may think proper, and should he point out land to be levied upon, the above entry of "no personal property" may be omitted. 
§ 4168. (4173.) Bank and other stock, how levied upon. When any :-constable shall have any execution placed in his hands against any - person who is the owner of any shares or stock in any bank, or other corporation, or joint-stock company, in this State, he shall, on the application of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, indorse a levy on said execution of the number of shares belonging to the defendant, and make a return of the same to the sheriff of the county in which he lives, which said sheriff shall proceed to advertise and sell the same as required by law. When the constable levies an execution in which the sheriff is a party, or in which he is interested, he may proceed to sell the property as a sheriff is authorized to do. 
§ 4169. (4174.) Compensation of constables. A reasonable compensa- tion shall be allowed to constables for carrying property levied upon to the place of sale, where there appears to be an absolute necessity for doing so, to be judged of by the justices of the district. 
§ 4170. (279.) County court, how established. Upon the recom- mendation by the majority of the grand jury of any county in this State (except Walton), a county court shall be established for such county. 
§ 4171. (279.) The Governor by and with the ad- vice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint for any such county a suitable person for county judge, who shall be not less than twenty- one years of age, and who shall have resided in such county one year immediately preceding his appointment. 
§ 4172. (279.) Term. The county judge shall be appointed for four years, and shall hold until his successor is qualified. 
§ 4173. (316, 281.) Judge's salary, and how paid. Said county judge shall receive a salary as follows: The grand jury of each county ' shall, after a careful examination, assess and declare what amount shall be paid for his services as judge in criminal matters, and for attending to such county business as may be intrusted to him by the provisions of this Chapter; said sum to be levied by the ordinary of each county as provided in this section, and the ordinary, when he levies the tax for county purposes, shall levy the sum allowed to the county judges, which shall be collected with the other county taxes, and after being paid over to the county treasurer of each county, paid over to the county judges. If any county judge shall die or resign his office, or be otherwise removed from his office, then such pro rata part of his aforesaid salary shall be paid him as he is justly entitled to. If no salary shall be recommended by the grand jury of any county, then the county judge shall be authorized to re- ceive and retain as his compensation the costs prescribed in this Chapter: Provided, nevertheless, that the said salary, when once fixed, shall not be increased or diminished during the term of office of said county judge. 
§ 4174. (280.) Vacancies, how filled. If a vacancy occurs after the first appointment, from any cause, in said office of county judge, the Governor of the State for the time being shall fill the same as in case of judges of the superior court, and shall also submit his ap- pointments for confirmation to the Senate, as in case of superior- court judges, and all the rules of law and requirements of the Con- stitution now in force as to the appointment of judges of the superior court shall apply to said appointment of county judges, so far as the same can be applied under the law of this Chapter. 
§ 4175. (279a.) Judges may practice law . If the person appointed county judge be a member of the bar, he may practice law in any$ court except his own. 
§ 4176. (313.) Powers of inferior court. The county judge shall dis- charge all duties formerly devolved on the justices of the inferior court as to county business, except in those counties where, by local laws, other provision has been made on the subject. 
§ 4177. Judges may hold court outside counties. County judges are authorized to hold county court in the several counties of this State that have county courts, in the same manner that judges of the superior courts hold court in other than their own circuits. 
§ 4178. (280 a.) Judge pro hac vice, where county judge is disqualified. "When from any cause a county judge in this State is disqualified from presiding in any case in his court, if the parties consent thereto, and select any attorney practicing in the court to preside in such case, the judge shall have such consent entered upon the records of the court, and the attorney so selected shall exercise all the func- tions of judge in that case; and should the parties fail or refuse to agree upon counsel to preside in such case, it shall be the duty of the judge of said court to call in a judge of a county court to pre- side. See notes to section 4326. 
§ 4179. (280 a.) Clerk to select judge pro hac vice, when. Should the parties litigant fail or refuse to agree upon counsel to preside in such case, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said court, where there is one, and the duty of the clerk of the superior court where there is no clerk of the county court, to select any attorney practicing in the court to preside in such case and try the same. See section 4329. 
§ 4180. County court judges may preside for each other. In any county within which there is, or may hereafter be, a county court, the judges of said courts may preside in the courts of each other in cases where the judge of either court is disqualified to preside. 
§ 4181. (291.) Place of holding court . The county judge shall keep his office and papers at the county-site, and shall hold court at the ' court-house, unless impracticable from any cause, when the same ' ' ' shall be held at some other point in the county-site, notice of the location of which shall be given by publication for two weeks in a public gazette having a general circulation in the county. 
§ 4182. (312.) Office to be kept open daily. The county judge shall keep his office open every day except Sundays and public holidays. 
§ 4183. (283 e.) Terms of the county court. Said county court shall hold monthly and quarterly sessions, the times of which shall be established by the judge, advertising his appointment thereof weekly fop four successive weeks in the paper in which the county advertise- ments are published. In like maimer he may change such time. 
§ 4184. Records of abolished county courts. All the records, dockets aiK| papers belonging to such county courts that have been or may be abolished, shall be deposited in the clerks' offices of the superior courts of the several counties for safe-keeping, and the clerks of the superior courts are required to make all such entries on said records, as may be required of them on the records and dockets now in their own offices. 
§ 4185 - ( 29L ) Office and dockets. He shall keep a docket of all civil cases and one for all criminal cases before him or his court, with proper memoranda of the proceedings thereon; an execution-docket, on which all executions issued from his court shall be stated, and entries made as required upon the clerk's execution -docket in the superior court; and a book of minutes in which all the proceedings of the court shall be kept, noting the distinction between the pro- ceedings of the monthly and of the quarterly and of special sessions. All the pleadings and original papers in each case shall be carefully labeled and kept of file, but shall not be required to be recorded. 
§ 4186. (279 b.) Clerk of county court. He shall be the clerk of his own court, but may, by order on the minutes, appoint a deputy- clerk, to be paid out of his compensation on terms agreed on by them, which appointment shall be published once in the paper which pub- lishes the county advertisements. 
§ 4187. Deputy-clerks and their powers. Deputy-clerks of the county courts may administer oaths, attest affidavits, issue subpoenas and processes on declarations, and executions on judgments, foreclosure of mortgages and other liens, bearing test in the name of said judge, and returnable as if issued by him; and shall receive for their serv- ices pay from the compensation of the judge on terms to be agreed on by them. 
§ 4188. County solicitors, how appointed, etc. The Governor of tKis State, with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint a solicitor of the county court for each county in this State, where a county court now is or may hereafter be established, for a term of two years, or until their successors are appointed and qualified, if the grand jury of the county in which the court is located, shall, by a two-thirds vote, so recommend. If the Senate be in session at the time of such appointment, such appointee shall not qualify or enter upon his duties until his said appointment is confirmed by the Sen- ate. If the Senate be not in session, such appointee shall hold only until the Senate shall have passed upon his appointment in execu- five session. Upon his appointment by the Governor, if the Senate be not in session, or upon his confirmation by the Senate if in ses- sion, such appointment shall be certified by the Governor to the au- thorities of the county wherein such court is established, together with a commission for such appointee, to be delivered to him on his filing oath as now required by law of county officials, and making and filing a bond with the authorities having charge of county business, in the sum of one thousand dollars, conditioned as other bonds of the solicitors-general of the several judicial circuits of this State. Such solicitors of the county court shall have the same fees as solicitors- general have for similar services, to be paid exclusively from the fines and forfeitures of the county courts: Provided, nothing in this section shall be construed to affect or repeal any local law now ex- isting in any county providing for the appointment, commission, qualification, or compensation of such solicitor of the county court. 
§ 4189. (289.) Special bailiffs. In cases of emergency, when more than one bailiff is necessary to attend to the business of the county judge, or there is no regular bailiff, or he is sick or absent, or for any other reason he cannot conveniently attend, said county judge may appoint, by order on his docket, a special bailiff, without taking from him bond and security, but in all cases requiring the usual oath administered to constables. These bailiffs when appointed shall have the same authority to serve processes, summonses, orders and other legal papers of the county judge, over the entire county over which the county judge has jurisdiction, as constables have in their several districts, and shall, for the county in which they are appointed, have all the rights of a constable, and be liable to per- form all the duties of a constable. 
§ 4190. (287 a, 288.) Bailiffs appointment and bond. The county judge may appoint, for and during his pleasure, a bailiff of the county court, to serve all writs and processes, and to execute all orders issued by him, administering to him the same oath adminis- tered to constables, and taking from him the same kind of bond and security, except that it shall not exceed the sum of five hundred dollars. 
§ 4191. Pay of county-court bailiffs. The bailiffs of the county courts of this State shall be entitled to two dollars per day for each day's attendance upon the regular monthly and quarterly sessions of said county courts, which shall be paid by the county treasurer upon the order of the county judge: Provided, the total amount of said services shall not exceed the sum of thirty-two dollars per annum. 
§ 4192. Sheriffs and deputy officers of county courts. The sheriffs and their deputies of the respective counties shall be ex officio officers of said courts, with power to serve all the processes issued by said courts or the judges thereof, in the manner that said proc- esses may now be served by the special bailiffs of said courts, and the fees of said sheriffs and their deputies shall be the same as are allowed by law to the special bailiffs of said courts. 
§ 4193. (282.) Jurisdiction of ministerial^ county courts. Every county court in ^p this State shall be a court of record, having jurisdiction throughout the county as follows: The jurisdiction of the county courts shall extend into the county town, district or districts, to all civil cases , of contract or tort (save where exclusive jurisdiction is vested in the >./ superior court) where the principal sum claimed in cases of contract or damages in cases of tort does not exceed five hundred dollars; and over the remainder of the county, when the principal sum aforesaid does not exceed five hundred dollars nor is less than fifty dollars. 
§ 4194. (283 f.) Jurisdiction at different sessions. At the monthly session said court may entertain jurisdiction of issues on distress. warrants, and of suits, in which the amount of. the principal, or of damages claimed, does not exceed one hundred dollars, and at the quarterly sessions it shall have jurisdiction of issues on distress war- rants, and suits, wherein such amount is not more than five hundred dollars. Claims, illegalities, and other defenses to the proceeding of executions from said court shall be tried at such session as had juris- diction of the suit whence the execution issued, or the amount of principal originally named in the execution. 
§ 4195. (282(6).) Bringing claim within jurisdiction. Any person desiring to bring his claims within the jurisdiction of the county judge, may do so by remitting or releasing so much of his claim as will bring it within the jurisdiction aforesaid of the county judge. 
§ 4196. (283a.) Jurisdiction in garnishment and other cases extended. The county courts of this State shall have jurisdiction in all cases in garnishment, as well when the debt of the garnishee to the defend- ant shall exceed, as when it shall fall short of, the jurisdictional amount of said courts; and in all cases of suit on bail or attach- ment*, claim or other obligations, or bonds given by parties to any proceedings issued from or had in said court, although the penalties of said bonds may exceed the jurisdiction of said court by being in double the sum sworn to, attached, or of the execution issued, or property levied on: Provided, the original cause of action upon which such bonds or obligations were had, or taken, did not exceed the jurisdiction of said court. 
§ 4197. (288 b.) Garnishee residing in different county where returnable. In all cases in the county courts of this State, where any of the persons sought to be garnished reside in a different county from the one where suit is pending, £>r in which judgment was obtained, the summons of garnishment maybe made returnable to the county court of the county of the residence of the garnishee: Provided, that in the event there be no county court established in the county of such garnishee's residence, then the same may be made returnable to the superior court of the county of the garnishee's res- idence, and in all other respects to be governed by the regulations prescribed in this Code. 
§ 4198. (283 c.) Practice. The practice and modes of procedure in the county court, and the effect of its proceedings, records, and judgments shall be the same as in the superior court, from the filing of the original suit to the final process and proceedings to enforce judgment thereon, and upon claims, illegalities, or other defenses to the proceeding of the executions of the county court, except as hereinafter provided. 
§ 4199. (284.) Suits, how commenced. In suits to the monthly ses- sion or term, the original petition shall be filed with the clerk of the^ county court fifteen days, and service thereof shall be made ten days before said session, and such cause, unless continued, shall be tried at the first term after suit begun. 
§ 4200. (283d.) Mode of trial. The trial and judgment in said court shall be by the court without a jury in all civil cases. 
§ 4201. (284a.) Claims and illegalities, when tried. When an am- davit of illegality or other defense to the proceeding of an execu- tion shall be made, the case arising thereon shall not be, as against the plaintiff in execution or his assignee, forced to trial, until he or his attorney shall have had ten days notice of such defense being made, which notice shall state that the party defending has filed his defense to the proceeding of such execution, shall be signed by such defending party or his attorney, and its service proved as the service of notice to produce papers. 
§ 4202. (284 b.) Service of process in different counties. In all cases suits may be brought in the county courts of this State against par- ties residing in different counties, under the same rules and regula- tions as to second originals, etc., as are practiced in the superior courts, and it shall be lawful for such second originals, processes, summonses, attachments, or other papers requiring service, to be served and returned by the sheriff or his deputy, or any lawful con- stable of the county to which said papers may be sent for service having no county court established therein: Provided, nevertheless, that in cases where the law requires the first original to be served by the sheriff or his deputy, the second original shall be served in like manner. 
§ 4203. (285.) Hearing, continuance, amendments. When the time specified in said summons shall have arrived for the hearing, trial and judgment of the cases specified, the said county judge shall pro- ceed to hear and determine the said cases as aforesaid, as justices of the peace hear and determine matters submitted to their jurisdic- tion, unless the case is continued, which continuance may be allowed for the same grounds and on the same terms as cases are continued in the superior courts of this State, for a period not exceeding ten days; said summons may be answered to and defended as suits in the justice's court by defendants, and either party may amend his pleadings in accordance with the general law of amendments and the nature of the proceedings. 
§ 4204. (283 c.) Practice. The practice and modes of procedure in the county court, and the effect of its proceedings, records, and judgments shall be the same as in the superior court, unless other- wise provided. 
§ 4205. (292.) Executions, when and how issued. So soon as judg- r . * i ment is entered, said county judge is compelled to issue an execu- tion upon such judgment, unless an appeal is taken, or a certiorari sued out, as herein provided; which execution shall be in the usual form issued by justices of the peace. 
§ 4206. (293.) Claims and illegalities.When such execution shall be levied on property to which a legal claim is asserted, said claim shall (conforming to the law regulating claims, as provided in this Code) be disposed of by said county judge; but the same right of appeal and certiorari shall exist as in cases provided for in sections 4214 and 4215; and if any affidavit of illegality is taken to the pro- ceeding of said county judge, or to the execution of his judgments and orders, the same shall be returned to him for disposition, as cases of illegality are returned to the superior court, with the same right of appeal and certiorari as is herein allowed in claims and other cases. No claim case or illegality shall be disposed of until the county judge has given ten days notice of the time and place of hearing the same, to the parties interested, or their agent or at- torneys at law. 
§ 4207. (294.) Powers of the judge as to witnesses, papers, and con- tempts. The county judge shall have the power to procure testimony from witnesses in his county, to compel production of papers, and to procure testimony by interrogatories and commission, as judges of the superior court, and shall have the same general power, to issue any notice, writ, order, and processes neces- sary to dispose of matter pertaining to his jurisdiction as are granted to judges of the superior courts in their jurisdiction, and shall be allowed to exercise the same authority as to con- tempts of officers and others, by fining not exceeding one hun- dred dollars, and imprisonment not exceeding ten days; and what- ever imprisonment is inflicted by said county judge, or shall be necessary to enforce his orders and sentences, shall be in the county jail of the county in which he is judge, over which, to the extent of his jurisdiction, he shall have as much control as a judge of the superior court. 
§ 4208. (295.) Jurisdiction as to tenant, intruders, etc. Said county judge shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine all applications for the eviction of intruders, tenants holding over, partition of personal property, for the trial of possessory warrants; issue and dispose of distress warrants, attachments and garnishments; fore- close mortgages on personal property and liens; attest deeds and other contracts for registry, and administer oaths, grant writs of habeas corpus and determine the same, as now by law is given to ordinaries in this State. The county judge shall allow parties to file their defense in writing, under oath, as all defenses in all cases of a civil nature before said county judge must be filed, and proceed to give judgment only when such notice and opportunity for defense is offered; and the same rights of certiorari and appeal, when applicable, shall exist in relation to the matters specified in this section as is provided in this Chapter. 
§ 4209. (317 a.) Certiorari and appeal. In civil cases, the right of certiorari from the county court shall be as provided in section 4215, and the right of appeal as in section 4214. 
§ 4210. (317 b.) Certain sections applicable to all. Sections 4170, 4171, 4172, 4173, 4174 and 4217 of this Code are declared to be applicable to all county courts. 
§ 4211. (317 c.) County courts, where held. The county court shall be held at the court-house, or where the superior courts are usually held in the county; and shall have the same powers as to contin- uances and adjournments, which belong to the superior court. 
§ 4212. (317 d.) Extent of Act of 1878-9. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to establish a county court where there is none, nor to abolish any county court now existing, nor to repeal any local act affecting the compensation of the officers of such court; nor to take away from any county court, or judge, jurisdiction of any matter on which proceedings have begun before October 13th, 1879, but such proceedings may be carried On to completion as if the Act of 1879 had not been passed; and nothing herein contained shall be construed to repeal section 4176 of the Code, in relation to the duties of the county judge as to county business; and no county court shall be established in any county having a city court. 
§ 4213. (317 e.) What laws repealed. All laws, general or local, except as in the Act of 1879 provided, by which jurisdiction or power is conferred on any county court or judge, or whereby its proceed- ings or practice, or the force or effect of the process, judgment or decree of any such court is defined, and all laws in conflict with the Act of 1878-9, page 136, are repealed. 
§ 4214 - ( 286 -) Appeals. If either party is dissatisfied with the judgment of the county judge, and the principal sum claimed, or damages claimed, exceeds fifty dollars, said party may enter an ap- peal from such judgment within four days, under the same rules and regulations as are provided for appeals in this Code. When such appeal is entered, said county judge shall transmit the same, and all papers connected with the case appealed, to the clerk of the superior court of the county in which the case was tried, at least five days before the next term of the superior court, there to be tried and disposed of as provided for the trial of appeals. 
§ 4215. (287. ) Certiorari in civil cases. If the judgment of a county judge has been rendered in a case where the principal sum or dam-$ age claimed does not exceed fifty dollars, either party may sue out a certiorari to his judgment, in conformity to the Constitution of this State and the provisions of this Code regulating certiorates ; and in his petition for certiorari may state all the decisions and judgments complained of as erroneous, from the beginning to the end of the case. All the rules provided in this Code, for preparing, answering, hear- ing and disposing of certioraries from justices' courts, shall apply to the said certioraries sued out to the decisions and judgments of the county judge, which may be disposed of by the judge of the supe- rior court, in accordance with said rules, in vacation or at a regular term of the superior court. 
§ 4216. (2628b.) Sales under county-court process. All sales made by any sheriff or bailiff of the county court, of any property levied on by such officer, under and by virtue of any fi. fa. or other process^ issued from the county courts of this State, shall be conducted in the same manner and after the same advertisement as sheriff's sales under process from the superior courts of this State, with the excep- tion that when the fi. fa. or other process is for one hundred dollars or a less sum, and is levied on personal property, such sale shall be advertised by posting a notice of the same at the court-house door and three other public places in the county, for twenty days before the day of sale. 
§ 4217. (296.) Fees and costs in civil cases. The entire court costs in cases over one hundred dollars, exclusive of sheriff's or bailiff's fees, shall be four dollars; and where a less amount is sued on, the costs in each case shall be two dollars; and for other matters sub- mitted to him in the preceding section, the fees and costs of said county judge shall be as follows: For the foreclosure of mortgages, the partition of personalty, the removal of intruders, or tenants holding over, for the certiorari of any case, for trial of possessory warrants, and the like, three dollars; and where no provision is made for fees and costs, then his fees and costs shall be such as shall be assessed for his services by a judge of the superior court. 
§ 4218. (318.) Name, style, etc., ursuan t to the amended Constitution, of ordinary. The court established - approved the second time December 5th, 1851, has the name and style of the court of ordinary, an( j the incumbent thereof has the name and style of the ordinary. 
§ 4219. (319.) Election, etc. The ordinaries are elected by the peo- p} e f their respective counties, at the time and in the manner hereinafter prescribed, who hold their offices for four years, unless sooner removed in the manner prescribed by law; and the terms of the successors to the terms of the several ordinaries in this State, who were elected in the year 1868, shall begin on the first day of January, 1873, and expire on the first day of January, 1877. And succeeding terms of the several ordinaries in this State shall, as di- rected in this section, begin on the first day of January, and expire on the first day of January, four years next thereafter. 
§ 4220. (254.) Who shall qualify ordinary. The several judges of the superior courts in their respective circuits shall have power, and it shall be their duty, to qualify the ordinaries of the several coun- ties in their circuits, and approve the official bonds of such ordina- ries, and cause such bonds to be returned to the Governor with the dedimus, to be filed in the Executive office, and in all cases a certified copy of such bond shall be sufficient original evidence on which to sue and recover. The provisions of this section shall extend to clerks of the superior courts, when the ordinary and clerk are the same per- son, and such officers must qualify at or before the spring term of the court after their election. 
§ 4221. (320.) Oath. Before entering on the duties of their offices they must take and file the oaths required of all civil officers, and in addition, the following oath: "I do swear that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of ordinary for the county of , during my continuance in office, according to law, to the best of my knowledge and ability, without favor or affection to any party, and that I will only receive my legal fees. So help me God." 
§ 4222. (321.) Bond. They must also give bond and surety, in the sum of one thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of their duties as clerks of the ordinary. 
§ 4223. (322.) Shall give other security, ivhen. If at any time during the term of such ordinary, it be made satisfactorily to appear to the judge of the superior court that the bond of such ordinary is insuf- ficient, or the security thereof insolvent, it shall be his duty to re- quire other security, and on failure of the ordinary to comply with the order of the judge, a vacancy shall be declared, as if he had failed to give security in the first instance. 
§ 4224. (323.) Vacancy, how filled. When a vacancy occurs in the office of ordinary in any of the counties of this State, it shall be the duty of the clerk of the superior court of said county, on the fact of said vacancy being made known to him, to order an election to take place within twenty days from the date of said order, and notice thereof shall be given by publication in the public gazette in which the ordinary of said county publishes his citations, and until the va- cancy is filled the said clerk of the superior court shall perform all the duties which the ordinary could perform as clerk, and no more. 
§ 4225. (324.) Ordinary elected to fill vacancy . The person elected^ to supply the vacancy must be commissioned for the unexpired term. 
§ 4226. (325.) Citations, how disposed of. All citations and other unfinished proceedings of the former ordinary must be disposed of by the successor as though there had been no vacancy. 
§ 4227. Where ordinary disqualified. When any ordinary is disqual- ified to pass upon any matter presented to him as such ordinary, he$ shall indorse such disqualification upon the papers, and the ordinary of any adjoining county shall pass upon the same and certify, to the ordinary of the county where the business arose, his action in the matter, who shall record the same, and enter the proceedings on the minutes if need be. When any ordinary is disqualified to try any case or issue pending before the court of ordinary, such ordinary shall call upon the ordinary of any adjoining county to preside on the hearing of such case or issue. 
§ 4228. (327.) Eligibility and disability of ordinary . The eligibility and disabilities of the ordinary, aside from the Constitution, are the same as the clerks of the superior courts for their offices, with the addition that they cannot, during their terms of office, be executors, administrators or guardians, or other agent of a fiduciary nature re- quired to account to their courts; but they may be administrators, guardians or executors in cases where the jurisdiction belongs to another county, or where, in special cases, they may be allowed by law and required to account to the ordinary of another county. 
§ 4229. (328.) His trust as executor. When any persons holding such trusts are elected ordinaries, their letters and powers imme- diately abate on their qualification. 
§ 4230. (329.) Who administers when ordinary is clerk. When the ordinary is also the clerk of the superior court, and there is no pub- lic administrator, or other person upon whom the law casts the ad- ministration of unrepresented estates, such administrations are cast upon the sheriffs of the several counties, who must become such ad- ministrators. 
§ 4231. (330.) Office, where kept. The ordinaries must keep their offices at the place and in the manner prescribed for clerks of the superior courts, and must hold their courts at the place prescribed for the superior courts, or in their offices. 
§ 4232. (331.) Jurisdiction, etc. Courts of ordinary have author- ity exer(?i se original, exclusive and general jurisdiction of the fol- lowing subject-matters: 1. Probate of wills. 2. The granting of letters testamentary, of administration, and^|^ the repeal or revocation of the same. 3. Of all controversies in relation to the right of executorship or^^ administration. 4. The sale and disposition of the real property belonging to, and$ the distribution of, deceased persons' estates. Section cited and construed : 47 Ga. 200. Ordinary may order the sale without express authority of law: 50 Ga. 567, 568. 5. The appointment and removal of guardians of minors and per- sons of unsound mind. 6. All controversies as to the right of guardianship. Estoppel, as to : 25 Ga. 696. Cannot appoint a guardian for infant residing out of his county : 25 Ga. 613. 7. The auditing and passing returns of all executors, administra- tors and guardians. 8. The discharge of former, and the requiring of new surety from^ administrators and guardians. 9. The issuing commissions of lunacy in conformity to law. 10. Of all such other matters and things as appertain or relate to estates of deceased persons, and to idiots, lunatics, and insane per- sons. 11. Of all such matters as may be conferred on them by the Con-S stitution and laws. 12. And concurrent jurisdiction with the county judge in the binding out of orphans and apprentices, and all controversies be-$ tween master and apprentice. 
§ 4233. (332.) May punish for contempt. Such courts may issue rules and attachments for contempts offered the court, or its process, by any executor, administrator, guardian or other person, and may pun- ish the same by a fine as high as fifty dollars, or imprisonment not exceeding five days (one or both). 
§ 4234. (333.) Ordinary may grant administration. The ordinary can grant administration upon no person's estate who was not a res- ident of the county where the application is made at the time of his death, or, being a non-resident of the State, has property in said county, or a bona fide cause of action against some person therein. 
§ 4235. (334.) Administration, in what county granted. When such non-resident deceased persons have such property or cause of action in more than one county, such letters may be granted in either county, and the ordinary first granting them acquires exclusive ju- risdiction. 
§ 4236. (335.) Unrepresented estates, etc. Such ordinaries shall, at each term of the superior courts of their respective counties, report to the presiding judge the estates in their hands unrepresented, to- gether with their condition. 
§ 4237(g 36 ) When ineligible. If any ordinary fails faithfully to account as executor, administrator or guardian, after becoming such ordinary, which trusts he held at the time of his election, he is inel- igible to a re-election. 
§ 4238. (337.) Authority over county matters. The ordinary, when sitting for county purposes, has original and exclusive jurisdiction over the following subject-matters, to wit: ! In directing and controlling all the property of the county as h e may deem expedient according to law. 2. In levying a general tax for general, a special tax for particu- lar county purposes, according to the provisions of this Code. 3. In establishing, altering or abolishing all roads, bridges and^ ferries, in conformity to law. 4. In establishing and changing election precincts and militia dis-$ tricts. 5. In supplying, by appointment, all vacancies in county offices, and in ordering elections to fill them. Filling vacancy caused by county treasurer abandoning office : 65 Ga. 553. 6. In examining, settling and allowing all claims against the^ county. Calling on the county treasurer for a settlement of accounts : 64 Ga. 677-679. Suit proper remedy against commissioners refusing to pass on claim : 65 Ga. 741. 7. In examining and auditing the accounts of all officers having^ the care, management, keeping, collection or disbursement of money belonging to the county or appropriated for its use and benefit, and bringing them to a settlement. 8. In making such rules and regulations for the support of the poor of the county, for county police and patrol, for the promotion of health and quarantine, as are granted by law or not inconsistent therewith. 9. In regulating peddling and fixing the costs of license therefor. 
§ 4239. (741a.) Ordinary, concurrent jurisdiction over obstructions. Ordinaries shall have jurisdiction, concurrent at least, with other tribunals, in all cases and in all counties of this State, over the question of the removal of obstructions from roads, as is provided in section 679 of the Code, notwithstanding any local or other law conferring jurisdiction on any other tribunal. 
§ 4240. (338.) Other authority . The ordinary also has authority— 1. To sit at any time as a court for county purposes and for the exercise of any power he possesses as a quasi corporation, contra- distinguished from his power as a court. 2. To appoint any person to discharge any trust authorized by his powers, where no other person is designated by law, and to regulate his compensation, and to take bond and security. g rp Q a pp rove a ll ffi c i a i bonds required of him by law and sent to him by the Governor with the dedimus, to qualify such officers, and to deliver them their commissions. 4. To exercise such other powers as are granted by law or are in- dispensable to his jurisdiction. 
§ 4241. (MO.) May administer oaths. The several Ordinaries of this State are authorized to administer oaths in all cases where the au- thority is not specially delegated to some other officer, and receive the same fees therefor as are allowed justices of the peace. 
§ 4242. Cannot practice law, when. No ordinary shall engage, di- rectly or indirectly, in the practice of law in his own name or in the name of another, as partner open or silent, or otherwise, in any cause or proceeding in his own court, or in another court of which his own court has, or has had, or may have, jurisdiction; or in any court, or any manner whatever, in behalf of or against any execu- tor, administrator, guardian, trustee, of other person acting in a representative capacity, whose duty it is to make returns to his court, except to give such advice or instructions as his duty may re- quire of him as ordinary in his own court, and for which he shall receive only such fees as are prescribed by law. 
§ 4243. May issue fi. fas. for costs. Whenever the ordinary shall have any costs due him by executors, administrators or guardians, upon failure to pay the same on demand made, he is empowered to issue a fi. fa. at any regular term of said court against said exec- utors, administrators or guardians, for the amount due for costs at the time of said demand. 
§ 4244. Fi. fas. in all cases tried before them. In all cases tried be- fore the ordinary, where judgment has been entered, the ordinary is empowered to issue fi. fas. for his costs therein, against the party or parties liable therein for said costs. 
§ 4245. How directed and returned. The fi. fas. provided for in the two preceding sections shall be directed "To all and singular the sheriffs of this State," and be made returnable to the court of ordinary. 
§ 4246. Defenses to be returned, where. Whenever any claim, illegal- ity, or other defense is filed by the defendant shall return the/, fa. in.fi. /a., the sheriff and the defense to the next superior court of said county, where the issues made by said defense shall be tried as other cases in said superior court. 
§ 4247. (341.) Ordinaries' 1 clerics. The ordinaries are, by virtue of their offices, clerks of their own courts; but they may, at their own expense, appoint one or more clerks, for whose conduct they are responsible, who hold their offices at the pleasure of such ordinary. 
§ 4248. (342.) Powers of clerk. Such appointed clerks may do all acts the ordinaries could do, not judicial in their nature. 
§ 4249. (343.) Bond. When clerks are thus appointed, before en- tering on the duties of their offices they must give to the ordinary a bond and security in the sum of one thousand dollars. 
§ 4250. (344.) Duties of such clerk or ordinary. It is the duty of such clerks," or the ordinaries acting as such — 1. To issue all citations required by law, and administer all affi- davits incident to the business of said court. 2. To grant temporary letters of administration. Certiorari to the superior court where the ordinary grants letters of admin- istration pendente lite: 40 Ga. 390, 391. 3. To grant marriage licenses. 4. To issue all fi. fas. for costs on all judgments of the ordinary 
§ 
§ 4243, 5413. or other process necessary to enforce them. 5. To issue subpoenas for witnesses, and all similar process for ripening a trial. 6. To issue any paper or process by order of the ordinary, and bearing test in his name as other clerks. 7. To keep fair and regular minutes of each session of the court, entered in a well-bound book, and such other services during term time as the ordinaries may require. 8. To keep in their offices other suitable books for the following purposes, viz.: A book for the record of wills. Another for the record of all letters of administration and guard- ianship. Another for the record of all bonds given by administrators and guardians. nother for the record of all appraisements, inventories and schedules. Another for the record of all accounts of sales. Another for the record of all accounts current authorized to be made to the ordinary, together with the vouchers accompanying the same. Another for the record of all marriage licenses and the returns thereon. Another as a docket in which to enter all applications and other proceedings, in the order they are made, and which shall be called in like order at each session. Another for the record of all official bonds required to be recorded in the ordinary's office. 9. To procure and preserve, for public inspection, a complete file of all newspapers in which their advertisements appear, as the clerks of the superior court are required. 10. To keep their books and papers arranged, filed, and labeled, and indexed, as clerks are required. 11. To give transcripts likewise as they are required, and when the ordinary and the clerk are the same person, so to state in the certificates. 12. To perform any other duty required of them by law, or which is indispensable to those required.

§ 4251. (4111.) When held. The courts of ordinary shall be held in c v ' J each county, by the ordinary thereof, on the first Monday in each month. 
§ 4252. (4112.) Office, where kept. The ordinary shall keep his of- fice at the county-site. His office shall be open for the transaction of all business at all times, except Sundays and holidays; but no will shall be admitted to record, or letters testamentary, of admin- istration or guardianship, or letters dismissory, nor shall any order for the sale of real estate be granted, except at a regular term of said court. 
§ 4254. (4114.) Application, notice and proceedings. Every appli- 33" by petition in writing, stating the ground of such application and cation made to the ordinary for the granting of any order shall be 3465?' the order sought. If notice of such application, other than by pub- lished citation, is necessary under the law or in the judgment of the ordinary, he shall cause a copy of such application, together with a notice of the time of hearing, to be served by the sheriff, or some lawful officer, upon the party or parties to be notified, at least ten days before the hearing, and an entry of such service made on the .original. In extraordinary cases, where it is necessary to act before such notice can be given, the ordinary shall so direct the proceed- ings as to make no final order until such notice has been given. 
§ 4255. (4115.) Order, ivhat it must contain. The order of the or- dinary shall always recite the names of the persons so notified, and the compliance with the provisions required. 
§ 4256. (4116.) Objections must be in writing. All objections or caveats to an order sought shall also be in writing, setting forth the grounds of such caveat. The petition and caveat shall be amendable at all times and in every particular. 
§ 4257. (4117.) Proceedings must be filed and recorded. The proceed- ings shall always be kept of file, and whenever the order is granted the proceedings shall be recorded in a book to be kept for that pur- pose, for which the ordinary shall receive the same fees as are al- lowed clerks of the superior court for similar services. 
§ 4258. (4118.) Minutes of proceedings. The ordinary shall keep a regular book of minutes of the proceedings of his court, on which he shall enter all the applications refused as well as those granted. 
§ 4259. (4119.) Docket of applications. He shall keep a docket of all applications and causes pending in his court, which shall be reg- ularly continued from term to term until the final disposition thereof. 
§ 4260. (4120.) Docket of returns. He shall also keep a docket of all the executors, administrators, guardians, and trustees who are liable to make returns in his court, with regular entries of their re- turns, and of such as have failed to make returns as required by law and the order of the court. 
§ 4261. (4121.) May attach for contempt. The ordinary shall have power to enforce obedience to all lawful orders of his court, by at- tachment for contempt, in the same manner as a court of equity may do. 
§ 4262. (4122.) May have court opened by appointee. The ordinary ma y appoint some fit and proper person to open and adjourn his court, in the absence of an officer to do so. 
§ 4263. (4123.) Applications and objections must be in writing. All applications for proceedings before the ordinary, sitting for county purposes, shall be by petition in writing, which shall plainly and distinctly set forth the grounds of the proceedings desired, and in like manner all objections to said proceedings shall be in writing, which shall fully set forth the grounds of objection. 
§ 4264. (4124.) Docket must be kept. Said ordinary shall cause a docket to be kept in which shall be entered all motions and applica- tions, which shall be called and disposed of in the order in which they stand upon the docket, unless the ends of justice require a dif- ferent course. 
§ 4265. (4125.) Notice of proceedings. When individuals are to be affected by any order or judgment of said ordinary, such individuals shall have reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing. 
§ 4266. (4126.) Minutes of proceedings. Said ordinary shall cause to be kept a minute of the proceedings. 
§ 4267. (4128.) Contempts, how punished. The ordinary shall have power to punish for contempt, under the same rules and regulations as are provided for other courts. 
§ 4268. (4129.) Amendments. Amendments shall be allowed as provided in other courts. 
§ 4269. (8694.) Ordinary's fees. The ordinaries are entitled to the following fees, to wit: 4?*^*. ° ' For receiving application and granting citation For taking and recording administrators' or guardians' bonds For issuing letters of administration, or letters testamen- . . tary For recording the same 50 For copying the same 50 For signing warrant of appraisement 50 For receiving an appraisement or sale bill, and approving the same, if under five hundred dollars If above five hundred and under two thousand dollars ... 1 25 If above two thousand and under ten thousand dollars ... 1 50 If above ten thousand and under twenty thousand dollars . 1 75 If above twenty thousand and under fifty thousand dollars 2 00 If above fifty thousand dollars 2 50 For receiving an appraisement or sale bill, and recording same, if above fifty thousand dollars and under sixty- five thousand dollars 2 75 If above sixty-five thousand dollars and under eighty thou- sand dollars 3 00 If above eighty thousand dollars and under one hundred thousand dollars 3 50 If above one hundred thousand dollars and under one hun- dred and twenty-five thousand dollars 4 00 If above one hundred and fifty thousand dollars 5 00 For receiving application and granting letters dismissory, whole service 5 00 For granting citation to show cause why administration should not be set aside, or repealed „ . . . . 2 00 For entering a caveat against administration being granted or will proven 1 25 For each copy of caveat 50 For signing probate of will or codicil 1 25 For each case litigated before the ordinary, where no fees are prescribed 3 00 For issuing commission to examine witnesses 1 25 For commission to have one year's support set apart to widow, minor or minors 1 25 For recording the same 1 00 For examining book and giving extracts 1 00 For every order passed where no fees are prescribed .... 50 Provided, that no fee shall be charged for drawing checks, orders, drafts or warrants on the county treasury. For each affidavit where no case is pending 30 For every service required and performed, for which no fees are specified by law, the same fees as are allowed clerks of the superior courts for similar services, or for a like amount of labor. For every marriage license 1 50 For every order of sale of land or other property For each copy of the same 25 For issuing letters of guardianship 1 00 For recording the same 50 For rule nisi in each case $ 50 For copy 25 For issuing process against a person for not making return 50 For each additional copy 25 For each subpoena 15 For examining and recording returns on all estates not worth more than two thousand dollars ......... 1 00 For all estates worth more than two, and not more than five thousand dollars „ For all estates worth more than five, and not over ten thou- sand dollars 1 40 For all estates worth more than ten thousand dollars ... 1 60 For examining and recording the returns of all estates worth more than ten thousand dollars, and not over twenty thousand dollars „ 2 00 For all estates worth more than twenty thousand dollars, and not over forty thousand dollars . . 2 50 For all estates worth more than forty thousand dollars, and not over sixty thousand dollars 3 00 For all estates worth more than sixty thousand dollars, and not over eighty thousand dollars 3 50 For all estates worth more than eighty thousand dollars, and not over one hundred thousand dollars 4 00 For all estates worth more than one hundred thousand dol- lars, and not over one hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars 4 50 For all estates worth more than one hundred and twenty- five thousand dollars, and less than one hundred and fifty thousand dollars 5 00 For recording all vouchers accompanying the returns of ad- ministrators, executors, and guardians, per one hundred words 15 For recording any instrument of writing not mentioned, per one hundred words 15 For proceedings to authorize titles to be made to lands of deceased persons 5 00 For commission to freeholders to divide estates 1 25 For entering an appeal and transmitting the proceedings to the superior court 1 50 For filing and recording an official bond 1 00 For services in making settlement of accounts of any execu- tor, administrator, or guardian, as prescribed in this Code For every bull, ox, or cow, for all services required ... $ 1 25 For every goat, hog, or sheep For retailer's bond 1 00 For retailer's license 1 00 For copying and administering oath to retailer 50 For each peddler's license 1 25 For filing and recording each bond the law requires .... 1 00 For recording marks and brands 50 For comparing and testing weights and measures, and stamping and marking each 10 For the whole service in setting apart a homestead of realty and personalty, when not litigated 7 00 When objections or demurrer are filed and heard, in addition to the preceding 3 00 For each^. fa. issued by him 60 For seal and certificate, each 50 For recording any inventory or appraisement, or abstract of receipts and disbursements connected with an account current, in addition to foregoing fees fifteen per one hundred words. 
§ 4270. How established. Upon the recommendation of the grand 107. jury of any county having a population of ten thousand or more, where a city court does not now exist, there shall be established a city court for said county. 
§ 4271. Jurisdiction. Such city courts shall have jurisdiction over the whole county to try all civil cases except those in which exclusive jurisdiction is vested in the superior court, but in all suits brought for sums of one hundred dollars or less the plaintiff shall only re- cover justice-court costs. 
§ 4272. Court of record. Said city court shall be a court of record, and shall have a seal, and the minutes and records that are required by law to be kept for the superior court shall be kept in said city court in the same manner. All laws applicable to the duties of the clerk and sheriff in the superior court shall apply to them in the city court, except where they conflict with the provisions of this Chapter. 
§ 4273. Writs. All processes to writs shall be annexed by the clerk, tested in the name of the judge, and be directed to and served by the sheriff of such court or his deputy. 
§ 4274. How abolished. Where a city' court has been, or may here- after be, established under the provisions of this Chapter, the GenW>®&, eral Assembly may abolish the same, but the act shall not affect any other court than the one sought to be abolished. 
§ 4275. Place for holding court . The county board of commission- ers of the county shall provide a suitable place for the holding of said city court, and provide the necessary books for keeping its dockets, minutes and records. 
§ 4276. Terms. The terms of said city court shall be held quar- terly, beginning on the first Mondays in March, June, September and December of every year. The judge of said city court shall have power to hold said court in session from day to day for a period not longer than four weeks from the beginning of each term. 
§ 4277. Trial term. The first term shall be the appearance or return term, and the second term shall be the trial term. 
§ 4278. Appointment. By and with the advice and consent of the Senate, the Governor shall appoint a judge of such court, whose $ term shall be for four years. If the Senate be not in session at the time of the appointment, the appointment shall be subject to the approval of the Senate at its next session. All vacancies shall be filled by the appointment of the Governor for the unexpired term. 
§ 4279. Qualifications. The judge of such court must be at least twenty-seven years of age, must have been a resident of the county for at least four years immediately preceding his appointment, and a practicing attorney at law at least five years before his appoint- ment. 
§ 4280. Oath. Before entering upon the discharge of his duties, he shall subscribe the following oath: "I solemnly swear that I will administer justice without respect to persons and do equal right to the poor and the rich, and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties which may be required of me as judge of the city court of county of this State, according to the best of my ability and understanding, agreeably to the laws and Constitution of this State and the Constitution of the United States. So help me God." Such oath shall immediately be for- warded to the Governor and filed in the Executive Department. 
§ 4281. Salary. The salary of the judge shall not be increased or diminished during his term of office, except to apply to a subse- quent term. It shall be paid monthly out of the treasury of the county. 
§ 4282. Salary, how fixed. The grand jury voting to establish said court shall at the same time fix the salary of the judge, and the pay of such other officers for said court whose compensation is not now fixed by law. 
§ 4283. Salary, how changed. The last grand jury preceding the expiration of the term of the judge of such court may alter by in- creasing or diminishing the salary of the judge next to be appointed. 
§ 4284. Judge of city court disqualified for other city office. De illegal for the judge of any city court in this State to also hold any municipal office or appointment in the city where such court is held. 
§ 4285. Contempts. The judge of said city court shall have the same power to enforce his orders, to preserve order, and to punish for contempt, and to enforce all his judgments as is vested by law in the judges of the superior courts of this State. $$4331,2453. 
§ 4286. Habeas corpus. The judge of said city court shall have power to issue writs of habeas corpus and to hear and dispose of the same in the same way and with the same power as the judge of the superior court. 
§ 4287. Disqualification of judge. Whenever the judge of said city court is, from any cause, disqualified from presiding, and the judge of the superior court cannot, from any cause, preside in said court, . as provided for in the Constitution, then, upon consent of the par- ties, or upon their failure or refusal to agree, said cause shall be tried by a judge pro hac vice selected in the same manner as now provided for in the superior courts. 
§ 4288. Testimony de bene esse, oaths, etc. The judge of said city court shall have power to cause testimony to be taken and used de bene esse, and for the purpose of perpetuating testimony within his jurisdiction in all cases according to the general laws of this State, and the judge and all other officers of said city court shall have power respectively to administer all oaths pertaining to their office as the judge and other officers of the superior court may in like cases do; and said judge shall also have power to attest deeds and other papers and administer affidavits in all cases anywhere in the State in which, by existing laws, such papers may be attested and affidavits admin- istered by justices of the peace of this State, and the judge of said city court shall have all the powers and authority throughout his jurisdiction of judges of the superior courts, except where by law exclusive power and authority are vested in judges of the superior court, and all laws relating to and governing judges of the superior courts shall apply to the judge of said city court, so far as the same may be applicable, except as herein provided. 
§ 4289. Clerk. There shall be a clerk of said court, who shall be^g appointed by the judge thereof; said clerk shall, before entering on the duties of his office, subscribe an oath to faithfully and impar- tially discharge the duties thereof, which oath shall be entered on the book of minutes of said court; he shall also, before entering on the duties of his office, execute a bond with good security in the sum of one thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office; he shall hold his office during the term of two years. 
§ 4290. Sheriff. The sheriff of the county shall be ex officio of such city court. Before entering on the discharge of the duties of his office, he shall execute a bond with good security in the sum of five thousand dollars, for the faithful discharge of the duties of his office; he shall have power to appoint a deputy or deputies with the consent of said judge; all the duties and liabilities attached to the office of clerk of the superior court and to the office of sheriff shall be attached to the office of clerk and to the office of sheriff of the city court, respectively, and the judge of said city court is em- powered to exercise the same authority over the said clerk and sheriff and his deputy or deputies as is exercised by the judge of the superior courts over the clerks of the superior courts and sheriffs of the counties in Georgia. 
§ 4291. Fees of officers. The fees of the clerk and of the sheriff of said city court shall be the same as are or may be allowed by law to the clerk of the superior court and to the sheriff of the county. 
§ 4292. Bailiffs. The judge of the court at each term may appoint not exceeding two bailiffs. 
§ 4993. J ury-list. The clerk of said city court shall prepare and file in his office a complete copy of the traverse-jury list of the superior court of the county, as provided from time to time for the superior court. From said copy, traverse jurors in said city court shall be drawn in the following manner: The clerk of said city court shall write upon separate tickets the names of each traverse juror, and shall number the same and place the same in a box to be prepared for that purpose, from which shall be drawn all traverse jurors as now required by law in the superior courts. All laws with reference to the drawing, selecting and summoning traverse and tales-traverse jurors in the superior courts shall apply to said city court. 
§ 4294. Challenge, etc. All laws in reference to the qualifications, relations, impaneling, fining and challenging jurors, now of force in this State, or hereafter enacted by the General Assembly, regulating the same in the superior courts, shall apply to, and be observed in said city court, except when inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter. 
§ 4295. Traverse jurors. From said panel of twenty-four traverse jurors drawn and summoned by the provisions of this Article, the judge of said city court shall cause to be made up two juries which shall be known and distinguished as juries numbers "one" and "two," and all cases and issues to be tried by jury, civil or criminal, at that term of said city court, shall be tried by one of these, or by a jury stricken from both, as hereinafter provided. In case from any cause said panel should be reduced below twenty-four, the judge shall have power to fill it by causing talesmen to be summoned instanter. All laws and rules, both civil and criminal, regulating the selection of juries in the superior courts, shall apply to said city court, except where they are inconsistent with the terms of this Article. 
§ 4296. Extra panels may be summoned. One or more extra panels of jurors may be summoned for the city courts in this State, when needed, in the opinion of the judge presiding. 
§ 4297. Service to be interchangeable. In counties where there are or shall be more than one division of the city court, the judges of the several divisions shall, in civil cases, interchangeably use the jurors in the other division or divisions; and when a jury is on duty in one division and another jury is needed, said other jury shall be taken from the jurors of the division not then on duty, each party striking as now required by law, until a jury of twelve is made. 
§ 4298. Decision of conflict as to use of jurors. If any conflict arises as to the use of said jurors, the judge of the first division of said court shall decide the same where there are but two divisions; and a majority of the judges of said court shall decide the same where there are more than two divisions of the city court in any county. 
§ 4299. Same as in superior court. The jurisdiction, methods and proceedings in such city courts shall be the same as in the superior court, unless otherwise provided. 
§ 4300. Lien of judgment. All judgments in said court shall bea$ lien on all property belonging to the defendant throughout the State, in the same manner as judgments of the superior court. 
§ 4301. Suits, process, etc. Suits in said city court shall, in all re- spects, be conformable to the mode of proceedings in the superior court, except as hereinafter provided. 
§ 4302. Pleadings, practice, etc. In all matters pertaining to serv- ice, pleadings and practice, the laws governing the superior court, where not inconsistent with this Article, and unless otherwise spe- cially provided by this Article, shall be applicable to said city court. See general note after section 4338, for argument of counsel, consolidation of cases, etc. 
§ 4303. Trial by jury on demand. The judge shall have power to hear and determine all civil causes of which the court has jurisdic- tion, and to give judgment and execution therein: Provided, always, that either party in any cause shall be entitled to a trial by jury, upon entering a demand therefor by himself or his attorney, in writ- ing, on or before the call of the docket, the first day of the term to which the cause is returnable, in all cases where such party is en- titled to a trial by jury under the Constitution and laws of this State. 
§ 4304. Claims. Said court shall have jurisdiction of all claim cases, where personal property is levied on under executions or other process from said court. 
§ 4305. Processes, how directed. All executions, attachments, scire facias, or other processes shall be directed to the sheriff of said court, and to all and singular the sheriffs and constables of this State, and shall run throughout the State, and may be served or executed by any sheriff or his deputy in the same manner as like writs or processes from the superior court. 
§ 4306. New trial. The judge of the city court shall have power to g ran t a new trial in any case, upon the same conditions and under the same law that governs the grant of new trials in the superior court. 
§ 4307. Writ of error. The writ of error shall lie direct from the city court to the Supreme Court upon a bill of exceptions filed under the same rules and regulations as govern the filing of bills of excep- tions in the superior court. 
§ 4308. Transfer of cases from county court. Whenever a city court is established in any county under the provision of this Chapter, all cases undisposed of in the county court shall be transferred to said city court, and be disposed of as other cases therein. All processes returnable to such county court shall be returned to such city court. The officers of such city court shall have power to enforce, in the name of the city court, any process in a case from the county court necessary to the final disposition of the same. 
§ 4309. Records of county court. All records, books, and papers of file in the county court shall be filed with the clerk of the city court. All unsatisfied^, fas. and final processes from the county court shall be enforced by the sheriff of the city court, and returns thereof made to the city court. 
§ 4310. (236.) Election and term of the judges.' There shall be a^ judge of the superior courts, elected by the General Assembly in joint session on such day or days as shall be fixed by joint resolution of both houses, for each judicial circuit, whose term of office shall be four years and until his successor is elected and qualified, and the terms of office of such judges shall begin and end as follows : The terms of the judges who were elected in 1878 shall expire on the first day of January four years thereafter, and the terms of the judges who were elected in 1880 shall expire on the first day of January four years next thereafter, and all succeeding terms of the judges of the superior courts (except to fill vacancies) shall begin on the first day of January after their election, and expire on the first day of January four years thereafter. But if the time of the meeting of the General Assembly shall be changed, the General Assembly may change the time when the terms of the judges thereafter elected shall begin. 
§ 43H. (237.) Oath judges. Before entering on the duties of their office, they must take the oath required of all civil officers, of and in addition the following, viz.: "I swear that I will ad- minister justice without respect to person, and do equal rights to the poor and the rich, and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties incumbent on me as judge of the superior court of this State, according to the best of my ability and understanding, and agreeable to the laws and Constitution of this State and the Constitution of the United States. So help me God." 
§ 4312. (238.) Judges, who eligible. No person is eligible to such judgeship unless, at the time of his election, he shall have attained the age of thirty years, and shall have been a citizen of the State three years, and have practiced law for seven years. 
§ 4313. (239.) Judges shall not practice law. Such judges are pro- hibited from practicing law in any of the courts of this State be- tween the times of their election and qualification,' but they may practice until their qualification in any case in which they may have been actually employed before their election ; and they are also pro- hibited from practicing as attorneys, proctors or solicitors, in the district- or circuit courts of the United States after their election or while in commission. 
§ 4314. (240.) Attaching the county of his residence to another circuit. A person having been appointed a judge of any circuit cannot be deprived of his office by attaching the county in which he resides to a different judicial circuit, but he continues to discharge its duties as though he resided in the circuit. 
§ 4315. (241.) Must hold courts as prescribed by law. Said judges mus t hold the superior courts of each circuit at the county-site and court-house (if any) of each county, or other place therein designated by law, twice each year, at such times as are now or may be prescribed by the General Assembly. 
§ 4316. (242.) Jurisdiction of judges. The jurisdiction of the judges of the superior courts is coextensive with the limits of this State, but they are not compelled to alternate unless required by law. 
§ 4317. (243.) Duties of judge. Each of said judges shall dis- charge all the duties required of him by the Constitution and laws for the circuit for which he was elected or appointed, although he may hold the courts in other circuits, and may also exercise other judicial functions for them when permitted by law. Section construed: 64 Ga. 561. 
§ 4318. (244.) Written charges. The judges of the superior courts of this State shall, in all cases of felony, and on the trial of all civil cases tried before them, give their charges to the jury in writing; that is to say, shall write out their charges and read the same to the jury, when the counsel for either party shall require them to do so; and it shall be error for such judge to give any other or additional charge than that so written out and read. 
§ 4319. (245.) Shall be filed. The charge so written out and read as aforesaid, shall be filed as soon as delivered, with the clerk of the court in which the same was given, and shall be accessible to all persons interested in the same; and the clerk shall give certified copies thereof to any person applying for the same, upon the payment of the usual fee. 
§ 4320. (246.) Jurisdiction of superior courts. The superior courts have authority -• ^° exer °i se original, exclusive, or concurrent jurisdiction (as the case may be) of all causes, both civil and criminal, granted to them by the Constitution and laws. 2. To exercise the powers of a court of equity. ^T° exerci se appellate jurisdiction in certain civil cases tried in the county court, or where judgment is confessed, and from judg- ments of the ordinary and justices' courts. 4 rp Q exerci 8e a general supervision over all inferior tribunals, anc ^ to review and correct, in the manner prescribed by law, the judgments of the justices of the peace, corporation courts or coun- cils, or any inferior judicature, or any person exercising judicial powers, and of the ordinary, except in cases touching the probate of wills and the granting of letters of administration, when there must be a special jury impaneled. 5. To punish contempt by fines not exceeding two hundred dol- lars, and by imprisonment not exceeding twenty days. . To exercise such other powers, not contrary to the Constitu- tion, as are or may be given to such courts by law. 
§ 4321. (247.) Judges may grant writs of the superior courts have authority . To grant for their respective circuits writs of certiorari, sedeas, quo warranto, mandamus, habeas corpus, and bail in actions ex delicto. . To grant bills quia timet, writs of injunction, prohibition, and ne exeat. 3. To grant all other writs, original or remedial, either in law or 
§ equity, that may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction, which is not expressly prohibited. 4. To hear and determine questions arising upon writs of habeas J ° L corpus or bail, when properly brought before them; all motions to grant, revive, or dissolve injunction, to give new security or lessen the amount of bail, and to perform any and all other acts required of them at chambers. 77 r 5. To hear and determine, in vacation, all demurrers to petitions for equitable relief, and all motions to revoke or change orders ap- pointing a receiver, on ten days written notice being given to the opposite party or his solicitor, by either party, and by service with a copy of such demurrer, or motion to revoke or change such order. 6. To administer oaths and to exercise all other powers neces- sarily appertaining to their jurisdictions, or which may be granted them by law. 
§ 4322. (248.) Absence of judge. The authority granted in the preceding section to each judge in his own circuit may be exercised by any judge of another circuit whenever the resident judge is ab- sent from the circuit so that the business cannot be done as speedily as necessary, or is indisposed or interested, or is laboring under any disqualification or inability to serve, or in case the circuit should be, from any cause, without a judge. The authority, when thus exer- cised, should show the grounds. 
§ 4323. Motion for new trial, etc., in vacation. The judges of the P er i° r an d city courts have power to hear and determine, in vaca- tion as well as in term time, without any order passed in term time, all motions for new trial, certioraries, and all such other matters as they now can hear and determine in term time, and which are not referred to a jury. 
§ 4324. Notice to opposite party. The hearing of all cases provided for in the preceding section shall be fixed by the judge upon the ap- plication of either party or his counsel, of which time and place the party making said application, or his attorney, shall give the oppo- site party or his attorney at least ten days notice in writing. 
§ 4325. (249.) Power in vacation. Said judges cannot exercise any power out of term time, except the authority is expressly granted; but they may, by order granted in term, render a judgment in vacation. 
§ 4326. (250.) When the judge is disqualified. When from any cause the judge of the superior court is disqualified from presiding, he shall procure the services of a judge of another circuit, to try said cause, if he has to appoint an adjourned term for that purpose. 
§ 4327. (250a.) Judge pro hac vice. When, from any cause, the judge of the superior or any city court, is disqualified from presid- ing in any civil case, and has failed to procure the services of a judge to try said cause, then the parties litigant, by consent, may select any attorney of this State to preside in said case, and the attorney so selected, when the consent is entered on the minutes, shall exercise all the functions of a judge in that case. 
§ 4328. (251.) May be impeached. If any judge does not comply with the provisions of section 4326 within a reasonable time when it is in his power to do so, it is a ground of impeachment. 
§ 4329. (252.) Judge appointed by clerk, when. In all cases men- tioned in the preceding sections, when the case or cases are reached in their order on the dockets, without an agreement by the parties, then it shall be the duty of the clerk of the superior court, or in his absence the deputy-clerk, to select some competent attorney prac- ticing in that court, who shall likewise have authority and preside in said case as aforesaid. 
§ 4330. (253.) Judge absent from State . No judge of the superior cour t s shall have authority to perform any judicial act required of him by law, when beyond the jurisdiction of this State. 
§ 4331. (4031.) Penalty y P for refusing -writ of habeas corpus. When erson shall apply for a writ of habeas corpus to any judge whose duty it is to grant said writ, and the same is refused, the judge so refusing to grant said writ shall forfeit to the party aggrieved the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars, to be recovered in any court of law in this State having jurisdiction of the same. 
§ 4332. (3246.) Convention of judges may make rules of practice. The several judges of the superior courts of this State may convene at the seat of government once in each year, at such time as they, or a majority of them, may appoint, for the purpose of establishing uni- form rules of practice throughout the several circuits of this State; which rules, so established, shall be published immediately after the adjournment of said convention. 
§ 4383 - (3247.) All other rides void. All rules of practice for the superior courts, prescribed by any other authority than that which has, by the previous section, been deputed to all the judges of the superior courts of Georgia, in convention, shall be null and void and inoperative. 
§ 4334. (3248.) Judge expressing opinion on facts, error. It is error f or ail y or eithgj. f the judges of the superior courts of this State, in any case, whether civil or criminal, or inequity, during its prog- ress, or in his charge to the jury, to express or intimate his opinion as to what has or has not been proved, or as to the guilt of the ac- cused; and should any judge of said court violate the provisions of this section, such violation shall be held by the Supreme Court to be error, and the decision in such case reversed, and a new trial granted in the court below, with such directions as the said Supreme Court may lawfully give. 
§ 4335. (247 a.) Judges may preside in banc, when. In all counties Acts 1878-9, in this State having therein a city of ten thousand inhabitants, two 
§ 5851. or more judges of the superior court may preside in banc courts may be held in two or more sections at the same time, by dif- ferent judges, in separate rooms in the court-house, or at the county- site, as may be convenient, under such regulations for the service of jurors, talesmen, and officers, and for direction and notice to suitors, counsel and witnesses, and calling the dockets, as the judge of the circuit, or, in his absence, the senior judge in commission present, may direct. 
§ 4336. (247 b.) Minutes ; of proceedings. The clerk shall, by him- self or his deputies, attend in each of said sections, and take knowl- edge of the proceedings, and enter the same on the book of minutes in such form as to show before which judge or judges such proceed- ings were had, respectively; and for all purposes of bills of exceptions, writs of error, or other subsequent action, the record in the particular case, the rights and remedies of the parties shall stand as if the judge who tried the case or made the decision was the only one presiding in the court. But if sitting in banc, the judge of the circuit, or, in his absence, the senior judge in commission, shall, for all such subsequent purposes, be the one authorized to act in behalf of the whole court. 
§ 4337. (247c.) Power, how used. The powers conferred by the two preceding sections shall be used by the judges discharging the duties in their sound legal discretion, to facilitate and speed the trial of causes and clearing the dockets, but without working surprise, abridging any substantial right, or working any hardship or injus- tice. 
§ 4888 (247 d.) What this law embraces. This and the three preced- ing sections shall embrace in their provisions all business, and all causes, whether civil or criminal, pending or which may be brought in said courts. 
§ 4839. (42.) Twenty-three judicial circuits. The entire State is divided into twenty-three judicial circuits, in reference to the ju- risdiction and sessions of the superior court, as follows, to wit: Albany Circuit, composed of the counties of Baker, Calhoun, Deca- tur, Dougherty, Mitchell, and Worth. Atlanta Circuit, composed of the county of Fulton. Augusta Circuit, composed of the counties of Burke, Columbia, McDuffie, and Richmond. Blue Ridge Circuit, composed of the counties of Cherokee, Cobb, Fannin, Forsyth, Gilmer, Milton, and Pickens. Brunswick Circuit, composed of the counties of Appling, Camden, Charlton, Clinch, Coffee, Glynn, Pierce, Ware, and Wayne. Chattahoochee Circuit, composed of the counties of Chattahoochee, Harris, Marion, Muscogee, Talbot, and Taylor. Cherokee Circuit, composed of the counties of Bartow, Catoosa, Dade, Gordon, Murray, and Whitfield. Coweta Circuit, composed of the counties of Campbell, Carroll, Coweta, Fayette, Heard, Meriwether, and Troup. Eastern Circuit, composed of the counties of Bryan, Chatham, Effingham, Liberty, and Mcintosh. Flint Circuit, composed of the counties of. Butts, Henry, Monroe, Pike, Spalding, and Upson. Macon Circuit, composed of the counties of Bibb, Crawford, and Houston. Middle Circuit, composed of the counties of Emanuel, Jefferson, Johnson, Tatnall, Washington, Bulloch, and Screven. Northeastern Circuit, composed of the counties of Dawson, Haber- sham, Hall, Lumpkin, Rabun, Towns, Union, and White. Northern Circuit, composed of the counties of Elbert, Glascock, Hancock, Hart, Lincoln, Madison, Oglethorpe, Taliaferro, Warren, and Wilkes. Ocmulgee Circuit, composed of the counties of Baldwin, Greene, Jas- per, Jones, Laurens, Morgan, Putnam, and Wilkinson. Oconee Circuit, composed of the counties of Dodge, Irwin, Mont- gomery, Pulaski, Telfair, Twiggs, and Wilcox. Pataula Circuit, composed of the counties of Clay, Early, Miller, Quitman, Randolph, and Terrell. Rome Circuit, composed of the counties of Chattooga, Floyd, and Walker. Southern Circuit, composed of the counties of Berrien, Brooks, Col- quitt, Echols, Lowndes, and Thomas. Southwestern Circuit, composed of the counties of Dooly, Lee, Macon, Schley, Stewart, Sumter, and Webster. Stone Mountain Circuit, composed of the counties of Clayton, De- Kalb, Newton, and Rockdale. The judge of the Stone Mountain Cir- cuit, when the business of said circuit does not require hi3 attention, may aid in the disposition of the business of the Atlanta circuit. Tallapoosa Circuit, composed of the counties of Douglas, Haralson, Polk, and Paulding. Western Circuit, composed of the counties of Banks, Clarke, Frank- lin, Gwinnett, Jackson, Oconee, and Walton. 
§ 4340. (3241.) Superior courts to be held twice a year . courts shall be held in each county in the respective judicial circuits, twice in every year, by one or more of the judges of the superior ^>^courts, at the several times prescribed by law. 
§ 4341. (3692.) Contingent expenses of The superior superior court. Any contin- en ^ expenses incurred in holding any session of the superior court, including lights, fuel, stationery, rent, publication of grand-jury presentments when ordered published, and similar items, such as taking down testimony in cases of felony, etc., shall be paid out of the county treasury of such county, upon the certificate of the judge of the superior court, and without further order. 
§ 4342. (3242.) Adjournment by clerk from day to day. In case of unavoidable accidents, whereby the superior court in any county shall not be held at the time appointed for holding the same, the clerk of such court shall adjourn the same from day to day, not ex- ceeding two days; and unless the presiding judge shall order to the contrary within the two days aforesaid, the clerk shall then adjourn said court to the next term. 
§ 4343. (3243.) Judge failing to attend, clerk's duty. When the ^£23,^ clerk of the superior court is informed by the presiding judge that$ it is not possible for him to attend the regular term of said court from sickness of himself or his family, or other unavoidable cause, which shall be expressed in the order of adjournment, the clerk shall adjourn such court to such time as the judge may direct, and shall advertise the same at the court-house of the county in which said court is to be held, and one or more times in a public gazette. 
§ 4344. (3244.) Court may be adjourned, when. No superior court A shall be adjourned by the judge in vacation, except for the causes above stated; but the judge may in term time adjourn such court to such time as he may think fit. 
§ 4345. (3245.) Special terms. The judges of the superior courts of this State may, in their discretion, hold adjourned terms of said J ' 'J 1890-1, p. courts in every county within their respective circuits, when thesis. business requires it to close the dockets, and may, in the exercise of a sound discretion, cause new juries to be drawn for the same, or or- der the juries drawn for the regular term to give their attendance upon such adjourned terms; and such judges are authorized to hold special terms of said courts for the trial of criminals, or for the dis- position of civil business, either or both, in any county of their cir- cuits, at discretion, and to compel the attendance of grand or petit jurors, either of a previous term or to draw new jurors for the same, according to the laws now in force. 
§ 4346. Terms adjourned five days before next term. The judges of the superior and city courts in this State shall adjourn the regular and adjourned terms of said courts at least five days before the com&4u. . mencement of the next regular term of said courts. 
§ 4347. (255.) Term of office . The clerks of the superior courts are B \ / J M l elected for the term of two years. 
§ 4348. (256.) Cannot practice law. No person is eligible to the office of clerk, or to perform any official duty as such, who, while in such capacity, practices law in his own name or another's, as a part- ner or otherwise, in any court, except in his own case. 
§ 4349. Clerks of superior, may be clerks of city courts. Clerks of the superior courts shall be eligible to hold the office of clerk of the city or county courts in the county of their residence, on taking the oath and giving bond and security prescribed by law. 
§ 4350. (257.) Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs (or will shortly), the ' ordinary of the county where it happens shall give notice in one or more of the public gazettes of said county (if any), and at the court- house, and at three or more of the most public places of said county, twenty days previous to the day of election, which shall be appointed by him. 
§ 4351. (258.)' One elected to fill a vacancy. The person elected on said day shall hold his office for the unexpired term of his predeces- sor. The returns of the election must be made to the Governor, who must commission him. 
§ 4352. (259.) In case of tie. Should any two or more candidates, at an election to fill said vacancy, or at a regular election, have the highest and an equal number of votes, said ordinary shall appoint and advertise another election in the manner prescribed in the pre- ceding section, and so do until a choice is made. - 
§ 4353. (260.) May be appointed. As soon as a vacancy occurs, or m anticipation of it, said ordinary must appoint some qualified per- son to discharge the duties of clerk until the vacancy is filled. 
§ 4354. (261.) Sudden emergency. If from any sudden emergency there is a vacancy, and it is not immediately supplied, the ordinary or his clerk shall thus act. 
§ 4355. (262.) How long appointee to fill vacancy holds. When a vacancy occurs, and it is not more than six months from the time the election can be appointed by said ordinary and held until the existing term will expire, the person or persons appointed shall dis- charge the duties of the office for the balance of the term, and there shall be no special election. 
§ 4356. (263.) Judge may appoint clerk. If there is a vacancy, or ^^42, the clerk and his deputy for any reason do not act as clerk at the time provided by law for holding any of said superior courts, the presiding judge thereof shall appoint a clerk, who holds his office during the term and for ten days thereafter, and any act that he does during said time that the clerk could have done is valid. 
§ 4357. (264.) How long such appointee holds. If, by the expiration of said time, there is no one else to act as clerk, said last-mentioned appointee may continue as such until there is an appointment or election; and any appointee or other person lawfully discharging said duties shall continue to do so until there is an election and qualification. 
§ 4358. (265.) Oath of clerk. The clerks, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, whether appointed, elected, or such by operation of law, must, besides the oath required of all civil officers (unless already taken), take and subscribe to the following oath: "I do swear that I will truly and faithfully enter and record all the orders, decrees, judgments and other proceedings of the superior court of the county of , and all other matters and things which by law ought by me to be recorded; and that I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties required of me, to the best of my understanding. So help me God." When said oath is taken by the ordinaries, or their deputies, acting in a certain contingency as clerks of the superior court, they may take it be- fore any person authorized to administer an oath, and enter it on the minutes of the superior court. 
§ 4359. (266.) Must give bond, and may appoint deputy. They also shall at the same time (except those appointed by the judges of the superior courts, and those so by operation of law), execute a bond in the sum of three thousand dollars, with good security. They shall have the power to appoint a deputy or deputies, and may require from them bonds with good security, who shall take the same oath as the clerks do before entering upon the discharge of their duties, and whose powers and duties are the same as long as the principal continues in office and not longer, for the faithful performance of which they and their securities are bound. 
§ 4360. (267.) Duties ^e superior court — of clerks. It is the duty of the clerks of 1* ^ keep their offices and all things belonging thereto at the COun ty-site and at the court-house, unless impracticable from any cause, when, by special permission of the ordinary, it may be kept $f££L5,5636, at some other designated place not more than one mile therefrom, 5647. of which public notice must be given. . To attend all sessions of the courts and keep fair and regular minutes of their proceedings from day to day, including a transcript of the judge's entry on his dockets when not more fully shown in a book kept for that purpose. 3. In all counties having a city of ten thousand inhabitants, or in which two or more judges preside in banc, the clerks shall keep two separate minute-books or dockets; one in which the civil business of said court shall be recorded; the other in which the criminal business of said court shall be recorded; to be known respectively as minute-book of civil business, and minute-book of criminal business. 4. To issue and sign (and attach seals thereto when necessary) every summons, subpoena, writ, execution, process or order, or other paper under the authority of the court. 5. It shall be the duty of said clerks to keep always on hand and ready for use, blanks with printed instructions for taking interroga- tories. 6. To keep in his office, in vacation, and in court during term c ' ' time, the following dockets, to wit: (1) An issue-docket, on which shall be placed all civil cases pending in their respective courts, in -which an issue to be tried by a jury is made or likely to be made. 2) A motion-docket, on which shall be placed Only those mo- tions which are to be decided by the judge without the intervention of a jury. All civil cases pending in the superior court shall be entered on one of the two above-named dockets, and, in all cases, shall be entered and stand for trial in the order in which they came into court, without reference to the nature of the case, and such entry shall include the names of the parties and their attorneys, the nature of the action, and the character of service; no other entry or memoranda shall be made on such dockets, except by the presiding judge or his order. 3) Two subpoena-dockets — One for civil, the other for criminal cases; such dockets shall show the name of the person for whom subpoena issued, its date, at whose instance it was issued, and to whom delivered, and shall likewise show all commissions for inter- rogatories which may have been issued. 4) The clerks of the superior courts. An execution-docket which shall show the names of the parties and their attorneys, date, the time returnable, to whom and when delivered, when returned, and memoranda of all entries on the original. (5) A reverse index to the general execution-docket, on which he shall enter all executions, entered on the general execution-docket. (6) A trial-docket of criminal cases, showing the names of the parties, their attorneys, and the character of each case in the order in which they were returned to court. (7) Also a docket of criminal cases, to be known as the dead docket, to which cases shall be transferred at the discretion of the presiding judge, and which shall only be called at his pleasure. (8) the bar. (9) Duplicates of the issue and motion dockets, for the use of To keep well-bound books for recording all deeds, mortgages, aud other liens and bills of sale separately. 00) An attachment-docket, in connection with the general exe- cution-docket, or in a separate book, showing names of plaintiff and defendant in attachment, the court to which it is returnable, the amount claimed, the day and hour of levy, and a brief general description of the land levied on. 
§ 4361. Additional duties. The clerk is also required — 1. To record in well-bound books within six months after the final determination of any civil suit, all the proceedings relating thereto. 2. Every clerk of the superior or city courts of this State must record immediately in his book of final records every part of the pleadings, in every case, all garnishments, affidavits, bonds and answers thereto, all attachment affidavits, bonds and writs of at- tachment, all claim affidavits and bonds, and all bonds given in any judicial proceeding, and no clerk shall allow any of such papers to be taken from his office before recording them as herein required, and such record shall be a part of the final record of the papers re- quired by law to be made, or all such record, as the case may be. 3. The clerk shall, if any subsequent paper in the cause is re- corded, make a reference at the foot of the record hereby required, to the page where such subsequent record may be found, and shall also state the case in the index to the book of record, and enter the numbers of the pages on which the same is to be found. 4. And where any paper so recorded becomes lost or destroyed, the same may be substituted by a certified copy thereof from the clerk of the court; but there shall be no tax charged or collected for any such copy if the loss of the same is caused by or results from any negligence or fault of the clerk. 5. Any clerk who shall fail to discharge the duties hereinbefore set forth, is subject to be fined by the presiding judge, during term time, for a contempt, and of his own motion, whenever said judge shall discover that said clerk has failed to discharge the duties herein mentioned. 6. And it shall be the duty of the judges of the several superior courts to give this law specially in charge to the grand juries, and to require them to inform the court whether or not the clerk has per- formed the duties specified as aforesaid: 7. Provided, nevertheless, that the clerks shall not be punished for contempt, under this section, until after the paper or papers required to be recorded have been filed for three months: Provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to cases dismissed and set- tled before said record is made. This does not include the evidence given in on the trial : 38 Ga. 593. Failure to record does not affect the parties : 50 Ga. 381. 8. To provide, at the expense of each county, a duplex index-book, wherein shall be indexed the names of grantor and grantee of every instrument recorded in his office, the character of the instrument, date of the instrument, book where recorded, and the date of the record. 9. To have properly stamped and labeled, and numbered or let- tered, if required, all the books herein enumerated, and to keep for each (except the dockets called by the court) a proper index, and to supply any of said books or indexes needed, and to transcribe the contents of any books of record which may be in a dilapidated con- dition. 10. To keep all the books, papers, dockets and records belonging to their office with care and security, and the papers filed, arranged, numbered and labeled, so as to be of easy reference. 11. To procure and preserve for public inspection a complete file$ of all newspapers in which their advertisements appear, and have them bound in volumes of suitable size to be deposited and kept with their other records. 12. To keep at their offices all publications of the laws of the$ United States furnished by the Governor, and the laws and journals of this State, all statute-laws, digests, this Code, the Supreme Court Reports, and all other law-books or other public documents distributed to them, for the public convenience. 13. To procure, within thirty days after their qualification (if not already done), a substantial seal of office, with the name of the court and county inscribed thereon. 14. To make out and deliver to any applicant, upon payment of legal fees, a correct transcript, properly certified, of any minute, record or file of their office. 15. To make out transcripts of the records of all cases for the Supreme Court, as the laws require. ±q T/o make a minute on all conveyances or liens of the day left for record, and the day recorded, to be signed officially, which shall be evidence thereof, and to attest deeds and other written instruments for registration. 7. To administer all oaths during term time required by the court, and to record all oaths required by law. ig_ rp Q p erform su_ch other duties as are or may be required by law, or as necessarily appertain to their offices. 
§ 4362. (268.) May administer oaths, etc. The clerks of said courts have authority i rp — Q a dmi ni s ter oaths and take affidavits in. all cases permitted by law, or where the authority is not confined to some other officer. 2. To receive the amounts of all costs due in the court of which they are clerks, and other sums whenever required to do so by law, or order of the judge, and not otherwise. 3. To advertise under the same rules and restrictions as the sheriffs. 4. To exercise such other powers as are or may be conferred upon them by law. . To demand and collect in advance their fees for recording deeds. 
§ 4363.(269.) Failure of 31 Ga. 359. duty. Any such clerk failing to perform any duty, or to exercise any authority when required, set forth in the preceding sections, is subject to be fined for each offense by the presiding judge, during term time, as for a contempt, on informa- tion of any party aggrieved, of which he shall have notice in writing. 
§ 4364. (270.) Clerk subject to rule. If any of such clerks receive any money on any suit or judgment from their courts, or otherwise, and do not faithfully account for it, they are liable to rule as sher- iffs are, and they and their sureties are likewise liable on their offi- cial bond. 
§ 4365. (271.) Subject to rule after out of office. They are subject to the rule and order of their respective courts after their retirement from office, as sheriffs are. 
§ 4366. (272 ) May be removed. They are subject to be removed from office by the judge of the said court for any sufficient cause, including incapacity or misbehavior in office, charges for which must be exhibited to the court in writing, and the facts tried by a special jury, such clerk being entitled to a copy of the charges three days before trial. 
§ 4367. (273.) Clerk's office subject to examination. Their offices are subject to an examination by the grand juries, their committees, or any person whom they may specially empower to report to the same, or a succeeding grand jury, or to the judge of the superior court, who shall submit in writing the condition of said offices, and specify any neglect of duty, or anything done wrongly or corruptly by such clerk. 
§ 4368. (345.) Sheriff's election and qualification. Sheriffs are elec-$4i92. ted, qualified, commissioned, hold their offices for the same term, and are subject to the same disabilities as the clerks of the superior courts. 
§ 4369. (346.) A surety for tax-collector ineligible. A surety for any tax-collector or other holder of public money is ineligible to the office of sheriff, until all moneys for which he is bound shall have been paid to the proper authority. 
§ 4370. (347.) Vacancies. Vacancies are filled and the after-pro- ceedings are as in cases of vacancies in clerks of the superior courts, except that in case there is a failure to appoint, as set forth in sec- tion 4353, the coroner of the county shall act as sheriff, and if there is no coroner, the ordinary shall make a temporary appointment, and on failure of both, the sheriff of any adjoining county is authorized to act as sheriff until the ordinary shall make the appointment or there is an election. 
§ 4371. (348.) Oath of office. Before entering on the duties of their omce they shall take and subscribe, besides the oath of all the civil °ffi cel 's, the following oath, before the judge of the superior court or ordinary, viz.: "I do swear that I will faithfully execute all writs, warrants, precepts and processes directed to me as sheriff of this county, or which are directed to all sheriffs of this State, or to any other sheriff specially, I can lawfully execute, and true returns make, and in all things well and truly, without malice or partiality, perform the duties of the office of sheriff of county, during my continuance therein, and take only my lawful fees. So help me God." 
§ 4372. (349.) Bond. They shall also give a bond, with at least two sureties, in the sum of ten thousand dollars (unless changed to a less or greater amount by local acts now in force or hereafter to be enacted), conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties as sheriffs, by themselves, their deputies and their jailers, and upon £he terms required by law. 
§ 4373. (350.) By whom examined and approved. Such bonds shall be approved by the ordinary of the county, and then deposited in the office of the clerk of the superior court until the first session of that court thereafter, when the presiding judge shall examine said bonds, and if taken in conformity to the law, and the sureties are sufficient, so declare by order, and have them spread upon the min- utes of the court; and if it has not been so taken they shall give another bond, which said judge is authorized to take and have en- tered on said minutes. 
§ 4374. (351.) Bond to be recorded, etc. When said bonds are thus approved by the ordinary, and before deposited in said office, they shall be recorded in the office of the said ordinary, and after being passed upon by the judge of the superior court, shall be returned to the office of said ordinary and by him filed; and if the judge of the superior court compels said sheriff to give a new bond, after having been approved and entered on the minutes, it shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the ordinary, and be recorded therein without further approval. 
§ 4375. (352.) Judges of superior court may examine said bond. If a term of the superior court is held in the county before the ordinary shall have approved the sheriff's bond, the judge of the superior court may do so in the first instance, being careful to take the opinion of such ordinary, as to the solvency and sufficiency of the sureties, and, having so approved, the other proceedings are as herein set forth. Duty of the judge of the superior court in passing on the legality and sol- vency of the bond : 17 Ga. 521. 
§ 4376. (353.) When sheriff 'is succeeded by deputy . When a sheriff's $ deputy is the succeeding sheriff, the sureties must be essentially dif- ferent from those on such sheriff's bond. 
§ 4377. (354.) Sheriff's office. Sheriffs must keep their offices at the same place and on the same terms as clerks of the superior court are required. 
§ 4378. (355.) May appoint deputy. They are authorized in their discretion to appoint one or more deputies, from whom they must take a bond with sureties. 
§ 4379. (360.) Liable for misconduct of jailer. Sheriffs are liable for the misconduct of the jailer, as they are liable for their deputies, and persons injured by the jailer have the same option in suing the jailer's bond that they have in suing the deputy's bond. 
§ 4380. (361.) Duties, etc. It is the duty of the sheriff— o \ / ' J !• ^° execu ^e an(i return the process and orders of the courts in ^ 8 State, and of officers of competent authority, if not void, with ^lie diligence, when delivered to them for that purpose, according t° the provisions of this Code. 2. To attend upon all sessions, by themselves or deputies, of the superior courts of the county, and the court of ordinary, whenever required by the ordinary, and never to leave said courts while in session without the presence of one or both of said officers, if re- quired, and to attend in like manner at the place of holding an elec- tion at the county-site, on the day of an election, from the opening to the closing of the polls, and to take under their charge all under- officers present, as a police to preserve order. 3. To publish sales, citations and other proceedings as required by law, and to keep a file of all newspapers in which their official advertisements appear, in the manner required of clerks of the superior courts. 4. To keep an execution-docket, wherein they must enter a full description of all executions delivered to them, the dates of their delivery, together with all their acts and doings thereon, and have the same ready for use in any court of their county. To keep a book in which shall be entered a record of all sales made by process of court, or by agreement of parties under the sanc- tion of court, describing accurately the property and process under which sold, the date of the levy and sale, the purchaser and price. 6. To receive from the preceding sheriff all unexecuted writs and process, and proceed to execute the same; to carry into effect any levy or arrest made by a predecessor; to put purchasers into posses- sion, and to make titles to purchasers at his sales, when not done by him. 7. To perform such other duties as are or may be imposed by law, or which necessarily appertain to their offices. 
§ 4381. Sheriffs may execute justice-court processes. Sheriffs or their deputies may serve or execute all summons, executions, or others processes issued from justices' courts, as such processes may now be served or executed by constables, and for such services shall receive the same fees as are now allowed constables: Provided, that while it shall be legal for the sheriff to serve justice-court processes, he shall not be entitled to charge the defendant, or losing party, any greater fees than those now allowed by law to constables for like service: but if the party wishing any process, mesne or final, served and exe- cuted, will pay to the sheriff, in advance, the difference in the fees now allowed to constables for such services, and that allowed sher- iffs for serving papers issued from the superior courts, the sheriff shall be bound to serve such process. Cited : 82 Ga. 737. 
§ 4382. (362.) Sheriffs may administer oaths. Sheriffs and their legal deputies, in this State, may administer oaths in all cases where, in discharge of the duties of the office of sheriff, it may be legal for them to take bond and security, or any affidavit which by law suspends the further execution of process in their hands, and said oaths, when so taken, shall be as legal and binding and subject to the same penalty, as to perjury, as oaths are when administered by any other officer in the State. 
§ 4383. (363.) Books deposited. All books the sheriffs are required to keep, after becoming full, must be deposited in the offices of the clerks of the superior courts, to be kept as their other books of rec- ord. 
§ 4384. (364.) Cannot purchase at his own sale. No sheriff or dep- 'Uty, or other officer discharging a similar duty, will be permitted to ' purchase any property whatever at his own sale, upon his own bid, nor upon the bid of any other person for him, directly or indirectly; and all such sales and deeds in pursuance thereto, intended to vest in such officer the title to the property so purchased, shall be null and void. 
§ 4385 - (365.) Fees. Sheriffs are only entitled to such fees or compensation as the law prescribes, or upon an omission of the law, to such reasonable compensation as the grand jury shall award; and where they use property themselves, or hire it out after being levied upon, they are not allowed a per diem allowance for diet, and are liable to the proper party for the hire received. 
§ 4386. (366.) Defaulting sheriffs. If any sheriff or deputy fails to comply with the provisions of section 4380, he shall be fined for a contempt, as the clerk of the superior court is in similar cases. Sec- tion 4366 as to removal also applies to sheriffs. 
§ 4387. (372.) Election and term of solicitors-general. There shall be (d> a solicitor-general for each judicial circuit, whose official term, ex- cept when commissioned to fill an unexpired term, shall be four years. He shall be elected by the General Assembly, in the manner provided elsewhere in this Code. 
§ 4388. (373.) Oath. Before entering on the duties of their offices, beside the oath required of all civil officers, they must in addition take the following, viz.: "I do swear that I will faithfully and im- partially, and without fear, favor or affection, discharge my duties as solicitor-general, and will take only my lawful fees of office. So help me God." And must also give such bond and surety as is required of the solicitor, who, by virtue of his office, is attorney- general. 
§ 4389. (374.) Vacancy. Vacancies occur and are filled as pre- scribed in cases of the judges of the superior courts, and the manner of proceeding is in every respect the same. 
§ 4390. (375.) Qualifications. No person is eligible to the office of solicitor-general who has not been a resident citizen of this State three years just preceding his election or appointment, and who does not permanently reside in the circuit at the time of his election or$ appointment, and who has not attained the age of twenty-five years, and who has not been duly admitted and licensed to practice law in the superior courts of this State for at least three years. 
§ 4391. (376.) On same footing as judge. A person having been ap- pointed or elected a solicitor for any circuit is on the same footing of a judge of the superior court, as set forth in section 4314 (as to retaining his office). 
§ 4392. (377.) cuits are — Duties. Their duties within their respective cir- 1. To attend each session of the superior courts, regular or ad- journed, unless excused by the judge thereof, and remain until the business of the State is disposed of. 2. To attend on the grand juries, advise them in relation to mat- ters of law, and swear and examine witnesses before them. 3. To administer the oaths the laws require, to the grand and petit jurors, to the bailiffs or other officers of the court, and other- ^*^ wise to aid the presiding judge in organizing the courts as he niay A rpmn'Tp lequnt;. • Acts 1853-4, 4. To draw up all indictments or presentments, when requested by the grand jury, and to prosecute all indictable offenses. 5. To prosecute or defend any civil action in the prosecution or defense of which the State is interested, unless otherwise specially provided for. 6. To attend before the Supreme Court when any criminal cause is tried emanating from their respective circuits, argue the same, and perform any other duty therein the interest of the State may require. 7. To collect all moneys arising from fines and forfeited recog- nizances, all costs on criminal cases when paid into court before judgment, and not otherwise; and at the fall term of each court, ev- ery year, to settle with the county treasurer, and pay over to him all moneys due him according to law, after a fair and full settlement. 8. To settle at the same time with the preceding solicitor, and pay over to him any moneys collected to which he may be enti- tled, and to render to him, whenever required by him, a just state- ment of the condition of his interests. 9. To collect all moneys due the State in the hands of any es- cheators, and pay over to the educational fund; and, if necessary, compel them to pay by rule or order of court, or other legal means. 10. To collect all claims of the State they may be ordered to do by the comptroller-general, and to remit the same within thirty days after collection; and on the first day in October every year to report to him the condition of the claims in their hands in favor of the State, particularly specifying the amounts collected and paid, from what sources received and for what purposes, to whom paid; what claims are unpaid, and why; what judgments have been ob- tained, when, and in what court; what suits are instituted, in what courts, and their present progress and future prospects. 11. To perform such other duties as are or may be required by law, or which necessarily appertain to their office. 
§ 4393. (378.) May be ruled. If a solicitor-general fails to comply with the provisions of the preceding section, he is liable to rule as attorneys at law are, with all the penalties and remedies; and on failure to comply with the terms of a rule absolute, within twenty days from the time it becomes final, it shall be aground of impeach- ment. 
§ 4394. (379.) Failing to attend court, liable to fine. If he fails to attend on the courts of his circuit as required, he is liable to be fined for each failure fifty dollars, to be retained out of his salary. Oobb,574. ° 
§ 4395. (384.) Solicitors-qeneral pro tern. When a solicitor is ab- v ' . -, n „ sent or indisposed, or disqualified from interest or relationship to engage in a prosecution, the presiding judge must appoint a compe- tent attorney of the circuit to act in his place, or he may command the services of a solicitor-general of any other circuit accessible, or he may make a requisition on the Governor for the attorney-general, as the emergency in his discretion may require. 
§ 4396. (387.) Attorneys at law. Attorneys, who may practice. The following persons, ^52°' if not specially declared ineligible, are entitled to practice law in the courts of this State: 1. Those who have been regularly licensed under laws of the State before the adoption of this Code. 2. Those who are hereafter licensed in the manner prescribed by law. 
§ 4397. (388.) Attorneys admitted in the superior courts. Those who are admitted to practice in the superior courts may practice in any other court of this State, except the Supreme Court, for which another and special license must be obtained. 
§ 4398. (389.) Qualification of applicant. Any male citizen, of good moral character, who has read law and undergone a satisfac- tory examination before a judge of the superior court, as hereinafter prescribed, is entitled to plead and practice law in this State. 
§ 4399. (390.) Aliens. Aliens who have been two years resident in the State, and have declared their intention to become citizens, pursuant to the Act of Congress, are eligible to admission as attor- neys at law. 
§ 4400. (391.) Application for admission. For the purpose of ad- mission, one must apply, by petition in writing, to a superior court during one of its sessions, in a circuit of which he is resident, or has read law therein, and must show 1. His citizenship. 2. That he is of good moral character. 3. That he has read law. — 4. That he has been a resident of, or has read law in, the circuit as aforesaid. 
§ 4401. (392.) Evidence of preparation. The evidence of such facts must be by certificate of two attorneys of the court, or of other evi- dence satisfactory to the court. /) 
§ 4402. (393.) Examination of applicant. The applicant must also be examined in open court, touching his knowledge — 1. Of the principles of the common and statute law of England ^ of force in this State. 2. Of the law of pleading and evidence. 3. The principles of equity, and equity pleading and practice. 4. The Revised Code of this State, the Constitution of the United States and of this State, and the rules of practice in the superior courts. 
§ 4403. (394.) Manner Attorneys at law. of examination. No portion of such exam- ination must take place out of open court; and to enable the judges to have proper examination, they are required, if there is not ample time during a term, to appoint a time, at least twice a year, at some county-site in their respective circuits, which has a bar of attorneys sufficient in numbers and qualifications to conduct the examina- tions, and, if necessary, to request and require the attendance of attorneys from other places within the circuit, of which appoint- ment public notice shall be given thirty days prior to said time in some public gazette. Application for admission may be made to the judge of each circuit (as otherwise required) at any time. 
§ 4404. (395.) Unqualified persons to be rejected. Such judges are required to be strict, and to reject any applicant who does not undergo a full and satisfactory examination. 
§ 4405. (396.) Mode of admission. If, on examination, the appli- cant is found duly qualified in all the branches required, the court must direct an order to be entered on the minutes, that, being ex- amined and found to possess the requisite learning and ability, and having otherwise complied with all the conditions of the law, that, upon taking the oath prescribed, that the clerk issue to him, on the payment of the fees and costs, a license to plead and practice law in the superior courts of this State. 
§ 4406. (398.) None of the preceding requisitions are applicable t° any graduate of the Law Department of the University of Geor- 180. S^ 38, a ' the Law School of Mercer University, the Law Department of Emory College, or the Atlanta Law School, but upon presentation of a diploma of graduation from either of these institutions, such graduate shall be authorized to plead and practice in all the courts of this State, without further examination, upon payment of the usual fees, and upon taking the oath and receiving the license pre- scribed by law. And the judges of the superior courts in their respective circuits are authorized in their discretion to hold special terms of said courts for the purpose of admitting to the bar any person or persons who may have a diploma from either of such institutions. i 440 ^ ( 39 ?- ) Attorney's oath. The oath of an attorney is as follows: "I, , swear that I will justly and uprightly demean myself, according to the laws, as an attorney, counselor and solicitor, and that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Georgia. So help me God." Which oath must be taken in open court, and entered on the min- utes thereof. 
§ 4408. (399.) Attorneys at law. Lawyers from other States, how admitted. Attorneys at law residing in other States of the Union, having license to prac- tice law in a circuit court therein, where by law the attorneys of this State are permitted to practice law, may practice in the supe- rior courts of this State, and by submitting to and undergoing such examination as to the laws of this State, as the judge of the superior court where such application is made may require — 1. By presenting a petition in writing for such purpose to the judge of the superior court of any circuit, either in term time or vacation. 2. By producing before him a certificate from a judge of the cir- cuit or district court of the State of which they are citizens, under the seal of said court, stating that the applicant is of good moral character, and has been legally admitted to practice law in such cir- cuit, and that, by the laws of such State, the attorneys of this State are allowed to practice law therein. 
§ 4409. (400.) Order of admission. On reading such petition and certificate, such judge shall grant an order that the applicant be ad- mitted to practice law in this State, and shall order the clerk of the superior court of the county to enter it on his minutes and file the proceedings, on the payment of his legal fees; which, when done, is a sufficient license. 
§ 4410. (401.) Lawyers from States that do not allow Georgia lawyers $9. to practice therein. Such attorneys at law of any State are not thus permitted to practice law herein, unless those of this State are like- wise permitted to practice law in their courts. 
§ 4411. (402.) Lawyers from other States may be admitted in this. Those attorneys at law of other States, who become residents of this$ State, and do not come under the provisions of the preceding sec- tions, by producing to the court satisfactory evidence that they were attorneys at law, in good standing, in a court of similar jurisdiction in the State from which they came, may be immediately admitted to plead and practice law in this State, by submitting to and under- going such examination as to the laws of this State as the judge of the superior court, where the application is made, may require. 
§ 4412. (403.) Lawyers, how admitted in the Supreme Court. Any attorney authorized to practice law in the superior courts of this State is permitted to practice law in the Supreme Court 1. By exhibiting to the court proof of good private and profes- sional character; and otherwise complying with the terms of its rules. 2. By taking the oath prescribed. Brief of attorney not admitted to Supreme Court, not considered by such 
§ 4413. (404.) Counsel employed failing to render service. Attorneys are P r°hibited from collecting any note or other, contract in writing given as a fee in any cause, which cause they have failed to attend to in person or by some competent attorney, from the time of em- ployment until the rendition of judgment, and the same shall be null and void unless they were, by contract, released from such duty. 
§ 4414. (405.) Transferring notes or other obligations. The trans- fer f sncn note or obligation subjects them to forfeit and pay to the person from whom the same was taken double the amount thereof, recoverable in any court having jurisdiction of the same, un- less such person is saved harmless against all fees, costs, and other necessary expenses on account thereof. 
§ 4415. (406.) Fees, how settled. Unless otherwise stipulated, one- O V /• > half of the fee in any cause is a retainer, and due at any time, unless _ the attorney, without sufficient cause, abandons the case before ren- dering service to that value; but in cases where he has rendered such service, and cannot render the balance of service—from the act of his client, providential cause, election to office, or removal out of the State — he is entitled to retain the amount, or a due proportion, if collected, or sue for it and collect it, if not; where no special con- tract is made, the attorney may recover for the services actually rendered. 
§ 4416. (407.) Liability of attorneys to be ruled. Where attorneys retain in their hands the money of their clients after it has been demanded, they are liable to rule (and otherwise) as sheriffs are, and incur the same penalties and consequences. 
§ 4417. (408.) Authority to bind clients. They have authority to bind their clients in any action or proceeding, by any agreement in relation to the cause, made in writing, and in signing judgments, entering appeals, and by an entry of such matters, when permissi- ble, on the dockets of the court; but they cannot take affidavits re- quired of their clients, unless specially permittedjby law. 
§ 4418. (409.) Limitations on authority. Without special author- ity, attorneys caunot receive anything in discharge of a client's claim but the full amount in cash. 
§ 4419. Improper conduct by counsel. Where counsel in the hearing °^ t ne jury make statements of prejudicial matters which are not * n evidence, it is the duty of the court to interpose and prevent the same j and, on objection made, he shall also rebuke the same, and by all needful and proper instructions to the jury endeavor to remove the improper impression from their minds; or, in his discretion he may order a mistrial if plaintiff's attorney is the offender. 
§ 4420. (410.) Advice of attorney no relief to client. Clients shall not- be relieved from their liability to damages and penalties im- posed by law, on the ground that they acted under the advice of their counsel, but are entitled to redress from them for unskillful advice. 
§ 4421. (411.) Party not bound by act of unemployed counsel. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney appears that he does so without authority, the court may, at any stage of the proceedings, relieve the party for whom the attorney assumed to appear from the consequences of his acts, if fully satisfied such allegation is true. 
§ 4422. (412.) Unauthorized appearance is contempt. Any attorney appearing for a person without being employed, unless by leave of the court, is guilty of a contempt of court, and must be fined in a sum not less than five hundred dollars. 
§ 4423. (413.) Proof of authority may be required. The presiding judge or justice may, on motion of either party, and on showing reasonable grounds therefor, require any attorney who assumes the right to appear in the cause to produce or prove the authority under which he appears, and to disclose, whenever pertinent to any issue, the name of the person who employed him, and may grant any order that justice may require on such investigation; but, prima facie, attorneys shall be held authorized to properly represent any cause they may appear in. 
§ 4424. (414.) When several attorneys are employed on the same side. When two or more attorneys, being employed on the same side, dis- pute about the direction to be given to their cause, and the client is not present, the judge shall hear all the facts and give preference to the leading counsel. 
§ 4425. (415.) Leading counsel. The leading counsel is he who, at the time of the trial or raising of any issue connected with the cause, is, in the judgment of the court, the counsel upon whom the client relies more than any other. The attorney whose name is subscribed to the pleadings, if not surrepti- tiously appended, is to be regarded as leading counsel : 33 Ga. 243. 
§ 4426. (416.) Counsel first employed. If there is more than one upon whom the client thus relies, the court shall, as between them, give him preference who was first employed. 
§ 4427. (417.) Special duties enumerated. It is the duty of attor- neys at law 1. To maintain the respect due to courts of justice and judicial officers. 2. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to them, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead the judges or juries by any artifice or false state- ment of the law. 3. To maintain inviolate the confidence and, at every peril to themselves, to preserve the secrets of their clients. 4. To abstain from all offensive personalties, and to advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or a witness, unless required by the justice of the cause with which they are charged. 5. To encourage neither the commencement nor continuance of an action or proceeding from any motives of passion or interest. 6. Never to reject, for a consideration personal to themselves, the cause of the defenseless or oppressed. 
§ 4428. (3958.) Delinquent attorney to be stricken from the roll. If any attorney shall retain in his hands any money received by him for any client, after being ordered by the court to pay over the same to the principal, he shall be stricken from the list of attorneys. 
§ 4429. (418.) Special causes of removal. An attorney must be removed for the following causes by the superior court of the county of his residence: 1. Upon his being convicted of any crime, or misdemeanor involv- ing moral turpitude. In either case the record of his conviction is conclusive evidence. 2. When any judgment or rule absolute has been rendered against him for money collected by him, as an attorney, which he fails to pay within ten days after the time appointed in the order, in which case the record of the judgment is conclusive evidence, unless ob- tained without any service under some law authorizing such a proceeding. . Upon it being shown to the satisfaction of the court that he has been guilty of any deceit or willful misconduct in his profession. 4. For want of a sound mind, or for indecent behavior in or out of the court-house, whereby he becomes a nuisance to the court, his brother members of the bar, or the public. 
§ 4430. (419.) May be reinstated, and how. When an attorney at law is thus removed, after the lapse of twelve months (unless re- moved under the first ground of the preceding section), it is in order for him to be restored upon the application of two-thirds of the members of the bar of the county where he was removed, and of those who usually practice in the superior court of said county, if approved by the judge of the circuit. 
§ 4431. (420.) Proceedings to remove an attorney. The proceedings to remove an attorney may be taken by the court of its own motion, or upon the motion of an attorney at law, or other citizen. 
§ 4432. (421.) Must be in writing. The accusation must be in writ- ing, signed by the movant or his attorney at law, and when the proceeding is taken by the court, it may be drawn up by the solicitor or the clerk, under the direction of the court. 
§ 4433. (422.) Verified by oath, when. If the proceedings are upon the information of another, the accusation must be verified by the oath of the person making it, or some other person, and presented to the court. 
§ 4434. (423.) Order for appearance. The court must then, if of opinion that the accusation would, if true, be grounds of removal, make an order requiring the accused to appear and answer the same at a specified day during the same or at the next term, and must cause a copy of the order and accusation to be served on the accused within a prescribed time before a day appointed in the order. 
§ 4435. (424.) The accused must appear. The accused must appear at the time appointed in the order, and answer the accusation, unless, for sufficient cause, the court assign another day for that purpose; if he does not appear, the court may proceed and determine the ac- cusation in his absence. 
§ 4436. (425.) Answer of accused. The accused may answer, either by objecting to the sufficiency of the accusation, or by denying its truth — either of which must be entered on the minutes. 
§ 4437. (426.) Objections by the accused. If the objection to the sufficiency of the accusation be not sustained, the accused must an- swer it forthwith. 
§ 4438. (427.) Plea or refusal to answer. If he pleads guilty, or re- fuses to answer the accusation, the court must proceed to judgment of removal; if he denies the accusation, the court must immedi- ately, or at such time as it may appoint, proceed to try the same the accused having a right to demand a trial by jury. 
§ 4439. (428.) Effect of judgment. A judgment of acquittal is final, but from a judgment of removal there may be a motion for a new trial, and a review by the Supreme Court, as in other cases. 
§ 4440. (429.) Proceedings, by whom instituted. The proceedings, when instituted by the court of its own motion, are conducted in the name of the State— the solicitor appearing to sustain the accu- sation — and when on the information of another, in the name of the State on the information of such person. 
§ 4441. (480.) Witnesses compelled to attend. Either party has a right to subpoenas and other process to compel the attendance of wit- nesses, and testimony may be taken by deposition in such cases and in the same manner as in actions at law, and the court may, in its discretion, require the informant to give security for cost; and fail- ing so to do within the time prescribed, the proceedings must be dis- missed at the cost of the informant. 
§ 4442. (431.) Costs, how taxed and collected. When the proceedings are in the name of the State, the costs are paid as in criminal cases; when in the name of the State on the information of another, if the accusation is not sustained, judgment is rendered against the in- formant and his security for the costs, if the same has been given; but if the accusation is sustained against the accused, judgment for costs must be rendered against him. 
§ 4443. (432.) Upon the death of informant . Upon the death of the informant, if there be but one, the proceedings abate, unless some other person is substituted in his place, which may be done on ap- plication to the court; if there is more than one informant the pro- ceedings continue on the information of the survivor. 
§ 4444. (433.) The jury who try the case. It is in the province of the jury who try such proceedings, if they find in favor of the ac- cused, also to find they were malicious, if they so believe; and upon such finding, the rights of the accused against the informant are the same as in cases of malicious prosecution on the criminal side of the court. 
§ 4445. (434.) Attorney failing to pay tax. And whenever it shall be made to appear to any judge of the superior courts that any at- torney at law practicing in said court has failed, or fails, to pay his professional tax levied according to the laws of this State, and exe- cution has been issued for the same by the tax-collector and returned by the proper officer "no property to be found," it shall be the duty of the judge presiding in the superior court of the county in which the said attorney resides to cause the clerk of said court to issue a rule requiring said attorney to show cause, by the next term of said court, why he should not be struck from the list of attorneys, and his license to practice declared of no effect, for his failure to pay his said professional tax-— which rule shall be served by the sheriff upon said attorney twenty days before the next term of said court; and if, at said term of said court, said attorney fails to show sufficient cause, said judge shall pass an order striking said attorney from the list of attorneys, and declare his license to practice in the courts of law and equity in this State null and of no effect. 
§ 4446. (4696a.) Judges may appoint reporters. The judges of the gU perior and city courts have the power to appoint, and at pleasure remove, a reporter or stenographic reporter for the courts of their respective circuits. Such reporter, before entering on the duties of his office, shall be duly sworn, in open court, faithfully to perform all the duties required under this division; and it shall be his duty to attend all courts in the circuit for which he is appointed, and, when directed by the judge as hereinafter set forth, to exactly and truly record, or take stenographic notes of the testimony and pro- ceedings in the case tried, except the argument of counsel. 
§ 4447 (4696c.) Compensation in civil cases. The compensation of the reporter or stenographer for recording, or taking stenographic notes, and recording the evidence in such civil cases as may be agreed by counsel for plaintiff and defendant to be recorded, or, in cases of disagreement, as aforesaid in such cases as the presiding judge may direct to be recorded, shall be at a rate not to exceed ten cents per one hundred words, to be fixed by said judge, which fee shall be paid by the parties to the agreement, upon such terms as they may prescribe for themselves, and if no agreement is entered into as to the payment thereof, then in such manner as may be prescribed by the presiding judge. 
§ 4448. (4696d.) Furnishing reports, etc., fee. • Said reporter or stenographer shall, for reports of evidence and other proceedings by him furnished, be paid by the party requesting the same, at a rate not to exceed ten cents for each one hundred words. 
§ 4449. (3929.) Oath of bailiff. The following oath shall be ad- ministered to all bailiffs sworn to take charge of petit juries in the^ superior courts of this State, to wit: "You shall take all juries committed to your charge during the present term to the jury-room, or some other private and convenient place, where you shall keep them without meat or drink (water excepted) unless otherwise directed by the court; you shall make no communication with them yourself, nor permit any one to communicate with them, ex- cept by leave of the court; you shall discharge all other duties which may devolve upon you as bailiffs to the best of your skill and power. So help you God." 
§ 4450. Special bailiff. Judges of the superior courts shall have authority to appoint a special bailiff in any county in their judicial circuit which contains a city of thirty thousand population or more, which bailiff shall hold his office during the pleasure of the judge appointing him, and who shall discharge such duties in and about the court-room when the court is in session, and about the judge's chambers, as may be required by law, or by the judge appointing him. 
§ 4451. Pay. Special bailiffs shall receive sixty-five dollars per month, or at that rate, to be paid out of the county treasury upon the order of the commissioners of roads and revenues for said county, or, in the absence of such commissioners, upon order of the ordinary. 
§ 4452. Jury law in Criminal Code. The law in reference to grand and petit jurors; to jury commissioners; to the selection, drawing, impaneling, and other matters relating to jurors, being in the main applicable alike to civil and criminal cases is omitted here, but will be found in the Criminal Code. 
§ 4453. (3610a.) Appeals lie in what cases. In all civil cases tried and determined by a county judge, or a justice of the peace, or a notary public wno i Q ex officio a justice of the peace, and on all confessions of judgments before either of said officers, where the sum or prop- er ty claimed is more than fifty dollars, either party may, asamat- { er of right, enter an appeal to the superior court. 
§ 4454. (3611.) Appeals from court of ordinary . ARTICLE 2. 
§ 
§ 4454, An appeal lies to A the superior court from any decision made by the court of ordinary, except an order appointing a temporary administrator: Provided, that whenever an appeal shall be taken from a decision of the ordi-J^' nary, made under section 3402 of this Code, such appeal shall operate as a supersedeas, unless the executor or administrator shall first give a good and sufficient bond, payable to the ordinary and his successors in office, in such sum as the ordinary may require (not exceeding the amount of the estate in the hands of the administra- tor), conditioned to pay all costs and damages that may accrue to the estate pending the appeal. 
§ 4455. (3613.) Appeals, when to be entered. Appeals to the superior $ court must be entered within four days after the adjournment of the court in which the judgment was rendered. 
§ 4456. (3614.) Days not counted. Sundays and holidays shall in o0 case |3 e included in the computation of the time within which an appeal shall be entered, except that holidays are included in the computation in cases of appeals from justices' courts. 
§ 4457. (3615.) Attorneys may enter appeals . An appeal may be en- tered by the plaintiff or defendant in person, or by his attorney at law or in fact, and if by the latter, he must be authorized in writing, which authority shall be filed in the court in which the case is pend- ing at the time such appeal is entered; but if it is shown to the court that such authority exists, such court may allow a reasonable time to file the same, or such appeal shall be dismissed and execution issue without further order; if such authority is not filed within the time allowed, a ratification of an appeal, unauthorized, if made in writing, and filed in the clerk's office before the next term of the court, shall render the appeal valid. 
§ 4458. (3616.) Appellant must pay cost. The appellant (except as hereinafter provided) shall, previous to obtaining such appeal, pay all costs which may have accrued in the case up to the time of en- tering such appeal, and give bond and security for the eventual con- demnation-money. 
§ 4459. (3617.) Attorney may sign for principal. If such appeal shall be entered by the attorney at law or in fact, he may sign the name of the principal to said appeal bond, and the principal shall be bound thereby as though he had signed it himself. 
§ 4460. (3618. ) Appeals by partners, joint contractors and corporations. When several partners or joint contractors sue or are sued as such, any one of said partners or joint contractors may enter an appeal in the name of such firm or joint contractors, and sign the name of such firm or joint contractors to the bond required by law, which shall be binding on the firm and such joint contractors as though they had signed it themselves; and in case of corporations, the ap- peal may be entered by the president or any agent thereof managing the case, or by the attorney of record. 
§ 4461. (3619.) One or more may appeal. When there shall be more than one party plaintiff or defendant, and one or more of said par- ties plaintiff or defendant desires to appeal, and the others refuse or fail to appeal, such party plaintiff or defendant desiring to appeal may enter an appeal under such rules and regulations as are pro- vided in this Code. 
§ 4462. (3620.) All bound by final judgment. Upon the appeal of either party plaintiff or defendant, as provided in the previous sec- tion, the whole record shall be taken up and all shall be bound by the final judgment; but in case damages shall be awarded upon such appeal, such damages shall only be recovered against the party ap- pealing and his security, and not against the party failing or refus- ing to appeal. 
§ 4463. (3621.) Liability and recourse of security on appeal. Such secur ity shall be bound for the judgment on the appeal, and in case any such security shall be compelled to pay off the debt or damages for which judgment may be entered in the cause, he shall have re- course only against the party for whom he became security. 
§ 4464. (3622.) Executors, etc., may appeal without paying costs, etc. Executors, administrators, and other trustees, when sued as such, or defending solely the title of the estate, may enter an appeal with- out paying costs and giving bond and security as hereinbefore re- quired; but if a judgment should be obtained against such executor, administrator, or other trustee, and not the assets of the estate, he must pay costs and give security as iu other cases. 
§ 4465. (3623.) Appeals in forma pauperis. When any party, plain- tiff or defendant, in any suit at law or proceeding in the court of ordinary, shall be unable to pay costs and give security as hereinbe- fore required, if such party will make and file an affidavit in writing that he is advised and believes that he has good cause of appeal, and that owing to his poverty he is unable to pay the costs aedgive the security required by law in cases of appeal, such party shall be per-^ mitted to enter an appeal without the payment of costs or giving se- curity as hereinbefore required. 
§ 4466. (3624.) Appeal from ordinary, how entered. In all cases in the court of ordinary, the party desiring to appeal, his attorney at law or in fact, shall pay all costs that may have accrued, and give bond and security to the ordinary for such further costs as may accrue by reason of such appeal; this being done, the appeal shall be entered. 
§ 4467. (3625.) Appeals, how transmitted. When an appeal has been entered in the court of ordinary it shall be the duty of such ordinary to transmit the same to the clerk of the superior court of the county in which such proceedings may have been had, at least ten days before the next superior court of said county, to be there tried as other appeals. 
§ 4468. (3626.) Justices must transmit appeals. When an appeal from the judgment of a justice of the peace or notary public has been entered, it shall be the duty of such justice of the peace or notary public to transmit the same to the clerk of the superior court of the county in which proceedings may have been had, at least ten days before the next superior court of said county, to be there tried as appeals have been heretofore tried in Georgia: Pro- vided, that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to deny parties the right of certiorari, when the amount is less than fifty dollars. 
§ 4469. (3627.) Appeal is a new investigation. An appeal to the superior court is a de novo investigation. It brings up the whole record from the court below, and all competent evidence is admissi- ble on the trial thereof, whether adduced on a former trial or not either party is entitled to be heard on the whole merits of the case. 
§ 4470. (3628.) Effects of appeal. An appeal suspends but does not vacate judgment, and if dismissed or withdrawn, the rights of all the parties are the same as if no appeal had been entered. 
§ 4471. (3629.) How ivithdrawn. No person shall be allowed to withdraw an appeal after it shall be entered, but by the consent of the adverse party. 
§ 4472. (3630.) Appeals, how tried. All appeals to the superior court shall be tried by a jury at the first term after the appeal has been entered, unless good cause be shown for continuance. 
§ 4473. (3631.) Damages for frivolous appeals. If upon the trial of A Ct p i33 868 ' eal> except from a justice's court, it shall appear to the jury that the appeal was frivolous and intended for delay only, they shall an y a PP assess damages against the appellant and his security (if any) in favor of the respondent, for such delay, not exceeding twenty-five per cent, on the principal sum which they shall find due, which damages shall be specially noted in their verdict, and if the judg- ment of the superior court should be that an appeal from a justice's court is frivolous and intended for delay only, said court shall, in addition to the final judgment in the case, enter, judgment against the appellant for twenty per cent, damages on said frivolous appeal. 
§ 4474. (2883.) Award binds. Parties disagreeing as to their rights or liabilities may submit the matter to third persons to decide, and the award made by such arbitrators is binding on the persons sub- mitting. 
§ 4475. (2884.) Trustees may submit. Guardians, trustees, execu- tors or administrators may, m good faith and with proper pru- dence, submit to arbitration the matters in controversy in connec- tion with the estate they represent. The award may be made the judgment of the court as hereinafter provided. 
§ 4476. (2885.) Of the submission. A submission may be in parol, and the award also be verbal, when the matters in dispute do not ex- ceed in value the sum of five hundred dollars; but all submissions by persons acting as trustees, as above, must be in writing, and the award rendered in writing. 
§ 4477. (2886.) Arbitrators limited by submission. Arbitrators should not exceed their authority, and the award should cover all matters submitted, and should be rendered in accordance with the terms of the submission. If the award covers too much, and the excessive part can be separated from the other, that which is good shall re- main valid. 
§ 4478. (2887.) General submission. Under a general submission, the arbitrators are bound to decide only those matters brought to their consideration by the parties. 
§ 4479. (2888.) Award. The award must be certain and final, al- though it may be in the alternative. It must be possible and reason- able, and must be made by the arbitrators themselves, or the umpire provided for in the submission, and not by other persons. 
§ 4480. (2889.) May be valid in part only. If an award be defective in part, that which is valid, if capable of separation, shall stand. 
§ 4481. (2890.) Award by umpire. If an umpire be provided for in the submission, an award by him alone, or jointly with the arbi- trators, will be good. 
§ 4482. (2891.) Reference pendente lite. Pending litigation may be referred to arbitration, under an order of court, by consent of parties, and the award, when rendered, may be made the judgment of the court. 
§ 4483. (2892.) Setting aside an award. To sustain an award, no unfair advantage should be given to either party in the hearing of the case or the rendering of the award. A palpable mistake of law, or a reference of any matter to chance or lot, would vitiate an award. 
§ 4484. (2893.) Fraud. Fraud in the arbitrators, or in either party in obtaining an award, would set it aside. 
§ 4485. (4248.) Any number of arbitrators. Nothing iu this Chapter contained shall prevent any party from submitting nnj and all mat- ters of controversy to the arbitrament and award of any number of arbitrators, whether the same be in suit or otherwise; and when so submitted, the proceedings shall be governed by the provisions of this Code and the common law. 
§ 4486. (4226.) Submission to be in writing. But to entitle the award to be made the judgment of the court, all submissions to arbi- tration shall be in writing, and shall contain a clear and accurate statement of the matters in controversy submitted, and any other matter that may be pertinent to said submission, and also the names of the arbitrators chosen by the parties. Said submission shall be signed by the parties or their agents, and, when so signed, shall be delivered to one of the arbitrators chosen by the parties; and when this is done, said submission shall be irrevocable, except by consent of all parties. 
§ 4487. (4227.) To consist of three. Every arbitration under this provision of this Code shall be composed of three arbitrators, one of whom shall be chosen by each of the parties, and one by the arbitra- tors chosen by the parties. 
§ 4488. (4228.) How chosen. When the submission is delivered to the arbitrators chosen by the parties, or either, such arbitrators shall then choose another arbitrator, whose name shall be inserted in the submission. 
§ 4489. (4229.) Time and place of meeting. The arbitrators so chosen shall then appoint their time and place of meeting, which shall be as soon as practicable, consistent with a proper preparation of the case, and the parties shall have ten days notice of such time and place of meeting. 
§ 4490. (4230.) List of witnesses to be furnished. At the time the submission is made, or so soon thereafter as may be done, the par- ties shall furnish the arbitrators so chosen, or one of them, with a list of the witnesses whose testimony they desire to be before said arbitrators; and any party neglecting to do this for ten days after said submission is made, shall not be entitled to delay or continu- ance for the absence of his testimony or witnesses. 
§ 4491. (4231.) One of the arbitrators failing to attend. If any one of the arbitrators selected by the parties should fail to attend at the time and place of meeting, or be disqualified, the party whose arbi- trator is absent or disqualified shall then choose another in his place; and if the arbitrator chosen by the arbitrators is absent or disquali- fied, the arbitrators chosen by the parties shall choose another in his place, and the arbitrator so chosen shall have all the powers of the arbitrators first chosen 
§ 4492. (4232.) Arbitrators must be sworn. Before the arbitrators enter upon a hearing of said cause, to make up their award, they shall be sworn impartially to determine the matters submitted to them according to law and the justice and equity of the case, with- out favor or affection to either party; which oath they may admin- ister to each other. 
§ 4493. (4233.) Parties not ready, case postponed. When, upon the meeting of the arbitrators, if either party shall not be ready for trial, the arbitrators may postpone the hearing of the case to a fu- ture day, which day shall be as early as may be consistent with the ends of justice, considering all the circumstances of the case. But there shall not be more than two adjournments of the case, except for providential cause. 
§ 4494. (4234.) May adjourn from day to day. After the arbitra- tors shall have commenced their investigations, they may adjourn from day to day, or for a longer time, if the ends of justice require it, until their investigations are completed, and they have made up their award. 
§ 4495. (4235.) Testimony may be taken by commission. Testimony may be taken by commission, under the same circumstances, in the same manner, and subject to the same rules and regulations, as are now or may be prescribed by law for the taking of testimony by commission in the superior courts, saving only that the original in- terrogatories shall be filed with one of the arbitrators, and the com- mission issue by one of the arbitrators, and the testimony when taken shall be directed to the arbitrator who issued the commission. 
§ 4496. (4236.) Competency of witnesses. All persons who have ar- rived at sufficient age to understand the obligations of an oath, and are not idiots or lunatics, including also the parties to said submis- sion, shall be competent as witnesses in all cases before said arbitra- tors, saving only that the wife shall not be a witness for or against the husband, nor the husband for or against the wife, except in cases where the same is allowed by law. 

§ 4497. (4237.) Examination of witnesses, admission of evidence. The examination of witnesses and the admission of testimony shall be governed by the rules of the superior courts, except as herein pro- vided. 

§ 4498. (4238.) Powers of arbitrators. The arbitrators shall be clothed with all the powers of the superior courts to compel the at- tendance of witnesses before them, and also to compel them to testify, and any one of said arbitrators shall have power to issue subpcenas requiring the attendance of witnesses at the time and place of their meeting, which subpoenas shall be served in the manner pointed out by law for the service of subpoenas in cases pending in the superior courts, and witnesses so attending shall be entitled to the same com- pensation as witnesses attending superior courts, and it may be col- lected in the same manner. 

§ 4499. (4239.) May compel the production of books, etc. Said arbi- trators shall be clothed with all the powers of the superior courts to compel parties to produce books and all other papers which they may deem necessary and proper for the investigation of the matters submitted to them, giving to the party, his agent or attorney, from whom the production is required, such notice as is required in the superior courts for the production of papers. 

§ 4500. (4240 ) May administer oaths. Said arbitrators shall have power to administer oaths to witnesses, and all other oaths that may be necessary for carrying the provisions of this Chapter into full effect 

§ 4501. (4241.) Two can make an award. If the arbitrators so ° v f chosen shall fail to agree upon an award, then any two of them may make an award, which shall have the same force and effect as if made by all three of them. 

§ 4502. (4242.) Copy to be given to the parties, original returned to p er ior court. After the arbitrators shall have made up their award, they shall furnish each of the parties with a copy thereof, and re- turn the original award, a3 provided in the next section, and said award shall be entered on the minutes of said court, and shall have all the force and effect of a judgment or decree of said court, and may be enforced in the same manner at any time after the adjourn- ment of said court, and shall be final and conclusive between the parties as to all matters submitted to the arbitrators, unless objec- tion should be pleaded to the same, as provided in this Code. 

§ 4503. (4242 a.) Award, where returned. Whenever a case of any kind, pending in any court in this State, shall be referred to arbi- tration, the award made upon the same shall be entered on the min- utes of the superior court where said suit is pending; and in all cases where a matter of dispute, not involved in litigation, is referred to arbitration under section 4485 of the Code, the award upon the same shall be entered on the minutes of the superior court of the counties where the parties reside against whom the award is rendered, if resi- dents of the State, and if not such resident, in the counties where the award was made. 

§ 4504. (4243.) Frauds may be suggested at the return term. When said award shall have been returned to said court and entered upon ^j® its minutes, as provided in the previous section of this Code, either of the parties may suggest, on oath, at the term to which said award is returned, that the award was the result of accident, or mistake, or the fraud of some one or all of the arbitrators or parties, or is otherwise illegal. Whereupon the court shall cause an issue to be made up, which issue shall be tried by a special jury under the same rules and regulations as are prescribed for the trial of appeals; which trial shall be had at the same term of the court at which the suggestion is made, unless good cause be shown for a continuance, when the same may be continued for one term only, except for prov- idential causes. 

§ 4505. (4244.) Verdict of jury. If upon the trial of such issue the jury shall return a verdict finding against said award on the specifi- cations made in the issue submitted, the court shall forthwith pass an order vacating and setting aside said award; but if the jury shall not so find, said award shall remain in full force as provided in the previous section of this Code, and shall be final and conclusive un- less the judgment of the superior court on the trial of such issue be reversed by the Supreme Court. 

§ 4506. (4245.) Clerk's fees. For each award entered upon the minutes of the superior court, the clerk shall be entitled to the same pay now allowed by law for the entering of judgment in other cases, to be paid by the parties as directed in said award. 

§ 4507. (4246.) Costs, how taxed. The arbitrators shall return in their award the costs of the case, which they may tax against either party, or a part against one and a part against the other, according as they may think just and right. 

§ 4508. (4247.) Compensation of arbitrators, how fixed The arbitrators shall have such compensation for their services as may be agreed upon by themselves and the parties, which shall be paid equally by the parties, or included in the judgment or decree of the court to which said award is returned, as part of the costs in said case; and if the parties fail to agree on the amount so to be paid, the court to which said award is returned shall direct an issue (as to the amount of the fee) to be formed between the parties and the ar- bitrators, which shall be tried by a special jury, whose verdict shall be final and conclusive, unless reversed, and the subsequent proceed- ings thereon shall be the same as in cases of appeal. 

§ 4509. (4249.) Submission when suit is pending. In all matters submitted to reference by parties in a suit, under a rule of court, or other agreement in writing signed by the parties (except as herein- before provided), judgment shall be entered up by the party in whose favor the award is given, and execution shall issue for the sums awarded to be paid as they respectively become due, and to be levied on the property of the party against whom the judgment shall have been entered up, and such other proceedings shall be had thereon by the court as in cases of judgments entered upon verdicts of juries. 

§ 4510. (3264.) Grounds the following cases: of attachment. Attachments may issue in 1. When the debtor resides out of the State. 2. When he is actually removing, or about to remove, without the limits of the county. 3. When he absconds. 4. When he conceals himself. 5. When he resists legal arrest. 6. W T hen he is causing his property to be removed beyond the lim- its of the State. 

§ 4511. (3265.) By whom affidavit may be made. Before process of A?*!™ attachment shall issue, the party seeking the same, his agent, or attorney at law, shall make an affidavit before some judge of the superior court, judge of the county court, or justice of the peace, ^93, or notary public ex officio justice of the peace, that the debtor has placed himself in some one of the positions enumerated in this Code, and also the amount of the debt claimed to be due. When the affi- davit is made by the attorney at law, or agent of the party, he may swear that the amount claimed to be due is due according to the best of his knowledge and belief. 

§ 4512. (3266.) Plaintiff to give what bond and security. The party seeking the attachment, before the same issues, shall also give bond, with good security, in an amount at least double the debt sworn to, payable to the defendant in attachment, conditioned to pay such defendant all damages that he may sustain, and also all costs that may be incurred by him in consequence of suing out the attachment, in the event the plaintiff shall fail to recover in said case; which bond it shall be the duty of the magistrate or other officer before whom the affidavit is made to take, and where the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney at law of the plaintiff, such agent or attor- ney at law is hereby authorized to sign the name of the principal, who shall also be bound thereby in the same manner as though he had signed it himself: Provided, however, that the amount of the bond required by this section shall not exceed the sum of twenty thousand dollars, but said bond may be increased as hereinafter provided. 

§ 4513. (3267.) Copartner, agent or attorney may make affidavit. When the debt, for the recovery of which the attachment is sought, is due to a copartnership, or is due to several persons jointly, it shall be lawful for any one of the copartners or joint creditors, his agent or attorney at law, to make the affidavit and give the bond as pre- scribed by this Code, and to sign the name of the other copartners or joint creditors to said bond, and they shall be bound thereby in the same manner as though they had signed it themselves. 

§ 4514. (3268.) Who shall be surety on bond. No person shall be taken as security on any attachment or garnishment bond, who is an attorney for the plaintiff, or a non-resident of this State, except such non-resident is possessed of real estate in the county where the attachment or garnishment issue, of the value of the amount of such bond. 

§ 4515. (3269.) Attachment, who may issue. Affidavit being thus made and bond given, it shall be the duty of the officer before whom such affidavit is made and bond given, or any officer authorized so$ to do, to issue an attachment against the defendant, which may be levied on the property of the defendant, both real and personal, if to be found in this State. 

§ 4516. (3270.) Property iii a different county, how levied upon. When ne plaintiff in attachment wishes to levy his attachment upon prop- erty in a different county from that in which the same is returnable, it shall be the duty of the magistrate, or other officer issuing such attachment, upon the request of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law, to make out a copy or copies of the original attachment, bond and affidavit, and certify the same, officially, to be a true copy or copies; and upon such copies being delivered to any officer to whom the same is directed, of the county where the property of the defendant is, it shall be the duty of such officer to levy, forthwith, the same upon the property of the defendant in such county, and to return the same, with his actings and doings entered thereon, to the court to which the original attachment is returnable. 

§ 4517.(3271.) Sufficiency of bond, how contested. When any attach- men t shall be issued and levied upon the property of the defendant, the defendant, his agent or attorney may file his affidavit that he has a good defense to the action, and that the bond given in such attachment is not a good bond, and the ground of its insufficiency; and when such affidavit is made and delivered to the levying officer, such officer shall return such attachment, together with the affi- davit, forthwith to the officer issuing the same, and the officer issu- ing the attachment shall without delay hear testimony as to the sufficiency of said bond, and may in his discretion require addi- tional security, or a new bond to be given within the time prescribed by the officer, and in default thereof the levying officer shall dismiss the levy made under said attachment: Provided, however, that in all cases where an attachment shall be issued for an amount greater than one-half the amount of the penal sum named in the bond and shall be levied on the property of the defendant, the defendant, by himself, his agent or attorney, may file his affidavit that he has a good defense to the action, and the bond given in such attachment is not sufficient in amount, or is not a good bond, and the ground of its insufficiency, and when such affidavit is made and delivered to the levying officer, he shall return such attachment, together with the affidavit, to the judge of the superior court of the county in which attachment issued, who shall, as soon as practicable, and on such notice to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney as he may prescribe, hear testimony as to the amount or sufficiency of the bond, and in his discretion may require additional security or a new bond to be given within the time prescribed by him, and in default thereof the levying officer shall dismiss the levy made under such attachment. 

§ 4518. (3272.) Attachments, where returnable. When the amount o v ' ' sworn to shall exceed the sum of one hundred dollars, the attach^- ment shall be made returnable to the next term of the superior or county court of the county where the defendant resides, or where he last resided, but if such superior court shall sit within twenty days, or such county court shall sit within fifteen days next after issuing such attachment, it shall be made returnable to the next term of the court thereafter; and when the debt sworn to does not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars, the attachment shall be made re- turnable to the next justice's court of the district in which the debtor resides, or last resided; but if the next justice's court shall sit within ten days next after issuing such attachment, it shall be made returnable to the next justice's court thereafter, except when the defendant resides out of the State; and in that case, if the debt sworn to exceeds one hundred dollars, the attachment may be made returnable to the superior court of any county in this State; and if it does not exceed one hundred dollars, the attachment may be made returnable to a justice's court of any district of any county in this State. 

§ 4519. (3273.) To whom directed. Attachments returnable to the ' superior and county courts shall be directed "To all and singular . , the sheriffs and constables of this State," and attachments return- able to the justices' courts shall be directed "To all and singular the constables of this State." 

§ 4520. (3274.) May issue on the Sabbath day. Attachments may i SSU e and be levied on Sunday when the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law shall swear, in addition to the oath prescribed by this Code, that he has reason to apprehend the loss of the debt un- less process of attachment do issue on Sunday, and shall also comply with the other provisions of this Code in relation to issuing attachments. 

§ 4521. (3275.) When the debt is not due. When the debt is not due, the debtor shall be subject to attachment in the same manner and to the same extent as in cases where the debt is due, except that where the debt does not become due before final judgment, execu- tion upon the judgment shall be stayed until the debt is due. 

§ 4522. (3276.) Joint contractors subject to attachment. In cases of joint contractors and copartners, where any one of them shall ren- der himself liable to attachment according to law, an attachment may issue against him, upon the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law complying with the previous provisions of this Code in relation to the issuing of attachments; and the proceedings against such joint contractors or copartners shall be in all respects as in other cases of attachments, except that such attachment shall be levied only upon the separate property of such joint contractor or co- partner. 

§ 4523. (3277.) May issue against administrator, etc. Process of attachment may issue against an administrator on an estate, or the$ executor of the last will and testament of any deceased person, as in other cases, when such administrator or executor shall be actually removing, or about to remove, the property of said deceased person without the limits of any county of this State: Provided, final judgment shall not be entered up against such administrator or executor until after the expiration of two years from the granting of letters of administration, or letters testamentary, as the case may be. 

§ 4524. (3278.) Attachments lie for any money demand. In all cases of money demands, whether arising ex contractu or ex delicto, plain- tiff shall have the right to sue out the attachment when the defend- ant shall have placed himself in such situation as will authorize a plaintiff to sue out attachment upon the plaintiff's complying with the law now of force in relation to issuing attachments. 

§ 4525. (3279.) May be sued out by a security against his principal. In all cases where a person is surety or indorser upon an instrument of writing, and the principal shall become subject to attachment according to the provisions of section 4510 of this Code, it shall be lawful for such surety or indorser, upon complying with the provi- sions of this Code in relation to the issuing of attachments, to have attachment against his principal; and the proceedings shall be in all respects the same as in other cases of attachment, according to the provisions of this Code, and the money raised by such attach- ment shall be paid to the person holding such instrument of writ- ing. But if the surety or indorser has paid the debt, then the money raised upon such attachment, or so much thereof as will pay the amount the surety or indorser has paid, shall be paid to such surety or indorser; and in case the debt is not due at the time judg- ment is rendered against the principal, execution shall be stayed until the debt is due. 

§ 4526. (3280.) When suit is pending. In all cases where the plaintiff has commenced suit for the recovery of a debt, and the defendant, during the pendency of such suit, shall become subject to attachment, the plaintiff, upon complying with the provisions of this Code in relation to the issuing of attachments, may have an attachment against the defendant, and all the proceedings in rela- tion to the same shall be as hereinbefore prescribed in relation to attachments where no suit is pending. And a satisfaction of the judgment in the common-law action shall satisfy the judgment in attachment, and a satisfaction of the judgment in attachment shall satisfy the judgment in the common-law action. 

§ 4527. (3281.) Foreign incorporations subject to attachment. At- tachments may issue against incorporations not incorporated by the laws of this State, who are transacting business within the State, under the same rules and regulations as are by this Code prescribed in relation to issuing attachments and garnishments in other cases. 

§ 4528. (3282.) A compliance in substance sufficient. A substantial compliance in all matters of form shall be held sufficient in all ap- plications for attachment, and in all attachments issued as provided by this Code. 

§ 4529. (3283.) Forms of affidavit, bond and attachment. In all cases of attachment, the form of the affidavit, bond and attachment may be as follows: Georgia, County. affidavit. Before me, the subscriber, a in and for said county, per- sonally appeared and on oath says that is indebted to him in the sum of , and that the said . Sworn to before me, this the day of , 18 — OND. We, principal, and , security, acknowledge ourselves bound unto in the sum of dollars, subject to the following conditions: That the said , the said , principal, is seeking an attachment against which is now about to be sued out, returnable to the term of the court of the county aforesaid; now, if the said shall pay all damages that the said may sustain, and also all costs that may be incurred by him in consequence of suing out such attachment, in the event that the said shall fail to recover in said case, then this bond to be void. Executed in presence of Georgia, County. To all and singular the sheriffs , this day of attachment. and constables of — — said State: , 18 You are hereby commanded to attach and seize so much of the property of as will make the sum of dollars and all costs, and also to serve such summons of garnishment as may be placed in your hands, and that you make return of this attachment, with your actings and doings entered thereon, to the term of the court of said county, to which court this attachment is hereby made returnable. Hereof fail not. Witness my hand and seal, this the day of 

§ 4530. (3284.) Duty of the officer whom the attachment is directed . It shall be the duty of any one of the officers to whom an attachment may be directed, to levy the same upon the property of the defendant that may be found in the county of which he is sheriff, or constable; and when any attachment shall come into the hands of any officer of the county in which such attachment is returnable, and the de- fendant shall have removed his property beyond the limits of said county before such an attachment is executed, it shall be the duty of the officer having such attachment to follow such property into any county in the State and levy the same, and bring the property back into the county where the attachment is returnable. 

§ 4531. (3285.) Attachments must be returned. It shall be the duty of the officer levying such attachment to return the same, with his actings and doings entered thereon, together with the affidavit and bond, to the court to which the same is made returnable. 

§ 4532. (3286.) Officer must levy, etc. In all cases it shall be the du ty f the officer levying attachments, to levy them in the order in which they came in his hands, and it shall be his duty to enter upon the same the year, month, day of the month, and hour of the day on which he made the levy. Said attachment must be entered on the execution or attachment docket by the clerk of the superior court, in order to be good against third persons where the levy is upon land. 

§ 4533. (3287.) May be levied on what property , etc. When an attach- ment has been issued by the proper officer, the same may be levied upon the property of the defendant, both real and personal, which may be found in the county. 

§ 4534. (3288.) May be levied by service of garnishment. Service of the attachment by serving process of garnishment, shall be as ef- fectual for all purposes as though the attachment had been served by levying the same upon the property of the defendant. 

§ 4535. (3289.) Shares or interest in any corporation, etc. When the A process of attachment shall issue against a party who shall have or own any interest, or an amount of shares, in any corporation in this State, the same may be attached in the following manner: The of- ficer in whose hands the attachment is placed, shall indorse an entry thereon of his levy on the corporate shares or interest of the defend- ant, and shall forthwith serve a copy of the attachment so indorsed upon the president of the corporation, at the office of the company, or by leaving the same at the usual or most notorious place of doing the business of such company, which entry and service shall amount to and be considered a seizure of said corporate interest or shares, to all intents and purposes, and under an execution issued on such attachment, may be sold as in other cases of ordinary execution. 

§ 4536. (3290.) Transfer after levy is void. Any transfer by the de- fendant of the stock or interest so attached, after the levy of such attachment, shall be void, and when an execution is issued, the said stock or interest shall be sold by the sheriff, or his deputy, according to the provisions of this Code to make bank and other stock subject to executions. 

§ 4537. (3291.) Officer selling must give a certificate. Certificates of purchase shall be granted by the officer selling as prescribed in cases of executions, and on presentation of such certificates to the proper officer of said corporation, it shall be his duty to make such trans- fer on his books, if necessary, and afford the purchaser such evidence of title to the stock purchased as is usual and necessary with other stockholders. 

§ 4538. (3292. ) Vendor may attach for purchase-money. In all cases of sale of lands, where the vendor has not executed a deed of con- 1 veyance to the purchaser for the same, but has given bond for titles or other evidence of the contract, and the purchase-money has not been paid, and the vendee shall become liable to attachment, attach- ment may issue against him at the instance of the vendor, upon complying with the provisions of this Code in relation to attach- ments; which said attachment shall be levied upon the land de- scribed in the bond or other evidence of contract for titles, and the subsequent proceedings shall be in all respects as heretofore pre- scribed in this Code in relation to attachments; and it shall be law- ful for the party bound by such bond, or other contract for titles, to file in the clerk's office of the superior court of the county where the land is situated, a good and sufficient deed of conveyance of said land to the obligee of said bond or other contract for titles; and when judgment is obtained upon such attachment, the execution is- suing thereon may be levied upon said land, and the same be sold, and the money arising from said sale shall be appropriated to the payment of said judgment on the attachment, to the exclusion of any other attachment, judgment or other debt of the defendant. 

§ 4539. (3293.) Attachment men t m &y for purchase-money . Process of attach- issue in behalf of any creditor whose debt is created by the purchase of property, upon such debt becoming due, when the debtor who created such debt is in possession of some of the property for the purchase of which the debt was created, or has sold and is not in possession of a part of said property, and has not been paid for the same, or where said property is in possession of any one holding same for the benefit of said debtor, or in fraud against such creditor; and judgments on such attachments shall take rank from the date of the levy of the attachment. 

§ 4540. (3294.) Attachment, how obtained. Before process of attach- ment shall issue under the preceding section, the party seeking the attachment, his agent or attorney at law, shall make affidavit before some person authorized by law to issue attachments, that the debtor has placed himself in the position mentioned in said section, and also the amount of the debt claimed to be due; and shall also describe in the affidavit the property for which the debt was created. When the affidavit is made by the agent or attorney at law, he may swear that the amount claimed to be due is due according to the best of his knowledge and belief. The officer issuing the attachment, before issuing the same, shall take from the party seeking the attachment a bond in double the amount claimed to be due, conditioned and made payable as attachment bonds are required to be conditioned and made payable. 

§ 4541. (3295.) Attachment, how issued and levied. Affidavit being thus made and bond given, it shall be the duty of the officer bef ore whom such affidavit is made, to issue an attachment against the de- fendant, which shall be levied only on the property described in said affidavit, by the officer to whom the attachment is directed; or, any officer in this State who is so authorized may issue a summons of garnishment requiring any third party who may have purchased from defendant any part of the same property which the plaintiff sold the defendant, to answer what he may owe the defendant in at- tachment for any part of the property described in the plaintiff's affidavit, without requiring other or additional bond to be given by plaintiff. 

§ 4542. (3296.) Subsequent proceedings. So much of this Code as regulates the proceedings in relation to remedy by attachment, as is not in conflict with the three preceding sections, shall apply to and control proceedings under this Article. 

§ 4543. (3297.) Attachments where debtor is fraudulently disposing p r0 p erty. Whenever a debtor shall sell, or convey, or conceal his property liable for the payment of his debts, for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the same, or whenever a debtor shall threaten or prepare so to do, his creditor may petition the judge of the superior court of the circuit where such debtor resides, if quali- fied to act, and if not, the judge of any adjoining circuit, fully and distinctly stating his grounds of complaint against such debtor, and praying for an attachment against the property of such debtor liable to attachment, supporting his petition by affidavit, or testimony if he can control the same. 

§ 4545. (3298.) Judge shall proceed, how. Such judge may then grant an attachment, to be issued in the usual form, and directed as usual, and which shall be executed as existing laws provide, and subject to existing laws as to traverse, replevy, demurrer, and other modes of defense; or such judge may, if he deem it more proper under the circumstances of the case as presented to him, before granting such attachment, appoint a day on which he shall hear the petitioner, and the party against whom an attachment is prayed (providing in his order for due notice to said party), as to the pro- priety of granting such attachment, and, if satisfied upon such hearing that such attachment should not issue, he shall not grant the same; but if satisfied that the same should issue, he shall grant an attachment, to be governed and regulated as herein provided for attachments to be issued when no hearing is had. 

§ 4546. (3299.) Attachment, how removed. If the party whose prop- erty has been attached without a hearing, as provided in the preced- ing section, desires so to do, he may apply to said judge, stating fully and distinctly the grounds of his defense,, showing why such attachment should not have been issued, or should be removed, sup- porting the same by affidavit, or such other testimony, by affidavit or otherwise, as he can control; such judge shall then appoint a time and place for hearing both parties, plaintiff and defendant, provid- ing for due notice to all persons interested, allowing them full opportunity to sustain their respective cases, as in application for injunction, and may then, upon a review of the law and the facts of the case, make such order in the premises as is consistent with jus- tice, either totally or partially removing such attachment, or wholly or partially retaining the same, or disposing of the same in some manner which would be equitable and just to all parties. 

§ 4547. (3300.) Such attachments, how issued, returned, etc. Such ° v ' attachments, when issued and served, shall be returned and disposed of as attachments are now returned and disposed of, and be subject to the same defenses, and may be taken out upon the affidavit of the agent or attorney of the creditor, if he can, by his own oath, make out a case which will satisfy said judge. 

§ 4548. (3301.) Granting or refusing attachments may be excepted to. The decision of the judge granting or refusing an attachment under the provisions of this article, may be excepted to and carried to the Supreme Court, as in applications for injunction. 

§ 4549. (3302.) Garnishment, hoiv obtained. In all cases where at- tachment may issue, it shall be the duty of the magistrate, or other officer issuing the same, at the request of the plaintiff, his agent or^g attorney at law, to issue summons of garnishment, directed to any person that may be indebted to or have property or effects of the defendant in their hands, requiring them to appear at the court to which the attachment is made returnable, then and there to depose on oath what they were indebted to the defendant at the time of the service of said garnishment, or what property or effects of his they have in their hands, or had at the time of the service of said sum- mons of garnishment; and it shall be the duty of the officer levying such attachment to serve such summons of garnishment. 

§ 4550. (3303.) When garnishee resides out of the county, etc. When the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, shall desire to garnish persons not residing in the county in which the attachment issues, it shall be the duty of the magistrate issuing the same, at the re- quest of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, to make out a copy of the affidavit, bond and attachment, and certify the same to be a true copy; and upon the delivery of such copy to any magis- trate, or other officer who is authorized by law to issue an attach- ment, in the county in which the person sought, to be garnished re- sides, it shall be the duty of such magistrate, or other officer, to make out a summons of garnishment for such persons as he may be requested to do by the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, re- quiring such persons to be and appear at the next superior, or county court, or justice's court of the county in which it issued, and depose in the manner prescribed by law; but if the next court, as aforesaid, shall be held within less than ten days next after the issuing of said summons of garnishment, then the person garnished shall be required to appear and depose at the next court thereafter; which said summons may be served by any officer authorized by law to levy an attachment, who shall return such certified copy, affida- vit, bond and attachment, to the court as aforesaid, together with his actings and doings entered thereon. 

§ 4551 . (3304. ) If the garnishee jails to answer, etc. When any person summoned as garnishee fails to appear, in obedience to the summons, and answer at the first term of the court at which he is required to a pp ear , the case shall stand continued until the next term of the court; and if he should fail to appear and answer by said next term, the plaintiff may, on motion, have judgment against him for the amount of the judgment he may have obtained against the de- fendant in attachment, or so much thereof as shall remain unpaid at the time the judgment is rendered against the garnishee; and the court may continue the case until final judgment is rendered against the defendant in attachment. 

§ 4552. (3305.) If the garnishee admits effects. When the gar- nishee appears and answers that he is indebted to, or has property or effects in his hands belonging to the defendant in attachment, judgment shall be rendered against him in favor of the plaintiff for such acknowledged indebtedness, and the property and effects, whatever they may be, shall be delivered into the hands of the sheriff or constable, as the case may be, and by order of the court shall be by him sold, and the money arising from such sale shall be held subject to the order of the court, and in case the garnishee fails to deliver over such property or effects to the officer as afore- said, it shall be lawful for the court to attach hirn as for contempt; the property and effects so surrendered and delivered into the hands of the officer, as aforesaid, shall be sold at such time and place, and after such notice given, as the court ordering the same shall direct. 

§ 4553. (3306. ) Plaintiff may traverse the answer of garnishee. When the summons of garnishment is returnable to the superior or county court, and the plaintiff in attachment is not content with the answer of the garnishee, he may at the term of the court to which the return is made, traverse the same, and the issue formed upon such traverse shall be tried at the same term by a petit jury, unless cause is shown for a continuance. On the trial of said issue, it shall be competent for the plaintiff to show the amount of indebtedness of the garnishee, and the value of the property and effects not surrendered as afore- said; and upon final judgment being rendered against said garnishee, the plaintiff in attachment shall have execution for the amount of such judgment and cost as at common law. 

§ 4554. Garnishment on attachment, how dissolved. In all cases where garnishment has been issued on an attachment and served as provided by law regulating attachments, the garnishment may be dissolved as if the same had been at common law. 

§ 4555. (8807.) If the issue is in a justice'' s court. When the sum- mons of garnishment is returnable to a justice's court, the issue formed upon the traverse as aforesaid shall be tried by the justice of the peace, with the right of appeal according to the law governing appeals from justices' courts. 

§ 4556. (3308.) Declaration shall be Med, when. When the attach- ° x ' J ment has been returned to the proper court, the subsequent proceed- ings shall be in all respects the same as in cases where there is personal service, and when the attachment is returnable to the su- perior or county court, the plaintiff shall file his declaration at the first term. 

§ 4557. (3309.) Notice to defendant. The plaintiff, his agent, or at- torney at law, may give notice in writing to the defendant of the pendency of such attachment and of the proceedings thereon, which shall be served personally on the defendant by the sheriff, his deputy, or a constable of the county to which said attachment is returnable, by giving him a copy of said notice at least ten days before final judgment on said attachment, and returning said original notice with his service entered thereon to the court in which said attach- ment is pending, which being done, the judgment rendered upon such attachment shall have the same force and effect as judgments rendered at common law; and no declaration shall be dismissed be- cause the attachment may have been dismissed or discontinued, but the plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment on the declaration filed, as in other cases at common law, upon the merits of the case. 

§ 4558. (3310.) Defendant may make his defense. The defendant may appear by himself or attorney at law, and make his defense at any time before final judgment is rendered against him. 

§ 4559. (3311.) Defendant may plead a set-off not due. Any defend- ant against whom an attachment may issue for the recovery of a de- mand which is not due, may avail himself in his defense of any set- off pleadable by the laws of this State, notwithstanding such set-off may not be due at the time of suing out such attachment, or at the trial thereof; and if said set-off so pleaded shall exceed the plain- tiff's demand, the defendant shall have judgment against the plain- tiff for such excess as at common law, with a stay of execution until the time the said set-off so pleaded shall become due. 

§ 4560. (3312.) May traverse the truth of plaintiffs affidavit. cage8 f attachment the defendant may traverse the truth of the af- fidavit in relation to the ground upon which the attachment issued at the return of the attachment, and if said attachment is return- able to the superior court, the issue formed upon such traverse shall be tried by a jury at the same term, unless good cause is shown for a continuance; and if the final verdict upon such issue shall be in favor of the defendant, said attachment shall be dismissed at the cost of the plaintiff. And if the attachment is returnable to a jus- tice court, the issue formed upon the traverse aforesaid shall be tried by the justice of the peace, with the right of appeal, according to the law regulating appeals from justices' courts. 

§ 4561. (3313.) No traverse shall delay plaintiff. No traverse of the plaintiff's attachment, affidavit, or other proceeding of the attach- ment shall delay judgment on the declaration where personal service has been perfected, but judgment may be had thereon, subject to the rules of the common law, as well before the trial of the issue made on the attachment proceedings as afterward. 

§ 4562. (3314.) If either party die, parties may be made. In case either plaintiff or defendant shall die before final judgment is ren- dered in any case, and there is representation upon the estate of the defendant, parties shall be made in the same manner as in cases where there is personal service. But if there is no known represen- tation upon the estate of the defendant within this State, and the plaintiff shall die, his executor or administrator may, at any time after his qualification as such, cause to be issued by the clerk of the court, or justice of the peace, a scire facias, returnable to the next term of the court after issuing the same, giving notice to the opposite party of his intention to be made a party in place of his deceased testator or intestate, which shall be posted up at the door of the court-house where such attachment is pending, at least twenty days before the term at which such scire facias is made re- turnable; and upon affidavit being made by the executor or admin- istrator of this being done, and said affidavit being filed among the papers in the case, said executor or administrator shall on motion be made a party, and the same proceed in his name. 

§ 4563. (3315.) On the death of defendant. Whenthe defendant shall die, scire facias shall issue in the manner aforesaid after the expiration of twelve months from the death of the defendant, di- rected to the representative of the deceased defendant, notifying him of the pendency of such attachment, and of the intention of the plaintiff to proceed with the same, which being posted as aforesaid, and affidavit made and filed as aforesaid, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to proceed in the same manner as though the death of the defendant had not occurred, but the executor or administrator upon the estate may, at any time before final judgment upon the attach- ment, come in and be made a party, and defend in the same manner as his testator or intestate might have done. 

§ 4564. (3316.) Attachments and returns thereon amendable. The plaintiff in attachment shall have the right to amend his attach- ment, or bond, or declaration, as in other cases at common law and the levying officer shall have the right to amend his return by sup- plying any omissions or errors, and the court before which the attach- ment shall be returned shall have power to order said amendments. 

§ 4565. (3317.) Judgment may be set aside for fraud. A judgment in attachment may be set aside in a court of law upon an issue sug- gesting fraud or want of consideration, tendered by a judgment cred- itor of the defendant in attachment. 

§ 4566. (3318.) Interrogatories, how sued out. In cases of attachment and garnishment, interrogatories may be sued out and served as pro- vided in other cases. 

§ 4567. (3319.) Defendant may replevy property , officer' s an attachment has been levied upon the property of a defendant, it ghall be the duty of the officer levying the same to deliver the prop- er ty so levied upon to the defendant, upon his giving bond, with good security, payable to the plaintiff in attachment, obligating themselves to pay the plaintiff the amount of the judgment and costs that he may recover in said case: Provided, the property levied on shall be equal to, or exceed in value, the amount of the debt sworn to be due; but in case the property levied upon shall be of less value than the amount of the debt claimed to be due, then the said bond shall be in double the amount of the property levied upon, to be judged of by the levying officer, and the officer taking said bond shall return the same with said attachment to the court to which the same is made returnable, and it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to take judgment against the defendant and his securities upon said bond for the amount of the judgment he may recover in his said at- tachment case. 

§ 4568. (3320.) Property of a foreign corporation, etc. When an at-^ tachment shall be levied on the property of an incorporation not in- corporated by the laws of this State, it shall be lawful for any agent of such incorporation to relieve the property levied on, or discharge the summons of garnishment that may issue, by giving bond to the levying officer, payable to the plaintiff, conditioned to pay the amount that may be recovered in said case; which bond the levying officer shall return to the court to which the attachment is made re- turnable, and judgment may be entered up in like manner against the principal and security upon said bond, for the amount the plain- tiff may recover against such corporation. 

§ 4569. (3322.) Claims, how interposed. When property shall be levied on by virtue of an attachment, and the same is claimed by J ' aDV person not a party to such attachment, it shall be the duty of the person claiming the same, his agent or attorney at law, to make oath before some person authorized by law to administer an oath, that the property levied on is the property of the claimant, and is not subject to such attachment, according to the best of his knowl- edge and belief, and said claimant shall give bond, with good se- curity, payable to the plaintiff in attachment, in a sum not larger than double the amount of the attachment levied, and where the property attached is of less value than the attachment, to be judged of by the levying officer, conditioned to pay the plaintiff all damages which the jury, on the trial of the right of property, may assess against him in case it should be made to appear that such claim was made for the purpose of delay; and in case the claim is inter- posed by the agent or attorney at law of the claimant, such agent or attorney at law shall have power to sign the name of the claimant to the bond, and such claimant shall be bound in the same manner as though he had signed it himself. It shall be the duty of such of- ficer, taking such affidavit and bond, to return the same to the court to which the attachment is returnable, unless the property levied on should be real estate, in which case it shall be his duty to return the same to the superior court of the county where the land lies: Pro- vided, that if the claimant is unable to give such bond and security, he may interpose his claim as elsewhere provided in this Code. 

§ 4570. (3323.) How tried. The claim shall be tried in the same manner and subject to the same rules and regulations as are pre- scribed by law for the trial of other claims in the court to which it is returned. 

§ 4571. (3324.) The claimant, his agent or attorney may replevy. The claimant, his agent or attorney at law, may give bond, with good se- curity, payable to the levying officer, in a sum equal to double the value of the property claimed, the value to be judged of by the levy- ing officer, conditioned to deliver such property at the time and place of sale, provided the same should be found subject to the attach- ment; and upon the delivery of such bond to the levying officer, it shall be his duty to deliver such property to the claimant, his agent or attorney at law, and it shall be the duty of the levying officer to return such bond, together with the affidavit and claim bond, to the court to which such attachment is returnable; and when said claim is interposed by the agent or attorney at law of the claimant, such agent or attorney at law shall have power to sign the name of the claimant to the bond, who shall be bound thereby in the same man- ner as though he had signed it himself. 

§ 4572. (3325.) On failure of claimant to deliver, etc. Upon the^^ failure of the claimant to deliver such property according to the conditions of said bond, the levying officer may immediately sue the claimant and security upon the bond, and recover the full value of the property claimed, and also all damages, costs and charges that the plaintiff may have sustained in consequence of the failure of the claimant to deliver said property. 

§ 4573. (3326.) May be sued for hire or use of property . In cases where the claimant shall deliver the property, and upon selling the same a sufficient amount shall not be raised to pay the debt and costs of the plaintiff, it shall be lawful for the plaintiff to institute suit against the claimant and hissecurities upon his said bond, and to recover the full value of the hire or use of the property while the same has been in the possession of the claimant, and also full dam- ages for any deterioration of the value of the property, by use or otherwise, while the same has been in the possession of the claimant: Provided, such recovery shall not exceed the amount of the debt that may remain due from the defendant in attachment to the plaintiff. The remedy provided in this section is and shall be extended to all other claims in the cases herein provided for. 

§ 4574. (3327.) Claim may be interposed. Incases of attachment, a claim may be interposed either before or after judgment. 

§ 4575. (3328.) When judgment binds defendant's property. When the defendant has given bond and security, as provided in this Code, ' or when he has appeared and made defense by himself or attorney at l ajv > or wnen ne nas been cited to appear, as provided in this Code, the judgment rendered against him in such case shall bind all his property, and shall have the same force and effect as when there has been personal service, and execution shall issue accordingly, but it shall be first levied upon the property attached. In all other cases, the judgment on the attachment shall only bind the property at- tached, and the judgment shall be entered only against such prop- erty. 

§ 4576. (3329.) Executions must issue on all judgments. After the judgment has been obtained in any case of attachment, execution shall issue as in cases at common law, which execution shall be$ levied in the same manner as executions issuing at common law, and the proceedings in all respects shall be the same, except that when the judgment only binds the property levied on by the attachment, as aforesaid, the execution shall be issued against such property only, and that property only shall be levied on and sold. 

§ 4577. (3330.) Money raised, how applied. All money raised by the sale of defendant's property, or otherwise, by virtue of the pro- visions of this Code in relation to attachments, shall be paid over to the creditors of the defendant, according to the priority of the lien of their judgments, saving only that as between attaching creditors, the attachment first levied shall be first satisfied, to the entire ex- clusion of any attachment of younger levy. 

§ 4578. (3331.) Lien of attachments. The lien of an attachment isActsisw, created by the levy, and not the judgment on the attachment; and in case of a conflict between attachments, the first levied shall be first satisfied; but in a contest between attachments and ordinary judg- ments or suits, it is the judgment and not the levy which fixes the lien : Provided, however, that the lien of an attachment shall have priority over the lien of an ordinary judgment that has been ob- tained upon a suit filed after the levy of the attachment. 

§ 4579. Not lien on realty unless entered on docket. As against the e ... . . interests of third parties, acting in good faith and without notice, who may have acquired a transfer or lien binding any real estate, no attachment levied upon real estate shall be a lien on the same from the levy thereof, unless said attachment is entered upon the attachment docket of the county in which the real estate is situated within five days from said levy. When the attachment is entered upon the docket after the five days, the lien shall date from such entry, and it shall be the duty of the sheriff to have said entry made within the five days. 

§ 4580. Not to affect parties. Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed to affect the validity or force of any attachment as be- tween the parties thereto. 

§ 4581. Auditor instead master. The duties heretofore performed Aj^g by a master in the superior court shall be performed by an auditor; and in term time or vacation, upon application of either party, after notice to the opposite party, the judge of the superior court, in equitable proceedings if the case shall require it, may refer any part of the facts to an auditor to investigate and report the result to the court: Provided, however, that said judge may, upon his own motion, when in his judgment the facts and circumstances of any such case require it, refer the same to an auditor. His report shall be prima facie the truth, either party having the liberty to except. 

§ 4582. Auditor at law. In all cases in the superior or city courts, involving matters of account, if the case shall require it, the judge in term time or vacation may, upon the application of either party after notice to the opposite party, or upon his own motion, when in his judgment the facts and circumstances of any such case require it, appoint an auditor tp investigate such matters of account and report the result to the court. 

§ 4583. Powers of auditor. In all cases, unless modified by the or-^*^ der of appointment, in addition to the matter specially referred, the auditor shall have power to hear demurrers, allow amendments, and pass upon all questions of law and fact. He shall have power to subpoena and swear witnesses and compel the production of papers, and in cases of contempt by either party, witness or other persons, upon application to the court making the appointment, the judge shall, in term time or vacation, take such proceedings and impose such penalty as the facts authorize or require. 

§ 4584. Place of hearing, and oath. Except by the written consent of all parties, the auditor shall not hear evidence or argument out of the county in which the case is proceeding. He shall give both parties or their counsel reasonable notice of the time and place of hearing, and shall be sworn "a true report to render according to the law and the evidence, without favor or affection to either party." 

§ 4585. Contents Auditor's reports. Exceptions. of auditor's report. The auditor shall make an ac- curate report of all motions made before him and of his rulings thereon, and reduce to writing a brief of the oral and documentary evidence submitted by the parties. But at the request of either party, any original document introduced in evidence shall be prop- erly identified and attached to the report in lieu of a brief thereof. 

§ 4586. Evidence inadmissible to be reported. All evidence offered and deemed by him inadmissible shall, nevertheless, be reported by the auditor, and if, upon exception filed to his ruling thereon, the evidence is adjudged to be admissible, the same may be considered upon the trial of exceptions of fact. 

§ 4587. Ridings and conclusions reported. After hearing the evidence and argument, the auditor shall file the evidence and a report, in which he shall clearly and separately state all rulings made by him, classify and state his findings, and report his conclusions upon the law and facts. 

§ 4588. Notice of filing report. Upon filing his report, he shall give both parties or their counsel written notice thereof. 

§ 4589. Exceptions to report. Within twenty days after the report is filed and such notice given, either party may file exceptions, to be separately classified as "exceptions of law" and "exceptions of fact." All exceptions shall clearly and distinctly specify the errors complained of. 

§ 4590. Exceptions as to matters not in record. Exceptions as to any matter not appearing on the face of the record, brief of evidence, or in the report itself, shall be certified to be true by the auditor within forty days after the report is filed; and if the auditor determines that such exception is not true, or does not contain all of the nec- essary facts, he shall return the same within ten days to the party or his attorney, with his objections, in writing. If these objections, within ten days, are met and removed, he may then certify the same, specifying the cause of delay. 

§ 4591. When certificate not made by auditor. If for any cause the certificate is not certified by the auditor, without fault of the party or his attorney, such party or his attorney may apply to the judge of the superior court, in term or vacation, within thirty days from the tendering of such exceptions, and on petition obtain a man- damus nisi directed to such auditor. 

§ 4592. Petition for mandamus . Such petition shall set out a sub- stantial copy of the exceptions, and shall be verified by the party or$ his counsel, or supported by other proof as to the truth of the fact stated. Such mandamus nisi shall be served upon the auditor within ten days after the same is signed by the judge, and shall be made re- turnable not more than thirty days from its date, and may be heard in term or vacation. The opposite party shall have notice of the time and place of hearing the mandamus nisi, and may resist the ap- plication for a mandamus absolute. If there is a traverse filed to the answer, the same shall be determined by a jury. If the man- damus be made absolute, the order shall have the effect, to that ex- tent, of amending the report of the auditor. 

§ 4598. Report may be recommitted. For indefiniteness, omissions, errors of calculation, failure to report evidence, errors of law, or 

§ other proper cause, the judge may recommit the report for such fur- ther action as may be proper. In such cases the evidence shall be confined to such issues as the judge, in the order of recommitment, may indicate, or if ordered to be taken de novo, the parties may agree as to what portion of the original report shall be retained in lieu of reintroduction. 

§ 4594. Exceptions of law for judges. Exceptions of law shall be for the exclusive consideration of the judge. 

§ 4595. Jury trial, when. In all law cases where an auditor is ap- pointed, exceptions of fact to his report shall be passed upon by the 

§ jury as in other issues of fact, and in equity cases by the jury when approved by the judge. The report shall be taken as prima facie correct, and the burden be upon the party making the exceptions, who shall have the right to open and conclude the argument. 

§ 4596. In equitable proceedings. In equitable proceedings where an auditor has been appointed by the superior court, if the judge ap- prove any exception of fact, the same shall be submitted to the jury as in other cases, with the same presumptions, burdens, and right to open and conclude. Compare 77 Ga. 118; 90/595; 80/30. 

§ 4597. Burden where both parties except. In all cases where both parties file exceptions of fact, the party against whom judgment would be rendered, if the report were approved, shall be entitled to open and conclude the argument. 

§ 4598. Where exceptions of fact submitted to jury, etc. In all cases where exceptions of fact are submitted to the jury, the same shall be determined upon the testimony reported by the auditor, except that admissible material evidence introduced and not reported, and evidence improperly excluded, shall be submitted to the jury, and all inadmissible evidence shall be excluded from their consideration. 

§ 4599. When new testimony may be considered. No new testimony shall be considered, except in those cases where, according to the principles of law, a new trial would be granted for newly discovered evidence. Application to introduce such original and newly dis- covered evidence shall be made to the judge before the argument on the exceptions, if the same be then known, with a statement un- der oath of the party and his attorney, setting out the expected tes- timony and facts authorizing it to be admitted as newly discovered evidence. The opposite party shall be served with notice of such application, and if the same is admitted, the opposite party shall be entitled to a continuance, and on the trial to introduce original tes- timony in rebuttal of such newly discovered evidence. 

§ 4600. What evidence to be read to jury, and of verdict. Where excep- tions of fact have been filed to the report of an auditor, the judge shall cause the issue thus made to be submitted to the jury, in which trial only so much of the evidence reported as is material and perti- nent to the issue then on trial shall be read to the jury. In all cases the jury shall find for or against each exception submitted, seriatim. 

§ 4601. When report not excepted to. If the report is not excepted to, the court shall frame a verdict or decree thereon as may be proper. If exceptions are filed, after the same have been considered and passed upon by the court or jury, or both, as the case may be, the court shall order a verdict or a decree in accordance with the re- port, and the changes made by court or jury, unless the same shall require a recommitment. 

§ 4602. auditor's fees. The fees of the auditor shall be taxed by the judge and shall be as follows: For reporting the evidence, an amount not exceeding fifteen cents a hundred words, but in no case to exceed five hundred dollars for reporting the evidence. For re- porting his findings, rulings, proceedings, and conclusions, in cases involving less than one thousand dollars, an amount not to exceed fifty dollars; cases involving more than one thousand dollars, and less than five thousand dollars, not more than one and one-half per cent, on the excess over one thousand dollars, in addition to the fee above named; in all cases involving more than five thousand dollars, the fees above prescribed, and not more than one per cent, on the excess above five thousand dollars, but in no case shall the total fees for all services rendered by the auditor exceed one thousand dol- lars. 

§ 4603. Where parties agree on person to be appointed. In all cases where the parties agree upon the person to be appointed as auditor, the court shall appoint such person. It shall be lawful for the court, with the consent of the parties, to fix the fees of the auditor in ad- vance, and incorporate the same in the order making the appoint- ment. 

§ 4604. (8418.) Bail in trover. Where any person who is about to commence an action for the recovery of personal property shall re- quire bail, such person, his agent, or attorney, shall make affidavit that the property is in the possession, custody, or control of the de- fendant, and that he has reason to apprehend that the said personal property has been or will be eloigned or moved away, or will not be forthcofning to answer the judgment, execution, or decree that shall be made in the case; and shall also state in his affidavit the value of the same, and the amount of hire claimed, if any, and add that he does verily and bona uable interest therein. fide claim said personal property, or some val- 

§ 4605. (3419.) Affidavit, how filed, and subsequent proceedings. When such affidavit is made as prescribed in the preceding section, it shall be filed in the clerk's office of the court to which said petition, bill, or other process maybe returnable, and a copy thereof affixed to the original petition, or process, and to the copy or copies thereof, and it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other lawful officer serving such petition or other process, to take a recognizance payable to the plaintiff or complainant, with good security, in double the amount sworn to, for the forthcoming of such personal property to answer such judgment, execution, or decree as may be rendered or issued in the case, and such security shall be bound for the payment of the eventual condemnation-money, for which judgment may be signed up against the defendant and said security, and execution had there- on without further proceeding. 

§ 4606. (3420.) Bail pending the action, replevy of property. When such affidavit shall be made during the pendency of such suit or action, a copy thereof, and of the process, shall be served in like manner by the sheriff or other lawful officer, and security taken as required in the preceding section, and upon defendant failing to give such security, whether the affidavit be made at the commencement of the suit or pending the same, the property shall be seized and taken by the sheriff or other lawful officer, and delivered over to the plaintiff or complainant, his agent or attorney, upon his entering into like recognizance with security; and if such property is not to be found, and cannot be seized and taken by such sheriff or other lawful officer, the defendant shall be committed to jail, to be kept in safe and close custody until the said personal property shall be produced, or until he shall enter into bond with good security for the eventual condemnation-money. 

§ 4607. Perishable property , hoiv sold . Whenever any officer of this state shall have taken possession of any property under process in any case of trover, and neither the plaintiff nor defendant shall replevy such property, and such property remains in the hands of such officer, and is of a perishable nature, or liable to deterioration from keeping, or there is expense attending the keeping of the same, the same may be sold under the provisions of section 5463 of the Code: Provided, that in case the property is sold, the plaintiff, in case of recovery, shall only be entitled to a money verdict for the amount of the proceeds of such sale, together with hire or interest from the date of conversion to the date of seizure, if the jury shall so find. 

§ 4608. (3420 a.) Release of defendant without security, when When the defendant in any action for the recovery of personal property in which bail is required, shall, by reason of his inability to give security, be held in imprisonment, it shall be lawful for him to make his petition in writing upon oath to the judge of the court in which the suit is pending, in which he shall state that he is neither able to give the security required by law, nor produce the property, and can furnish satisfactory reasons for its non-production, and traverse the facts stated in the plaintiff's affidavit for bail, of which petition he shall' cause a copy to be served upon the plaintiff; where- upon it shall be the duty of such judicial officer in term time or vacation, after not less than five days notice of the time and place of hearing has been given to both parties, to proceed in a summary way to hear evidence upon the facts contained in said petition, and if he shall find that the petitioner can neither give the security nor produce the property, and that the reasons for its non-production are satisfactory, he shall discharge the petitioner upon his own recognizance, conditioned for his appearance to answer the suit, but otherwise he shall recommit him to custody. The action taken upon such petition shall not in any way affect the rights of the plaintiff upon the trial cf the question of property involved in the suit, but the same shall be decided by the tribunal having jurisdiction thereof. 

§ 4609. Writs of error on petition for discharge in bail-trover. In any case where a defendant in an action of trover and bail shall present a petition for discharge from imprisonment under the pro- visions of the preceding section, it shall be lawful for either party dissatisfied with the decision rendered, to except thereto by writ of error to the Supreme Court at any time within twenty days from the rendition of such decision. 

§ 4610. Jail fees. In all cases where the plaintiff in bail proceed- ings is a non-resident, he shall give bond with sufficient security to the jailer, or deposit the money for the maintenance and jail fees of the defendant, to be paid weekly. If any plaintiff shall fail to pay at the end of each and every week the jail fees which have accrued, the court, on the application of the jailer by writ of habeas corpus, may discharge the defendant. 

§ 4611. (3725.) Claims to be on oath. When any sheriff or other officer shall levy an execution or other process on property claimed by a third person not a party to such execution, such person, his agent or attorney, shall make oath to such property. 

§ 4612. (3726.) Bond and security for damages. The person claim- ing such property, or his agent or attorney, shall give bond to the sheriff, or such other officer, as the case may be, with good and suf- ficient security, in a sum not larger than double the amount of the execution levied, and where the property levied on is of less value than the execution, the amount of the bond shall be double the value of the property levied upon, at a reasonable valuation to be judged by the levying officer, conditioned to pay the plaintiff all damages which the jury on the trial of the right of property may assess against him, in case it should appear that said claim was made for the purpose of delay only. 

§ 4613. (3727.) Sale must be postponed, when. Affidavit and bond being made and delivered as required in the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other levying officer, to postpone the sale of said property until otherwise ordered. 

§ 4614. (3728.) Forthcoming bond may be given, etc. In all cases where a levy is made upon property that is claimed by a third per- son, and such person shall desire the possession thereof, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other levying officer, to take bond with good security for a sum equal to double the value of the property levied on, to be estimated by the levying officer, for the delivery of such property at the time and place of sale, provided the property so levied upon shall be found subject to such execution: Provided, that it shall not be lawful to require or take a forthcoming bond for real estate. 

§ 4615. (3729.) Bonds made payable, to whom. The claim bond shall be made payable to the plaintiff in execution, and the forth- coming bond shall be made payable to the sheriff. 

§ 4616. (3730.) Bond recoverable on failure. Bond and security being given, as provided in the previous section, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other levying officer to leave such property in the possession of such claimant, and in case the said claimant or his security should fail to deliver said property, said bond shall be made recoverable in any court having cognizance of the same. 

§ 4617. (3731.) Partner or joint owner may claim for all. One of c \ / J v J several partners or persons jointly interested may make the affidavit and execute the bond in the name of the firm or persons jointly in- terested, who shall be bound thereby as though each individual had signed it himself. 

§ 4618. (3733.) Claims may be made in forma pauperis. In all cases where claimants are unable to give bond and security as required in this Article, in claim cases, it shall and may be the privilege of such claimants to file, in addition to the oath required in section 4611, an affidavit as follows: "I, A. B., do swear that I do not interpose this claim for delay only; that I bona fide claim the right and title to the same; that I am advised and believe that the claim will be sustained; and that from poverty I am unable to give bond and security as now required by law." And when said affidavit shall have been made and delivered to the levying officer, the same shall suspend the sale in the same manner as if bond and security had been given. 

§ 4619. (3734.) Property, how disposed of. If the property levied on be personal, and the claimant unable to give a forthcoming bond, it shall be the privilege of the plaintiff in fi. fa. to give such bond, and upon such bond being given, to be approved by the levying officer, it shall be the duty of the levying officer to deliver said property to said plaintiff, but in no event shall the plaintiff be allowed any compensation for keeping said property. 

§ 4620. (3735.) Disposition of property where no bond is given. In the event the claimant is unable, and the plaintiff neglects or re- fuses to give said bond for the forthcoming of the property, the claimant may apply to the ordinary and procure an order for the sale of the same, and when said order has been granted, it shall be the duty of the levying officer to advertise the time and place of sale at not less than three public places, to be selected in different parts of the county in which the sale is to take place, for fifteen days immediately preceding the time of sale; and on the day of sale, between the hours of 10 a. m., and 1p.m., said property shall be sold, and the money arising from such sale shall remain in the hands of the levying officer, subject to the order of court upon the final hear- ing of the claim. 

§ 4621. (3736.) Where claim to be returned. When an execution is- sued from the superior court shall be levied upon personal property, and claimed by a person not a party to such execution, as provided in this Code, it shall be the duty of the levying officer to return the same, together with the execution, to the next term of the court from which said execution issued; but should such execution be levied upon real property, and the same shall be claimed in the man- ner aforesaid, it shall be the duty of the officer making the levy to return the same, together with the execution and claim, to the next term of the superior court of the county in which the land so levied upon shall lie. 

§ 4622. (3737.) Tried by petit jury . The court to which a claim shall be returned shall cause the right of property to be decided on by a jury at the first term thereof, unless continued as other cases at common law. 

§ 4623. (3738.) Oath in claim cases. Every juror, on the trial the claim of property either real or personal, shall be sworn, in ad- dition to the oath usually administered, to give such damages, not less than ten per cent., as may seem reasonable and just, to the plaintiff against the claimant, in case it shall be sufficiently shown that such claim was made for delay only, and such jury may give a verdict in the manner aforesaid, by virtue whereof judgment may be entered up against the claimant and his security for the damages so assessed by the jury and the costs of the trial of the right of property. 

§ 4624. (3739.) Burden of proof on plaintiff . fi. Upon the trial of all claims provided for in this Chapter, the burden of proof shall ii e upon the plaintiff in execution in all cases where the property levied on is, at the time of such levy, not in possession of the defendant in execution. 

§ 4625. (3740.) Claim not to be withdrawn. Whenever a claim of property is made in terms of this Code, and returned to the proper court by the sheriff or other levyiDg officer, the claimant shall not be permitted to withdraw or discontinue his said claim more than once, without the consent of the plaintiff in execution, or some per- son duly authorized to represent such plaintiff; but such court shall proceed to the trial of the claim of such property, and it shall be the duty of the jury to assess damages accordingly. 

§ 4626. (3741.) Dainaqes where claim is discontinued. Whenever a claim may be dismissed for insufficiency, or is withdrawn, plaintiffs . . in execution shall have full power to have a case made up and sub- mitted to the jury, charging that said claim was filed for the purpose of delay, and upon proof of the same— defendant and claimant hav- ing the same power to resist the case as in claim cases where damages are claimed — the jury, under instructions from the court, may give damages as in cases where the claim is not withdrawn but submitted for trial to the jury; said cases so submitted shall be tried at the time of the disposal of the claim if the parties are ready, but con- tinuances shall be granted as in other cases. 

§ 4627. (3742.) How damages are to be assessed. Upon the trial of^^® claims to property which may be pending in the superior court, when damages shall be found by the jury, the said damages shall be assessed upon the whole amount then due upon the execution, pro- vided the value of the property in dispute exceeds the amount of said execution, and upon the value of the property when the value of the property is less than the execution levied. 

§ 4628. (3742a.) Claims and illegalities against fi. fas. from court ordinary. Whenever an execution issued from a court of ordi- nary shall be levied upon personal property, and a claim to said property or an affidavit of illegality be interposed, it shall be the duty of the sheriff, or other levying officer, to return the same, to- gether with the execution and all the other papers, to the next term of the superior court of the county from which the if said levy shall have been made upon realty, then the fi. fa. was issued; but fi.fa., claim or illegality papers, shall by the levying officer be returned to the next term of the superior court of the county where the land lies, and the issue shall be tried as is now provided for the trial of claim and illegality cases. 

§ 4629. Original fi. fa. in claim cases may be withdrawn. The plain- tiff in execution, in all claim cases, shall have the right to withdraw the original^, fa. from the files of the court, by making application therefor, in person or by attorney, to the clerk of the court if there be a clerk, or to the court if there be no clerk; upon application being made, such clerk or court shall make a true copy of such fa. with all the entries thereon, and shall certify the same to be true; which certified copy shall be filed with the claim papers in lieu of the original^, fa., and an entry of the filing made thereon. 

§ 4630. (3743.) Claims at executor's sale. When an executor, ad- v ' ministrator, guardian, or other trustee shall advertise that it is his intention to apply for leave to sell any real estate as the property of his testator, intestate, ward, or cestui que trust, or having obtained such order, it may be lawful for any person claiming such real estate, either by himself, his agent, or attorney, to file in the court of ordinary an affidavit claiming said property, a copy whereof shall be served on such executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, as the case may be, previous to the day of sale. 

§ 4631. (3744.) Tried in county where land lies. Affidavit having been made and filed, and notice having been given as required in the preceding section, it shall be the duty of the ordinary to transmit such claim affidavit to the next term of the superior court of the county where the land lies, and the right of property shall be there tried upon an issue made up in the same manner and under the same regulations, restrictions, and penalties as are provided for the trial of claims to property levied on by execution. 

§ 4632. (3745.) Claim to personalty, where tried. When any execuA tor, administrator, guardian, or other trustee shall advertise to sell any personal property as the property of his testator, intestate, ward, or cestui que trust, and the same shall be claimed on oath, and the claim affidavit shall have been filed and served, as required in the first section of this Chapter, it shall be the duty of the ordinary to transmit such claim affidavit to the superior court next to be held after such claim is filed in the county where such executor, administrator, guardian or trustee resides. 

§ 4633. (3746.) Claim postpones sale. When a claim has been $3458. interposed as provided in the preceding sections, the sale of the property advertised and claimed shall be postponed until after the termination of the claim case. 

§ 4634. (4049.) When a certiorari will lie. The writ of certiorari v ' will lie for the correction of errors committed by justices of the . peace, corporation courts or councils, or any inferior judicatory, . or any person exercising judicial powers, including the ordinary, ex- cept in cases touching the probate of wills, granting letters testa- mentary and of administration. 

§ 4635. (4050.) From the court y of 86/582 ; 63/331 ordinary . When either party in cause in any court of ordinary shall take exceptions to any pro- ceeding or decision in any cause, affecting the real merits of such cause, the party making the same shall offer such exceptions in writing, which shall be signed by himself or his attorney, and if the same shall be overruled by the court, such party may petition the judge of the superior court for a writ of certiorari, in which petition he shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth the errors complained of; and if such judge shall deem the objections to be sufficient, he shall forthwith issue a writ of certiorari, directed to the ordinary, requiring him to certify and send up to the superior court, at the time specified in said writ, all the proceedings in said cause. 

§ 4636. (4051.) When judge may grant out of his circuit. No judge of the superior court shall grant or issue any writ of certiorari out of his judicial circuit, unless there shall be a vacancy in any of the other circuits, or the judge thereof be indisposed, or be absent there- from, so that the business of granting certioraries cannot be speedily done.* 

§ 4637. (4052.) From justices and other inferior judicatories. When either party, in any cause in a justice's court, corporation court, council, or any inferior judicatory, or before any person exercising judicial powers, shall be dissatisfied with the decision or judgment in such cause, such party may apply for and obtain a writ of cer- tiorari by petition to the superior court, in which petition he shall plainly and distinctly set forth the errors complained of. And on such petition being filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court, with the sanction of the judge of the circuit, or the judge of some other circuit, as provided for in section 4636, indorsed thereon, together with the bond or affidavit, as hereinafter provided, it shall be the duty of such clerk to issue a writ of certiorari, directed to the justice of the peace of the district where the decision complained of was made, or other tribunal or person whose decision or judgment is the subject-matter of complaint, requiring such justice of the peace, or other tribunal or person, to certify and send up all the proceed- ings in said cause to the superior court, as directed in said writ of certiorari. 

§ 4638. (4053.) Affidavit to be made. No writ of certiorari shall be granted or issued, except to the court of ordinary, unless the party applying for the same, his agent or attorney, shall make and file with his petition the following affidavit, to wit: Georgia, County. I, A. B., do solemnly swear that the petition for certiorari is not filed in the case for the purpose of delay only, and I verily believe I have good cause for certiorari; and that the facts stated in the fore- going petition, so far as they come within my own knowledge, are true, and so far as derived from the knowledge of others, I believe them to be true. Sworn to and subscribed before me, this day of 

§ 4639. (4054.) Bond and security to be given. Betore any writ of certiorari shall issue, except as hereinafter provided, the party ap- plying for the same, his agent or attorney, shall give bond and good security, conditioned to pay the adverse party in the cause the eventual condemnation-money, together with all future costs, and shall also produce a certificate from the officer whose decision or judgment is the subject-matter of complaint, that all costs which may have accrued on the trial below have been paid; which bond and certificate shall be filed with the petition for certiorari, and the se- curity on said bond shall be liable as securities on appeal. 

§ 4641. (4056.) Affidavit in lieu of bond. If the party applying for the writ of certiorari will make and file with his petition an affidavit, in writing, that he is advised, and believes that he has good cause for certiorating the proceedings to the superior court, and that owing to his poverty he is unable to pay the costs ar»d give security as re- quired in the preceding section, such affidavit shall, in every respect, answer instead of the certificate and bond above mentioned. 

§ 4642. (4057.) Must be applied for in thirty days. All writs of cer- tiorari shall be applied for within thirty days after the final deter- mination of the case in which the error is alleged to have been com- mitted, and not after; and shall be made returnable to the next superior court after the issuing of the same, unless said superior court shall sit within twenty days after the issuing of said writ, in which case said writ shall be made returnable to the next succeeding court. 

§ 4643. (4058.) Must be served fifteen days: When the foregoing provisions have been complied with, and the writ of certiorari shall have been issued, the clerk of the superior court shall place the same on the docket; which writ, together with the petition, shall be de- livered to the party to whom it is directed by the party applying for the certiorari, his agent or attorney, or the sheriff, deputy-sheriff, or any constable, at least fifteen days previous to the court to which the return is to be made. 

§ 4644. (4059.) Ten days notice to the adverse party. The plaintiff in certiorari shall cause written notice to be given to the opposite A party in interest, his agent or attorney, of the sanction of the writ of certiorari, and also the time and place of hearing, at least ten days before the sitting of the court to which the same shall be returnable, and in default of such notice (unless prevented by unavoidable cause) the certiorari shall be dismissed. 

§ 4045. (4060.) Shall operate as a supersedeas. The writ of cer- tiorari, when granted, shall operate as a supersedeas of the judgment until the final hearing in the superior court. 

§ 4646. (4061.) Answer filed on first day of term. The answer to the writ of certiorari shall be filed on the first day of the term to which it is returnable, unless further time be given, and shall reply specif- ically to the allegations in the petition. 

§ 4647. (4062.) Exceptions to answer. Exceptions to the answer shall be filed in writing, specifying the defects, and notice thereof given to the opposite party before the case is called in its order for a hearing; and if such exceptions be sustained, the answer shall be perfected as directed by the court. 

§ 4648. (4063.) Must not be written by party interested. The answer shall not be written or dictated by either of the parties, or their at- torneys, or any other person interested in the cause; and if made after the party making the same has retired from office, it shall be verified by affidavit. 

§ 4649. (4064.) Stands for trial at first term. Certiorari causes shall stand for trial at the return term, and the judge shall take up the docket and dispose of the same in its order, unless continued for good cause. 

§ 4650. (4065.) Errors must be set forth. No ground of error shall be insisted upon, on the hearing, which is not distinctly set forth in the petition. 

§ 4651. (4066.) Answer may be traversed at first 79 Ga. term. The plaintiff or defendant in certiorari may, at the first term and before the hear- ing, traverse the truth of the answer or return, which traverse shall be in writing, specifying the portion of the answer or return intended to be controverted, and verified by affidavit, and the issue formed upon such traverse shall be tried by a special jury at the same term unless good cause be shown for a continuance, and their verdict shall be final as to the facts, upon which the court shall pronounce the law. 

§ 4652. (4067.) Certiorari maybe dismissed or returned. Upon the^**]* hearing of a writ of certiorari the superior court may order the same to be dismissed, or return the same to the court from which it came, with instructions; and in all cases when the error complained of is an error in law which must finally govern the case, and the court shall be satisfied there is no question of fact involved which makes it necessary to send the case back for a new hearing before the tri- bunal below, it shall be the duty of the said judge to make a final decision in said case, without sending it back to the tribunal below. 

§ 4653. (4068.) Certiorari when justice dies. In all cases now pend- ing, or which may be hereafter pending, in the superior courts of this State, upon certiorari from any justice's court, and the justice or justices before whom the case was tried may have died before answering the writ of certiorari served, then it shall be the duty of the presiding judge forthwith to order a new trial to be had upon the case in the court below. 

§ 4654. (4069.) Damage may be awarded. The presiding judge before whom any writ of certiorari may be heard, on motion of the op- posite party, may order that damages, not more than twenty per cent., be recovered by the defendant against the plaintiff in certiorari and his security, in case it shall be made to appear that the said cer- tiorari was frivolous, and applied for without good cause, or for the purpose of delay only, and judgment may be entered up and execu- tion issued accordingly. 

§ 4655. (4070.) If the certiorari is sustained, judgment for 'plaintiff. If on the hearing the certiorari shall be sustained, and a final de- cision thereon shall be made by the superior court, the plaintiff may sign up judgment for the amount by him recovered in the court be- low, and the costs paid to obtain the certiorari, and also the costs in said superior court; but if the certiorari shall be returned to the court below for a new hearing, the plaintiff shall sign up judgment for the costs in said superior court only, leaving the costs paid to obtain the certiorari to abide the final trial below. 

§ 4656. (4071.) If the certiorari is dismissed, judgment for ant. If the certiorari shall be dismissed, and a final decision made in the cause by the superior court, the defendant in certiorari may sign up judgment in said superior court against the plaintiff and his security for the sum recovered by him, together with the costs in said superior court; and if said case be sent back to the court below, and there be a judgment in said case in favor of said defendant in the court below, the security on the certiorari bond shall then be in- cluded as in case of security on appeal. 

§ 4657. Taking private property. All corporations or persons au- thorized to take or damage private property for public purposes shall proceed as herein set forth. P 

§ 4658. Payment or tender of compensation. If said corporations or ersons cannot by contract procure the land, easement, right of way, waterway, franchise, or other interest or property useful, needful, and necessary for public purposes, and authorized by law to be taken or damaged, then it shall be lawful for said corporation or person to take or damage said property, upon paying or tendering to the owner thereof just and adequate compensation for the land, franchise, or other interest or property so to be taken or used. 

§ 4659. When parties cannot agree as to compensation. If the parties cannot agree upon the compensation to be paid, the same shall be assessed and determined in the following manner: 

§ 4660. Notice to owner. The corporation or person seeking to con- demn property for public purposes shall serve a notice upon the owner of the property and upon the owner of any remainder, rever- sion, mortgage, lease, security-deed, or other interest therein. 

§ 4661. Notice if owner under disability. If the owner, or any of the owners, shall be a minor or under any disability whatsoever, such notice shall be served upon his or their personal representatives. 

§ 4662. If there be no personal representative. If there be no personal representative, such notice shall be served personally upon the minor and upon the ordinary of the county where the property is located, who shall appoint a guardian adlitem to represent the minor in said litigation. 

§ 4663. Guardian ad litem for minor. If such ordinary, by reason °f interest or other cause, is disqualified, such notice shall be served upon the clerk of the superior court of the county, who shall appoint a guardian ad litem to represent the minor. 

§ 4664. Notice where trust property. If the property sought to be condemned is trust property, or property in which remainders have been created, such notice shall be served upon the trustee, and also upon such persons as have an interest under the conveyance and who are of age. 

§ 4665. Service of ° r notice on non-residents. If the owner, or any of the owners, or persons in any way interested in the property, reside out of the State, notice shall be served upon the person in possession, and a like notice shall be enclosed in an envelope, properly stamped and directed, and be by the said corporation or person delivered to the ordinary of the county, who shall mail the same to said owner or owners, at their address if known, and if the address be not known, the ordinary shall act for such non-resident owners in the manner herein provided for unrepresented minors. An entry of the facts and his action therein shall be entered on the minutes by the ordinary. 

§ 4666. Where owner unknown, or -possibility of unborn remainder-men. If the owner or owners of such property, or of any interest therein, are unknown, or there is possibility of unborn remainder-men having an interest, notice shall be served upon the person in actual pos- session of the property, and also upon the ordinary, who shall act for said unknown owner as provided for in case of minors: Pro- vided, however, that whenever the unknown owner may appear, he may ask for and have another assessment under the terms of this Chapter, and he shall receive the amount then assessed; and in the event the second assessment is less than the first, the ordinary shall return the overplus to the corporation or person originally con- demning. 

§ 4667. How service effected. Unless service is acknowledged or waived, a copy of such notice shall be served by a sheriff or deputy, personally or by leaving a copy at the residence of the owner, or mailed in case of non-residents, at least fifteen days before the day fixed for assessing the damages. 

§ 4668. Where notice cannot be served . In cases where service can- not be effected by leaving notice at place of residence or by per- . sonal service, the notice shall be posted at the court-house door fif- teen days and be published once in the official paper one week before the day fixed for assessing the damages. 

§ 4669. Direction and contents of notice. All notices shall be directed to the owner or owners, and shall describe the property or franchise and the amount of interest therein sought to be condemned; fix the time when the hearing will be had on the premises; give the name of the assessor selected by said corporation, and request the owner, trustee, or representative, as the case may be, to select an assessor. 

§ 4670. When assessor to be appointed by ordinary. If the corpora- tion seeking such condemnation and assessment shall notify the or- dinary that the owner or persons interested have failed to select an assessor, or that the owners fail to agree upon an assessor, or that the owner is unknown, or that the owner or any one of the owners is a minor or otherwise under disability and without legal representative, the ordinary of the county where the property is situated, or the franchise sought to be condemned is used, shall select an assessor for such persons or owners, and if such ordinary is disqualified, then the clerk of the superior court of the county shall make the selection, after like notice by such corporation. 

§ 4671. Third assessor. The two assessors thus selected shall select a third assessor; but if in five days they do not agree upon a third assessor, the judge of the superior court of the county, upon appli- cation of either party, of which the other shall have notice, shall make the selection in term time or vacation. 

§ 4672. Oath of assessors. The three assessors thus selected shall a J be sworn by some officer authorized to administer an oath "to do equal and exact justice between the parties according to law." 

§ 4673. When hearing cannot be at time fixed. If by reason of delay in appointing assessors, or other cause, the hearing cannot be had at the time fixed in the original notice, the assessors shall fix the time for the hearing and notify both parties in writing of the time and place of the hearing. 

§ 4674. Evidence to be heard by assessors. The said assessors shall hear all evidence offered by either party as to the value of the prop- erty to be taken or used, or as to damages done the owners of the same, and the benefits to the owner accruing from the use of the property by the corporation or persons. Parties may be represented in person or by attorney before the assessors. 

§ 4675. Assessment of value and damages. The assessors, or a ma- jority of them, shall assess the value of the property taken or used, or damage done, and shall also assess the consequential damages to the property not taken, and deduct from such consequential dam- ages the consequential benefits to be derived by the owner from the operation of its franchise by the corporation, or by the carrying on of the business of the corporation or person taking or damaging the property: Provided, the consequential benefits assessed shall in no case exceed the consequential damage assessed: Provided further, that nothing in this section shall be so construed as to deprive the owner of the actual value of his property so taken or used. 

§ 4676. Finding of assessors, how and where entered. Said assessors shall enter their finding on the notice substantially as follows : the application of A. B. to condemn the following property of CD.: , notice was duly served by the sheriff (or his deputy) on C. D. (owner, trustee, representative, or ordinary, as .the case may be), by (mailing, posting, etc., as the case may be). The applicant appointed E. F. as assessor. The (owner, ordinary, representative, as the case may be) appointed G-. H. as assessor, and they two (or judge of the superior court) appointed I. J. as assessor; who, after being duly sworn and hearing the evidence, find and award that for taking the property sought to be condemned, to wit: , the said A. B. shall pay to C. D., as owner, the sum of $ . The consequential damages to the property of C. D. not taken amount to $ , and the consequential benefits to $ ; ' ' Upon and the said A. B. shall pay said CD. the difference between such damage and such benefit." 

§ 4677. Filing and record of award. Within ten days after the award is made, it shall be filed and recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county where the property is situated or fran- chise sought to be condemned is exercised. 

§ 4678. Appeal. In case either party, or the representative of either party, is dissatisfied, he or they have the right, within ten days from the time the award is filed, to enter in writing an ap- peal from the award to the superior court of the county where the award is filed; and at the term succeeding the filing of the appeal, it shall be the duty of the judge to cause an issue to be made and tried by a jury as to the value of the property taken or the amount of damage done, with the same right to move for a new trial and file a bill of exceptions as in other cases at common law. 

§ 4679. Appeal not to delay, when. The entering of said appeal and the proceedings thereon shall not hinder or delay in any way the corporation's or person's work or the progress thereof, if the appli- cant to condemn shall pay or tender to the owner the amount of the award, and, in case of the refusal of the owner to accept the same, deposit the amount awarded with the clerk of the superior court for the benefit of the owner. 

§ 4680. Tender or acceptance not prevent appeal. The tender, pay- ment, or acceptance of the amount shall not prevent either party from prosecuting the appeal. If the amount so awarded by the as- sessors is less than that found by the final judgment, the company shall be bound to pay the sum so finally adjudged in order to retain the property; and if it be less than that awarded by the assessors, the owner shall be bound to refund any excess paid to or received by him, and a judgment for such excess shall be rendered against him, to be collected by levy as in other cases. 

§ 4681. When execution shall issue. If no appeal be entered within ten days after the award is filed, or if the corporation shall fail to pay the amount of the award or final judgment, the clerk shall issue execution upon such award or judgment, which may be levied upon any property of the corporation or person condemning. 

§ 4682. Notice and award to be entered on minutes. In all cases the clerk shall enter the notice and award thereon upon the minutes of the court, and the corporation or person condemning shall pay the costs for the condemnation proceedings to each assessor, not exceed- ing two dollars per day, and other cost as now provided by law in civil cases in the superior court. 

§ 4683. What interest to vest in party seeking condemnation. Upon the payment by the corporation or person seeking to condemn of the amount of the award and final judgment on appeal, such corpora- tion or person shall become vested with such interest in the prop- erty taken as may be necessary to enable the corporation or person taking to exercise their franchise or conduct their business; and whenever the corporation or person shall cease using the property taken for the purpose of conducting their business, said property shall revert to the person from whom taken, his heirs or assigns. 

§ 4684. Payment to minor. If the person to whom the money be- longs shall be a minor or under any disability, and without a legal representative entitled to receive the same, the money shall be paid to the ordinary of the county, who shall at once cause the same to be invested; and to this end the ordinary of the county of his residence shall appoint guardian or other proper representatives to receive said money and manage the property in which it may be invested. 

§ 4685. To what condemnations applicable. The method of condem- nation of property and assessment of damages hereinbefore provided shall apply to condemnation by cities, counties, railroads, tele- graph, canal, mining, and water-works companies, drainage by coun- ties, tramroads, lighthouses, and beacon construction, and to all per- sons or corporations having the privilege of exercising the right of eminent domain; -butr nothing herein shall be construed to alter or repeal the law for opening public or private roads or ways. 

§ 4686. Subpoenas and attendance of witnesses. Said assessors shall have the same power to issue subpoenas and compel the attendance of witnesses as is vested in the superior court. 

§ 4687. (1763.) Dower. Dower is the right of a wife to an estate for life in one-third of the lands, according to valuation, including the dwelling-house (which is not to be valued unless in a town or city), of which the husband was seized and possessed at the time of his death, or to which the husband obtained title in right of his wife. 

§ 4688. How dower assigned inland partly paid for. ; Dower may be assigned in lands held under deed, bond for titles, or other instru- ment in writing having like effect, where a portion of the purchase- money has been paid, but the estate in dower shall be liable for the unpaid purchase-money where the vendee held under bond for titles or other instrument having the same effect, or under deed where con- temporaneously with the execution of the deed the vendee encum- bered the land with a mortgage for the purchase-money. 

§ 4689. (1764.) How barred. Dower may be barred— 1By provisions made prior to the marriage and accepted by the wife in lieu of dower. ^' "^ a P rovi s i° n made by deed or will, and accepted by the wife after the husband's death, expressly in lieu of dower, or where the intention of the husband is plain and manifest that it shall be in lieu of dower. 3 By the election of the widow, within twelve months from the grant of letters testamentary or of administration on the husband's estate, to take a child's part of the real estate in lieu of dower. 4. By a failure to apply for the dower for seven years from the death of the husband. 5. By the wife's deed with her husband to lands to which the title came through her. 6. By the adultery of the wife unpardoned by the husband. 

§ 4690. (1765.) Election in cases of bequest in lieu of 

§ 

§ 4690, 4691 dower. If the husband by will gives to his wife an interest in his lands, her elec- tion of dower bars her of that devise, but does not deprive her of any interest in the personalty bequeathed to her in the will, unless it is expressed to be in lieu of dower. 

§ 4691. (1766.) Election in ignorance . An election by the widow to take a child's part of the realty, in ignorance of the condition of the estate, or of any fact material to her interest, shall not bar her right to dower: Provided, the rights of third persons acting bona fide upon her election shall not be disturbed or prejudiced. 

§ 4692. (1767.) Dower in several tracts. Where the husband dies se i ze d of several distinct tracts of land lying in the same county, the widow may elect to take her entire dower in one body, and may select the tract or tracts out of which the dower shall be laid. If a tract or body of land is divided by county lines, the entire dower may be laid off in either county; if several tracts lie in different counties, the dower must be applied for and laid out in each county. 

§ 4693. (1768.) Dwelling-house. The widow is entitled to the pos- session of the dwelling-house from the death of her husband, and before dower is assigned, and also of the furniture therein, until her portion thereof is set apart by the appraisers as provided by this Code. 

§ 4694. (1769.) Lien no bar. No lien created by the husband in his lifetime, though assented to by the wife, shall in any manner interfere with her right to dower. 

§ 4695. (1770.) Dower in proceeds of sale. With the assent of the executor or administrator of the estate, the widow may elect a life- estate in one-third part of the proceeds of the sales of the land, or any distinct tract or tracts of land in lieu of the dower in such land. In which event, such third part of the proceeds of the sale shall be invested by the executor or administrator under the direc- tion of the ordinary where his returns are made, and the annual in- come thereof paid to the widow during her life. 

§ 4696. (1771.) Absolute estate in sum. With the assent of the executor or administrator of the estate, and the approval of the ordinary, the widow may elect, in lieu of her dower, an amount in^||^ money to belong absolutely to her, to be estimated and determined by the commissioners appointed to assign dower, and whose report shall be subject to the same objections as are admeasurements of dower in land. Both before the ordinary and on the return of the report of the commissioners, any person interested in the question shall be allowed to become a party and be heard. The amount so awarded shall be paid in preference to all other claims out of the proceeds of the sale of the land. 

§ 4697. (4041.) Appointment i -it- 1 of commissioners. The superior courts of this State, at term time, or the judges thereof at chambers, shall • 1. p have power and authority, upon the written application of any per- son entitled to dower in any lands and tenements in this State, to appoint five fit and discreet freeholders of the county in which the application is made, and cause the clerk of the court to issue a writ for that purpose, directing said freeholders, or a majority of them, to enter upon such lands and tenements, and to admeasure, lay off, and assign the dower to which the applicant is entitled by law in such lands, having regard to the shape and valuation of the same: Provided, such lands shall be without the limits of any city, town, village, or place of public business; and of all lands within a city, town, village, or place of public business, said freeholders, or a majority of them, may lay off and assign one-third part of the lands and tenements to which the applicant is entitled, according to quan- tity and valuation, as they may think proper, just, and equitable. 

§ 4698. (4042.) Application, when made. The application for dower shall not be made until after the expiration of three months from the death of the person to whom said lands and tenements belonged. 

§ 4699. (4043.) Notice in writing. The applicant shall give written n°tice to the representative of such estate, or if she be the repre- sedative, then to the person or persons interested, ten days, if they reside in this State, or if they reside without the State, two months notice in some public gazette of this State, of such intended appli- cation for such assignment of dower. 

§ 4700. (4044.) Oath of commissioners. The persons appointed to lay off dower as aforesaid, shall take the following oath, to be ad- ministered by an officer authorized to administer oaths, or before one of their number, he first swearing before the rest: "I do solemnly swear that I will duly and impartially execute the laws, to the best of my understanding. So help me God." 

§ 4701. (4045.) May employ surveyor. The commissioners so ap- pointed shall have power to procure the aid of the county surveyor of the county, or other competent surveyor, in making the survey and admeasurement of dower, who shall be required to make a care- ful plat of such survey of dower, which shall be recorded with the return of the commissioners. The commissioners shall make return of their proceeding to the succeeding term of the court after their appointment. If the representative of the estate, or any person or persons interested, object to the widow's right under the law to dower, he or they shall make their objections in writing at the term of the court to which the commissioners' return is made, and said objections shall be tried or heard in the same manner as provided in section 4702 of this Code, for the trial of a traverse to return of commissioners. 

§ 4702. (4046.) Traverse of return, etc. When the return of the commissioners is made, it shall be the right of every person inter- ested to enter a traverse in writing, plainly stating the grounds upon which it is made; in which case it shall be the duty of the court to cause an issue to be made up, which shall be tried by a special jury at the same term of the court, unless good cause be shown for a con- tinuance, which shall be granted for one term, and no longer. 

§ 4703. (4047.) Finding and its effect. If such issue be formed, and the jury find in favor of the return, then the return of the com- missioners shall be confirmed and made the judgment of the court; but if the issue be found against the return of the commissioners, then the court shall order a new writ to be issued to other commis- sioners named, requiring them to make the admeasurement and assignment, and make return thereof to the next term of the court. ... . 

§ 4704. (4048.) Return of commissioners. When the return of the commissioners is made the final judgment of the court, it shall be conclusive between all parties interested, and the clerk shall issue writs of possession in favor of the applicant, and judgment shall be entered against the representative of the estate of the deceased hus- band for all costs, including two dollars per day each for the com- missioners. 

§ 4705. (3532.) Garnishment. In cases where suit is pending, or where judgment has been obtained, the plaintiff shall be entitled to the process of garnishment under the following regulations. 

§ 4706. (3534.) Affidavit by agent or attorney. When the affidavit i s made by the agent or attorney at law of the plaintiff, he may swear according to the best of his knowledge and belief, and shall have power to sign the name of the plaintiff to such bond, who shall be bound thereby in the same manner as though he had signed it himself. 

§ 4707. (3535.) Affidavit and bond by one of a firm, etc. When the debt for the recovery of which the garnishment is sought is due to copartners, or several persons jointly, any one of said copartners or joint creditors may make the affidavit and give the bond in the name of the plaintiff, as prescribed in cases of attachment. 

§ 4708. (3533.) Garnishment, how obtained. The plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law, shall make affidavit before some officer author- j ze( j £ i 8gue an attachment by this Code, stating the amount claimed to be due in such action, or on such judgment, and that he has rea- son to apprehend the loss of the same or some part thereof unless process of garnishment do issue, and shall give bond with good se- curity, in a sum at least equal to double the amount sworn to be due, payable to the defendant in the suit or judgment, as the case may be, conditioned to pay said defendant all costs and damages that he may sustain in consequence of suing out said garnishment, in the event that the plaintiff fails to recover in the suit, or it should appear that the amount sworn to be due on such judgment was not due, or that the property or money sought to be garnisheed was not subject to process of garnishment. 

§ 4709. (3536.) How and by whom issued, etc. When such affidavit has been made, and bond given, it shall be the duty of the officer ^^823, before whom the same is made, or any other officer authorized by this Code to issue attachments, to whom the same bond and affida- 7 vit may be delivered, upon the request of the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney at law, to issue a summons of garnishment, directed to the person sought to be garnished, requiring him to appear at the next term of the court where such suit is pending, or where such judgment was obtained; but if the next superior court shall be held within less than ten days from the time such summons shall issue, then the garnishee shall be required to appear at the next court thereafter, then and there to depose on oath what he is indebted to, or what property and effects he has in his hands belonging to, the defendant, or had at the time of the service of the summons of garnishment; and also what he has become indebted to the defendant, or what p. 136. property and effects he has received or got possession of belonging^ to the defendant, between the time of the service of said summons and the time of making his return, and upon such affidavit, bond, and summons of garnishment being delivered to any officer authorized by law to levy an attachment, it shall be his duty to serve such sum- mots of garnishment upon the person to whom it is directed, if to be found in his county, and to make an entry of such service, and of his actings and doings in the premises, upon the affidavit and bond, and return the same to the court to which the person summoned as garnishee is required to appear; and all subsequent proceedings shall be the same as in this Code prescribed in relation to garnishment in cases of attachment. Summons of garnishment may issue under the provisions of this section, from time to time, before trial, with- out giving any additional bond. 

§ 4710. Garnishment upon corporation, how served. Service of a sum- mons of garnishment upon the agent in charge of the office or busi- ness of the corporation in the county or district at the time of serv- ice shall be sufficient. 

§ 4711. (3536 a.) Garnishee's answer must include what. In all cases of garnishment, whether the same be by attachment or gar- nishment at common law, it shall be the duty of the garnishee to answer what property, money or effects of the defendant he has in his hands at the date of the service of the summons of garnishment, and also what property, money or effects of the defendant may have come into his or her hands at any time from the date of said service to the date of the answer; and said garnishee shall also answer what he or she owes the defendant at the date of the service, and also what he or she may have become indebted to the defendant at any time between the date of the service of the summons and the answer thereto. 

§ 4712. (3536b.) What is subject to garnishment. All debts owing to the defendant, and all property, money or effects of the defend- ant coming into the hands of the garnishee at or within the times designated in the preceding section, shall be subject to process garnishment, whether the garnishee had anything in his hands or was indebted anything to the defendant at the date of the service of the summons or not. 

§ 4713. (3536 c.) Garnishments on judgments in court of all cases where judgment has been, or may hereafter be, obtained in the courts of ordinary of this State, the plaintiff in such judgment shall be entitled to process of garnishment, as in other cases of gar- nishment at common law, and the proceedings in such cases shall be the same as though such judgment may have been obtained in the superior court: Provided, however, that the persons ought to be gar- nished shall be directed and required to answer at the next term of the superior court of the county wherein the garnishee resides; but if the next term of the superior court shall be held within less than ten days after the summons issues, then the garnishee shall be re- quired to appear and answer at the next term of the court there- after. 

§ 4714. (3536 d.) Garnishments against persons in other counties. The plaintiffs named in the foregoing section shall have power to garnish persons in counties other than the county wherein their judgments are or may have been obtained, as in other cases of garnishment at common law; and the defendants in such judgments and claim- ants to the money or property in the hands of the garnishee shall have the right to dissolve such garnishments, or to claim said money or property, in the same manner as in other cases of garnishment at common law. 

§ 4715. (3537. ) Garnishment against persons residing out \yhen any of the persons sought to be garnished reside in a different county from the one where suit is pending or in which judgment was obtained, it shall be the duty of the officer taking such affidavit and bond, or any other officer of the county where such suit is pend- ing or where such judgment was obtained, authorized by this Code to issue an attachment, to whom said bond and affidavit may be de- livered, to make out a copy thereof, and certify the same to be true, and shall deliver said certified copy to the plaintiff, his agent, or at- torney at law; and upon such certified copy being delivered to any officer authorized to issue an attachment, of the county where the person sought to be garnished resides, it shall be the duty of such officer to issue summons of garnishment for such person as he may be directed by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law, requiring him to appear at the next superior or justice's court of said county, according as such suit is pending or judgment was obtained in the superior or justice's court, then and there to depose according to the provisions of the previous sections; but if the said superior court shall be held within less than twenty days, or said justice's court shall be held within less than ten days, from the time such garnish- ment issues, the garnishee shall be required to appear at the next court thereafter. 

§ 4716. (3538.) Garnishments in another county. When any of the persons sought to be garnished reside in a different county from the one where suit is pending or in which judgment was obtained, the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law, may make affidavit and give bond in any county in the State, before any officer authorized to issue an attachment under this Code, and it shall be the duty of the officer taking such affidavit and bond to make out a copy thereof, and certify the same to be true, and to issue summons of garnish- ment for such person as he may be directed by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney at law, requiring him to appear at the next supe- rior or justice's court of the county of the garnishee's residence, ac- cording as such suit is pending or judgment was obtained in the superior or justice's court, then and there to depose according to the provisions of law; and it shall be the duty of the officer serving such summons to return or transmit the certified affidavit and bond, to- gether with his actings and doings thereon, to the superior or justice's court of the county in which such suit is pending or judgment was obtained, and to return the original affidavit and bond to the court where such person is summoned to appear, with his actings and do- ings thereon, and all subsequent proceedings shall be the same as prescribed by this Code in relation to garnishment in cases of attachment, where the garnishee resides out of the county in which the attachment is returnable. This section shall not be so construed as to repeal the preceding section, but as providing an additional mode of obtaining garnishment against persons residing out of the county where suit is pending, or in which judgment was obtained; and so much of said section as relates to the time in which service of summons of garnishment shall be made returnable to the superior or justice's court, is hereby made a part of this section. 

§ 4717. (3539.) How issued, served and returned, etc. Upon such certified copy of affidavit, bond, and summons of garnishment, being delivered to any officer authorized by law to levy an attachment, it shall be his duty to serve the summons upon the person to whom it is directed, and to return the said copy affidavit and bond, to the court where such person is summoned to appear, together with his actings and doings entered thereon, and all subsequent proceedings shall be the same as is prescribed by this Code in relation to garnish- ment in cases of attachment, where the garnishee resides out of the county in which the attachment is returnable. 

§ 4718. (3540.) Dissolution of garnishments. In any case when gar- nishment has been issued, the defendant may dissolve such garnish- ment upon filing in the clerk's office of the court, or with the justice of the peace, where suit is pending or judgment was obtained, a bond with good security, payable to the plaintiff, conditioned for the pay- ment of the judgment that shall be rendered on said garnishment. The plaintiff may enter up judgment upon such bond against the principal and securities, as judgment may be entered against securities upon appeal, whenever said plaintiff shall obtain the judgment of the court against the property or funds against which garnishment was issued. 

§ 4719. Answer of garnishee and judgment. The garnishee shall file his answer stating what amount he was indebted to the defend-^} ant, or what effects he had in his hands belonging to defendant, , at the time of the service of such summons, and what he had become indebted to the defendant, or what effects had come into his hands belonging to the defendant, between the time of the service of such summons and the making of his answer; and in the event the court shall decide that the fund or property in the hands of the garnishee was subject to garnishment had the garnishment not been dis- solved, then the court shall render judgment against the defendant and his securities. 

§ 4720. (3541.) Claimants may dissolve garnishment. Whenever any process of garnishment is served upon any person, based upon suit, attachment or judgment, and there shall be money or property of any kind or description in the hands of the garnishee, or that shall come into his hands so as to fall within the operation of the sum- mons of garnishment so served as aforesaid, which is claimed to be the property or money of any person not a party to the proceeding upon which said garnishment is based, said claimant may dissolve said garnishment by riling in the clerk's office of the superior court of any county, or of any city court, or in the office of any justice of the peace or notary public, according as said garnishment may be returnable to the superior, city, justice or notary public's court, a bond with good security in twice the amount of the sum claimed upon said suit, attachment, or judgment, to be approved by said clerk, or said justice of the peace or notary public, conditioned to pay to the plaintiff the sum that may be found due to said defend- ant upon the trial of any issue that may be formed upon the answer of the garnishee, or that may be admitted to be due in said answer, if untraversed. 

§ 4721. (3542.) Traverse, etc., on answer of garnishee. The gar- nishee, upon answering, shall be discharged from all further liability, and the plaintiff's remedy shall be upon the bond so executed as aforesaid; the plaintiff or claimant, or both of them may traverse said answer, and the issue upon said traverse shall be submitted to a jury as other issues upon the answer of garnishee; if said gar- nishee fails to answer within the time required by the laws of this State, judgment shall be had against him, and he shall be liable thereon, notwithstanding any bond that may have been executed by any claimant of the fund or property in his hands. 

§ 4722. (3543.) The fund or property to be delivered to claimant. The garnishee shall pay over or deliver any money or property to the claimant, upon the dissolution of the garnishment in manner aforesaid, unless prevented by other legal process. 

§ 4723. (3544.) Claimant is party to subsequent proceedings. The claimant of any fund or property, to whom the same may have been paid or delivered upon the dissolution of the garnishment in the manner before prescribed, shall be a party to all further proceedings upon said garnishment, and judgment shall be had instanter upon said bond for any sums, or the value of any property that may be found to have been in the hands of said garnishee, liable to the oper- ation of said summons of garnishment. 

§ 4724. (3545.) Money raised by garnishment,, how distributed. All money raised by virtue of the process of garnishment under this A Code, shall be paid over to the creditors of the defendant, according^ to the priorities now established by law — the expenses of the moving creditors being first paid pro rata by the judgment creditors receiv- ing the benefit of his diligence. 

§ 4725. (3546.) Garnishee liable for interest, when. As a general rule, a party who is prevented from paying over money by process of law is not liable for interest; but if a garnishee resists the payment of the fund in his hands, or controverts his indebtedness, he is liable for interest thereon —but he may relieve himself from interest by paying the fund into court. 

§ 4726. (3547.) Judgment. The plaintiff shall not have judgment against the garnishee until he has obtained judgment against the defendant. 

§ 4727. (3548.) Answer of garnishee. The garnishee must, in his answer, admit or deny his indebtedness, or that he has or had effects in his hands belonging to defendant; and if he is unable to do so, his inability must appear in his answer, together with all the facts plainly, fully and distinctly set forth, so as to enable the court to give judgment thereon. 

§ 4728. (3549.) Garnishee relieved from cost of answer. In all cases where process of garnishment shall be served upon any person, and such person shall make a true answer to the garnishment, as now re- quired by law, and shall pay the sum due to the defendant into court, or shall turn over and deliver up any personal property of the defendant that he may have in his possession, as required by law, or shall answer truly that he owes the defendant nothing, if the garnishee shall have to incur any expense in making his or her answer to the garnishment, or in turning over said personal property, the amount so incurred shall be taxed in the bill of costs, under the approval of the court, and be paid by the party cast in the suit, as other costs are now paid. 

§ 4729. (3550.) Remedies against garnishee. Whenever the garnishee shall answer that he has money or currency in his control belonging to the defendant in the principal suit, or the fact shall be ascer- tained in the manner provided by law, the plaintiff, in addition to other remedies now existing, shall have the same remedy to enforce the delivery of such money or currency as exists under section 4552 of this Code, to enforce the delivery of property or effects, and all the provisions of said section as it exists, and shall exist, shall apply to garnishments at common law. 

§ 4730. (3551.) Collaterals not subject to garnishment. Collateral se- curities in the hands of a creditor shall not be the subject of gar- nishment at the instance of other creditors. 

§ 4731. (3552.) Attorney at law is subject to garnishment. An attor- ney at law, who has money or other effects in his hands belonging to the defendant, shall be subject to be garnished. 

§ 4732. (3554.) Laborers' wages exem.pt from garnishment. All jour- neymen mechanics, and day-laborers, shall be exempt from the proc- ess and liabilities of garnishment on their daily, weekly, or monthly wages, whether in the hands of their employers or others. 

§ 4733. Salary of officers, when subject. All corporations in this State, except municipal corporations, shall be liable to garnishment for the salaries of their officers, in all cases where such salary ex- ceeds the sum of five hundred dollars per annum. 

§ 4734. (3555.) When legatees, etc., are subject to garnishment. As a$ general rule, the interest of a legatee or distributee is not the sub- ject of garnishment issued against an executor or administrator, but if the legacy has been assented to by the executor, and such leg- acy is not defeated by debts against the estate, and when there has been a final settlement by the administrator, and there remains in his hands a fixed balance, such legacy or the interest of the distrib- utee or heir may be reached by process of garnishment, at the instance of a creditor of such legatee, distributee, or heir at law, as the case may be. 

§ 4735. (3556.) Executors, etc., may be garnished, when. In every case a garnishment may be issued against an executor or adminis- trator for a legacy or distributive share, or for any debt or demand owing by said estate to any other person, if the creditor will swear —in addition to the oath required in ordinary cases — that his debtor resides without the State, or is insolvent. In such cases the exec- utor or administrator shall not be compelled to answer the garnish- ment until the estate in his hands is sufficiently administered to enable him safely to answer the same. 

§ 4736. (3664.) Illegality, how taken. When an execution against the property of any person shall issue illegally, or shall be proceed- j n g illegally, and such execution shall be levied on property, such person may make oath in writing, and shall state the cause of such illegality, and deliver the same to the sheriff, or other executing of- ficer, as the case may be, together with .bond and good security for the forthcoming of such property, as provided by this Code. 

§ 4737. (3665.) No illegality until after levy. No affidavit of ille- gality shall be received by any sheriff, or other executing officer, until a levy has been made. 

§ 4738. (3666.) Illegality, how returned and tried. When the levy shall have been made, and affidavit and bond delivered to the officer as herein provided, it shall be the duty of such officer to suspend further proceedings on such execution, and return the execution, affidavit and bond, to the next term of the court from which the ex- ecution issued, and it shall be the duty of said court to determine thereon at the first term thereof, unless the plaintiff, or his attor- ney, desire to controvert the facts contained in said affidavit, in which case an issue shall be joined, which issue shall be tried by a jury at the same term, unless good cause is shown for a continuance. 

§ 4739. (3667.) Damages for delay only. Upon the trial of an is- sue formed on an affidavit of illegality filed in the superior courts, the jury trying the case shall have power to assess such damages, not exceeding twenty-five per cent., as may seem reasonable and just, upon the principal debt, provided it shall be made to appear that such illegality was interposed for delay only. And whenever an illegality may be dismissed for insufficiency, or informality, or is withdrawn, plaintiffs in execution shall have full power to proceed, as is provided in this Code in cases where claims may be dismissed or withdrawn. 

§ 4740. (3669.) Property may be sold under other executions . execution has been levied on property, and an affidavit of illegality filed to stay proceedings thereon, the property so levied on shall be subject to levy and sale under other execution, and the officer mak- ing the first levy shall claim, receive, hold, and retain such amount of the proceeds of the sale as the court shall deem sufficient to pay the execution first levied, including interest When an up to the time of the court at which said illegality shall be determined; and any bond given by the defendant on filing such affidavit shall be released and discharged so far as relates to the property sold. 

§ 4741. (3670.) Who may file illegality. An affidavit of illegality may be filed by an attorney in fact, or an executor, administrator, or other trustee. 

§ 4742. (3671.) When illegality cannot go behind judgment. If the defendant has not been served, and does not appear, he may take advantage of the defect by affidavit of illegality; but if he has, had his day in court, he cannot go behind the judgment by an affidavit of illegality. 

§ 4743. (3980.) Office papers may be established instanter. Upon the loss of any original petition, answer, declaration, plea, bill of in- 

§ dictment, special presentment, or other office paper, a copy may be established instanter on motion. 

§ 4744. (3981.) Papers sued on are office papers, when. The instru- ment sued on shall be deemed an office paper, after the case of which it is the foundation has gone to trial. 

§ 4745. (3982.) How other papers are established. The owner of a paper (other than an office paper, and which cannot be sued on and$ collected in a justice's court) lost or destroyed, desiring to establish the same, shall present to the clerk of the superior court of the county where the maker of the paper resides, if a resident of this State, a petition in writing, together with a copy, in substance, of the paper lost or destroyed, as near as he can recollect, which copy shall be sworn to by the petitioner, his agent, or attorney; where- upon the clerk shall issue a rule nisi in the name of the judge of the superior court, calling upon the opposite party to show cause, if any he has, why the copy sworn to should not be established in lieu of the lost or destroyed original; which rule shall be served by the sheriff, his deputy, or any constable of this State, personally upon the party, if to be found in thi3 State, twenty days before the sitting of the court to which the rule nisi is made returnable; and if the party cannot be found in this State, then the rule shall be published in some public gazette of this State twice a month for two months before the final hearing of the rule. 
 

§ 4746. (3983.) Continuance, when granted. In a proceeding to es- tablish lost papers under the provisions of the preceding section, no continuance shall be granted, unless it appear reasonable and just to the court; nor shall a continuance be allowed to the same party more than once, except for providential cause. 

§ 4747. (3984.) Rule absolute. When the rule nisi has been duly served as hereinbefore provided, the court shall grant a rule absolute establishing the copy of the lost or destroyed paper sworn to, unless good and sufficient cause be shown why such rule absolute should not be granted. 

§ 4748. (3985.) Certified indorsement of copy. When the copy is es- tablished, the clerk of the court in which it is done shall furnish the copy to the party who had it established, with a certified indorse- ment thereon of the day and term of the court when the rule abso- lute was granted: Provided, all costs of the proceeding are paid. 

§ 4749. Lost note sued on. A lost instrument may be sued on; and if a plea of non est factum is filed, the same may be met by proof that the lost note was genuine, and that the copy attached to the declara- tion is correct. 

§ 4750. (3986.) Suit on lost paper. If the paper lost or destroyed ^p be a note, bill, bond, or other instrument upon which suit may be brought, the owner thereof may institute suit thereon so soon as the rule nisi has been issued as hereinbefore provided for, and it shall be set forth in the declaration that the paper sued on is lost or de- stroyed; and in no case shall there be a judgment had in such suit until it shall be determined whether the application to establish the paper be granted or not; and if granted, then judgment shall be had as in other cases. 

§ 4751. (3987.) Oyer of lost paper shall not be demanded. In a suit such as provided for in the preceding section, oyer of the paper sued on shall not be demanded until at the time of the rendition of judg- ment in such suit; and then if the plaintiff produce a copy of the paper, with a certified indorsement thereon by the clerk of the court in which it was established, as hereinbefore directed, it shall be taken and considered as the original. 

§ 4752. (3988.) When execution is lost, alias may issue. When any execution which shall have been regularly issued from the superior courts of this State shall be lost or destroyed, the judge of the court from which the same issued may at any time, either in open court or vacation, upon proper application being made and the facts proven by the affidavit of the applicant, his agent or his attorney, or by any other satisfactory proof, grant an order for the issuing of an alias execution in lieu of the lost original execution. 

§ 4753. (3989.) Papers belonging to suits may be established . y bond, bill, note, or other evidence of debt, or any summons, ex- ecution, or any other paper belonging or appertaining to any suit or other proceeding in any justice's court of this State, shall be lost, destroyed, or mislaid from the hands of the justice of the peace, such justice, may, by reason and virtue of his office, establish instanter a copy in substance of such paper in lieu of the original so lost; and if any such paper be lost, destroyed or mislaid from the hands of any person other than the justice of the peace, the party plaintiff or defendant, or any one interested, wishing to use such lost paper, shall be permitted to establish and use in lieu of the original a sub- stantial copy of the same, by making affidavit of the loss of the orig- inal, and that the copy proposed to be used is a copy in substance of the lost original. 

§ 4754. (3990.) Other papers, how established. The owner of a lost paper which may, according to law, be sued on and collected in a justice's court, who wishes to establish the same, may present to one of the justices of the peace of the district in which the maker resides, if a resident of this State, a copy in substance of the paper lost, as nearly as he can recollect, which copy shall be sworn to by the ap- plicant, his agent or attorney, or be proved by other evidence; where- upon such justice of the peace shall issue a rule nisi, calling upon the opposite party to show cause, if any he has, why the copy should not be established in lieu of the original so lost or destroyed; which rule shall be served upon the party personally, if to be found, ten days before the sitting of the court to which he is called upon to show cause, by any constable of the State; and if the party is not to be found, then the rule may be published in a public gazette of this State for one month before the final hearing of the rule, and if no sufficient cause be shown, the justice shall give judgment establishing the copy in lieu of the original so lost or destroyed, and the copy so established shall be certified to by the justice of the court in which it was established, and shall have all the force and effect of the orig- inal. 

§ 4755. (3991.) Alias executions from justices 1 When courts. Executions is- sued from the justices' courts of this State, when lost or destroyed, may be supplied by an alias execution, to be issued by the justice of the peace under the same rules and regulations as those which pre- vail in the superior court on the subject of issuing alias executions. 

§ 4756. (3992.) Who may be party. In all cases for the purpose of establishing any lost or destroyed paper (other than an office paper), any person whose interest is to be affected by the establishment of such lost papers shall, upon motion, by order of the court, be made a party defendant to such proceeding, and be allowed all the rights of defense against the same as fully as if he was the maker of said lost paper. 

§ 4757. (3995a.) Summary establishment, howmade. The owner, or agent of said owner, or legal representative of the owner of any bond, bill, note, draft, check, or other evidence of indebtedness, which has been lost or destroyed, may establish a copy of the same in the fol- lowing summary manner: Said owner, agent or representative shall file a petition with the ordinary of the county of the residence of the alleged debtor, or maker, if he is a resident of this State (said ordi- nary being hereby created judicial officer for the purpose herein), which petition must be sworn to by the party applying, and shall contain as full and accurate description as possible of said lost paper, and of the loss and mode of loss, and of the inability to find the same, and wherefore, and a prayer for the establishment of a copy, setting forth the copy desired to be established. Thereupon said or- dinary shall issue a citation, or notice, to said alleged debtor or maker, requiring him to appear at a day not more than ten days distant, and show cause, if any he has and can show, why said copy should not be established in lieu of the lost original. This citation or notice must be personally served by an officer, either sheriff or bailiff, or person specially appointed by said ordinary for the purpose, at least five days before the time of hearing. If no suc- cessful defense is made at the time and place appointed, the ordi- nary shall proceed to establish, by an order entered on the petition, the copy so prayed to be established, which shall have all the effect of said original. Said petition, notice and order shall be entered in a book of record specially prepared for the purpose. If the debtor or maker so served shall file a defense under oath to the effect that such original never existed as claimed, then said ordinary shall de- cide, after giving the parties time for preparation and hearing, said time not to exceed twenty days, upon the case so made, and if in favor of the applicant, and no appeal is entered as hereinafter provided, said decree shall be entered on the petition, and then the copy so established shall have the same effect as an original. If the ordi- nary's decision is in favor of the alleged debtor or maker, then the ordinary shall also enter his decision on said petition. In all cases all the proceedings shall be recorded as above provided. If either party to the aforesaid proceedings shall be dissatisfied, and claim an appeal, the ordinary shall grant the same upon the applicant's giving the usual bond and security for costs, as in cases of appeal from the court of ordinary to the superior court. Said appeal shall be tried in the superior court and returned to the next term after such decision, with all the pleadings and proceedings had before the ordinary. In the superior court, said case shall be tried and deter- mined as provided in section 4745, and the following sections of the Code. 

§ 4758. (3995b.) Non-residents, how served. When the person alleged to be a debtor or maker of the lost or destroyed paper set forth in the preceding section, shall not reside in this State, then such alleged debtor or maker may be made a party to the proceedings above men- tioned, by publication in a gazette to be designated by said ordinary twice a week for two months, and when so made a party (which shall be according to the form in cases in chancery), then all the provi- sions of this Chapter shall apply in this case, and all the provisions thereof shall apply throughout, except as herein excepted. 

§ 4759. (3995c.) Compensation of ordinary. The compensation of the ordinary for all services in such cases shall be the sum of five dollars. 

§ 4760. (4094.) May be removed, and how. Any nuisance which tends to the immediate annoyance of the citizens in general, is man- ifestly injurious to the public health and safety, or tends greatly to corrupt the manners and morals of the people, may be abated and suppressed by the order of any two or more justices of the peace of the county, founded upon the opinion of twelve freeholders of the same county, who shall be summoned, sworn, and impaneled for that purpose; which order shall be directed to and served by the sheriff of the county, or his deputy. 

§ 4761. Public nuisance, how restrained. Private citizens cannot generally interfere to have a public nuisance enjoined, but the peti- tion must proceed for the public on information filed by the solic- itor-general of the circuit. 

§ 4762. (4095.) Nuisances in cities, how abated. If a nuisance com- plained of exists in a town or city under the government of a mayor, intendant, aldermen, wardens, or a common council or commission- ers, such nuisance, by and with the advice of said aldermen, wardens, council or commissioners, may be abated and removed by order of said mayor, intendant or commissioners; but if the nuisance com- plained of exists in a city having a population of twenty thousand or more, the police court of such city, whether known as mayor's or recorder's court, or otherwise designated, shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the question of the existence of such nui- sance, and, if found to exist, to order its abatement, which order shall be directed to and executed by the sheriff or the marshal of said town or city, or their deputy. 

§ 4763. (4096.) Notice. Reasonable notice shall be given to the parties interested of the time and place of the meeting of such jus- tices and freeholders, or of such mayor, intendant, aldermen, war- dens, council or commissioners. 

§ 4764. (4097.) Grist or saw mill, or other water-machinery. If the nuisance complained of is a grist or saw mill, or other water-ma- chinery of valuable consideration, the same shall not be destroyed or abated except upon the affidavit of two or more freeholders, be- fore the ordinary of the county in which the nuisance complained of may exist, testifying that the health of the neighborhood, according to their opinion and belief, is materially injured by such mill-dam, or other obstruction to a watercourse by other machinery, as may be complained of; whereupon it shall be the duty of such ordinary, as soon as practicable, to cause a jury of twelve men to be summoned by the sheriff, or his deputy, for the trial of the cause, who, together with the said court, shall attend at the court-house of said county to adjudge the case of nuisance complained of; and all parties shall have a reasonable time allowed them to summon their witnesses and procure their attendance. 

§ 4765. (4097 a.) Jury, how obtained in nuisance cases . of nuisance, when the nuisance complained of is grist or saw mill, or other water-machinery of valuable consideration, and application has been made to have such nuisance abated, as is provided for in sec- tion 4764, it shall be the duty of the ordinary of the county to take from the jury-list of file in the clerk's office of the superior court of said county one hundred names, to be written on separate pieces of paper and placed by him in a box, and from said box he shall draw twenty-four jurors, and make out a list of the jurors so drawn and deliver a copy thereof to the sheriff or his deputy, who shall sum- mon said jurors at least two days before the time set for the hear- ing of said case, in the same manner that jurors are now sum- moned in the superior court; said jurors so summoned shall attend at the court-house of said county at the time specified in said sum- mons, and if any of said jurors shall be disqualified from serving for any legal cause, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or his deputy, under direction of said ordinary, to summon a sufficient number of tales jurors to complete the panel of twenty-four, and from said panel a jury of twelve shall be stricken, the parties plaintiff and defendant having six strikes each; and the persons serving under this section shall be entitled to the same per diem allowed jurors in the superior court of the county where such trial is had. 

§ 4766. (4098.) By whom the application may be made. A public nuisance may be abated on the application of any citizen specially injured, and a private nuisance on the application of the party in j ured. 

§ 4767. (4099.) Fees of In all cases the clerk, witnesses and jury. When it may become necessary for the ordinary, or other tribunal authorized by this Code so to do, to cause a jury to be summoned and impaneled to try a cause of nuisance arising from water-machinery, mill-dam, or otherwise, the ordinary, witnesses, and jurors shall be allowed such fees in said causes as are allowed by law in like cases in superior courts. 

§ 4768. (4100.) Fees for summoning jury . The sheriff, or other officer, or summoning such jury, shall receive the sum of three dollars; and when acting under the order of said ordinary, or other tribunal, shall remove any nuisance, machinery, or mill-dams, for which he shall be allowed such compensation as is prescribed in section 5401 of this Code. 

§ 4769. (3948.) Officers of Q \ court liable to suits, etc. All sheriffs, un- / JJ J > J der-sheriffs, coroners, iailers, and constables, and other officers of ' J J J > court, shall be liable to all actions, suits, and disabilities whatever, ' . ' ' ' which they, or either of them, may or shall incur for or on account of the escape of prisoners, or for or in respect of any other matter or thing whatever relating to or concerning their respective offices. 

§ 4770. (3949.) Liability of sheriffs. that execution The sheriffs of this State shall ^e liable to an action on the case, or an attachment for contempt of court, at the option of the party, whenever it appears that such sheriffs have injured such party, either by a false return, or by neg- lecting to arrest a defendant, or to levy on the property of the de- fendant, or to pay over to the plaintiff, or his attorney, any moneys collected by such sheriffs by virtue of any fi. fa. or other legal proc- ess, or to make a proper return of any writ, execution, or other process put into the hands of such sheriff. 

§ 4771. (3950.) Money collected by officers maybe demanded, etc. If any sheriff coroner, justice of the peace, constable, clerk of the superior ' court, or attorney at law, shall fail, upon application, to pay to the proper person, or his attorney, any money they may have in their hands, which they may have collected by virtue of their office, the party entitled thereto, or his attorney, may serve said officer with a written demand for the same, and if not then paid, for such neglect or refusal the said officer shall be compelled to pay at the rate of twenty per cent, per annum upon the sum he has in his hands, from the date of such demand, unless good cause be shown to the con- trary. 

§ 4772. (3951.) Service of demand, how proved. A copy of said de- mand produced in court, verified by affidavit, stating when and where the original was served upon the officer, shall be prima facie evidence of the date and service thereof. 

§ 4773. (3952.) Officers may be ruled after going out of office. deputy-sheriffs, coroners, clerks of the superior courts, justices of$ the peace, and constables, shall at any and all times be subject to the rule and order of the courts after they have retired from their respective offices, in such cases and in like manner as they would have been had they remained in office. 

§ 4774. (3953.) Rules nisi aqainst officers. The judges of the °. x 7 . n jj j o perior court, ordinaries, and justices of the peace, respectively, upon application, may grant rules nisi against all officers subject thereto, in vacation, or in term time, which rule nisi shall contain a full statement of the case in which the officer is called upon to show cause, and also the time and place of hearing, and, if granted in vacation, the officer called on shall be served with a copy thereof be- fore the sitting of the court to which it is made returnable, and if granted in term time, such service shall be perfected before the case is called for hearing. 

§ 4775. (3954.) Answer to rule nisi, and subsequent proceedings. Thesis officer called on by rule nisi, as provided in the preceding section, shall fully respond in writing to said rule, which answer shall be under oath, taken at the time the answer is filed; and if the answer is not denied, the rule shall be discharged, or made-absolute, accord- ing as the court may deem the answer sufficient or not. The movant of the rule, however, may traverse the truth of such answer, in which case an issue shall be made up and tried by a jury at the same term, unless good cause of continuance be shown, which may be done once only by either party. Upon the trial of such issue the court shall discharge the rule, or make the same absolute, according as the verdict of the jury may be for or against the officer. 

§ 4776. Practice on money rules. Where money is in the hands of an officer, he may pay it over to the plaintiff by whose process it was raised, unless other claimants deposit their lien with him. Notice to retain, unaccompanied by a lien, is insufficient. Money raised by legal process not being subject to levy and sale, the court in making distribution proceeds upon equitable principles. All parties inter- vening shall, by appropriate pleading, set forth the ground of their claim to the fund. All persons interested, who are notified in writ- ing by the sheriff or movant, of the pendency of the rule, will be bound by the judgment of distribution. 

§ 4777. (3955.) When officer may be ruled without notice. If a sher- iff, or other officer, shall designedly absent himself from his court, the presiding judge or justices, in all such instances, when required by plaintiffs in execution, or their attorneys, shall grant a rule ab- solute against such sheriff, without the notice aforesaid, unless it is proven at such term of the court that the said sheriff, from sickness, is not able to attend said court. 

§ 4778. (3956.) Lien of rule absolute. When a rule absolute has A° been obtained against any officer for the payment of money, as pro- vided in this Chapter, such rule shall have the same lien upon the property, both real and personal, of such officer as an ordinary judgment at law, and if not punctually paid, such demand shall thereafter draw interest at the rate of twenty per cent, per an- num, and the plaintiff may have either an attachment or an execu- tion issued from said rule absolute, and may have either of said processes returned, and the other issued at pleasure. 

§ 4779. (3957.) Default coroner > of officers, how punished. If any sheriff, or shall fail to make a proper return of all writs, executions, and other processes put into his hands, or shall fail to pay over all moneys received on such executions, on his being required so to do by the court, he shall be liable to an action as for contempt, and may be fined, imprisoned, or removed from office, in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and laws. 

§ 4780. (3959.) Deputy-sheriffs subject to rule, etc. All deputy-sher- iffs shall be liable to be ruled and attached in the same way and manner as sheriffs; but the liability of the sheriff shall not be affected by any such proceeding against his deputy, when the same is not effective. 

§ 4781. (3960.) Rule against sheriff and deputy, by whom served. Whenever the sheriff, or his deputy, is a party to said rule or inter- ested therein, and there be no coroner or other lawful officer of said ' county to execute the same, -it shall be the duty of the judge, or justice, of said court to appoint pro tempore a special officer to carry out and effectuate the order of said court, which said officer, so ap- pointed, shall be allowed the usual fees of sheriffs for like service. 

§ 4782. (3961.) Justices of the peace and constables, where ruled. Justices of the peace and constables shall be so far considered offi- cers °f the superior court, as to be subject to be ruled under similar ' regulations as are herein provided in relation to any other officer of said court, and shall be subject to all the pains and penalties as are herein provided, in case of a rule absolute against sheriffs and other officers of said court, when they, or either of them, shall refuse or neglect to collect or to pay over any money which they may have received or collected in their official capacity. 

§ 4783. (3183.) Partition. Equity has jurisdiction in cases of par- tition, whenever the remedy at law is insufficient, or peculiar circum- stances render the proceeding in equity more suitable and just. 

§ 4784. (3184.) Decree passes title. The decree on a proceeding to partition shall pass the title without the execution of any convey- ances by the parties. 

§ 4785. (3185.) Moulding decree. The court will mould its decree, A Cobb *$3i46, 6 58i 3480. in every case, to meet the general justice and equity of each person entitled, and in its discretion may postpone or deny either a parti- tion or a sale, if it shall appear that the present or prospective in- terest of each tenant may not be protected thereby. 

§ 4786. (3996.) Proceedings to partition. In all cases where two or more persons are common owners of lands and tenements in this State, whether by descent, purchase or otherwise, and no provision is made, by will or otherwise, as to how such lands and tenements are to be divided, any one of such common owners may apply to the superior court of the county in which such lands and tenements are situated, for a writ of partition, which application shall be by peti- tion, setting forth plainly and distinctly the facts and circumstances of the case, describing the premises to be partitioned, and defining the share and interest of each of the parties therein. 

§ 4787. (3997.) Application, by whom made. If the party desiring the writ of partition be of full age, and free from disability, he may make the application either in person, or by his agent, or attorney in fact or at law; and if the application is for the benefit of a minor, a lunatic, or cestui que trust, it may be made by the guardian of such minor or lunatic, or the trustee of such cestui que trust, as the case . may be. 

§ 4788. (3998.) Twenty days notice. The party applying for the writ of partition shall give to the other parties concerned at least twenty days notice of his intention to make application, and if any such other parties concerned be a minor, a lunatic or a cestui que trust, said twenty days notice may be served on the guardian of such minor or lunatic, or on the trustee of such cestui que trust, and if any of the parties reside without the limits of this State, the court may order service by publication, as in its judgment is right in each case. 

§ 4789. (3999.) Fivepartitioners. When the application for partition * 9 made, an d when due proof is made that the notice hereinbefore re- quired has been given, the court shall examine the petitioner's title, and part or share of the premises to be partitioned, and shall there- upon pass an order directing the clerk of such court to issue a writ of partition, framed according to the nature of the case, directed to five freeholders of the county in which the lands are situated, who shall execute and return the writ as hereinafter provided. 

§ 4790. (4000.) Surveyor to be selected. The partitioners, or per- sons to whom the writ is directed, shall have power to select a sur- ' r veyor to aid them in the discharge of their duties, and after giving all the parties, if possible, at least eight days notice of the time of executing the writ, and after being sworn before some officer author- ized by law to administer such oath, duly and impartially to execute such writ, the said partitioners, or a majority of them, shall proceed to make a just and equal partition and division of all such lands and tenements, either in entire tracts or parcels as they shall judge to be in proportion to the shares claimed, and most beneficial to the sev- eral common owners of said lands and tenements, according to the best of their skill, ability and knowledge, and they shall return said writ, with their acting and doings thereon, under their hands and seals, to the said superior court within three months after the issuing of said writ, which return shall be filed and kept by the said clerk until the next term of said court after the filing of the same. 

§ 4791 . (4001 4. 1254 ) Defenses, when, by whom, and how made. At the term of the court when the application is made, or at the term next after the said partitioners have made their return, any of the defendants or persons concerned, against whom or whose right or title a judg- ment is sought, may file objections to the right of the applicant, and the writ of partition, or to the return of the partitioners, and may, by way of defense, show any good and probable matter in bar of the partition asked for, or may show that the demandant has not title to so much as is allowed and awarded to him by the said petitioners, or to any part of the land; whereupon an issue shall be made up and tried by a special jury, as in appeal cases. 

§ 4792. (4002.) When return shall be made the judgment . jection be filed by any of the parties to the return of the partition- era, or if, being filed, the jury on the trial shall find a verdict against the party setting up such objections, the said return of the parti- tioners shall be made the judgment of the court, and shall be final and conclusive as to all the parties concerned who were notified of the application for partition, and of the time of executing the writ, as hereinbefore required, and a writ of possession shall issue accord- ingly; but if objections to said returns be filed and sustained by the jury trying the case, or if it shall appear to the court that there is injustice or inequality in the division made by the partitioners, said court shall award a new partition, to be made in the presence of the parties concerned (if they will appear), which second partition, when returned, shall be firm, good and conclusive forever against all parties notified as aforesaid. 

§ 4793. (4003.) If lands cannot be divided they must le sold. When- ever application is made for partition of lands and tenements, as hereinbefore provided for, and either of the parties in interest shall make it satisfactorily appear to the court that a fair and equitable division of the lands and tenements cannot be made by means of metes and bounds, by reason of improvements made thereon, or by reason of the premises being valuable for mining purposes, or for the erection of mills or other machinery, or that the value of the entire lands and tenements will be depreciated by the partition applied for, then and in that case the court shall order a sale of such lands and tenements, and shall appoint three discreet persons to conduct such sale under such regulations and upon such just and equitable terms as said court may prescribe; which sale shall take place on the first Tuesday in the month, at the court-house of the county in which the land is situated, after an advertisement of such sale in some public gazette of this State once a week for four weeks. 

§ 4794. (4004.) Proceeds, how disposed of. After the sale of any lands and tenements, as provided for in the preceding section, the commissioners conducting the sale shall return their proceedings to the same term of the court ordering such sale, if then in session; and if at the time of the said sale the court shall have adjourned, then to the next term thereof, at which term the court shall order the proceeds of the sale to be divided among the several claimants ratably in pro- portion to their respective interests, after deducting the expenses of the proceedings. Such commissioners shall be liable to rule by the superior court as sheriffs are liable for all moneys which they have or may receive for the lands sold by them, and which they are required by law to, return to the court for distribution ; and in case they fail to pay the money into court in obedience to a rule against them, they shall be attached as for a contempt instanter and imprisoned without bail or mainprise until such payment is made, as sheriffs are liable for money collected by them and not paid over in obedience to a rule. 

§ 4795. (4005.) Title to property sold. Upon the sale of lands and tenements as aforesaid, the parties in interest shall execute a title to the purchaser, and if any of them fail or refuse to do so, the said commissioners so appointed as aforesaid, or any two of them, shall execute a deed of conveyance to said lands and tenements to the pur- chaser at such sale, which deed shall be valid and binding in law and equity as if made by the parties themselves. 

§ 4796. (4006.) Cases not provided for. In any extraordinary case not covered by the foregoing provisions, the court may frame its pro- ceeding and order so as to meet the exigency of the case without forcing the parties into equity; and the court may deny a sale or par- tition altogether, if it is manifest that the interest of each party will not be fully protected. 

§ 4797. (4007.) When motion to vacate may be made. When proceed- ings have been instituted, atid judgment of partition had thereon, according to the regulations prescribed in this Code, and any one of the parties in interest is a minor, or a lunatic who has no guardian, or is absent from the State during such proceeding, or has not been notified thereof, such minor or lunatic may, within twelve months after coming of age, or restoration of mind, or having a guardian ap- pointed, and such absent or unnotified party may, at any time within twelve months after rendition of the judgment, move the court to set aside such judgment on any of the grounds upon which a party notified and free from disabilities might have resisted the judgment upon the hearing, as hereinbefore authorized, and the issue shall be tried and the subsequent proceedings shall be the same as pointed out in cases of objections filed to the return of the partitioners be- fore judgment; and if such motion to set aside the judgment be not made within the time aforesaid, such judgment shall be as binding and conclusive upon such minor, lunatic, absent or unnotified party, as if he had been notified, present, or free from disability. But in no event shall such subsequent proceedings affect the title of a bona fide purchaser under a sale ordered by the court. 

§ 4798. (4008.) Personal property may be partitioned. Application flaue. may be made, and partition of personal property may be obtained, in the same manner and under the same regulations as are prescribed in this Code for obtaining partition of lands and tenements. 

§ 4799. (4032.) Possessory warrant, by ivhom and oji what grounds is- sued. Upon complaint being made on oath by the party injured, his agent, or attorney in factor at law, to any judge of the superior court, judge of the county court, or justice of the peace of the county in which the property in controversy may be, that any personal chattel has been taken, enticed, or carried away, either by fraud, violence, seduction or other means, from the possession of the party complain- ing, or that such personal chattel, having recently been in the quiet, peaceable and legally-acquired possession of such complaining party, has disappeared without his consent, and as he believes has been received. or taken possession of by the party complained against, un- der some pretended claim, and without lawful warrant or authority, and that the party complaining does in good faith claim a title to or interest in the personal chattel, or the possession thereof, it shall be the duty of such judge or justice to issue a warrant, as well for the apprehension of the party against whom the complaint is made as for the seizure of the property in controversy, which warrant shall be directed to the sheriff, his deputy, or any lawful constable of the county aforesaid. 

§ 4800. (4033.) Warrant, how executed. The officer in whose hands the possessory warrant is placed shall forthwith proceed to apprehend and arrest the body of the defendant, or party against whom the warrant is issued, and also to seize the property described in the warrant, if the same are to be found in his county, and carry the said defendant and said property, together with the warrant, before the judge or justice issuing the same, or before any other judge or justice of said county. 

§ 4801. (4034.) Trial. The judge or justice before whom a war- rant for the restoration of personal property may be returned, shall, if the parties are ready, proceed with the hearing forthwith; but if either of the parties is not ready, the hearing shall be postponed to some subsequent time, to be fixed by the said judge or justice, so as to allow the parties a reasonable opportunity to procure their testimony, and at the same time to insure a trial with as little delay as possible. 

§ 4802. (4035.) Possession the only issue to be tried. When the day ge t apart for the trial arrives, the judge or justice shall proceed to hear evidence as to the question of possession in a summary way, without investigating the title to the property, and shall cause the property to be delivered to the party from whose possession the same was violently or fraudulently taken or enticed away, or from whom the same absconded, or in whose peaceable and lawful possession it last was: Provided, such party shall then and there enter into a re- cognizance, with good and sufficient security, in double the amount of the value of such property, and the hire claimed (if any), to cause the said property to be produced and forthcoming to answer any judgment, execution or decree that may be had, issued or made upon such suit or action, at law or in equity, as the opposite party may commence or prosecute within the next four years touching the same: Provided, also, that when the party taking out the warrant shall re- fuse or fail to give such security, then the judge or justice may, in his discretion, deliver over the property to the opposite party upon his entering into a like recognizance, with security of the same nautre and effect. 

§ 4803. (4036.) Notice of certiorari is supersedeas. A notice of in- tention to certiorari the decision of the court, when served upon the opposite party, or his agent or attorney, shall operate as a superse- deas for ten days, during which time the officer shall retain posses- sion of the property, and if after the expiration of the ten days no certiorari has been granted, then and in that event the officer shall proceed to deliver the property, as directed by the court at the time of trial. 

§ 4804. (4037.) Bond, where returned. The judge or justice shall return any recognizance taken as provided in the preceding section to the next superior court of the county where the same is taken, to be transmitted to the court where any suit or action may be com- menced touching said property, and the securities on such recogni- zance shall be bound and liable for the eventual condemnation- money in such suit or action, and execution shall issue against them in the same manner as against security on appeals. 

§ 4805. (4038.) Defendant may he imprisoned, when. Upon the return f a possessory warrant, if it shall appear that the officer cannot find or was unable to seize the property described in the warrant, and that such property is in the possession, power, custody or con- trol of the defendant, or any agent or friend of his, or any one acting for or intrusted with the same for him, and the said defendant doth not produce or cause said property to be forthcoming, to be dealt with as the law directs, and as the judgment of the said judge or justice awards, the said defendant shall be committed to jail, there to remain in safe and close custody without bail or mainprise until such property shall be produced or forthcoming, to be disposed of as aforesaid: Provided, always, that no person shall be so committed to jail for such failure to produce property, if he can satisfactorily prove to the judge or justice trying the case that such property has been in his quiet and peaceable possession for four years next im- mediately preceding the issuing of said warrant, but upon such proof being made the warrant shall be dismissed: And provided further, that no person shall be imprisoned as aforesaid pending an applica- tion for a certiorari before the superior court, who shall give bond and security to abide by the final decision of the cause. 

§ 4806. (4039.) Certiorari lies to judgment on a possessory warrant. ^he wr ^ °^ certiorari lies to every decision of a court upon a posses- sory warrant, to be sued out as in other cases; and upon the hear- ing of such writ in the superior court, if the liberty of the party is endangered by the decision of the court below, he may demand a trial before a jury impaneled as in criminal cases, upon the issue of fact as to the alleged property being in his possession, power, cus- tody, or control, or that of his agent, friend, or any other person for him, and the verdict of such jury shall be conclusive on the question. 

§ 4807. (4040.) Judgment on the certiorari. Upon hearing the cer- tiorari, the judge may remand the case or give final judgment and direction therein, as he may see fit. 

§ 4808. (4072.) Intruders, how ejected. Intruders may be ejected from the possession of lands and tenements in the following manner, to wit: When any person, either by himself, his agent or attorney in fact, shall take and subscribe an affidavit in writing, before any officer authorized to administer an oath, setting forth that he does in good faith claim the right of possession to any land or tenement (describing the same), and that such land or tenement is in the hands of another person (naming the person), who does not in good faith claim a right to such possession, and yet refuses to abandon the same; and when such affidavit shall be placed in the hands of the sheriff of the county where the land or tenement is situated, it shall be the duty of such sheriff, at the earliest practicable day, to exhibit such affidavit to the person described as being in possession of such land or tenement, and to turn such person out of possession, unless the person so in possession shall tender to the sheriff a coun- ter-affidavit, stating that he does in good faith claim a legal right to the possession of said land or tenement. 

§ 4809. (4073.) Sheriff may administer oath. The sheriff shall be a competent officer to administer the oath to the person in possession, in case he tenders the counter-affidavit provided for in the preced- ing section. 

§ 4810. (4074.) Return of affidavit ; and trial. If a counter-affidavit be tendered as hereinbefore provided for, the sheriff shall not turn the party out of possession, but the contending parties shall be remitted to their respective rights, and the sheriff shall return both affidavits, and deposit them in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county in which the land lies, upon which an issue shall be made up and tried by a jury, according to the laws of this State. 

§ 4811. (4075.) Writ of possession may issue, when. If the rinding of the jury upon the trial of the issue provided for in the preceding section, shall be for the plaintiff, or movant, the clerk shall issue upon the judgment a writ of habere facias possessionem, including a fieri facias for the costs. 

§ 4812. (4076.) Intrusions on camp-grounds . The trustees, commis- sioners, and other owners of camp-grounds in this State, shall have the exclusive right to prevent intruders and squatters from occupy- ing any land within the boundaries of said camp-grounds, and for instituting proceedings against any such intruders and squatters, in the same manner as is now authorized by law against intruders and trespassers upon land in this State, 

§ 4813. (4077.) Tenant holding over. In all cases where a tenant shall hold possession of lands or tenements over and beyond the term for which the same were rented or leased to him, or shall fail to pay the rent when the same shall become due, and in all cases where ' lands or tenements shall be held and occupied by any tenant at will or sufferance, whether under contract of rent or not, and the owner of the lands or tenements shall desire possession of the same, such owner may, by himself, his agent, or attorney in fact, or attorney at law, demand the possession of the property so rented, leased, held or occupied; and if the tenant refuses or omits to deliver possession when so demanded, the owner, his agent, or attorney at law, or at- torney in fact, may go before the judge of the superior court, or any justice of the peace, and make oath of the facts. provided, for in the preceding section shall be made, the officer before whom it was made shall grant and issue a warrant, or proc- ess, directed to the sheriff or his deputy, or any lawful constable of the county where the land lies, commanding and requiring him to deliver to the owner, or his representative, full and quiet possession of the lands or tenements mentioned in the affidavit, removing the tenant, with his property found thereon, away from the premises. 

§ 4815. (4079. ) Tenant may arrest proceedings. The tenant may ar- rest the proceedings and prevent the removal of himself and goods from the land, by declaring on oath that his lease or term of rent has not expired, and that he is not holding possession of the premises over and beyond his term, or that the rent claimed is not due, or that he does not hold the premises, either by lease, or rent, or at will, or by sufferance, or otherwise, from the person who made the affidavit on which the warrant issued, or from any one under whom he claims the premises, or from anyone claiming the premises under him: Provided, such tenant shall at the same time tender a bond with good security, payable to the landlord, for the payment of such sum with costs as may be recovered against him on the trial of the case. 

§ 4816. (4080.) Issue tried in superior court. If the counter-amda- vit and bond, provided in the preceding section, be made and deliv-^» ered to the sheriff or deputy-sheriff, or constable, the tenant shall not be removed; but the officer shall return the proceedings to the next superior court of the county where the land lies, and the fact in issue shall be there tried by a special jury as in case of appeal. 

§ 4817. (4081.) Double rent and writ of possession, when. If the j S8ue specified in the preceding section shall be determined against the tenant, judgment shall go against him for double the rent re- served or stipulated to be paid; or, if he be a tenant at will or suf- ferance, then for double what the rent of the premises is shown to be worth, and the movant or plaintiff shall have a writ of possession, and be by the sheriff, deputy or constable, placed in full possession of the premises. 

§ 4818. (4082.) Distress warrant, how issued and executed. Any per- , , n \ , . ,, . son who may have rent due may, by himself, his agent or attorney, make application to any justice of the peace within the county where 'his debtor may reside, or where his property may be found, and ob- tain from such justice a distress warrant for the sum claimed to be due, on the oath of the principal, his agent or attorney, in writing, for the said rent, which may be levied by any constable, duly quali- fied, on any property belonging to said debtor, whether found on the premises or elsewhere, who shall advertise and sell the same, as in case of levy and sale under execution: Provided, if the sum claimed to be due exceeds one hundred dollars, and said warrant shall be levied by a constable, it shall be his duty to deliver the warrant, with a return of the property levied upon, to the sheriff of said county or his deputy, who shall advertise and sell as now provided by law for sheriff's sales. 

§ 4819. (4083.) Property, how replevied. The party distrained may in a ^ cases replevy the property so distrained, by making oath that the sum, or some part thereof, distrained for is not due, and give security for the eventual condemnation-money; and in such case the levying officer shall return the same to the court having cognizance thereof, which shall be tried by a jury as provided for in the trial of claims: Provided, that when the levying officer retains possession of the property of the tenant levied on, it shall not be necessary to give the bond for the eventual condemnation-money. 

§ 4820. (4084.) Claims, how interposed and tried. When property $ distrained may be claimed by a third person, the same shall be claimed on oath, and bond given as required in cases of other claims, which shall be returned and tried as provided by law for the trial of the right of property levied upon by execution. 

§ 4821. (4084 a.) Three days notice to tenant, etc. Whenever a war- rant shall be sued out, under existing laws, for the eviction of any$ person as an intruder, or as a tenant holding over, it shall be the duty of the officer in whose hands such warrant may be placed, to exhibit the same at once to the defendant, and to give him notice that after the expiration of three days (not counting Sundays or public holidays) said officer will proceed with the execution of such warrant, and unless a counter-affidavit, as provided by law, is filed with said officer within that time, and in case of tenants holding over, unless bond with good security, payable to the landlord, for the payment of such sum, with costs, as may be recovered against him on the trial of the case, shall at the same time be given by the tenant, as now required by law, it shall then be his duty to proceed forthwith to execute said warrant. 

§ 4822. (4084 b.) Officer failing in duty . Any officer violating the provisions of the preceding section by failing to give the notice therein required, or by executing any such warrant as is therein named before the expiration of three days from the time of said notice, shall be deemed guilty of a trespass, and liable, together with the sureties on his official bond, in damages to the defendant. 

§ 4823. (4085.) Justices to try the fact by a jury, etc. Any one or ' more justices of the peace, upon complaint made on oath of any entry into lands or tenements, or of any forcible detainer of the same, shall have power to draw a jury of twelve men from the jury-box of the district in which the lands and tenements so alleged to be forci- bly entered or detained are situated, and cause the sheriff of the county, or the constable of the district, to summon them to be and appear at the usual place of holding court in the said district, on a certain day to be appointed by the said justice or justices for the purpose of trying the fact of such forcible entry or detainer. And the said justice or justices shall also issue a summons, to be directed to the person or persons charged with such forcible entry or detainer, and cause the same to be served on him by the sheriff or constable at least five days before the time appointed for trial, requiring him to appear and defend the charge alleged against him. 

§ 4824. (4085 a.) How juries shall be obtained in forcible entry and detainer. It shall be the duty of the several justices of the peace of this State to provide a jury-box, in which the names of all persons in their respective districts liable to serve on juries shall be placed, and in the trial of all cases of forcible entry and detainer, or forcible detainer, it shall be the duty of said justices to draw from said box the jury that is now provided by law for the trial of such cases. 

§ 4825. (4086.) If all the jurors do not attend. If all the jurors should not attend, or if there should be a legal objection to any of them, then the justice or justices may cause the jury to be completed by tales jurors; and if a jury cannot be obtained in the district, the justice or justices may draw a jury from an adjoining district (in the county) to try said case. 

§ 4826. (4087.) Possession and force only to be submitted. Upon the trial, the only facts which the jury shall inquire into shall be the 

§ 4&02. possession and the force, but they shall have no power to inquire into the merits of the title on either side. 

§ 4827. (4088.) Oath istered to the jurors, viz . : of jury. The following oath shall be admin- ' 'You shall well and truly inquire whether A. B. has made any forcible entry into the lands or tenements of CD., and him ejected therefrom, or forcibly detained the lands or tenements of the said CD., and a true verdict give according to the facts as they may appear to you in evidence. So help you God." 

§ 4828. (4089.) Restitution to be made. If upon the trial of such case the jury shall find such forcible entry or forcible detainer, or^ both, then the said justice or justices shall give judgment accord- ingly, and cause the sheriff to make restitution of possession of the premises to the party aggrieved: Provided, that if the person charged with such forcible entry or detainer, or those under whom he claims, shall have been in peaceable possession of the premises for the space of three years or more, as aforesaid, immediately preceding the date of such warrant, then no restitution of possession shall be made. 

§ 4829. (4090.) Time given for certiorari. In all cases of forcible entry and detainer, the enforcement of the judgment shall be sus- pended for ten days, to allow the party dissatisfied with the same, time to make out his writ of certiorari: Provided, that the party complaining of said decision shall, at the time it is made, give the opposite party written notice of his intention to take said case to the superior court. 

§ 4830. (4091.) Service on non-residents. If the defendant (charged ^th a forcible entry or detainer) is not a resident of the county where the land or tenement is situated, service of the summons may nevertheless be perfected on him or his tenant by the sheriff or con- stable, as though he resided in the county. 

§ 4831. (4092.) Non-residents to give bond in certain cases. All non- resident defendants who may forcibly enter or forcibly detain, or forcibly enter and detain (and against whom suit may be instituted by their tenants) any lot or parcel of land in any county in this State, shall be compelled to give bond and security for all costs and damages which may be recovered against them for such forcible entry or detainer, or forcible entry and detainer: Provided, that such de- fendant shall not be compelled to give such bond until after the commencement of an action for such offense, as provided by law. Said bond shall be made payable to the plaintiff in such action, sub- ject to be recovered as in cases of bond given on appeal in this State, and, on failure to give such bond, the jury trying said cause shall award possession of the premises in dispute to the plaintiff. 

§ 4832. (4093.) No bar to indictment. No proceedings under the provisions of this Chapter shall exempt any person guilty of a forci- ble entry or detainer from indictment and punishment. 

§ 4833. Equitable or legal rights, remedies applied. The superior courts of this State, on the trial of any civil case, shall give effect to all the rights of the parties, legal or equitable, or both, and apply on such trial remedies or relief, legal or equitable, or both, in favor of either party, such as the nature of the case may allow or require. 

§ 4834. Equitable relief from the court. Any person desiring to obtain equitable relief in the superior court, may, in a separate suit f or that purpose, or in connection with a suit claiming only such rem- edy or relief as is administered in courts of common law, claim equitable relief by appropriate and sufficient pleadings, and obtain the equitable relief proper in the case. 

§ 4834. Equitable relief from the court. Any person desiring to obtain equitable relief in the superior court, may, in a separate suit f or that purpose, or in connection with a suit claiming only such rem- edy or relief as is administered in courts of common law, claim equitable relief by appropriate and sufficient pleadings, and obtain the equitable relief proper in the case. 

§ 4836. Extraordinary remedies. Any person claiming equitable re- lief of the superior court, may, at anytime, in aid of his suit, apply f or anc [ obtain, by proper pleading and proof, any of the extraordi- nary remedies known in courts of equity, or such as are or may be granted by the judge of the superior court exercising chancery juris- diction, upon the same terms and conditions as are now granted in equitable proceedings. 

§ 4837. Equitable relief for defendants. A defendant to any suit or claim in the superior court, whether such suit be for legal or equita- ble relief, may claim legal or equitable relief, or both, by framing proper pleadings for that purpose, and sustaining them by sufficient evidence. 

§ 4838. New parties and extraordinary remedies for defendant. Any de- fendaiit may also, if it is necessary to obtain complete relief, make necessary parties; and may also by proper pleadings and sufficient evidence obtain the benefit of extraordinary remedies allowed in equitable proceedings by the superior court, or by the judge thereof, exercising chancery jurisdiction, at such times and on such terms as such remedies are granted by said court, or by said judge exercis- ing chancery jurisdiction. 

§ 4839. Extraordinary equitable remedies in aid of suit, or defense. Whenever any extraordinary relief or remedy as known in courts of equity is claimed in aid of any action or defense, the same may be claimed from the superior courts, or judges thereof, either in the original petition and answer, or by amendment thereto by special petition and pleading for that purpose. 

§ 4840. Pleadings and notice. The superior court, and the judge of the superior court exercising chancery jurisdiction, are authorized to require proper and sufficient pleadings, to be determined by rules applicable in equitable proceedings, in any claim or defense pre- sented, and to require sufficient notice of the pleadings provided for. 

§ 4841. (4178.) Who may sue. Any person who cannot sue at law may complain in equity, and every person who is remediless else- where may claim the protection and assistance of a court of equity to enforce any right recognized by the law. 

§ 4842. Representatives of 

§ 

§ 61 Ga. 125 a class may represent all. Members of a$ numerous class may be represented by a few of the class in litiga- tion which affects the interest of all. 

§ 4843. (4179.) Persons under disabilities. Persons not sui juris may appear, either by guardian or next friend, or guardian ad litem ap- pointed by the court. In the latter two cases the court may re- quire such bond as shall protect the interest of the person under disability. 

§ 4844. (4180.) Parties. Generally all persons interested in the ' litigation should be parties to proceedings for equitable relief, but legatees, distributees, and wards suing executors, administrators, and guardians need not join others interested in such, estate as parties plaintiff or defendant, unless some special adverse claim is set up as against such codistributees or legatees. 

§ 4845. Parties to creditors' 1 bills. While the funds raised under a proceeding in the nature of a creditors' bill remain in the custody of the court, creditors having claims thereon may be made parties and assert their right thereto. 

§ 4846. Multiplicity ground for consolidation, when. Where there is one common right to be established by or against several, and one is asserting the right against many, or many against one, equity will determine the whole matter in one action. 

§ 4847. (4201.) Interlocutory decrees and orders. At any stage in the progress of a cause for equitable relief, if any portion of the same is ready for or requires a decree, the court may hear and determine such matters, and pass such interlocutory decree or order as may advance the cause and expedite a final hearing. If no issue of fact is involved, the verdict of a jury is unnecessary. 

§ 4848. (4205.) Trial term. The trial term for all causes for equi- table relief shall be the second term after service has been perfected on all the parties. But parties to proceedings for equitable relief may, by consent, dispose of all equity causes at the first term, if serv- ice has been properly perfected. 

§ 4849. (4206.) Jury trial, when necessary. When any question of fact is involved, the same shall be decided by a jury. If there is no such question, or the auditor's report, unexcepted to, covers all such questions, the judge may render a decree without the verdict of a jury. And in the trial of any proceedings for equitable relief in this State, upon the request of either party to said cause, made after the same is called, for trial, and before the beginning of the introduc- tion of evidence in the same, the presiding judge' shall, when charg- ing the jury, instruct and require them to find a special verdict of the facts only in said cause, and shall inform the jury what issues of fact are made by the pleadings in said cause. Upon the special verdict of facts so rendered, the presiding judge shall make a written judgment and decree in said cause under the law applicable to the same. 

§ 4851. (4212.) What is a decree. A decree is the judgment of the judge in equitable proceedings upon the facts ascertained, and should be signed by him and entered on the minutes of the court. 

§ 4852. (4209.) Decree for specific performance . A decree for specific performance shall operate as a deed to convey land or other property without any conveyance being executed by the vendor. Such decree, certified by the clerk, shall be recorded in the registry of deeds in the county where the land lies, and shall stand in the place of a deed. 

§ 4853. (4213.) Decrees and remedies. A superior court has full power to mould its decrees so as to meet the exigencies of each case; and shall have full power to enforce its decrees when rendered. 

§ 4854. Extraterritorial effect of decree. A court of equity may en- join the defendaot as to transactions beyond the limits of this State, and may decree in cases of fraud, of trust, or of contract, although property not within the jurisdiction may be affected by the decree. 

§ 4855. (4214.) Decree in vacation. When, for any reason already existing or to exist, it becomes impossible to carry out any last will & . . L o and testament, in whole or id part, and in all matters of contract, the ' l judges of the superior courts shall have power to render at chambers during vacation any decree that may be necessary and legal : Provided, all parties in interest consent thereto in writing, and there is no issue as to the facts, or, if there is such an issue, there is a like consent in writing that the judge presiding may hear and determine such facts, subject to a revision by the Supreme Court, as in other cases. In all cases where minors are interested the consent of the guardian at law, or the guardian ad litem, shall be obtained before such decree is rendered. 

§ 4856. Confirmation of sale under decree. Sales under decrees in Uity are always subject to confirmation by the chancellor, who has a large discretion vested in him in reference thereto. Such sales are never consummated until confirmed by him. 

§ 4857. (4215. ) Execution of money decrees. A decree in favor of any party for a specific sum of money, or for regular installments of money, shall be enforced by execution against property. The plain- tiff in such execution shall be the person actually entitled, without regard to his relative position in the cause. The defendant in such execution shall be entitled to all the privileges and defenses allowed to executions from a judgment at law. 

§ 4858. (4216.) Attachments for contempt. Every decree or order of a superior court in equitable proceedings may be enforced by at- tachment against the person for contempt, and if a decree be partly for money and partly for the performance of a duty, the former may be enforced by execution, and the latter by attachment or other process. 

§ 4859. (4217.) Transfer of lien. A decree is transferable like other judgments, and when for money, shall have a like lien." 

§ 4860. (4218.) Enforcing injunctions. Injunctions, ne exeat, pro- hibition, and other extraordinary remedies may be enforced also by attachment. 

§ 4861. (4219.) Dormant decrees, revival. Decrees for the payment of money shall become dormant like other judgments when not en- forced, and may be revived upon petition and notice, without suit by petition or writ of scire facias. 

§ 4862. (4220.) Limitation on bills of review. Petitions of review shall be brought within three years from the date of the decree rendered, or from the time of the removal of the disability of in- fancy, coverture, imprisonment, or insanity, from the person com- plaining. 

§ 4863. (4221.) Proceedings by petition. All proceedings ex parte, or i n the execution of the protective powers of chancery over trust es- tates, or the estates of the wards of chancery, may be presented to the court by petition only, and such other proceedings be had therein as the necessity of each cause shall demand. 

§ 4864. (4222. ) What may be done at chambers. A court of equity is always open, and hence the judge in vacation and at chambers may receive and act upon such petitions, always transmitting the entire proceedings to the clerk to be entered on the minutes or other rec- ords of the court. 

§ 4865. (4223.) Notice, when necessary. In all cases of applications for the removal of trustees, or the sale of trust property, or the in- vestment of trust funds, or similar cases where any person is inter- ested besides the applicant, notice to such persons must be shown, or its absence accounted for, before the court shall proceed in the cause. 

§ 4866. (4224.) To minors. If minors are interested, and they have no guardians, guardians ad litem must be appointed and notified be- fore the cause proceeds. 

§ 4867 (3198.) Mandamus to enforce official duty. All official du- ties should be faithfully fulfilled, and whenever, from any cause, a defect of legal justice would ensue from a failure or improper ful- fillment, the writ of mandamus may issue to compel a due perform- ance, if there be no other specific legal remedy for the legal rights. 

§ 4868. (3199.) Lies not as private remedy. Mandamus does not lie as a private remedy between individuals to enforce private rights, nor to a public officer who has an absolute discretion to act or not, unless there is a gross abuse of such discretion; but it is not confined to the enforcement of mere ministerial duties. 

§ 4869. Mandamus by private person. A private person may by mandamus enforce the performance by a corporation of a public duty as to matters in which he has a special interest. 

§ 4870. (3200.) When not granted. Mandamus will not be granted when it is manifest that the writ would, for any cause, be nugatory or fruitless; nor will it be granted on a mere suspicion or fear, before a refusal to act or a wrongful act done. 

§ 4871. Heard in vacation, when. Upon the presentation of an ap- pH oa tion for mandamus, if the mandamus nisi is granted, the judge shall cause the same to be returned for trial, not less than ten nor longer than thirty days from said date; the defendant to be served at least five days before the time fixed for such hearing; if the answer to said mandamus nisi involves no issue of fact, the same shall be heard and determined in vacation, unless court then be in session, when it may be determined in the superior court. 

§ 4872. Facts in issue, how and when tried. If an issue of fact is involved in said cause, it shall be in order for trial upon the first day of the next term of the superior court as other jury causes are tried. If the superior court be in session, or taking a recess at the time fixed for trial in the mandamus nisi, the same shall stand for trial at the then present term. 

§ 4873. Issue f fact, when heard in vacation. If an issue of fact is^^ involved, it may be heard by the judge in vacation upon the consent of all parties. 

§ 4874. Bill of exceptions. Upon refusal to grant the mandamus nisi, petitioner may have his bill of exceptions to the Supreme Court as in cases of the granting and refusing injunctions, and either party dissatisfied with the judgment on the hearing of the answer to the mandamus nisi may likewise file his bill of exceptions. 

§ 4875. Mandamus cases in Supreme Court. Mandamus cases shall be heard in the Supreme Court under the same laws and rules as now apply to injunction cases. 

§ 4876. (3201.) Gravted in vacation. The writs of quo warranto and prohibition, may be granted at any time, on proper showing made, but any issues of fact made thereon must be tried as other equity causes. 

§ 4877. (3202.) Governor. Neither of these writs will lie to the duly inaugurated Governor of the State, but they do lie to all other executive or military officers. 

§ 4878. (3203.) Quo warranto. The writ of quo warranto may issue to inquire into the right of any person to any public office, the duties of which he is in fact discharging, but must be granted at the suit of some person either claiming the office or interested therein. 

§ 4879. (3204.) Quo warranto heard in vacation, when. The writ of UQ warran t may be returned, heard and determined by the judge of the superior court within ten days from its service on the defendant, in all cases where there is no fact in dispute. 

§ 4880. (3205.) Issue of fact, how tried, notice to parties, continuance. In cases of a denial of facts, which denial the defendant or defend- ants shall make on oath, the judge shall forthwith, in the usual manner, draw a jury of twelve men, to try the issue of facts, and the judge shall have the power to fix a day for the trial of said issue of facts, with an order that the sheriff shall notify the parties of the time and place of trial: Provided, that the day fixed for such trial shall not be less than ten, nor longer than thirty days. The judge shall have the discretion to continue the hearing from day to day, as provided for other cases. 

§ 4881. (3206.) Proceedings in cases of qvo ivarranto. In all applica- tions for writs of quo warranto, or of informations in the nature of a wr it of quo warranto, or of proceedings by such writs (which are hereby extended to all civil officers of the State of Georgia, and are hereby granted to test the right of any civil officer to his office, ex- cept that of Governor), to determine the right to hold office, where the case presented by the applicant or petitioner involves only ques- tions of law, the same may, as other equitable proceedings, be deter- mined by the judge of the superior court, before whom such case is begun, in vacation, and such judge shall, whether such writ, information or proceeding is prayed for, sued out, or begun in vacation or term time, so order all the proceedings connected with, and usual in such cases, that the final determination shall be had by him in ten days from the commencement of such suit, application or proceeding; and if either party to such appli- cation or proceeding desires to except to the decision of the said judge of the superior court, he shall, if the Supreme Court of the State be in session, within ten days after such decision, carry the same to said Supreme Court by bill of exceptions, which shall be tendered and signed as is prescribed in section 5540 of this Code, in cases of applications for and decisions granting or refusing injunctions; said bill of exceptions to be served upon the opposite party in such suit as is prescribed in said section 5540, and all the rules and regulations in said section 5540 as to service, and duty of the clerk of the superior court, shall apply to this class of cases. 

§ 4882. (3208.) The foregoing provision extended to other cases. All the provisions of the two preceding sections are hereby extended to proceedings quo warranto, or writs of that nature involving issues of fact to be tried by a jury, when the same can be applied; but noth- ing in said two preceding sections shall be. construed to affect any rights or remedies in this class of cases, not touched by the provi- sions of said two sections. 

§ 4883. (3208a.) Shall not lie against Governor. Nothing in sec- tions 4881 and 4882 of the Code shall ever be applied to try the question, "Who is the lawful Governor of this State?" 

§ 4884. (3209.) The judgment shall dispose of books and papers . Whenever the right to any office is decided, the judgment fixing such right shall further provide for the delivery to the person de- cided to be entitled to such office, of all the books and papers of every sort belonging to the office; which judgment shall be enforced as other decrees in equity are enforced. 

§ 4885. (3209a.) Prohibition. The writ of prohibition may be granted in vacation. It is the counterpart of mandamus, to arrest illegal proceedings by any court officer where no other legal remedy or relief is given; and the granting or refusal thereof is governed by the same principles of right, necessity, and justice. The return must be in term, and issues of fact must be tried as in other cases. 

§ 4886. (8226.) Ne exeat. The writ of ne exeat issues to restrain a person from leaving the jurisdiction of the State, and may be granted in the following cases: 1. In favor of an obligor or promisor or partner, against his co- obligor or joint promisor or copartner, equally or partly responsi- ble with him for any duty to be performed. 2. Against persons illegally removing the property of a decedent, or of an orphan, or married woman, at the instance of any person interested therein, or of a next friend of such orphan or married woman. 3. At the instance of a remainder-man or reversioner, against any $3096. one attempting to remove the property in which such remainder or reversion exists, or may contingently exist. 4. At the instance of a mortgagee against a person holding the equity of redemption. 5. At the instance of any person interested legally or equitably in property about to be removed, where no adequate remedy is afforded at law. 

§ 4888. (3228.) Defendant's bond. The defendant may, in all cases, relieve himself or his property, or the specific property, from the restraint imposed, by giving bond in double the value of plaintiff's claim, with good security, to the officer serving the process, for the forthcoming of each or either (according to the tenor of the writ), to answer to complainant's claim, or abide by the order and decree of the court. The judge granting the writ may, in his discretion, require a larger bond. The officer receiving insufficient security, shall be held surety himself, and the sureties on his bond may be held responsible therefor. 

§ 4889. (3229.) Court's discretion. If the defendant fails or refuses to replevy the property, the court may, in its discretion, make such disposition of it as shall appear most advantageous to all parties. 

§ 4890. (3230.) Affidavit and bond of complainant. In every applica- {j on for a wr jt f ne e xeat, the allegations of the bill must be verified by one or more of the complainants; and the judge may, in his dis- cretion, require the complainant to give bond and security for the payment of any damages which the defendant may recover of him for suing out the writ, before granting an order for the issuing of the same, and may require a verification by all or any of the complain- ants. 

§ 4891. (3231.) When issued without sanction. In cases of emer- gency, upon the affidavit of the complainant that he cannot obtain the sanction of the judge in time to remedy the mischief, the writ of ne exeat may issue at once, to continue until the first term of the court to which it is returnable, unless earlier heard by order of the judge. 

§ 4892. (3232.) Proceeding quia timet. The proceeding quia timet is sustained in equity for the purpose of causing to be delivered up and canceled any instrument which has answered the object of its creation, or any forged or other iniquitous deed or other writing, which, though not enforced at the time, either casts a cloud over complainant's title or otherwise subjects him to future liability or present annoyance, and the cancellation of which is necessary to his perfect protection. 

§ 4893. Removing cloud on title . An instrument which, by itself or in connection with proof of possession by a former occupant, or other extrinsic facts, gives the claimant thereunder an apparent right in or to the property, may constitute a cloud on the title of the true owner, and the latter may proceed to have the same removed upon proof — 1. That he cannot immediately or effectually maintain or protect his rights by any other course of proceeding open to him. 2. That the instrument sought to be canceled is such as would operate to throw a cloud or suspicion upon his title, and might be vexatiously or injuriously used against him. 3. That he either suffers some present injury by reason of the hos- tile claim of right, or, though such claim be not asserted adversely or aggressively, he has reason to apprehend that the evidence upon which he relies to impeach or invalidate the same as a claim upon his title may be lost or impaired by lapse of time. 

§ 4894. (3233.) Bill of peace. It being the interest of this State that there should be an end of litigation, equity will entertain a bill of peace — 1 . To confirm some right which has been previously satisfactorily established by more than one legal trial, and is likely to be again litigated. 2. To avoid a multiplicity of suits, by establishing a right, in favor of or against several persons, which is likely to be the subject of legal controversy, or in other similar cases. 

§ 4895. (3234.) Perpetual injunction. As ancillary to this jurisdic- tion, equity will grant perpetual injunctions. 

§ 4896. (3235.) Interpleader. Whenever a person is possessed of property or funds, or owes a debt or duty to which more than one person lays claim, and the claims are of such a character as to render it doubtful or dangerous for the holder to act, he may apply to equity to compel the claimants to interplead. 

§ 4897. Affidavit to petition for interpleader. Every petition for in- terpleader should be verified, and should show that the petitioner is not in collusion with either party claiming the property. 

§ 4898. (3236.) Collateral interpleading. If, in the progress of any proceeding in equity, the court perceives the necessity for parties to interplead, it may order such interpleader as collateral and ancillary to the main case. 

§ 4899. (3237.) Remedies, how enforced. All extraordinary remedies of equity may be enforced by attachments. 

§ 4900. (274.) Receiver, when an officer of the court. When any fund ^ or property may be in litigation, and the rights of either or both par- ties cannot otherwise be fully protected, or when there may be a fund or property having no one to manage it, a receiver of the same may be appointed (on a proper case made) by the judge of the superior court having jurisdiction thereof, either in term time or vacation, and such receiver is an officer of said court. 

§ 4901. (3098.) Receivers. Courts of equity shall have authority to appoint receivers to take possession of and protect trust or joint property and funds, whenever the danger of destruction and loss shall require such interference. 

§ 4902. Power of appointment to be cautiously exercised. The power of appointing receivers and ordering injunctions should be prudently and cautiously exercised, and except in clear and urgent cases should not be resorted to. 

§ 4903. Intervention in equitable proceedings. Where property has been placed in the hands of a receiver, all persons properly seek- ing to assert equitable remedies against these assets should become parlies to the cause by intervention and prosecute their remedies therein. 

§ 4904. (3149.) Receivers, when appointed. A court of equity may $$4588, 4321 appoint a receiver to take possession of, and hold subject to the di- rection of the court, any assets charged with the payment of debts, where there is manifest danger of loss, or destruction, or material injury to those interested. Under extraordinary circumstances, a receiver may be appointed before and without notice to the trustee or other person having charge of the assets. The terms on which a receiver is appointed shall be in the discretion of the chancellor. 

§ 4905. (275.) When fund may be invested. The presiding judge, in his discretion under the law, may order any funds in the hands of a receiver, or any other officer of court, awaiting the determination of a protracted litigation, to be invested in State bonds, as executors and administrators are authorized to do. 

§ 4906. (276.) Duties of fa. to proceed receivers. The receivers so appointed must discharge their trust according to the order or decree of the courts appointing them, and are at all times subject to their orders, and may be brought to account and removed at their pleasure. 

§ 4907. (277.) Receivers may be required to give bond. The judges of the superior courts may, in their discretion, require such receivers to give bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of the trust re- posed, and if they require them, they must fix the amount and the sufficiency of the security, and also regulate their compensation. 

§ 4908. (3150.) Must account to the court. The receiver is an officer and servant of the court appointing him, is responsible to no other tribunal than a court of equity, and must in all things obey its direction. 

§ 4909. Receiver liable for money in bank, when. Where money is in the hands of a receiver for preservation to await final disposition by order or decree, and the same is deposited in a bank selected by himself, the receiver is personally liable therefor in the event of the failure of the bank. 

§ 4910. (3553.) Receivers not subject to garnishment. A receiver ap- pointed by a court of equity shall not be subject to the process of garnishment. 

§ 4911. Liens divested by receiver's sale. Persons holding liens on ^24, property in the hands of a receiver may be made parties to the cause at any time. Unless otherwise provided in the order, liens upon the property, held by any parties to the record, are divested by the re- ceiver's sale and transferred to the funds. 

§ 4912. (278.) Returns of receivers, how made. Receivers of banks or other corporations hereafter appointed by any power, are amen- able to, and must make their returns to, the superior court of .the county where they reside at the time of the appointment. 

§ 4913. (3210.) For what purpose granted. Equity, by a writ of in- junction, may restrain proceedings in another or the same court, or a threatened or existing tort, or any other act of a private individ- ual or corporation which is illegal or contrary to equity and good conscience, and for which no adequate remedy is provided at law. 

§ 4914. Administration of fa. against rail- criminal laws, no interference by equity.** A court of equity will take no part in the administration of the criminal law. It will neither aid criminal courts in the exercise of their jurisdiction, nor will it restrain or obstruct them. 

§ 4915. (3218.) Enjoining a court of law. Equity will not enjoin the proceedings and processes of a court of law, unless there is some intervening equity, or other proper defense, of which the party, with- out fault on his part, cannot avail himself at law. Writs of injunc- tion may be issued by judges of the superior court to enjoin sales by sheriffs, at any time before the sale takes place, in any proper case made by the bill or application for injunction. 

§ 4916. (3219.) To restrain a trespass. Equity will not interfere to restrain a trespass, unless the injury is irreparable in damages, or the trespasser is insolvent, or there exist other circumstances which, in the discretion of court, render the interposition of this writ nec- essary and proper, among; which shall be the avoidance of circuity &ud multiplicity of action^, 

§ 4917. Waste not enjoined when title in dispute. Equity will not interfere by injunction to restrain waste when petitioner's title is not clear. Such relief is granted only when the title is free from dispute. 

§ 4918. Creditors without lien. Creditors without lien cannot, as a o general rule, enjoin their debtors from disposing of property, nor obtain injunction or other extraordinary relief in equity. 

§ 4919. Injunction to restrain breach of contract for personal services. Generally an injunction will not issue to restrain the breach of a contract for personal services, unless they are of a peculiar merit or character, and cannot be performed by others. 

§ 4920. (3220.) In sound discretion of judge. The granting aud continuing of injunctions must always rest in the sound discretion of the judge, according to the circumstances of each case. 

§ 4921. (8223.) Second injunction may be granted. A second in- junction may be granted in the discretion of the judge. 

§ 4922. (3224.) Injunction cannot compel. An injunction can only restrain, it cannot compel a party to perform an act. It may re- strain until performance. 

§ 4923. (3225.) Perpetual injunction. A perpetual injunction can be granted only after hearing and upon a final decree. 

§ 4924. (3211.) Injunctions, in what manner qranted. In all cases of applications for injunctions, the judge to whom presented shall, before granting an order for the same, cause sufficient notice of the application to be given to the party sought to be enjoined, and of the time and place when he will hear the motion, and no order for such injunction shall be granted until such party can be heard, un- less it is manifest to such judge from the sworn allegations in the bill, or the affidavit of a competent person, that the injury appre- hended will be done if an immediate remedy is not afforded, when he may grant instanter an order restraining the party complained of until the hearing or the further order of the court, which restrain- ing order shall have all the force of an injunction until rescinded or modified by the court. 

§ 4925. (3212.) The hearing, writ of error, judge's order. When any hearing shall take place in conformity to the rules of law now exist*^ ing for granting and dissolving injunctions, the judge before whom said hearing takes place may grant or refuse said injunction on the terms the law now requires; and either party may have writ of error to the Supreme Court from such decision, upon complying with the law appertaining to the same; but no such writ of error, or other pro- ceeding for the obtainment of the same, shall have the effect to es- tablish or deny any injunction independently of the order of such judge, who shall, on rendering the decision, or in granting the writ of error, make such order and require such bond as may be necessary to preserve and protect the rights of the parties until the judgment of the Supreme Court can be had thereon, and which he shall do as well in cases of refusal as of granting. 

§ 4926 (3217.) Dissolution at chambers. The defendant may move the dissolution of an injunction, or the revoking of any other extra- ordinary writ, in vacation, on ten days notice to the opposite party or his solicitor, and the judge shall decide thereon upon the same principles as if presiding in term. The complainant, by disclaiming discovery, cannot deprive the defendant of the benefit of his answer on a motion to dissolve the injunction; upon such a motion affida- vits of witnesses may be adduced by either party. 

§ 4927. In application to enjoin cutting timber. In all applications to enjoin the cutting of timber for sawmill purposes, and railroad- ties, and bridge-timbers for railroad purposes, or to enjoin the cut-l^^ggg- ting of timber or boxing or otherwise working the same for turpen^c L tine purposes, it shall not be necessary to aver or prove insolvency, or that the damages will be irreparable: Provided, the petitioner has perfect title to the land upon which the timber is situated, and shall attach an abstract of his title, stating name of grantor and grantee, date, consideration, and description of property, names of witnesses, when and where recorded, to his petition, and produce the original titles before the judge: And provided, that the judge granting said temporary restraining order shall require the petitioner to give such bond as in his discretion he may deem proper, to be approved by the clerk of the superior court, to answer the damages, if any, which may be sustained by the defendant by reason of the granting of said injunction, and if, on the final hearing of the cause, damages against the petitioner are proven, judgment shall be entered against the sureties on said bond as in appeal cases. 

§ 4928. Defendant to have same privileges as petitioner. The respond- ent or defendant shall have the same privileges as are given peti^- tioners in the preceding section. 

§ 4929. (3250.) For every right there shall be a remedy. For every right there shall be a remedy, and every court having jurisdiction of the one may, if necessary, frame the other. 

§ 4930. (3251.) An action. An action is merely the judicial means of enforcing a right. 

§ 4931. (3252.) Distinctions of actions abolished. Bills in equity and all distinctions of actions into real, personal and mixed, are abolished. An action may be against the person, or against prop- erty, or both. Generally, a proceeding against the person binds the property also, and a proceeding against property, without service on the person, binds only the particular property. 

§ 4932. (3253. ) A civil action defined. A civil action is one founded on private rights, arising either from contract or tort. 

§ 4933. (3254.) A penal action defined, and parties provided. A pe- nal action is one allowed in pursuance of public justice under par- ticular laws. If no special officer is authorized to be the plaintiff therein, the State, or the Governor, or the attorney-general or solic- itor-general may be the plaintiff. 
 

§ 4934. (3400.) Actions heretofore commenced. In all actions which have been heretofore, or may be hereafter, commenced in the forms prescribed by this Code, the evidence admissible and the form of the verdict shall be the same as though said actions had been commenced and prosecuted under the forms existing and in use by the common law. 

§ 4935. (3255.) No demand necessary. No demand is necessary to the commencement of an action, except in such cases as the law or the contract prescribes. 

§ 4936. Implied obligations to pay. Ordinarily, when one renders services or transfers property valuable to another, which the latter accepts, a promise is implied to pay the reasonable value thereof, but this presumption does not usually arise in cases between very near relatives. 

§ 4937. Joinder of legal and equitable actions. In suits, in the supe- rior court, founded on a legal or equitable cause of action, for a legal or equitable remedy, or both, the petition shall be addressed to the court and shall set forth the cause of action, legal or equitable or both, and the claim for legal or equitable relief or remedy or both, plainly, fully and distinctly. 

§ 4938. (3256.) Against different j^rsons. Distinct and separate claims of or against different persons, cannot be joined in the same action. 

§ 4939. (3257.) Parties to action on contracts. As a general rule, ^he action on a contract, whether express or implied, or whether by parol or under seal, or of record, must be brought in the name of the party in whom the legal interest in such contract is vested, and against the party who made it in person or by agent. 

§ 4940. (3258.) Parlies to actions for torts. An action for a tort must, in general, be brought in the name of the person whose legal right has been affected, and who was legally interested in the prop- erty at the time the injury thereto was committed, and against the party committing the injury, either by himself, his servant or agent in his employment. 

§ 4941. (3259.) A tenant in common may sue alone. A tenant in common need not join his cotenant, but may sue separately for his interest, and the judgment in such case affects only himself. 

§ 4942. (3260.) Dates and amounts and initials, how set out. Dates and amounts in pleading may be set out in figures (or Arabic nu- merals); and when a party signs a contract with the initials of his Christian name only, he may be sued in the same way. 

§ 4943. Consolidation of cases. Suits between the same parties, arising under the same contract, involving the same pleas and upon which the same verdict may be rendered, may be consolidated if the aggregate amount does not exceed the jurisdiction of the court. 

§ 4944. (3261.) Different claims may be joined. All claims arising contractu between the same parties may be joined in the same a.c*~io&i, tion, and all claims arising ex delicto may in like manner be jomecl. The defendant may also set up, as a defense, all claims against the plaintiff of a similar nature with the plaintiff's demand. 

§ 4945. Concurrent suits. A plaintiff may pursue any number of consistent concurrent remedies against different persons until he obtains satisfaction from some of them. 

§ 4946. (3262.) When parties must sue separately . Courts will not, in. one suit, take cognizance of distinct and separate claims of dif- ferent persons, but where the damage as well as the interest is sev- eral, each party injured must in that case sue separately. 

§ 4947. (3263.) Suits by an infant not void. A suit commenced and prosecuted by an infant alone is not void, and although the suit is defective in wanting a guardian or next friend, the defect is amendable before verdict and cured by verdict. 

§ 4948. (3612.) Collateral issues, how tried. All collateral issues in^ the superior court, unless otherwise directed bylaw, shall be tried by J^y- 

§ 4949. (3402.) Civil cases at law. All civil cases in law (except as hereinafter provided) shall be tried in the county wherein the defendant resides. 

§ 4950. (4183.) Equitable proceedings, venue. All petitions for equita- ble relief shall be filed in the county of the residence of one of the de- fendants against whom a substantial relief is prayed, except in cases of injunctions to stay pending proceedings, when the petition may be filed in the county where the proceedings are pending: Provided, no relief is prayed as to matters not included in such litigation. 

§ 4951. (3403.) Suits respecting titles to land. AH suits respecting the title to lands shall be tried in the superior court of the county wherein the land lies. 

§ 4952. (3404.) Joint contractors, partners, etc. Joint, or joint and several obligors or promisors, or joint contractors, or copartners, re- siding in different counties, may be sued as such in the same action in either county in which one or more of the defendants reside. 

§ 4958. (3405.) Maker and indorser. When a maker and indorser of a promissory note reside in different counties; they may all be sued in the same action in the county where the maker resides. 

§ 4954. (3416.) Citizens of another State. A citizen of another State, passing through this State, may be sued in any county thereof in which he may happen to be at the time when sued. 

§ 4955. Change. of venue. Whenever, by an examination voir dire of the persons whose names are on the jury-list and who are compel- lable to serve on the jury, the presiding judge shall be satisfied that an impartial jury cannot be obtained in the county where any civil cause is pending, it shall be lawful for such civil cause to be trans- ferred to any county that may be agreed upon by the parties or their counsel. - 

§ 4956. County, how selected. In the event the parties *or their counsel fail or refuse to agree upon any county in which to try the cause then pending, the judge is authorized to select the county in which the same shall be tried, and have the cause transferred accord- ingly; and it shall be lawful for the judge of the superior court, when any civil cause has been once transferred, to again change the venue from the county to which the transfer was first made to any other county, in the same manner as the venue was first changed from the county in which said civil cause was originally commenced. 

§ 4957. Transcript of order and record. The clerk of the superior court of the county from which the cause has been transferred shall send a true transcript of the order for the change of venue together with a certified copy of the record in such cause, including deposi- tions and orders and all pleadings, to the superior court of the county to which the case has been transferred. 

§ 4958. Further proceedings. After said cause is transferred, all further proceedings shall be conducted as if said cause was originally commenced in the court to which the same was transferred. 

§ 4959. Costs. All costs which accrued up to the time of the trans- fer of such cause shall, at the termination of said cause, be paid by the party or parties against whom the same may be assessed, to the proper officers of the county from which said cause was transferred. 

§ 4960. (3332, 4175.) Suits, how commenced. All suits in the su- . ' perior courts for legal or equitable relief, or both, shall be by petition . . • to the court, signed by the plaintiff or his counsel, plainly, fully, and distinctly setting forth his charge, ground of complaint and de- mand, and the names of the persons against whom process is prayed. 

§ 4961. Petition to be paragraphed. All such petitions shall set forth the cause of action in orderly and distinct paragraphs, numbered^ consecutively; and any averment distinctly and plainly made therein, which is not denied by the defendant's answer, shall be taken as prima facie true, unless the defendant states in his answer that he can neither admit nor deny such averment because of the want of sufficient information. 

§ 4962. (4176.) Discovery. In equitable proceedings, if discovery is sought of one or more defendants, it shall be specially prayed, and in- terrogatories regularly numbered shall be embodied in the petition as to every point on which discovery is sought, and the names of the defendants from whom answers under oath or affirmation are re- quired. If discovery is waived, the answer is not evidence for the defendant on the final trial. 

§ 4963. Copies, exhibits, etc. Copies of contracts, obligations to pay, or other writings should be incorporated in or attached to the petition in all cases in which they constitute the cause of action, or the relief prayed for must be based thereon. In suits to recover money on an insurance policy it shall not be necessary to attach a copy of what may be written or printed upon the policy, except what appears upon the face or in the body of the policy. In suits on ac- count a bill of particulars should be attached. In actions for the recovery of land the plaintiff must attach an abstract of his title. 

§ 4964. Verification. No petition need be verified unless it seeks extraordinary equitable relief or remedy, in which case it must be. 

§ 4965. Verification by plaintiff requires verification by defendant. In all cases where the plaintiff" files a petition with an affidavit that the facts stated are true to the best of his knowledge and belief, the de- fendant shall likewise verify any plea or answer. 

§ 4966. How verified. Petitions for a restraining order, injunction, receiver, or other extraordinary equitable relief should be verified positively by the petitioner, or supported by other satisfactory proofs. 

§ 4967. (4186.) Sanction of judge to extra writs. If an extraordi- nary process or remedy is prayed, the sanction of the judge of the court, or of some judge of the superior courts of this State, must be first obtained before such process is issued, or such remedy granted. The application may be ex parte, and granted without a hearing in cases of manifest necessity. In all other cases the judge should be careful to allow a hearing before passing the order. In all cases, on ten days previous notice and the filing of defendant's answer, a mo- tion may be made at chambers to set aside or dissolve the order granting the sanction of the court. 

§ 4967. (4186.) Sanction of judge to extra writs. If an extraordi- nary process or remedy is prayed, the sanction of the judge of the court, or of some judge of the superior courts of this State, must be first obtained before such process is issued, or such remedy granted. The application may be ex parte, and granted without a hearing in cases of manifest necessity. In all other cases the judge should be careful to allow a hearing before passing the order. In all cases, on ten days previous notice and the filing of defendant's answer, a mo- tion may be made at chambers to set aside or dissolve the order granting the sanction of the court. 

§ 4969. (4181.) Cross-bills. A petition in the nature of a cross-bill need not be filed in this State. The defendant in every case may set up in his answer any matter which, under the English practice, should be the subject of a cross-bill, and may require therein any discovery from the petitioner he may desire. No supplemental pe- tition need be filed in this State. All such matter shall be allowed by way of amendment. If new parties are necessary, by reason of any matter thus set up in the answer, or by way of amendment, the court shall give such direction to the cause, to secure a hearing to such parties, as if a petition in the nature of a cross-bill or supple- mental bill had been filed. 

§ 4970. (4190.) Dismissal of petition. A petitioner may dismiss his petition at any time, either in term or vacation, so that he does not thereby prejudice any right of the defendant. If claims by way of set-off or otherwise have been set up by the answer, the dismissal of the petition shall not interfere with the defendant's right to a hearing and trial on such claims in that proceeding. 

§ 4971. (4177.) Informality not require dismissal. No want of form or omission of a formality shall vitiate or delay any proceedings, if this Chapter is substantially complied with. 

§ 4972. Special statutory proceedings, etc. Nothing in this Chapter shall repeal or affect the mode of any special statutory proceedings, such as the foreclosure of liens and mortgages, proceedings to eject tenants and intruders, claims and illegalities, mandamus, quo war- ranto, prohibition, habeas corpus, establishment of lost papers, peti- tions to the judge of the superior court at chambers, or other special proceedings of like nature, nor the fictitious forms of pleading in ejectment. 

§ 4973. Time of fling to be indorsed. Upon every pe- tition the clerk shall indorse the date of its filing in office, which shall be considered the time of the commencement of the suit. No petition shall require the sanction of the judge before its filing, un- less it pray some extraordinary remedy. 

§ 4974. (3334.) Process to be annexed. To every petition the clerk 8na ^ annex a process (unless the same be waived), signed by the clerk or his deputy, and bearing test in the name of a judge of the court, and directed to the sheriff or his deputy, requiring the ap- pearance of the defendant at the return term of the court. 

§ 4975. (4185.) Service on non-residents. If the defendant in equi table proceeding does not reside in the Statef service of the petition or any order of the court may be made by publication. If the non resident defendant is represented in court by an attorney at law or in fact, service on such attorney shall be sufficient. And in all cases not embraced within the foregoing provisions, the judge may prescribe for extraordinary service according to the exigencies of each case. 

§ 4976. Service by publication, when. Where any non-resident or person unknown claims or owns title to, or an interest, present or contingent, in any real or personal property in this State, service on such non-resident or unknown owner or claimant may be made by publication in cases affecting such property where proceedings are brought — 1. To remove a cloud therefrom or quiet title thereto. 2. To cancel or set aside deeds, mortgages, liens, or incumbrances thereon. 3. To establish, enforce, or foreclose liens thereon. 4 t enforce, by decree for specific performance, any contract in reference thereto. 5^ To order the partition thereof by division or sale. 6. To make any decree or order in which the subject of the action is real or personal property in this State, in which a non-resident or unknown person has or may have or claims an interest, actual or contingent, and in which the relief demanded consists wholly or in part in excluding him from an interest therein. 7. Where a non-resident or person unknown has or may have or may claim present, future, or contingent interests' in any property in this State. g ^nd jn a u cases i n which such person may have or claim any interest in any trust estate in this State, and it becomes necessary or proper or advantageous to order a sale of the whole or any part of such property, service upon such non-resident or unknown person may be perfected by publication. 

§ 4977. Foregoing supplemental. The provisions of the foregoing section are supplemental to the other provisions m this Code provid- ing for service by publication. 

§ 4978. Service by publication. In all cases where the defendant or other party resides out of this State, and it is necessary to perfect service upon such person by publication, upon the fact being made to appear to the judge of the court in which suit is pending, either in term or vacation, said judge may order service to be perfected by publication in the paper in which sheriff's advertisements are printed, twice a month for two months. Said published notice shall con- tain the name of the parties plaintiff and defendant, with a caption setting forth the court and term and character of the action, and a notice directed and addressed to the party to be thus served, commanding him to be and appear at the next term of the court, and shall bear test in the name of the judge and be signed by the clerk of said court. 

§ 4979. Copy of In all cases where the resi- dence or abiding-place of the absent or non-resident party is known, the party obtaining the order shall file in the office of the clerk, at least thirty days before the term next after the order for publication, a copy of the newspaper in which said notice is published, with said notice plainly marked, and thereupon it shall be the duty of said clerk at once to inclose, direct, stamp and mail said paper to said party named in said order, and make an entry of his action on the petition or other writ in said case. When publication is ordered, personal service of a copy of the petition, process, and order of pub- lication, out of the State, shall be equivalent to deposit in the post- office, when proved to the satisfaction of the judge, by affidavit or otherwise. 

§ 4980. Judge to determine if service properly perfected. In all cases where service by publication is ordered, it shall be the duty of the judge trying the case, before the trial thereof, to determine whether such service has been properly perfected, and to write an order to that effect upon the petition in said case as showing service thereof, which shall also be entered upon the minutes of the court. 

§ 4981. (3335.) Appearance and pleading cure defects. and pleading shall be a waiver of all irregularities of the process, or of the absence of process, and the service thereof. 

§ 4982. (3336.) If the judge be dead, etc. If the judge in whose name the process bears test is dead, or otherwise disqualified at the time, the process shall be good and amended on motion. 

§ 4983. (3337.) Process and service may be waived. The defendant ma y acknowledge service or waive process, provided the same be in writing, signed by the defendant, or some one authorized by him. 

§ 4984. (3338.) When to be filed. nor is acknowl- The original petition shall be de- posited in the clerk's office at least twenty days before the term to which it is returnable; and if delivered within the twenty days, the clerk shall make the same returnable to the next term thereafter. 

§ 4985. (3339.) Service of process, how made. The clerk shall de- liver the original petition, with process annexed, together with a copy of the petition and process for each defendant, to the sheriff or his deputy, who shall serve such copy upon each defendant residing in the county, at least fifteen days before the first day of the term, and within five days from the time of receiving the same, and make an entry of such service upon the original petition, and return the same to the clerk. Leaving a copy at the defendant's residence shall be a sufficient service. 

§ 4986. (588a.) Service of process where sheriff is sick, or a party. Whenever a sheriff is a party, or named as a defendant in any ac- tion, or when he is sick and unable to act, and has no deputy, serv- ice of any mesne process, or order, or extraordinary writ, prior to final judgment, may be made by any constable, or bailiff, of any court. 

§ 4987. (8263 a.) Minors to be served, how. The mode of service of '^ S ' petitions, citations, and other legal proceedings in the courts f this State, on minors, shall be as follows: If the minor is under the age of fourteen years, service is to be perfected by delivering a copy of said proceedings, of whatever kind or nature it may be, to said minor personally, and in cases where there is a statutory or testamentary guardian or trustee representing the interest of the minor to be affected by a legal proceeding, service as usual on said guardian or trustee shall be sufficient to bind said minor's interest in their control to be affected by said proceedings. If the minor is over fourteen years of age, service may be made by delivering to him personally such copy. When the returns of such service are made to the proper court, and order taken to appoint said minor a guard- ian ad litem, and such guardian ad litem agrees to serve, all of which must be shown in the proceedings of the court, then said minor shall be considered a party to said proceedings 

§ 4988. (3340.) Entry of sheriff may be traversed. The entry of sheriff, or any officer of the court, or his deputy, may be traversed by the defendant at the first term after notice of such entry is had by him, and before pleading to the merits; but this shall not deprive the defendant of his right of action against the sheriff for a false return. 

§ 4989. (3341 . ) Second original if defendants reside out any of the defendants reside out of the county, the clerk shall issue a second original and copy for such other county or counties, and forward the same to the sheriff, who shall serve the copy and return the second original, with his entry thereon, to the clerk of the court from which the same issued. 

§ 4990. (3342.) If no sheriff of ; the^go^ county. If or clerk be elected. If any county shall refuse or neglect to elect a sheriff or clerk for sixty days after a va- cancy shall have occurred, suitors may apply to any clerk or sheriff of an adjoining county, and have the requisite duty performed by them, and their acts shall be as valid as if they were officers of such delinquent county, 

§ 4991. (3343.) If process be delivered too late. If the process is de- livered to the sheriff, or his deputy, too late for service within the time specified, he shall return the same, with an entry, stating the truth of the case; and if the defendant cannot be found, and does not reside within the county, the sheriff shall make return of the fact in the same manner. 

§ 4992. Service too late, good for next term. Whenever process is not serVed the lengthy of time required by law before the appearance term, such service shall be good for the next succeeding term there- after, which shall be the appearance term. 

§ 4993 - ( 8844 - ) tf the sheri ff is a P art y> etc - If tne sheriff is a party t° the cause, the process shall be directed to the coroner of the county, and to the sheriffs of the adjoining counties, and may be ser ved by either, as convenience may suggest. « 

§ 4994. (3345.) Petition or process not affected by formal objections. /' No technical or formal objections shall invalidate any petition or process, but if the same substantially conforms to the requisitions of this Code, and the defendant has had notice of the pendency of the cause, all other objections shall be disregarded: Provided, there is a legal cause of action set forth as required by this Code. 

§ 4995. (3346.) Special pleadings not admitted. No special plead- ings shall be admitted in the superior courts, and every case shall go to the jury and be tried upon the petition, process, and answer alone; and no nonsuit shall be awarded, when the cause of action is substantially set forth in the declaration, for any formal variance between the allegations and the proof. 

§ 4996. (3355.) Land divided by county lines. In all cases where any person resides in one county, whose plantation or land extends over the line into an adjoining county, and there is no one upon whom service in an action of ejectment can be legally perfected in the county where such land may lie, it shall be lawful for the clerk of the superior court of the county wherein such land may lie, to issue process in behalf of the plaintiff against the defendant, which proc- ess shall be directed to the sheriff of the county wherein such land may lie, and such sheriff shall serve the same, and such service shall be good and valid. 

§ 4997. (3356.) Mesne profits, ho w recovered. The plaintiff in eject- ment may add a count in his writ or declaration, and submit the evidence to the jury, and recover by way of damages all such sums of money to which he may be entitled by way of mesne profits, to- gether with the premises in dispute. 

§ 4998. (3357.) Mesne profits, no separate suit for. 

§ 

§ 4998, 4999 No plaintiff in ejectment shall have and maintain a separate action in his behalf for the recovery of mesne profits which may have accrued to him from the premises in dispute. 

§ 4999. (3358.) Joint owner may sue alone . Any joint tenant, ten- ant in common, or other person having a part interest in lands or tenements, may have and maintain an action of ejectment or tres- pass for the recovery of such lands or tenements, or for an injury thereto, without joining with him any other person as plaintiff; but the judgment in such case shall not affect the rights of those inter- ested in such lands or tenements who are not parties to the suit. 

§ 5000. (3359.) When several claimants cannot join. When several persons claim several parcels of land under distinct titles, and do not sustain to each other the relation of landlord and tenant, a joint action of ejectment cannot be maintained against them, nor can a joint or several recovery be had in such action, either for the prem- ises or mesne profits. 

§ 5001. (3360.) True claimant made defendant . A plaintiff in eject- ment may in all cases make the true claimant defendant by serving a copy of the pending action upon him, and the person so notified shall be bound by the judgment. 

§ 5002. (3401.) Abstract y of title. To the declaration for the recov- Qf i an( i and mesne profits, the plaintiff shall annex an abstract of the title relied on for such recovery. 

§ 5003. (3361.) Defendant may disclaim . A defendant in ejectment may at the first term come in and disclaim any claim of title, or right of possession; and after such disclaimer is filed, such defend- ant shall not be liable for any future cost. 

§ 5004. Plaintiff recovers on his own title. A plaintiff in ejectment must recover on the strength of his own title, and not on the weak- ness of the defendant's title. But where both parlies claim under a common grantor, it is not necessary to show title back of such common grantor. 

§ 5005. (8362.) Judgment conclusive. A judgment in ejectment shall be conclusive as to the title between the parties thereto, unless the jury find for the plaintiff less than the fee. 

§ 5006. (3364.) Codefendant, who may be. A previous warrantor of the title to the land in dispute may be a codefendant in an action of ejectment, provided he would be answerable in damages in case of eviction. 

§ 5007. (3365.) The consent rule. The consent rule in ejectment shall always be considered as filed, and admits lease, entry and ouster. The fictitious forms in pleading in ejectment shall be sufficient. 

§ 5008. (3366.) Plaintiff may recover on his prior possession, when. A plaintiff in ejectment may recover the premises in dispute upon his prior possession alone, against one who subsequently acquires pos- session of the land by mere entry, and without any lawful right whatever. 

§ 5009. (3350.) Several joint copartners sued in the same action, etc. When two or more joint contractors, or joint and several contract- ors, or copartners, are sued in the same action, and service shall be perfected on one or more of said contractors or copartners, and the officer serving the writ shall return that the rest are not to be found, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintiff to proceed to judgment and execution against the defendants who are served with process, in the same manner as if they were the only or sole defendants; and if either of the defendants die pending such action, his representative may be made a party, and the case proceed to judgment and execu- tion as in other cases against the representatives of deceased persons. 

§ 5010. (3351.) Judgments bind copartnership property, etc. Judg- men t s so obtained shall bind, and execution may be levied on the joint copartnership property, and also the individual property, real and personal, of the defendant or defendants who have been served with a copy of the process, but shall not bind or be levied on the indi- vidual property of the defendant or defendants who are not served with a process. 

§ 5011. (3352.) If several are served, the plea of infancy, etc. In all cases against joint obligors or promisors, any one or more of the par- ties may plead infancy; if such plea be sustained, the action shall not abate, but the court shall award judgment, as in cases of nonsuit, in favor of the party or parties so pleading, and permit the plaintiff to proceed against the other defendant or defendants to said suit, without further delay or costs. 

§ 5012. (3353.) When the maker and indorser reside in different conn- ties. In case a maker and indorser of a promissory note reside in different counties, the same may be sued in the county where the maker resides; and a copy of the petition and process served on the indorser residing out of the county in which the suit may be com- menced, as provided in case of joint obligors and promisors, shall be deemed sufficient service. 

§ 5013. (3354.) Suit on attachment bond of plaintiff '. A pV? When a person Actsi855-6, who has been a defendant in attachment desires to sue the plaintiff for damages, and -the plaintiff shall not reside in this State, it shall be sufficient to serve a copy of the petition and process on the secu- rity to the bond given by the plaintiff, and said action may proceed against both principal and security. 

§ 5014. (3348.) Representative y of obligor may be sued, etc. Where person shall be in possession (in his own right, or in any other capacity) of any note, bill, bond, or other obligation in writing, signed by two or more persons, and one or more of the persons whose names are so signed as aforesaid shall die before the payment of the money, or the compliance with the conditions of said bond or obligation in writing, the person holding such bill, bond, note, or other obligation in writing shall not be compelled to sue the survivors alone, but may at his discretion sue the survivor or survivors, or the representatives of such deceased person or persons, or survivor or survivors, in the same action with the representative or representatives of such deceased person or persons: Provided, nothing herein contained shall authorize the bringing of an action of any kind whatever against the representative or representatives of any estate or estates, until twelve months after the probate of the will, or the granting of letters of administration on such estate or estates. 

§ 5015. (3349.) Includes copartners . The preceding section shall be 80 construed as to embrace debts against copartners, as well as against joint or joint aud several contractors. 

§ 5016. (3421.) Parties made on motion. When a plaintiff in any cause now or hereafter pending shall die, the executor or adminis 

§ trator of such plaintiff may be made party on motion, to be made in writing, of which the defendants or their counsel shall have no- tice. 

§ 5017. (3422.) Party defendant, hoiu and when made. In case the defendant shall die pending a suit, the plaintiff may sue out a scire facias immediately after the expiration of twelve months from the probate of the will or granting of letters of administration, requir- ing such executor or administrator to appear and answer to the said cause. 

§ 5018. (3423.) Successor of executor , etc ., may be made party . Upon the death of any executor, administrator, or guardian, or upon the revocation of his letters testamentary, of administration, or guard- ianship, as the case may be, pending suit by or against such execu- tor, administrator, or guardian, as such, and such death or removal being suggested of record, a scire facias may issue to make the suc- cessor of such deceased or removed person a party at any time after his appointment and qualification, instead of the deceased or re- moved executor, administrator, or guardian. 

§ 5019. Parties made in term or vacation. Where for any cause it p. 47. 

§ 5027. becomes necessary or proper to make parties, the judge shall cause Acts 1895, . a rule to be prepared, signed by him, either in term' time or vaca- tion, calling on the person to show cause why he should not be made a party, the answer to which rule may be heard in term or vacation. 

§ 5020. Time of fi. fa. trial where parties made. In all cases, except those $$4848, 5126, in which representatives of deceased parties are made, the new party shall be entitled to the same time within which to prepare for trial as if he had been one of the original parties to the cause; but in all cases now or hereafter pending in the courts of this State, any orig- inal or new party may consent to the trial at the first term, pro- vided the case is ready for trial. 

§ 5021. (3424.) Parties , how made in claim cases . In all cases where a claim shall be interposed to property levied upon by virtue of a fieri facias or attachment from any of the courts of this State, in favor of one or more persons, and pending such claim one of the plaintiffs shall die, the case shall proceed in the name of the sur- vivor, and on the death of the last or only plaintiff, the executor or administrator of such deceased may, on motion, be made a party instanter, and said case shall proceed without further delay. 

§ 5022. (3424a.) How made when year's support assigned. When a party plaintiff shall die pending a suit on any chose in action in any of the courts of this State, and the chose in action, the foundation of said suit, be assigned to the widow, or widow and children, or chil- dren only, of decedent, as any part of a twelve-months support, then the widow for herself, or for the use of herself and children, and in the event of children only, then a next friend for said children, may be made a party plaintiff to such action upon the same terms and in the same manner that administrators are made parties plaintiff to suits in favor of their intestates in this?y^p$ upon the submission by such person to the court of a«^r^fl^^opy of assignment, and the action shall proceed in the nam^rparties so made. 

§ 5023. (3425.) Appeal when party dies before it is entered where no appeal is entered. When either the plaintiff or defendant shall depart this life pending a trial, or after a cause has been tried and before the expiration of the time within which such party, if living, might enter an appeal, and no appeal shall have been entered, the legal representatives of such party dying may enter an appeal within thirty days from the time such executor or administrator shall have been qualified; and if such appeal is not entered within the time herein prescribed, judgment may be entered and execution is- sued as though the deceased party was in life, without making the representative a party. 

§ 5024. (3426.) Appeal revives the suit. When an appeal shall be entered as provided in the preceding section, it shall not be neces- sary to revive such suit by scire facias, but it shall be revived by the party appealing, giving notice to the adverse party within thirty days from the time of entering such appeal, and when a defendant shall appeal, said cause shall stand for trial on the appeal-docket at the first term of the court after the expiration of twelve mouths from the qualification of such executor or administrator. 

§ 5025. (3427.) Representatives of garnishees may be made parties. When any person, after being summoned as garnishee, shall die either before or after answer, the executor or administrator of such person shall be made a party by scire facias in the usual way. 

§ 5026. (3428.) Administrator de bonis non may be made party . cage f tnedeath or removal from office of any such executor or ad- ministrator, pending such proceeding as prescribed in the preceding sections, an administrator de bonis non may be made a party in like manner. 

§ 5027. (3429.) Contents of scire facias. In writs of scire facias, f or the purpose of making parties to any suit pending in the supe- rior courts of this State, it shall be sufficient to state the names of the parties, the term of the court to which said cause was made re- turnable, and the name of the suit or action, requiring the party to show cause why he should not be made a party to said cause, with- out setting forth the substance of the bill or declaration, or the pro- ceedings thereon. 

§ 5028. (3430.) Scire facias, how issued and served. All writs of scire facias, to make parties, shall be issued, served, and returned as provided in sections 5019, 5381 and 5382. 

§ 5029. (3431.) Scire facias against parties in different counties. In cases where there are several parties to be served with scire facias, and any one or more of them reside out of the State or county in which the suit is pending, a service upon those residing in the county where the suit is, and a return that the others are not to be found, shall be sufficient to authorize the making of the representatives of deceased plaintiff or defendant parties, so as to authorize the orig- inal suit, in the name of the parties so made, to proceed to trial and judgment as though all such parties had been served with scire facias. 

§ 5030. (3432.) Representative of non-resident defendants, how made$ parties. In all cases where a defendant duly served with process or subpoena in any case shall reside out of this State, or shall remove therefrom during the pendency of said cause, and the plaintiff or complainant shall die, his legal representatives shall be made par- ties on motion and without notice. 

§ 5031. (3434.) Parties, how made when both die. When both plain- tiff and defendant die before a scire facias issues to make parties, the action does not abate, but scire facias may issue on the motion of the representative of either party against the representative of the other, and the cause proceed. 

§ 5032. (3435.) Representatives of usee may be made parties. On the death of the usee, his representatives must be made parties, as here- inbefore provided, before the cause can proceed, even in a claim case. 

§ 5033. (3436.) Successors of trustees may be made parties. On the death of a trustee or receiver, pending a suit to which he may be a party as such, the same does not abate, but his successor may be made a party thereto by scire facias, and said cause proceed to judg- ment. 

§ 5034. (3437.) Execution against deceased defendants. On the death of a defendant after final judgment, when no execution has been 

§ issued previous to such death, execution may issue as though such death had not taken place. 

§ 5035. (3438.) When action does not abate. No suit shall abate by the death of either party, where such cause of action will in any case survive to or against the legal representatives of the deceased party, either in the same or any other form of action. 

§ 5036. (3439.) Suits against removed executor do not abate. When letters testamentary may be revoked and an intestacy for any cause declared, no suit by or against the removed executor shall abate, and the newly appointed administrator can be made a party plain- tiff or defendant in his stead. 

§ 5037. (3440.) Death of one of several administrators does not abate suit. An action against two joint administrators or executors does not abate by the death of one, but proceeds against the survivor. 

§ 5038. (3441.) Death of codefendant. On the death of the code- fendant in any action of ejectment, made such after the commence- ment thereof, the action may proceed against the surviving defend- ant without making the representative of the deceased codefendant a party. 

§ 5039. (3442.) One of several defendants not being liable. An action against several persons does not abate where it appears that some of the defendants are not liable, but may proceed against those who are liable. 

§ 5040. (3443.) Suits against sheriff survive his death. An action against a sheriff for an escape out of process shall not abate on the death of such sheriff, but shall survive against his securities and legal representatives. 

§ 5041. (3444.) Death of one of several defendants. In all cases which have been or may be commenced in any of the courts of this State against two or more defendants, one or more of whom have died or may die pending said case, it shall and may be lawful for the plaintiff or complainants to suggest said death of record, and to proceed in the trial of said case or cases, against the surviving de- fendant, to the extent of their respective liabilities. 

§ 5042. (3445.) Retraxit. A retraxit is the open, public and volun- tary renunciation by the plaintiff, in open court, of his suit or cause of action; and if this is done by the plaintiff, and a judgment en- tered up thereon by the defendant, the plaintiff's right of action is forever gone. 

§ 5043. (3446.) Differs from dismissal. A retraxit differs from a nonsuit, dismission, or discontinuance, in this: A retraxit is posi- tive and conclusive of the plaintiff's right of action, while a non- suit, dismission, or discontinuance is negative, and the plaintiff may recommence his suit on the payment of costs. 

§ 5044. (3447.) Actions may be dismissed at any time. The plaintiff 3787, in an y action, in any court, may dismiss his action either in vaca- tion or term time, and, if done in term time, the clerk or justice shall enter such dismissal on the docket. 

§ 5045. petitions and pleas determined at first eacn regular term of the superior court shall call all cases on the appearance-docket, and hear and decide all objections made to the sufficiency of petitions and pleas, and may by order dismiss plaintiff's petition, or strike defendant's plea, for non-compliance with the requirements of law, unless the defect is cured by amend- ment; the court may on good cause shown allow a reasonable time in his discretion for making and filing such amendment. 

§ 5046. (3459.) Advantage of defects on motion. All defects which appear on the face of the pleadings may be taken advantage of by motion 

§ 5047. (4191.) Modes of defense . A defendant may either demur, plead, or answer to the petition, or may file one, or more, or all of these defenses at once, without waiving the benefit of either; or he may file two or more pleas to the same action. In all cases demur- rer, pleas and answer shall be disposed of in the order named; and all demurrers and pleas shall be filed and determined at the first term, unless continued by the court, or by consent of parties. 

§ 5048. (4192.) Demurrer, grounds of. A demurrer denies the right to the discovery or relief, in whole or in part, admitting all properly- pleaded allegations in the petition to be true, and is founded either upon the want of jurisdiction in the court, or of right in the petitioner, or upon the non-joinder or misjoinder of parties or causes of action, or the absence of liability by the defendant to the petitioner. Special defects or omissions in the petition may always be taken ad- vantage of by demurrer, and unless cured by amendment, the peti- tion shall be dismissed. 

§ 5049. Other defenses. The defendant may, by proper pleadings, raise issues of law, or of fact, legal or equitable, or both. All issues of law shall be raised by demurrer. All issues of fact shall be raised by plea or answer, which may be of a dilatory nature, or to the merits. 

§ 5050. Demurrer to pleas. Pleas and answers may be demurred to, and if new matter is set up by the defendant not controverting the plaintiff's petition, the plaintiff, in proper cases, may be required by the court to meet the same by appropriate written pleadings. 

§ 5051. Each paragraph to be separately answered. In all cases when ; the defendant desires to make a defense by plea or otherwise he shall J therein distinctly answer each paragraph of plaintiff's petition, and shall not file a mere general denial, commonly known as the plea of "general issue." He may in a single paragraph deny any or all of the allegations, or in a single paragraph admit any or all of the allegations in any or all of the paragraphs of the petition. 

§ 5052. (3452.) Answer to be filed at first term. In all cases where the defendant has been served with petition and process, he shall ap- pear at the court to which such process is made returnable, and make his defense in writing, signed by himself or counsel, in which he shall plainly, fully, and distinctly set forth his defense. Such plea or answer may contain as many several matters as the defendant may think necessary for his defense. 

§ 5053. (3458.) Special pleas. Under a denial of the allegations in the plaintiff's declaration, no other defense is admissible except such as disproves the plaintiff's cause of action; all other matters in satisfaction or avoidance must be specially pleaded. 

§ 5054. Evasive answer. Where facts are charged to be within the knowledge of a party, or where from all the circumstances such knowledge is necessarily presumed and he fails to answer altogether, or makes an evasive answer, the charge is to be taken as true. 

§ 5055. Verified petition requires verified plea. In all cases where the A plaintiff files a petition with an affidavit attached that the f acts stated in the petition are true to the best of his knowledge and be- lief, the defendant shall in like manner verify any plea or answer. If the defendant is a corporation such affidavit may be made by the president, vice-president, superintendent, or any officer or agent who knows, or whose official duty it is to know, about the matters set out in the answer. 

§ 5056. (4195. ) Verification of answer. If discovery is specially dis- claimed in equitable petitions, the defendant need not verify his answer, but the defendant will always have the privilege of putting in an answer under oath for the purpose of using the same as evi- dence on any motion to dissolve an injunction, or to set aside any extraordinary process or remedy granted. A sworn answer is subject to amendment at any time, by leave of the court, as other plead- ings ; but an admission made in such answer shall always be evi- dence, when offered by the other party. 

§ 5057. Verification of amended answer required. The defendant, a^ er the time allowed for answer has expired, shall not in any case by amendment set up any new facts or defense of which notice was not given by the original plea or answer, unless at the time of filing such amended plea or answer, containing the new matter, he shall attach an affidavit that at the time of filing the original plea or an- swer he did not have notice or knowledge of the new facts or de- fense set out in the amended plea or answer. 

§ 5058. (3456) Dilatory pleas must be sworn to . No dilatory answer shall be received or admitted unless an affidavit shall be made to the truth thereof, and must be filed at the first term. 

§ 5059. (3449.) Agents and attorneys may swear to plea, when. In all m. civil cases founded on unconditional contracts in writing, where there is an issuable defense, and where the defendant does not reside in the county in which suit is pending, it shall and may be lawful for the agent or attorney at law of such defendant to make oath to the plea, and the same shall be as good and sufficient as if made by the defendant himself ; ; general provisions. and in such cases the agent or attorney may swear that what is contained in such plea is true according to the best of his knowledge and belief. 

§ 5060. (3450.) Pleas, how sworn to. All answers, pleas or defenses in any court of this State, which have to be filed under oath, shall 

§ . . be held to be sufficiently verified when the same are sworn to before any notary public, justice of the peace, judge of a court of law, or chancellor, commissioner, or master of any court of equity of the State or county where the oath is made, or before any other officer of such State or county who is authorized by the laws thereof to ad- minister oaths, and such oath so made shall have the same force and effect as if it had been made before an officer of this State author- ized to administer the same. The official attestation of the officer' before whom the oath or affidavit may be made, shall be 'prima facie evidence of the official character of such officer, and that he was au- thorized by law to administer oaths. 

§ 5061. (4197.) How defendant must answer. When discovery is sought, the defendant must answer to the best of his knowledge, in- formation and belief. If the defendant knows nothing, but answers only to his belief from the information of others, such an answer does not require the testimony of two witnesses to overcome it. 

§ 5062. (4198.) Verification by non-resident. When a petition or answer, or other proceeding, is required to be verified by a petitioner or defendant who resides beyond the limits of this State, an affida- vit, made before any commissioner of this State, or any commis- sioner, or master, or chancellor of a court of equity, or judge of any court of the State where made, authorized to administer an oath, shall be a sufficient verification. 

§ 5063. (4199.) Replication and order ^e fil ec ^ for trial. No replication shall and no order setting down the case for trial ties may commence to take testimony as soon as the petition is filed. 

§ 5064. (4200.) Notice of filing of ; but the par- demurrer or plea. If a demurrer or plea is filed in equitable proceedings, notice of such filing must be ^iven to the complainant, or his solicitor, a reasonable time before the end of the first term. 

§ 5065. (3453.) No part to be stricken out. No part of an answer shall be stricken out or rejected on account of being contradictory to another part of the same, but the court shall suffer the whole answer to remain, if the defendant should desire it, and avail himself of any advantage he can or may have under either or the whole of said an- swer, and proceed to trial accordingly. 

§ 5066. (3454.) Pleas of non est factum must be sworn to. No person shall, in his plea or answer, be permitted to deny any deed, bill, single or penal bond, note, draft, receipt, order, or other instrument in writing, which is the foundation of the action, unless he shall make affidavit of the truth of such plea or answer at the time of filing the same. 

§ 5067. (3455.) Petition and answer make issue. The petition and o \ / answer shall be sufficient to carry the cause to the jury, without any replication, or other course of proceeding. 

§ 5068. (4196. ) Effect of amendment. An amendment to a petition, or plea, or answer, which materially changes the cause of action or defense, opens the petition, plea, or answer as amended, to demurrer or plea. The opposite party shall be allowed reasonable time for answering such amendment. An immaterial amendment does not so open the petition or other pleading, and need not be answered at all, or shall be answered instanter. 

§ 5069. Call of appearance-docket . In all cases the judge at each term shall call the appearance-docket upon some day previously fixed, or on the last day of the term, and upon such call all cases in which the defendant has not filed a demurrer, plea, or an- swer, or other defense, shall be marked "In default." 

§ 5070. Opening default. At any time within thirty days after the entry of "default," the defendant, upon payment of all costs which have accrued, shall be allowed to open the default and file his de- fense by demurrer, plea, or answer. 

§ 5071. Verdict at trial term. If the default is not opened as pro- vided in the preceding section, the plaintiff shall be entitled, at the trial term, to take a verdict or judgment as the case may require. 

§ 5072. Opening default at trial term. At the trial term the judge in his discretion, upon payment of costs, may allow the default to be opened for providential cause preventing the filing of a plea, or for excusable neglect, or where the judge, from all the facts, shall determine that a proper case has been made for the default to be opened on terms to be fixed by the court. In order to allow the de- fault to be thus opened, the showing shall be made under oath, shall set up a meritorious defense, shall offer to plead instanter, and an- nounce ready to proceed with the trial. 

§ 5073. Assessment of damages on default. In all cases where the damages are not liquidated and a judgment by default is rendered, the plaintiff shall be required to introduce evidence and establish the amount of damages. The defendant may contest the amount of such damages before the jury, with a right to move for a new trial in respect to such damages, and except as in other cases. 

§ 5074. No judgment by default in divorce cases. No verdict or judg- ment by default shall be taken in a suit for divorce, but the allega- tions in the petition must be established by evidence before both juries. 

§ 5075. Trial at the first term by consent. In all cases in the courts of this State, any original or new party may consent to a trial at the first term, provided, the case is ready for trial. 

§ 5076. (3448.) Judgment without a jury, when. The court shall render judgment without the verdict of a jury in all civil cases founded on unconditional contracts in writing, where an issuable defense is not filed under oath or affirmation. 

§ 5W7. (3457.) 41/76 Judgment by default. When any defendant shall fail to appear and answer at the return term of the petition and fir i process, the court shall enter "default" on the docket, which shall be L . ' , ' considered a judgment by default, without a formal entry thereof, and the plaintiff's claim, allegation, or demand, shall be tried in all cases of default by a jury, except as provided elsewhere in this Code, but no such trial shall in any case be had at the first term, except specially provided for by law. 

§ 5078. (3457.) Verdict in suits in default. In all cases, except ac- tions for unliquidated damages and suits on unconditional contracts x ° in writing, in the several courts of this State, where the writ or proc- ess has been served, as the law directs, on the defendant, and there is no defense made by the party sued, either in person or by attor- ney, at time the case is submitted for trial, the case shall be con- sidered in default, and the plaintiff shall be permitted to take a verdict as if each and every item and paragraph were proved by testimony. 

§ 5079. (3460.) Jurisdiction not given by consent. Parties, by con sent express or implied, cannot give jurisdiction to the court as to the person or subject-matter of the suit. It may, however, be waived, so far as the rights of the parties are concerned, but not so as to prejudice third persons. 

§ 5080. (3461.) Jurisdiction, when admitted. If a defendant appear and plead to the merits, without pleading to the jurisdiction, and without excepting thereto, he thereby admits the jurisdiction of the court. 

§ 5081. (3462.) Pleas to the jurisdiction. Pleas to the jurisdiction^ must be pleaded in person, and must, when relied on, be pleaded specially, unless a want of jurisdiction appears on the face of the pro- ceedings —in which case it may be taken advantage of on motion. 

§ 5082. (3463.) Contents of the plea. In all pleas to the jurisdic- tion of the court, it must appear that there is another court in this State which has jurisdiction of the case. 

§ 5083. (3464.) Must be sworn to. A plea to the jurisdiction, being a dilatory plea, must be sworn to. 

§ 5084. (3465.) Pleas of set-off . Debts, as a general rule, must be mutual between the same parties at the commencement of the action, to be set off against each other. Every plea of set-off must set out the demand as plainly as if sued on. 

§ 5085. (3466.) Pica of set-off against estates. When a defendant pleads a set-off of a larger amount than the demand of the testator or intestate, the plaintiff may reply by showing that the estate is insolvent, and that there are outstanding debts, of higher dignity than the defendant's set-off, sufficient to exhaust the assets, for the purpose of protecting the executor or administrator from an abso- lute judgment. 

§ 5086. (3467.) Judgments may be set off. One judgment may be set off against another, on motion, whether in the hands of an original party or an assignee. 

§ 5087. (3468.) When improvements may be set off in ejectment. A trespasser cannot set off improvements in an action brought for mesne profits, except when the value of the premises has been in- creased by the repairs or improvements which have been made. In that case the jury may take into consideration the improvements or repairs, and diminish the profits by that amount, but not below the sum which the premises would have been worth without such im- provements or repairs. 

§ 5088. (3469.) Judgment for excess of set-off, etc. In all cases of mutual debts and set-offs, where the jury shall find a balance for the defendant, such defendant may enter up judgment for the amount, and take out execution in such manner as plaintiffs may do by this Code: Provided, such defendant shall, at the time of fil- ing his answer, file therewith a true copy or copies of the subject- matter of such set-offs; and where the plaintiff shall be indebted to the defendant on open account for dealings between themselves, and where the defendant shall hold and possess in his own right, by as- signment, indorsement, or otherwise, according to law, any bond, note, bill, or other writing for money or other thing of the plain- tiff, such defendant may offer the same as set-off, and, on due proof, shall be allowed the same. 

§ 5089. (3470.) Limitations of set-offs. The statute of limitations applies to the subject-matter of set-offs, as well as the plaintiff's demand. 

§ 5090. (3470a.) What a plea of usury must set forth. The plea of usury must set forth the sum upon which it was paid or to be paid, the time when the contract was made, when payable, and the amount of usury agreed upon, taken or reserved. 

§ 5091. (3471.) Plea of failure of consideration. Whenever an ac- tion shall be commenced at common law, founded upon any contract, the defendant in such action may plead and give in evidence to the jury, upon the trial thereof, that the consideration upon which said contract was founded has totally or partially failed. Such plea shall only be pleaded in cases between the original parties to the contract, or their privies or assignees, whose title has been acquired with no- tice actual or constructive, or by operation of law. 

§ 5092 - (8472.) SECTION 4. NON EST FACTUM, ETC. Non est factum. The plea of non est factum is a denial of the execution of the instrument sued upon, and applies to notes and other instruments, as well as deeds, and applies only when the execution of the instrument is alleged to be the act of the party filing the plea, or adopted by him. 

§ 5093. (3475.) Pleaofnul tiel record. The plea of nul tiel record$ can only be pleaded to a record which is the gist or foundation of the action, and not to a record which is stated as an inducement only. 
 

§ 5094. (3476.) Pleas of former recovery and pendency of former suit. A former recovery, or the pendency of a former suit for the same cause of action, between the same parties, in the same or any other court that has jurisdiction, shall be a good cause of abatement; but if the first action is so defective that no recovery can be possibly had, the pendency of a former suit will not abate the action. 

§ 5095. Former judgment, when not a bar. A former recovery on||^ grounds purely technical, and where the merits were not and could not liave been in question, will not be a bar to a subsequent action brought so as to avoid the objection fatal to the first. For the former judgment to be a bar, the merits of the case must have been adjudicated. 

§ 5096. (3478.) Defense by sheriff. A sheriff, or other officer, can-* not defend himself against an action for escape, by showing that the process under which the arrest was made was irregular, though he may when the process is void. 

§ 5097. (3479.) Amendments of pleadings, when allowed. All parties, whether plaintiffs or defendants, in the superior or other courts, whether at law or in equity, may, at any stage of the cause, as mat- ter of right, amend their pleadings in all respects, whether in matter of form or of substance, provided there is enough in the pleadings to amend by. The defendant after the first term cannot set up new matter by way of amendment, except as provided in section 5057. 

§ 5098. Enough to amend by. A petition showing a plaintiff, and a defendant, and setting out sufficient to indicate and specify some particular fact or transaction as a cause of action, is enough to amend by. The jurisdiction of the court may be shown, and the details and circumstances of the particular transaction may be amplified and varied by amendment. If the declaration omit to allege facts, essential to raise the duty or obligation involved in the cause of ac- tion which was evidently originally intended to be declared upon, the omitted fact may be supplied by amendment. 

§ 5099. (3480.) New cause of . . . action and parties not allowable. No amendment adding a new and distinct cause of action, or new and distinct parties, shall be allowed unless expressly provided for by law. 

§ 5100. (3481.) Amendments to include issue of 

§ 5100,5101 personal property . When any suit or action is pending in any court in this State, for the recovery of personal property, the issue of said property born, or to be born, or accruing after the commencement of such suit or action, may be recovered in such suit or action, and it shall be the duty of the court to allow the declaration to be amended at any stage of the proceedings so as to include such issue. 

§ 5101. (3482.) Amending party may be put upon terms. In case the party applying for leave to amend the pleadings or other proceed ings shall have been guilty of negligence in respect to the matter of amendment, the court may compel him to pay his adversary the cost of the proceedings for which he moves, and may force reason- able and equitable terms upon him at discretion, not touching the real merits of the cause in controversy. 

§ 4942. (3483.) Misnomers amendable instanter. All misnomers, whether in the Christian name or surname, made in writs, petitions, bills, or other judicial proceedings on the civil side of the court, shall, on motion, be amended and corrected instanter, without work- ing unnecessary delay to the party making the same. 

§ 5103. (3484.) Nam,es of partners may be added instanter. In all suits by or against partners, or where any two or more persons sue or are sued in the same action, and the name of any person who ought to be joined in such action as plaintiff or defendant is omit- ted, the omission shall, od motion, be amended by adding the proper party instanter. 

§ 5104. (3485.) Names of one or more defendants may be stricken. When two or more persons sue or are sued in the same action, either on a contract or for a tort, the plaintiff may amend his declaration by striking out one or more of such defendants and proceed against the remaining defendant or defendants, if there is no other legal difficulty in the case. 

§ 5105. (3486.) Usee's name added and one or more plaintiffs may be stricken. When several plaintiffs sue jointly, the declaration may be amended by striking out the name of one or more of such plain- tiffs. And when it becomes necessary for the purpose of enforcing the rights of such plaintiff, he may amend by substituting the name of another person in his stead, suing for his use. 

§ 5106. (3487.) Representative character of parties may be changed. In an action by or against an executor, administrator, or other rep- resentative, the declaration may be amended by striking out the representative character of such plaintiff or defendant. And in an action by or against an individual, the pleadings may be amended by inserting his representative character. 

§ 5107. (3488.) Omission of jurisdiction amendable. The omission to give the court jurisdiction in the pleadings is amendable. 

§ 5108. (3489.) Scire facias amendable. Scire facias is amendable $5027. as other pleadings. 

§ 5109. (3490.) Amendment of process. Void process, or where there is no process or waiver thereof, cannot be amended, but if service be acknowledged by the defendant, and, upon hearing testimony, the court becomes satisfied that process was waived by the defendant, and that at the time such service was acknowledged, by accident or mistake the entry of such waiver was omitted, such omission may be supplied by amendment nunc pro tunc. 

§ 5110. (3491.) Amendment of verdict. A verdict may be so amended as to make it conform to the declaration, if the error plainly ap- pears upon the face of the record. 

§ 5111. (3492.) After dispersion of jury . A verdict may be amended in mere matter of form after the jury have dispersed; but after it has been received and recorded, and the jury dispersed, it cannot be amended in matter of substance, either by what the jurors say they intended to find, or otherwise. 

§ 5112. (3493.) Where part is legal and part illegal. If a part of a verdict be legal and a part illegal, the court will construe such ver- dict, and order it amended by entering a remitter as to that part which is illegal, and give judgment for the balance. 

§ 5113. (3494.) Amendment of judgments. A judgment may be$ amended by order of the court in conformity to the verdict upon which it is predicated, even after an execution issues. 

§ 5114. (3495.) Executions may be amended. A fieri facias may be amended, so as to conform to the judgment from which it issued, and also as to the time of its return, and such amendments shall in no manner affect the validity of the said fieri fieri facias, nor shall the levy of facias fall or be in any manner invalidated thereby. 

§ 5115. (3496.) Mistakes in execution amendable . When the clerk of aDy court has made, or shall make, any mistake in issuing auy exe- cution, such clerk, or any successor of his in office, may correct such mistake by amending said execution, and shall note and certify the fact that such amendment was made by him, on the execution, or such clerk may issue an alias the time it is issued instead of the fi. fa. to be signed and dated by him at fi. fa. in which the mistake was made; and such clerk shall note the fact of the issuing of such alias on the original, which original shall remain of file in his office, and shall likewise make a memorandum thereof on the execution-docket, and shall also transcribe upon the alias all the entries and credits from the original, and no order of court shall be necessary in the cases contemplated by this section. 

§ 5116. (3497.) Official entries amendable. The sheriff or other ex- editing officer may amend his official entries and returns so as to make such entries and returns conform to the facts of the case at the time such entry or return was made- 

§ 5117. (3498.) May be made nunc pro tunc. If the sheriff or other executing officer shall fail to make an official return which by law he should have made, such entry or return may be made nunc pro tunc by order of the court, so as to make the proceedings conform to the facts at the time the entry should have been made. 

§ 5118. (3499.) Amendment of records. It is a power incident to all courts to correct their own proceedings before final judgment. 

§ 5119. (3500.) Discretion of court as to amendments, and rules therefor. In allowing or refusing amendments, there is a wide discretion to be exercised by the court; hence no fixed rule can be laid down which would apply to each particular case that might arise; but as a gen- eral rule the court will amend the entries of its orders on the min- utes, or the records and other proceedings, nunc pro tunc 1. When the case is within some statutory provision. 2. When there is something on the face of the proceedings to amend by, from which w r — hat actually took place in the prior pro- ceedings can be clearly ascertained and known. 3. In all cases where such amendment will clearly be in further- ance of justice. 

§ 5120. (3501.) Affidavits of illegality amendable. Affidavits of ille- gality are, upon motion and leave of court, amendable instanter by$ the insertion of new and independent grounds: Provided, the defend-* ant will swear that he did not know of such grounds when the orig- inal affidavit was filed. 

§ 5121. (3503.) Amendment of rules for new trial. A rule nisi for a 

§ new trial may be amended by adding new grounds not taken at the time the application was filed. 

§ 5122. (3504. ) Amendment of affidavits to foreclose, etc. All affidavits for the foreclosure of liens, including mortgages, and all affidavits that are the foundation of legal proceedings, and all counter-affida- vits, shall be amendable to the same extent as ordinary declarations, and with only the restrictions, limitations, and consequences now obtaining in the case of ordinary declarations and pleas. 

§ 5123. (3505.) Amendment of appeal and other bonds. An appeal bond, and all other bonds taken under requisition of law in the course of a judicial proceeding, may be amended and new security given if necessary. 

§ 5124. (3506.) Affidavit to appeal amendable. Where material words are omitted by accident or mistake in an affidavit to appeal in forma pauperis, such omission is amendable. 

§ 5125. (3507.) Clerical mistakes may be amended. The mistake or misprision of a clerk or other ministerial officer shall in no case work to the injury of a party, where by amendment justice may be pro- moted. 

§ 5126. (3519.) But one continuance at common law . No trial in any civil cause shall be had at the first term (except expressly provided for by law), and no cause whatever, depending in any of the courts of this State, shall be continued more than one term at common law, at the instance of the same party, for any cause whatever. 

§ 5127. (3520.) Amending party, when entitled to continuance. The party amending pleadings or other proceedings in any of said courts shall not be entitled to delay or continuance on account of such amendment, except by leave of the court to enable him to make such amendment. 

§ 5128. (3521.) Continuance charged to amending party, xohen. any amendment shall be made to the pleadings or other proceedings in the cause, if the opposite party will make oath, or his counsel state in his place, that he is surprised by such amendment, and that he is less prepared for trial, and how, than he would have been if such amendment had not been made, and that such surprise is not claimed for the purpose of delay, the case may be continued in the discretion of the judge, and charged to the amending party. 

§ 5129. (3522.) Continuance for absence of witnesses. In all appli- cations for continuances upon the ground of the absence of a witness, it must be shown to the court that the witness is absent; that he has been subpoenaed; that he resides in the county where the case is pending; that his testimony is material; that such witness is not absent by the permission, directly or indirectly, of such applicant; that he expects he will be able to procure the testimony of such wit- ness at the next term of the court; and that such application is not made for the purpose of delay, but to enable the party to procure the testimony of such absent witness; and must state the facts ex- pected to be proved by such absent witness. 

§ 5130. (3523.) Admission of facts. No continuance shall be al- lowed in any court on account of the absence of a witness, or for the purpose of procuring testimony, when the opposite party is willing to admit, and does not contest the truth of, the facts expected to be proved, and the court shall order such admission to be reduced to writiug. 

§ 5131. (3524.) When absence of a party is cause for continuance . If either party shall be providentially prevented from attending at the trial of any cause, and the counsel of such absent party will state in his place that he cannot go safely to trial without the presence of such absent party, such cause shall be continued, provided his con- tinuances are not exhausted. 

§ 5132. (3525.) Continuance for absence or illness of : counsel. The ill ness or absence from providential cause of counsel, where there is but one, or of the leading counsel where there are more than one, shall be a sufficient ground for continuance: Provided, the party making the application will swear that he cannot go safely to trial without the services of such absent counsel, and that he expects his services at the next term, and that said application is not made for delay only. 

§ 5133. (3526.) When case is not reached. A cause not reached at the trial term, stands over as continued. 

§ 5134. (3527.) Continuance in cases sent back from the Supreme Court. When any cause shall be sent back to the superior court by the Su-$ preme Court, the same shall be in order for trial, and if the contin- uances of either party are exhausted, the superior court may grant one continuance to said party, as the ends of justice may require. 

§ 5135. (3528.) Diligence required. In all cases, the party making an application for a continuance must show that he has used due diligence. 

§ 5136. (3529.) Continuance for non-return of interrogatories. When a commission issues to examine a witness, it not having been re- turned shall be no cause for a continuance, unless the party seeking the continuance will make the same oath of the materiality of the testimony as in the case of an absent witness, and the party must show due diligence in suing out and having the same executed. 

§ 5137. (3530.) Continuance on the appeal. No appeal case shall be continued more than twice by the same party, except for provi- dential cause, and for which it may be continued as often as justice may require. 

§ 5138. (3531.) Counter-showing and discretion of the court. All ap- plications for continuances are addressed to the sound legal discre- tion of the court, and if not expressly provided for, shall be granted or refused, as the ends of justice may require. And in all cases in the courts of the State, the presiding judges may, in their discre- tion, admit a counter-showing to a motion for a continuance, and, after a hearing, may decide whether the motion shall prevail. 

§ 5139. No continuance for term, when. No continuance shall be o •> > granted in any of the courts in this State which have a continuous session for thirty days or more, over the objection of the adverse party, where the cause for the same can be obviated by a postpone- ment to a later day during the term; but it shall be the duty of the presiding judge, whenever a motion and a proper showing for a con- tinuance is made by either party at any time, to set the case down for a later day during the same term, if it shall be practicable thereby to avoid the continuance of the case. 

§ 5140. Public announcement of continuance to be made, etc. The judges of the superior, city, and county courts are required, upon the continuance of any case, to enter the date of such continuance upon their dockets opposite such case, and in open court to make public announcement of such continuance. 

§ 5141. No costs to witness after continuance. Witnesses in making claims or proofs of claims for costs for attendance must give the date they attended, and shall not charge or receive pay for any day after the docket shows the case was continued, nor for any day be- fore the continuance on which he did not attend. 

§ 5142. (3747.) Object of evidence. The object of all legal investi- gation is the discovery of truth. The rules of evidence framed are with a view to this prominent end, seeking always for pure sources and the highest evidence. 

§ 5143. (3748.) Sundry definitions. Competent evidence is that which is admissible. Sufficient evidence is that which is satisfactory for the purpose. Cumulative evidence is that which is additional to other already obtained. Direct evidence is that which immediately points to the question at issue. Indirect or circumstantial evidence is that which only tends to establish the issue by proof of various facts, sus- taining by their consistency the hypothesis claimed. Presumptive evidence consists of inferences drawn by human experience from the connection of cause and effect, and observations of human conduct. 

§ 5144. (3749.) Amount of mental conviction. Moral and reasonable certainty is all that can be expected in legal investigation. In all civil cases the preponderance of testimony is considered sufficient to produce mental conviction. In criminal cases a greater strength of mental conviction is held necessary to justify a verdict of guilty. 

§ 5145. Preponderance of evidence. By preponderance of evidence is meant that superior weight of evidence upon the issues involved, which, while not enough to wholly free the mind from a reasonable doubt, is yet sufficient to incline a reasonable and impartial mind to one side of the issue, rather than to the other. 

§ 5146. How determined. In determining where the preponderance of evidence lies, the jury may consider all the facts and circum- stances of the case, the witnesses' manner of testifying, their intelli- gence, their means and opportunity for knowing the facts to which they testified, the nature of the facts to which they testified, and the probability or improbability of their testimony, their interest or want of interest, and also their personal credibility so far as the same may legitimately appear from the trial. The jury may also consider the number of the witnesses, though the preponderance is not necessarily with the greater number. 

§ 5147. (3750.) Same rules in all courts and cases. Generally the rules of evidence are the same in all the courts of this State, and upon every trial the exceptions exist only by express statute. 

§ 5148. (3751. ) Matters judicially recognized. The existence and ter- ntorial extent of States, their forms of government, and symbols of nationality, the laws of nations, and general customs of merchants, the admiralty and maritime courts of the world and their seals, the political constitution and history of our own government, as well as the local divisions of our own State, the seals of the several depart- ments of the government of the United States, and of the several States of the Union, and all similar matters of public knowledge, are judicially recognized without the introduction of proof. 

§ 5149. (3752.) Presumptions of law and fact. Presumptions are either of law or of fact. The former are conclusions and inferences which the law draws from given facts. The latter are exclusively questions for the jury, to, be decided by the ordinary test of human experience. 

§ 5150. (3753.) Estoppels. Presumptions of law are sometimes con elusive, and an averment to the contrary will not be allowed. These are termed estoppels, and are not generally favored. Among these are the presumptions in favor of a record or judgment unreversed; of the proper conduct of courts and judicial officers acting within their legitimate sphere; of other officers of the law, after lapse of time has rendered it dangerous to open the investigation of their acts in regard to mere, formalities of the law; of ancient deeds, and other instruments more than thirty years old, when they come from the proper custody, and possession has been held in accordance with them; recitals in deeds, except payment of, purchase-money, as against the grantor acting in his own right, and sui juris and his privies in estate, blood, and in law; the landlord's title, as against his tenant, while tenant in possession; solemn admissions made in judicio, and other admissions upon which other parties have acted, either to their own injury or the benefit of the persons making the admissions; and similar cases where it would be more unjust and productive of more evil to hear the truth than to forbear the investigation. 

§ 5151. Estoppel as to title to real estate. Where the estoppel relates to the title to real estate, the party claiming to have been influenced by the other's acts or declarations must not only be ignorant of the true title, but also of any convenient means of acquiring such knowl- edge. Where both parties have equal knowledge or equal means of obtaining the truth, there is no estoppel. 

§ 5152. Equitable estoppel. In order for an equitable estoppel to arise, there must generally be some intended deception in the conduct or declarations of the party to be estopped, or such gross negligence as to amount to constructive fraud by which another has been mis- led to his injury. 

§ 5153. Trustees estopped to claim title adverse to estate. Trustees and^^-^- other representatives with custody of papers have ample opportunities to discover defects in the title of property in their care, and are estopped from setting up title adverse to their trust. 

§ 5154. (3754.) Prima facie presumptions . Other presumptions of law, such as of innocence, and in some cases of guilt, of continuance of life for seven years, of a mental state once proved to exist, and all similar presumptions, may be rebutted by proof. 

§ 5155. Failure to answer letter. In the ordinary course of business, when good faith requires an answer, it is the duty of the party re- ceiving a letter from the other to answer within a reasonable time. Otherwise he is presumed to admit the propriety of the acts men- tioned in the letter of his correspondent, and to adopt them. 

§ 5156. (3755.) Number of witnesses necessary . The testimony of a single witness is generally sufficient to establish a fact. Exceptions to this rule are made in specified cases; such as, to convict of treason or perjury, in any case of felony where the only witness is an accom- plice, and to rebut a responsive statement in an answer in equity in these cases (except in treason) corroborating circumstances may dispense with another witness. 

§ 4157. Jury right to infer, what. In arriving at a verdict, the jury from facts proven, and sometimes from' the absence of counter-evi- L ' dence, may infer the existence of other facts reasonably and logically consequent on those proved. 

§ 5158. (3756.) Must be relevant. The evidence must relate to the questions being tried by the jury, and bear upoD them either directly or indirectly. Irrelevant matter should be excluded. 

§ 5159. (3757.) Character and conduct of : ; parties. The general character of the parties, and especially their conduct in other transactions, 529V. are irrelevant matter, unless the nature of the action involves such character and renders necessary or proper the investigation of such conduct, 

§ 5160. (3758.) Burden of proof. The burden of proof generally lies upon the party asserting or affirming a fact, and to the existence of whose case or defense the proof of such fact is essential. If a nega- tion or negative affirmation be so essential, the proof of such neg- ative lies on the party so affirmmg it. 

§ 5161. (3759.) Changing onus. What amount of evidence will change the onus or burden of proof, is a question to be decided in each case by the sound discretion of the court. 

§ 5163. Failure to produce evidence. Whore a party has evidence his power and within his reach, by which he may repel a claim or charge against him, and omits to produce it, or, having more certain and satisfactory evidence in his power, relies on that which is of a weaker and inferior nature, a presumption arises that the charge or claim is well founded; but this presumption may be rebutted. 

§ 5164. (3761.) Primary and secondary evidence. Primary evidence is such as in itself does not indicate the existence of other and better proof. Secondary evidence is such as from necessity in some cases is substituted for stronger and better proof. 

§ 5165. Positive and negative testimony. The existence of a fact tes- ^ified to by one positive witness is to be believed, rather than that such fact did not exist because many witnesses who had the same opportunity of observation swear that they did not see or know of its having transpired. This rule does not apply when, two parties having equal facilities for seeing or hearing a thing, one swears that it occurred, the other that it did not. 

§ 5166. (8762.) Written evidence. Written evidence is considered of higher proof than oral, and in all cases where the parties have re- duced their contract, agreement or stipulation to writing, and as- sented thereto, it is the best evidence of the same. 

§ 5167. (3763.) Wills and records. Copies of records of judicial ceedings, and wills admitted to probate, are admitted as primary evidence, when properly authenticated. In all other cases a copy is secondary evidence. 

§ 5168. (3764.) Officer de facto . An officer de facto may be proved by his acts, without the production of his commission or appoint- ment. 

§ 5169. Dates by Stern's calendar. "Stern's United States Calen- dar" is admissible in proof of dates for the space of time covered thereby, without further proof. 

§ 5170. (3765.) Inscriptions on monuments, etc. Inscriptions on walls, monuments, and other fixed objects, may be proved by copies estab- lished as such. 

§ 5171. (3766.) Other exceptions. Other cases of necessity or man- ifest convenience, resting on like principles of reason and justice, may be made exceptions to the general rule. 

§ 5172. (3767.) Secondary evidence, when admitted. In order to ad- mit secondary evidence, it must appear that the primary evidence for some sufficient cause, is not accessible to the diligence of the party. This showing is made to the court, who will hear the party himself on the question of diligence and the inaccessibility of the primary evidence. 

§ 5173. (3768.) Degrees therein. There are degrees in secondary- evidence, and the best should always be produced. Thus a duplicate is better than a copy, and an examined copy than oral evidence. 

§ 5174. (3769.) Existence of original. The existence of a genuine original is essential to the admissibility of a copy. The amount of evidence to show such existence must vary with the circumstances of each case. Where no direct issue is made upon the fact, slight evidence would be sufficient. 

§ 5175. (3770.) Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence is that which does not derive its value solely from the credit of the witness, but rests mainly on the veracity and competency of other persons. The very nature of the evidence shows its weakness, and it is admitted only in specified cases from necessity. 

§ 5176. (3771.) Sometimes original evidence. When, in a legal in- vestigation, information, conversations, letters and replies, and sim- ilar evidence, are facts to explain conduct and ascertain motives, they are admitted in evidence, not as hearsay, but as original evi- dence. 

§ 5177. (3772.) Pedigree, how proved. Pedigree, including descent, relationship, birth, marriage, and death, may be proved either by the declarations of deceased persons related by blood or marriage, or by general repute in the family, or by genealogies, inscriptions, "family trees," and similar evidence. 

§ 5178. Proof of identity Concordance of name alone is some evi- dence of identity. Residence, location, ownership of property and other like facts may be proved. Reasonable certainty is all that can be required. In civil suits parties are generally relieved from the onus of proving identity, as it is a fact generally more easy to dis- prove than to establish. 

§ 5179. (3773.) Res gestae. Declarations accompanying an act, or so nearly connected therewith in time as to be free from all suspicion of device or afterthought, are admissible in evidence as part of res gestse. 

§ 5180. (3774.) Declarations of persons in possession. Declarations of a person in possession of property, in disparagement of his own title, are admissible in evidence in favor of any one, and against privies. Declarations in favor of his own title are admissible to prove his adverse possession. 

§ 5181. (3776.) Of deceased persons. The declarations and entries of a person, since deceased, against his interest, and not made with a view to pending litigation, are admissible in evidence in any case. 

§ 5182. (3777.) Books ° v ' J of account. The books of account of merchant, shopkeeper, physician, blacksmith, or other person doing , a regular business and keeping daily entries thereof, may be admitted in evidence as proof of such accounts, upon the following conditions: 1. That he kept no clerk, or else the clerk is dead or otherwise ' ' inaccessible, or for any other reason the clerk is disqualified from testifying. 2. Upon proof (the party's oath being sufficient) that the book tendered is his book of original entries. 3. Upon proof (by his customers) that he usually kept correct books. 4. Upon inspection by the court, to see if the books are free from any suspicion of fraud. 

§ 5183. (3778.) Matters of public interest. Hearsay evidence as to declarations of deceased persons as to ancient rights, and made be- fore the litigation arose, are admissible to prove matters of public interest in which the whole community are supposed to take interest and to have knowledge. 

§ 5184. (3779.) Ancient documents. Ancient documents, purporting to be a part of the transaction to which they relate, are admissible in evidence. 

§ 5185. (3780.) Ancient boundaries and landmarks. Traditionary evidence as to ancient boundaries and landmarks is admissible in evidence, the weight to be determined by the jury according to the source whence it comes. 

§ 5186. (3782.) Testimony of witness on former trial. The testimony of a witness, since deceased, or disqualified, or inaccessible for any cause, given under oath on a former trial, upon substantially the same issue and between substantially the same parties, maybe proved by any one who heard it, and who professes to remember the sub- stance of the entire testimony, as to the particular matter about which he testifies. 

§ 5187. (3788.) 'Definitions. Admissions usually refer to civil cases; confessions to criminal. 

§ 5188. Admissions in pleadings, how far evidence . Without offering the same in evidence, either party may avail himself of allegations or admissions made in the pleadings of the other. 

§ 5189. (3784.) Parties to record. The admission of a party to the record is admissible in evidence when offered by the other side, ex- cept in the following cases: 1. In case of a mere nominal party or naked trustee. 2. Where there are several parties with no joint interest, the ad- missions of one cannot be received, unless the issue is of such a char- acter that the effect of the admission can be restrained to him alone. 3. The admissions of any trustee before he is clothed with the trust. Of an executor only after he was clothed with the trust: 53 Ga. 283, 284. The sayings of a guardian while he held the legal title to the land : 54 Ga. 691. 4. Defendants in tion. 

§ 5190. (3785.) Real parties in interest. The admission of the real party in interest is admissible, though he be not of record, subject to the exceptions stated above. 

§ 5191. (3786.) Of strangers. The admissions of third persons, strangers to the suit, are received in evidence: 1. When the party refers to such third person for information. 2. Admissions made by a third person against his interest, as to a fact collateral to the main issue between the litigants, but essential to the adjudication of the cause. 3. Statements of an interpreter where from any cause he cannot be sworn. 

§ 5192. (3787.) Of agents. The admissions of an agent or attorney in fact, during the existence and in pursuance of his power, are evi- dence against the principal. 

§ 5193. (3788.) Of privies. The admissions of privies in blood, privies in estate, and privies in law, are admissible as against the parties themselves, but declarations of privies in estate, after the title has passed out of them, cannot be received. 

§ 5194. (3789.) Admissions improperly obtained. Admissions ob- tained by constraint, or by fraud, or by drunkenness induced for the purpose, or admissions or propositions made with a view to a com- promise, are not proper evidence. 

§ 5195. (3790.) Effect of silence. Acquiescence or silence, when the circumstances require an answer or denial or other conduct, may amount to an admission. 

§ 5196. (3791.) Entire conversation. When an admission is given in evidence, it is the right of the other party to have the whole ad- mission and all the conversation connected therewith. 

§ 5198. (3797.) Confidential communications, etc. There are certain admissions and communications excluded from public policy. Among these are — 1. Communications between husband and wife. 2. Between attorney or counsel and client. 3. Among grand jurors. 4. Secrets of State. 

§ 5199. (3798.) Attorney and client. Communications to any at- l° rne y 5 or his clerk, to be transmitted to the attorney pending his employment, or in anticipation thereof, shall never be heard by the court. So the attorney cannot disclose the advice or counsel he may give to his client, nor produce or deliver up title-deeds or other pa- pers, except evidences of debt left in his possession by his client. This rule does not exclude the attorney as a witness to any facts which may transpire in connection with his employment. 

§ 5200. (3799.) When grand jurors may disclose. Grand jurors shall disclose everything which occurs in their service, whenever it becomes necessary in any court of record in this State. 

§ 5201. (3800.) General rule. Parol contemporaneous evidence is inadmissible generally to contradict or vary the terms of a valid written instrument. 

§ 5202. (3801.) Contemporaneous writings. All contemporaneous writings are admissible to explain each other, and parol evidence is admissible to explain all ambiguities, both latent and patent. 

§ 5203. (3802.) Void instruments. Parol evidence is admissible to show that the writing was either originally void or has subsequently become so. 

§ 5204. (3803.) Where part only is in writing. If the writing does not purport to contain all the stipulations of the contract, parol evi- dence is admissible to prove other portions thereof not inconsistent with the writing; so collateral undertakings between parties of the same part among themselves would not properly be looked for in the writing. 

§ 5205. (3804.) Surrounding circumstances. The surrounding cir- cumstances are always proper subjects of proof to aid in the con- struction of contracts. 

§ 5206. (3805.) Usaqe. In like manner evidence of known and es-WM tablished usage is admissible for the same purpose as well as to annex . . . . incidents. 

§ 5207. (3806.) Other cases. Parol evidence is also admissible to rebut an equity, to discharge the entire contract, to prove a new and distinct subsequent agreement, to enlarge the time, or change the place of performance. . 

§ 5208. (3807.) Receipts. Receipts for money are always only prima facie evidence of payment, and may be denied or explained by parol. 

§ 5209. (3808.) Blank indorsements. Blank indorsements of nego- .tiable paper may always be explained between the parties themselves, or those taking with notice of dishonor or of the actual facts of such indorsements. 

§ 5210. (3815.) Laws and resolutions. All laws and resolutions of " y ' the General Assembly, as published by authority, shall be held, . deemed, and considered public laws, and recognized judicially with- out proof. The journals of each branch of the General Assembly, as published, shall be in like manner recognized without proof 

§ 5211. (3816.) Exemplifications. The certificate or attestation of any public officer, either of this State or any countv thereof, shall give sufficient validity or authenticity to any copy or transcript of any record, document, paper of file, or other matter or thing in their respective offices, or pertaining thereto, to admit the same in evi- dence in any court of this State. 

§ 5212. (3817.) When primary evidence. Such exemplifications shall be primary evidence as to all records or other things required by law to remain in such offices, but only secondary evidence as to such documents as by law properly remain in the possession of the party. 

§ 5213. (3817 a.) Letters of administration, etc. Copies of letters testamentary and of administration and guardianship, shall be primary evidence of the fact of administration and guardianship, to the same extent as the original letters: Provided, such copy letters are duly certified to from the proper record of the proper officer. 

§ 5214. Transcript from justice's court. Justices of the peace, and notaries public ex officio justices of the peace, shall furnish to any party at interest a certified transcript of any judicial proceedings had in their respective courts, and may charge such fees as are allowed clerks of the superior courts for similar services. 

§ 5215. Used as evidence. The certified transcript of such judicial proceedings may be used as evidence in any of the courts of this State; but shall not be used outside of the county where certified, until the official character of the officer giving such transcript shall have been certified to by the ordinary of the county. 

§ 5216. Exemplification of municipal records, etc. Exemplifications of the records and minutes of municipal corporations of this State, when certified by the clerks or keepers of such records, under seal, shall be admitted in evidence under the same rules and regulations as exemplifications of the records of the courts of record of this State. 

§ 5217. (3818.) Records lost or destroyed. When a record has been burned, or otherwise destroyed, its contents may be proved by sec- ondary evidence which does not disclose the existence of other and better evidence. 

§ 5218. (3819.) Proof of registry. The official entry of the proper officer on a paper shall be sufficient evidence of its registry. 

§ 5219. (3820.) Certified copy. If the original of any paper, properly registered, is lost or destroyed, a certified copy from the registry shall be deemed good secondary evidence. 

§ 5220. (3821.) If registry is destroyed. If the registry has also been destroyed before a copy has been made and certified, any sec- ondary evidence is admissible to prove the original and its registry, which does not disclose the existence of other and better evidence. 

§ 5221. (3822.) Presumption of proper probate. If the original is found to have been recorded, and it does not appear whether it was done on proper probate, the court shall presume, until the contrary appears, that the same was done on proper probate. 

§ 5222. (3823.) Former acts continued in force. All the acts hereto- fore passed, allowing papers improperly registered, and their copies, when lost, to be admitted in evidence, shall be continued in force. 

§ 5223. Establishment of mutilated or lost records. Where any public records have been lost, mutilated, stolen or destroyed, the superior court of the county where such records may belong may establish copies; and when so established, such records shall be in all respects evidence as the original records would have been. 

§ 5224. Proceedings for. The ordinary of the county may proceed, by petition, which may be heard and determined at the first term after or during which the same may be filed. The court shall give precedence to the case and proceed with the same as speedily as pos- sible. Upon the hearing it shall be discretionary with the court to order the whole or any part of such records established. 

§ 5225. Petition to contain what. The petition shall set forth the fact that some portion of said records has been lost, mutilated, stolen or destroyed, specifying as near as may be the books or parts of the books in which they existed, and shall pray for the establishment of the same. The copies so established shall, as near as may be, spec- ify and conform to the original book and pages of the same on which they originally existed. 

§ 5226. Auditor to hear evidence. The court, or the judge thereof in vacation, in all cases where he shall deem it proper, may appoint an auditor, who shall hear evidence, summon witnesses, compel the production of books and papers, under such rules and regulations as are now practiced in courts in this State; he shall make his report of such copies of such lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed records, and such report when filed shall be made the judgment of the court, unless objection be filed to the same or some part thereof as being in- correct, which objection, if any, shall be heard and determined by the court without the intervention of a jury. 

§ 5227. Fee ° •> of auditor. The auditor shall receive for his services such compensation as may be allowed by the court, to be paid out of the public funds of the county. 

§ 5228. Exception to auditor's report. Any person interested in the^ report adversely to the same, or who shall claim that there is any mistake in the same, shall have the right to file objections thereto as specified in the preceding sections and none other, which objec- tions shall be filed within thirty days after the filing of said report, and shall be heard and determined in the manner prescribed in the preceding sections. 

§ 5229. Re-recorded, when. Whenever the book containing the rec- ord of any deed, will, execution, or other paper, the record of which is provided for by law, is destroyed or lost, or when the record of such paper shall have been incorrectly made or destroyed, the person whose duty it is to record such paper shall, upon receiving the fees for such cases provided, record said paper, together with the certifi- cate or certificates of former record thereof. 

§ 5230. Second record evidence, when. In case of the loss or inacces- sibility of such original paper, the records above provided for, or cer- tified copies thereof, shall be admitted as evidence in all cases where the original record, if had, would be admissible. 

§ 5231. (3824.) Laws of United States and several States. The public laws of the United States, and of the several States thereof, as pub- lished by authority, shall be judicially recognized without proof. 

§ 5232. (3825.) Foreign laws. Foreign laws and judgments must be authenticated under the great seal of their respective States. 

§ 5233. (3826.) Effect of judgments as evidence. A judgment is ad- missible between any parties to show the fact of the rendition thereof; between parties and privies it is conclusive as to the matter directly in issue, until reversed or set aside. 

§ 5234. Effect of judgment on party vouched into court. Where a de- fendant may have a remedy over against another, and vouches him into court, by giving notice of the pendency of the suit, the judgment rendered therein will be conclusive upon the party vouched, as to the amount and right of the plaintiff to recover. 

§ 5235. (3829.) Notarial acts. All notarial acts of notaries public in relation to bills of exchange, drafts and promissory notes, required to be done by the laws of this State, may be proved by the certificate of such notary under his hand and seal: Provided, such certificate is filed in the court at its first term, and permitted there to remain until the trial. 

§ 5236. (3830.) Extracts from books of incorporated companies. When any portion of the contents of the books or records of any incorporated company (located in this State) shall be material and competent evi- dence in any civil cause, the party desiring to use the same in evidence, upon procuring a correct transcript from said books, certified under the hand of the chief officer in charge of the office where said books may be, that said extract is a true and complete transcript of all that appears upon the books in said office relative to that subject- matter, may use said extract in evidence, in lieu of the books them- selves: Provided, he shall have first served the opposite party with a copy of such extract, with a notice that the same will be offered in evidence, twenty days before court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or diminish the right of either party to compel the production of books and papers, by notice, where in the hands of the opposite party, or by subpoena duces tecum., where in the hands of third persons.
 

§ 5237. Laws and judicial proceedings of other States, how proven. The ac * s °f the legislature of any State or Territory, or any country sub- 3 ec ^ t° the jurisdictioD of the United States, shall be authenticated by having the seals of such State, Territory or country affixed thereto. ^ ne reC01"ds and judicial proceedings of the courts of any State or Ter- ritory, or of any such country, shall be proved or admitted in any other court within the United States, by the attestation of the clerk, an< ^ ^ ne sea ^ °^ ^ ne cour t annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the judge, chief justice, or presiding magistrate, that the said attestation is in due form. And the said records and judicial proceedings, so authenticated, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every court within the United States as they have by law or usage in the courts of the State from which they are taken. 

§ 5238. Public books and records of other States, how proved. All rec- or(^ s and exemplifications of books, which may be kept in any public " omce °f an 23i y State or Territory, or any country subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, not appertaining to a court, shall De P roved or admitted in any court or office in any other State or Territory, or in any such country, by the attestation of the keeper of the said records or books, and the seal of his office annexed, if there be a seal, together with a certificate of the presiding justice of the court of the county, parish or district in which such office may be kept, or of the Governor, or secretary of State, the chancellor, or keeper of the great seal of the State, or Territory, or country, that the said attestation is in due form, and by the proper officers. If the said certificate is given by the presiding justice of a court, it shall be further authenticated by the clerk or prothonotary of the said court, who shall certify, under his hand and the seal of his office, that the said presiding justice is duly commissioned and qualified; or, if given by such Governor, secretary, chancellor, or keeper of the great seal, it shall be under the great seal of the State, Territory, or country aforesaid, in which it is made. And the said records and exemplifica- tions, so authenticated, shall have such faith and credit given to them in every court and office within the United States as they have by law or usage in the courts or offices of the State, Territory, or country, as aforesaid, from which they are taken. 

§ 5239. ( 3831 Production of proof. Generally, the original writing must be produced and its execution proved. The excepted cases are prescribed by law. 

§ 5240. (3832.) In case of loss. If the paper is lost or destroyed, proof of the fact to the court will admit secondary evidence. The party is a competent witness to this point. The question of dili- gence is one of sound discretion in the court. 

§ 5241. Part of paper introduced balance evidence. Where either party introduces part of a document or record, the opposite party may read so much of the balance as is relevant. 

§ 5242. (3835. ) Explaining alteration. If the paper appears to have S been materially altered, unless it is the cause of action and no plea of non est factum is filed, the party offering it in evidence must ex- plain the alteration, unless the paper comes from the custody of the opposite party. 

§ 5243. (3836.) Producing dispenses ivith proof '. The production of the paper by the opposite party (if he claims any benefit under it) dispenses with the necessity of proof, and the notice to produce dis- penses with proof as against the party giving the notice. 

§ 4244. (3837.) Subscribing witness, exceptions. The subscribing witness must be produced in all cases except the following: 1.. Ancient writings which prove themselves. 2. If from any cause the witness cannot be produced or sworn. 3. Office bonds required by law to be approved or tested by a par- ticular functionary. 4. If the paper is only incidentally or collaterally material to the case. 5 jf ^e execution. p ar ty executing the written instrument testifies to its 

§ 5245. (3838.) Other proof. Whenever the subscribing witnesses to an instrument in writing are dead, insane, incompetent, or inac- cessible, or, being produced, do not recollect the transaction, then proof of the actual signing by, or of the handwriting of, the alleged maker shall be received as primary evidence of the fact of execution; and if such evidence be not attainable, the court may admit evidence of the handwriting of the subscribing witnesses, or other secondary evidence, to establish such fact of execution. 

§ 5246. (3839.) Handivriting . Proof of handwriting may be re- sorted to in the absence of direct evidence of execution. In such case, any witness is competent to testify as to his belief, who will swear that he knows or would recognize the handwriting. The source of his knowledge is a question for investigation, and goes en- tirely to the credit and weight of his evidence. 

§ 5247. (3840.) Comparison of hands. Other writings, proved or acknowledged to be genuine, may be admitted in evidence for the purpose of comparison by the jury. Such other new papers, when intended to be introduced, shall be submitted to the opposite party before he announces himself ready for trial. 

§ 5248. (3508.) Production of books, etc., maybe compelled. The sev- eral courts shall have power on the trial of any cause cognizable be- fore them respectively, on notice and proof thereof being previously given by the opposite party or his attorney, to require either party to produce books, writings and other documents in his possession,, power, custody or control, which shall contain evidence pertinent to the cause in question, under circumstances where such party might be compelled to produce the same by the ordinary rules of proceed- ing in equity. 

§ 5249. (3509.) Notice to produce papers. The notice required by the preceding section shall be in writing, signed by the party seeking the production of the books or other writings, or his attorney, and* served on the adverse party or his attorney, when returnable to the superior courts, ten days, and when returnable to a justice's court, five days, beforethe production of the books or other documents shall be required : Provided, such party resides in the county where the suit is pending; if out of said county and within one hundred miles, fifteen days; if over one hundred miles and less than two hundred miles, twenty days; and if beyond the limits of this State, sixty days. 

§ 5250. (3510.) Consequences of failure to produce papers. If the plaintiff or his attorney, being so notified, shall fail or refuse to comply with such order, the court shall, on motion, give judgment against such plaintiff as in case of nonsuit; and if the defendant shall fail or refuse to comply therewith, the court, on motion, shall give judgment against such defendant, as in case of judgment by default. 

§ 5251. (3511.) Continuance. In case of the service of any notice, as aforesaid, when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court, by an affidavit of the party or otherwise, that such party has used due and proper diligence, and cannot procure the books, writings or other documents required, the cause may be continued at the in- stance of the party notified. 

§ 5252. (3512.) Affidavit of non-resident. When the party notified resides without the limits of this State, but in one of the States or Ter- . ritories of the United States, such party may make the oath required before a commissioner of this State, resident in such State or Terri- tory, or before any officer of such State or Territory in which the party notified may reside, who is authorized by the laws of such State or Territory to administer an oath, which shall be sufficient: Provided, the official character of the officer attesting said affidavit shall be properly proven by the certificate of the Governor, the sec- retary of State, the chancellor, or the keeper of the great seal of the State or Territory in which such affidavit is made. 

§ 5253. (3513.) Notice, how made available. Before the notice pro- vided for in the preceding sections shall be available, the party giving it, or his agent, must make oath (or his attorney state in his place) that he has reason to believe that the paper required is or has been in existence; that it is in the possession, power or control of the person notified, and that it is material to the issue. 

§ 5254. (3834.) When notice unnecessary. Notice to produce is not necessary when the action is brought to recover the paper or set it aside. 

§ 5255. (3514. ) Production of papers, required by subpoena duces tecum, When any deed, writing, or other document which it may be neces- sary to use as testimony in any cause may be in the possession of any person resident in this State who is not a party to the cause, the clerk of the court, or justice of the peace, in which the cause is pending, shall, upon application of the party or his attorney desir- ous of using such testimony, issue a subpoena duces tecum, directed to the person having such book or other document in his possession, requiring him to appear and bring with him into court the paper desired to be used as testimony. Said subpoena shall be served upon such person, if a resident of the county where such case is pending, ten days, and if not a resident of such county, twenty days, when re- turnable to the superior courts; when returnable to a justice court, five days. Service shall be by a sheriff, constable, or some private person, and the official return of the sheriff or constable, or the affi- davit of such private person, shall be sufficient evidence that the same was duly served. But in all cases the judge may require the summary production of any book or document by subpoena duces tecum, where the witness is able to produce it and where the ends of justice require such summary production. 

§ 5256. (3515.) Penalty for failure to obey subpcena duces tecum. When a subpoena shall be issued and served as provided in the pre- ceding section, and the person whose attendance is thereby required shall fail to comply with the requisitions thereof, the court shall, on motion, issue an attachment against such defaulting person, return- able to the next term of said court, and shall fine such person in a sum not exceeding three hundred dollars, unless he shall make a sufficient excuse for such failure, to be judged of by the court ; but such person shall nevertheless be subject to an action at the instance of the party by whom he was subpoenaed, for any damages which such party may have sustained by reason of such failure: Provided, that if the person so subpoenaed shall, within ten days after the serv- ice of such subpoena, deliver to the party at whose instance the subpoena was sued out, or his attorney, or file in the office of the court, or justice of the peace, from which such subpoena issued, the paper the production of which is required by such subpoena, or shall deliver to the said party or his attorney, or shall file in the said office, his affidavit that the said paper is not in his power, cus- tody, possession or control, and that it was not at the time of serv- ing said subpoena, then such delivery and filing of the paper so sought as aforesaid, or of such affidavit, shall be considered a full and complete compliance with the requisitions of such subpcena duces tecum. 

§ 5257. (3516.) Secondary evidence. In all cases pending in any court where any party shall pursue the course in this Chapter pointed out, and is unable thereby to procure such book or other document, such party shall be permitted to go into parol evidence of the con- tents. 

§ 5258. (3517.) When transcripts of books may be used. When any person shall be served with subpcena duces tecum to produce books in his possession to be used as testimony on the trial of any cause, as hereinbefore provided, if such person will make oath that he cannot produce the books required without suffering a material injury in his business, and shall also make, or cause to be made out, a full transcript from such books of all the accounts and dealings with the opposite party, and have such transcript examined and sworn to by an impartial witness and produce the same in court, it shall be a compliance with the notice or subpoena duces tecum. 

§ 5259. (3518.) When books may be examined by commissioners . When the transcript provided for in the preceding section shall be produced in court, if the adverse party is dissatisfied therewith, and will swear that he believes that the books contain entries material to him which do not appear in the transcript, the court will grant him a commis- sion to be directed to certain persons named by the parties and ap- proved by the court, to cause the adverse party to produce the books required (he being sworn that the books produced are all that he has or had that answer to the description in the notice), and to ex- amine said books, and to transmit to the court a full and fair state- ment of the accounts and entries between the parties under their hand, which shall be sealed up and transmitted to the court as in case of interrogatories; which statement, when received by the court, shall be deemed a compliance with the notice or subpoena duces tecum. 

§ 5260. (3841.) Subpoena. When the attendance of any person resident in the county is required as a witness in any court, the clerk of such court (or, if there be no clerk, the presiding judge or justice) shall, on application, issue a writ of subpoena, directed to such person, requiring him to appear and testify in the case stated, and at the time stated. Such subpoena shall be served on the witness per- sonally, by any person capable of proving the same, at least one day before the trial of the cause. The witness so summoned shall attend the court from term to term until the case is tried. And if there be an appeal or new trial, notice of the fact, without a new subpoena, shall be sufficient to require the attendance of the witness. The wit- ness fee shall be seventy-five cents per diem. 

§ 5261. (3842.) Payment of fees. The payment of the fees of ess shall not be demanded as a condition precedent to an attend- ance. But at the close of each term, or any term, the witness may make affidavit before any justice of the peace, or clerk of the court, of the number of days he has attended on such subpoena for which his fees are due, which affidavit, when countersigned by the clerk (or, if no clerk, the judge) and attached to the subpoena, shall have the force and effect of an execution against the property of the party at whose instance he was subpoenaed (unless in behalf of the State). 

§ 5262. (3843.) Excessive claim. A witness who shall claim more than is due to him forfeits all his fees, and shall pay to the injured party, in addition thereto, four times the amount so unjustly claimed. 

§ 5263. (3844.) Failure to attend. The court may proceed by at- tachment to compel the attendance of a witness who fails to obey the precept, and also to punish him by a fine not exceeding three nun- dred dollars. In addition thereto such a witness shall be liable in damages to the person causing him to be subpoenaed, for his failure to attend. 

§ 5264. (3849.) Witnesses in imprisonment. The writ of habeas corpus ad testificandum may be issued by the superior court to cause the pro- duction in court of any witness under legal imprisonment. 

§ 5265. (3850.) Freedom from arrest . Witnesses are protected from arrest on any civil process while going to or returning from and at- tending on any court, and the officer who shall hold him imprisoned after seeing his subpoena, or being satisfied of the fact, shall be liable for a false imprisonment. 

§ 5266. (3851.) No fees in certain cases. A witness shall not receive any fees whatever for attendance on a subpoena, if the cause at any time is continued for his absence, or if he is absent at the trial: Pro- vided , such absence in neither case arose from providential causes; nor shall any witness receive fees from both parties in the same case, but shall be paid equally by each, unless one shall be cast in all the cost. 

§ 5267. (3852.) Court decides competency. The competency of a witness must be decided by the court. 

§ 5268. (3853.) Religious belvf. Religious belief goes only to the credit. 

§ 5269. (3854.) Who are competent to testify . No person offered as a witness shall be excluded by reason of incapacity, for crime or in- terest, or from being a party, from giving evidence, either in person or by deposition, according to the practice of the court, on the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter or question, or on any inquiry arising in any suit, action, or proceeding, civil, or criminal, in any court or before any judge, jury, sheriff, coroner, magistrate, officer, or party having, by law or consent of parties, authority to hear, receive, and examine evidence; but every person so offered shall be competent, and compellable to give evidence on behalf of either or any of the parties to the said suit, action, or other proceeding, except as follows: 1- Where any suit is instituted or defended by a person insane at time of trial, or by an indorsee, assignee, transferee, or by the per- sonal representative of a deceased person, the opposite party shall not be admitted to testify in his own favor against the insane or deceased person, as to transactions or communications with such insane or deceased person. 2. Where any suit is instituted or defended by partners, persons jointly liable, or interested, the opposite party shall not be admitted to testify in his own favor as to transactions or communications solely with an insane or deceased partner, or persoD jointly liable or interested. 3. Where any suit is instituted or defended by a corporation, the opposite party shall not be admitted to testify in his own behalf to transactions or communications solely with a deceased or insane officer or agent of the corporation. 4. Where a person not a party, but a person interested in the re- sult of the suit, is offered as a witness, he shall not be competent to testify, if as a party to the cause he would for any cause be incom- petent. 5. No agent or attorney at law of the surviving or sane party, at the time of the transaction testified about, shall be allowed to testify in favor of a surviving or sane party, under circumstances where the principal, a party to the cause, could not testify; nor can a surviv- ing party or agent testify in his own favor, or in favor of a surviving or sane party, as to transactions or communications with a deceased or insane agent, under circumstances where such witness would be incompetent if deceased agent had been principal. 6. In all cases where the personal representative of the deceased or insane party has introduced a witness interested in the event of a suit, who has testified as to transactions or communications on the part of the surviving ageut or party with a deceased or insane party or agent, the surviving party or his agent may be examined in refer- ence to such facts testified to by said witness. 

§ 5270. No other exceptions. There shall be no other exceptions al- lowed under the foregoing paragraphs. 

§ 5271. (3854(5).) Evidence of attorneys as against clients. No at- torney shall be competent or compellable to testify in any court in this State, for or against his client, to any matter or thing, knowl- edge of which he may have acquired from his client, by virtue of his relations as attorney, or by reason of the anticipated employ- ment of him as attorney, but shall be both competent and com- pellable to testify, for or against his client, as to any matter or thing, knowledge of which he may have acquired in any other manner. 

§ 5272. (3855.) In cases of adultery and breach of marriage contract. Nothing contained in section 5269 shall apply to any action, suit, or proceeding in any court, instituted in consequence of adultery, or to any action for breach of promise of marriage. 

§ 5273. (3856.) Idiots, etc. Persons who have not the use of reason, as idiots, lunatics during lunacy, and children who do not under- stand the nature of an oath, are incompetent witnesses. 

§ 5274. (3857.) Drunkards. Drunkenness, which dethrones reason and memory, incapacitates during its continuance. 

§ 5275. (3858.) Evidence through interpreter. No physical defects in any of the senses incapacitates a witness. An interpreter may ex- plain his evidence. 

§ 5276. (3859.) Decision by inspection. The court must, by exam- ination, decide upon the capacity of one alleged to be incompetent from idiocy, lunacy or insanity, or drunkenness, or childhood. 

§ 5277. (3860.) Objection to competency, when taken. The objection to competency, if known, must be taken before the witness is exam- ined at all. It may be proved by the witness himself, or by other testimony.; if proved by other testimony, the witness is incompetent to explain it away. 

§ 5278. (3861.) Of the Competency, how restored. Any act which, in the$ judgment of the court, removes the ground of incompetency, will restore the competency of the witness. 

§ 5279. (3862.) Oath or affirmation. The sanction of an oath, or affirmation equivalent thereto, is necessary to the reception of any oral evidence. The court may frame such affirmation according to the religious faith of the witness. 

§ 5280. (3863.) Separate examination. In all cases either party has the right to have the witnesses of the other party examined out of the hearing of each other. The court will take proper care to effect this object as far as practicable and convenient, but any mere irreg- ularity shall not exclude the witness. 

§ 5281. Treatment of witnesses. It is the right of a witness to be$|*^ examined ouly as to relevant matter; and to be protected from improper questions and from harsh or insulting demeanor. 

§ 5282. (3864.) Cross-examination of witnesses. The right of cross- examination, thorough and sifting, belongs to every party as to the witnesses called against him. If several parties to the same case have distinct interests, each may exercise this right. 

§ 5283. (3865.) Leading questions. Leading questions are generally allowed in cross-examinations, and only in these; but the court may exercise a discretion in granting the right to the party calling the witness, and in refusing it to the opposite party, when, from the con- duct of the witness, or other reason, justice requires it. 

§ 5284. (3866.) Memorandum in aid of witness' 's memory . A witness may refresh and assist his memory by the use of any written instru- ment or memorandum, provided he finally speaks from his recollec- tion thus refreshed, or is willing to swear positively from the paper. 

§ 5285. (3867.) Opinions of witness. Where the question under ex- amination, and to be decided by the jury, is one of opinion, any witness may swear to his opinion or belief, giving his reasons there- for ; but if the issue is as to the existence of a fact, the opinions of witnesses, generally, are inadmissible. 

§ 5286. Market value, how proved. Direct testimony as to market value is in the nature of opinion evidence. One need not be an expert or dealer in the article, but may testify as to value, if he has had an opportunity for forming a correct opinion. 

§ 5287. (3868.) Experts. The opinions of experts on any question of science, skill, trade, or like questions, are always admissible; and such opinions may be given on the facts as proved by other witnesses. 

§ 5288. (3870.) Privilege of witnesses. A witness is relieved from testifying as to the same matters hereinbefore specified in relation to a party making discovery. 

§ 5289. (3876.) State of feeling and relationship. The state of theS^- witness's feelings to the parties, and his relationship, may always be proved for the consideration of the jury. 

§ 5290. (3869.) Impeaching own witness. A party may not impeach a witness voluntarily called by him, except where he can show to the court that he has been entrapped by the witness by a previous contradictory statement: Provided, that in the trial of all civil cases, either plaintiff or defendant shall be permitted to make the opposite party, or any one for whose immediate benefit such suit is prosecuted or defended, a witness, with the privilege of subjecting such witness to a thorough and sifting examination, and with the further privi- lege of impeachment, as though the witness had testified in his own behalf, and was being cross-examined. 

§ 5291. (8871.) Impeached by disproving facts testified to. A witness may be impeached by disproving the facts testified to by him. 

§ 5292. (3871,3872,8875.) By contradictory statements. A witness may be impeached by contradictory statements previously made by him as to matters relevant to his testimony and to the case. Before contradictory statements can be proved against him (unless they are written statements, made under oath in connection with some judi- cial proceedings), his mind should be called with as much certainty as possible to the time, place, person, and circumstances attending the former statement; and if in writing, the same should be shown to him, or read in his hearing, if in existence; and to lay this foun- dation, he may be recalled at any time. When thus impeached, he may be sustained by proof of general good character, the effect of the evidence to be determined by the jury. 

§ 5293. (3871,3873,3874.) By proof of general bad character. A witness may be impeached as to his general bad character. The im- peaching witness should be first asked as to his knowledge of the general character of the witness, and next as to what that character is, and lastly he may be asked if, from that character, he would be- lieve him on his oath. The witness may be sustained by similar proof of character. But the particular transactions, or the opinions of single individuals, cannot be inquired of on either side, except upon cross-examination in seeking for the extent and. foundation of the witness's knowledge. 

§ 5294. Credibility of witnesses. The credibility of a witness is matter to be determined by the jury under proper instructions from the court. 

§ 5295. What credit to impeached witness. When a witness is success- fully contradicted as to a material matter, his credit as to other matters is for the jury. But if a witness swear willfully and know- ingly falsely, his testimony ought to be disregarded entirely, unless corroborated by circumstances, or other unimpeached evidence. It is for the jury to determine the credit to be given his testimony where impeached for general bad character or for contradictory statements out of court. 

§ 5296. When evidence vulgar, etc. During the trials in the superior courts, and all other courts and trials occurring in this State, of any case of seduction or divorce, or other case where the evidence is vulgar and obscene, or relates to the improper acts of the sexes, and tends to debauch the morals of the young, the presiding judge shall have the right, in his discretion and on his own motion, or on motion of plaintiffs or defendants, or their attorneys, to hear and try the said case after clearing the court-room of all or any portion of the audience. 

§ 5297. (3877.) Who m,ay be examined on interrogatories. A witness may be examined on interrogatories, by commission, at the instance of either party, in any civil cause pending in any court in this State, when either of the following states of facts exists: 1. Where the witness resides out of the county. ^' Where, from the condition of his health, from age or otherwise, h e cannot attend the court, or, from the nature of his business or ' ' occupation, it is not possible to secure his personal attendance with- out manifest inconvenience to the public or to third persons—such as postmasters, public carriers, physicians, school-teachers, etc. 3. Where the witness is about to remove from the county, or is about to leave home on business, for a sojourn or a tour, which will extend beyond the term of the court. 4. All female witnesses. 5. Where he is the only witness to a material point in the case. 

§ 5298. (8878.) If the facts cease to exist, depositions excluded. If the state of facts on which the commission issued ceases to exist before the trial of the cause, and the witness is then accessible by subpoena, the testimony taken on interrogatories cannot be used. 

§ 5299. (3879.) Mode of obtaining commission. The party seeking to examine a witness by commission must prepare written interrog- atories sufficiently explicit to inform the other party of the nature of the testimony sought and expected, and yet not liable to the ob- jection of being leading questions, which must also state the resi- dence of the witness, and must serve a copy of such interrogatories on the opposite party, or his attorney, with a notice of the time of filing. The original interrogatories shall then be filed in office and there remain for ten days, during which time cross-interrogatories may be filed. At the expiration of ten days a commission shall issue by the clerk (or presiding judge, if no clerk), for the examination of such witness upon the interrogatories. 

§ 5300. (3880.) Without service. If in any case the opposite party is beyond the jurisdiction of the court, or cannot be found, and is not represented by attorney, a notice at the court-house door for ten days of the filing of the interrogatories, shall authorize a commission to issue. 

§ 5301. (3881.) If there are several parties. If there ^are more than one party opposing, and they have not a joint interest, but several independent interests are represented by different attorneys, copies must be served upon each, and the right to file cross-interrogatories belongs to each. In every case the court should see that the party really to be affected by the evidence has an opportunity of cross- examination. 

§ 5302. (3882.) Appointment of commissioners. Commissions shall issue generally in blank, allowing the party to select his commis- sioners; but in any case the opposite party shall have the privilege of naming two competent commissioners, whose names shall be in- serted in the commission, and one of whom shall act in the execu- tion thereof, unless a good and sufficient reason be shown for his failure. 

§ 5303. (3883.) Who may act. No person is competent to act as commissioner who would be incompetent as a juror on account of relationship, or as a witness on account of interest, nor will the at- torney of the party, or his clerk, or an agent paid to discharge this duty, be a competent commissioner. A commissioner, like a judge, should stand perfectly impartial between the parties. Reasonable compensation may be paid to the commissioners, but not more than two dollars per day shall be taxed as costs against the party cast in the suit. 

§ 5304. (3884.) How executed. No party, or his counsel, or his agent, or other person on his behalf, should be present at the execu- tion of the commission, and everything attending the execution should show a perfect impartiality and freedom from bias. 

§ 5305. (3885.) Compelling witnesses to answer. If a witness refuses to appear before the commissioners, or to answer the interrogatories, upon the certificate of one of the commissioners, or the affidavit of the party or his attorney to the fact, presented to a judge of the su- perior court, or the ordinary, it shall be his duty to issue an order to the sheriff, his deputy, or any constable, to 'arrest the witness and bring him before such judge or ordinary, and, after hearing his ex- cuse and examining the interrogatories to see that the same are legal, he shall order the said witness to be lodged in jail until he answers the same. This provision shall extend to commissions sent from the courts of other States or the United States. 

§ 5306. (3886.) Where to be examined. No female witness shall be required to leave her home to appear before commissioners, nor shall any witness be required to go out of the county, or more than ten miles from his residence; and any witness leaving his home to be examined shall have the fees of a witness subpoenaed and attending the court. 

§ 5307. (3887.) Writing out their own answers. Witnesses may write out their own answers in the presence of the commissioners, and by their consent, but in no other way shall they prepare the same; and if the witnesses answer from written memoranda, such memoranda shall be sent with the commission, and the fact certified by the commissioners. 

§ 5308. (3888.) Duty of commissioners. The answers should be made under oath and certified to be so taken. They should be written out plainly, and be full and explicit to all the direct and cross-inter- rogatories; they should be signed by the witness and attested offici- ally by the commissioners named in the commission, and the place of execution should also appear. The interrogatories, answers, and commissions should then be sealed up in an envelope with the names of the commissioners written across the seal and directed to the officer of the court whence the commission issued. The package can be sent by mail or express, or intrusted to the party, or some private hand. The postmaster or agent of the express company receiving it from the commissioner must certify to the fact; and the postmaster delivering it to the court must certify to its reception by due course of mail, and the agent of the express company delivering it to the court must certify to its reception by due course of express. In case the package is intrusted to the party or some private hand, the per- son receiving and delivering it in court must make affidavit of the fact and of its freedom from alteration. 

§ 5309. (3889.) Reception and delivery of interrogatories. Whenever any package containing interrogatories or depositions shall be re- ceived by mail, the postmaster of the office to which they are directed shall immediately, upon their receipt, indorse upon the package the fact of its reception by due course of mail, and at once deliver the package to the clerk, or presiding judge, or justice of the court to whom it is directed. 

§ 5310. By' whom and how received and opened. The clerk or presid- ing judge or justice of the court shall receive all such packages, either in term time or vacation, indorsing thereon from whom re- ceived and the time of reception; if received in vacation, it shall be the duty of said clerk, judge or justice to file the same away with the seal unbroken until the next regular term of the court. Said package may be opened at any time by consent in writing of counsel for both sides. 

§ 5311. (3889.) How received and disposed of. The package thus forwarded arid when thus received shall become an office paper, to be used by either party under the direction of the court. 

§ 5312. (3890.) Failing to return, a contempt. A commission once executed must be returned, and a party failing to return, or will- fully abstracting such, shall be attached for contempt, and other- wise dealt with until the same is produced. 

§ 5313. (3891.) Depositions without commission. Where any party to a suit in any court of this State shall desire to take the testimony of a witness by written interrogatories and depositions, and the oppo- site party, or his attorney shall in writing waive commission, the answer of the witness or witnesses may be taken in virtue of such agreement, which shall operate in lieu of a commission, and the per- sons acting as commissioners thereunder shall be authorized to ad- minister the usual oath to the witness or witnesses, upon which perjury may be assigned and punished as under the penal laws of this State governing the same. A caption in substance as follows shall be a sufficient return under said agreement, to wit: "State of Georgia, County. "By virtue of an agreement between the parties or counsel in the case of vs. , pending in the court of (county or district, as the case may be), the undersigned, acting as commis- sioners, have caused A. B., a witness in said case, to come before us, who, being duly sworn true answers to make to the annexed inter- rogatories, deposes and answers as follows: "To first interrogatory, he answers, etc. "To second interrogatory, he answers, etc. "To first cross-interrogatory, he answers, etc. "To second cross-interrogatory, he answers, etc. "Answered, subscribed and sworn to before us, this day of , 18 — . "A. B. Witness." "E. F., Commissioner, (seal.) " G * H *' Commissi o ner - (seal.) And a substantial compliance with the same shall be sufficient to let the answers go to the jury, if legal on other grounds, and to give legal sanction to the oath administered as aforesaid. 

§ 5314. (3892.) Exceptions, when taken. All exceptions to the exe- cution and return of commissions must be made in writing, and no tice thereof given to the opposite party before the case is submitted to the jury: Provided, the same has been in the clerk's office for twenty-four hours prior to the trial. Depositions read on the first trial shall not be subject to formal exceptions on subsequent trial. 

§ 5315. (3893.) Commissioner in certain counties. In all counties of this State e^^asa^rt^L^lioiisandinli^bitants-and-up wards, either party litigant in any court of record in any such county may, without any order or commission, take the depositions of any witness or witnesses in said case, whether resident in the county or not, upon giving the opposite party five days notice of the time and place with the names of the witnesses. 

§ 5316. (3894.) Depositions, by whom taken. Such depositions to be _ taken before any commissioner appointed by the judge of the supe- rior court of said county, for the purpose of taking such depositions, and the appointment entered on the minutes. 

§ 5317. (3895.) Form of caption, certificate, etc. The caption and certificate of the return of such cases may be substantially as follows: "A. B. ) vs. > In the court of county, Georgia. C. D. ) "Depositions of (and ), witness (or witnesses) for the plaintiff (or defendant) in the above case, taken upon notice, begin- ning on the day of , 18 — , at , in the presence of the plaintiff and defendant (either or both), in person or by attorney (as the case may be). The said witness (or witnesses), being first duly sworn, deposed as follows: (here stating each question, both direct and cross, with the answer as delivered by the witness immediately after it, and concluding as follows:) The foregoing depositions were taken before me, as stated in the caption, and the answers reduced to writ- ing by me, or by the witness in my presence, and I certify that I am not interested in the cause, nor of kin or counsel to either of the parties." And signed by the commissioner. 

§ 5318. (3896.) Motions and objections, how made and returned. All motions or applications to postpone or adjourn the proceedings, and 

§ all objections to the witnesses or proceedings, shall be made to the commissioner, and if in writing, filed with the return, and if not in writing, noted in and become part of the return, with the ruling of the commissioner thereon, and the answer of the witnesses, whether the objection be sustained or not. 

§ 5319. (3897.) Order and scope of examination. The order and scope of the examination shall be had in conformity to the rules of the superior court governing the examination of witnesses in trials at law. 

§ 5320. (3898.) Depositions, hoiv returned. When the return shall have been made up, and signed, as provided in the preceding sec- tions, the same shall be, together with evidence of the service of the notice, sealed up and directed to the clerk of the court where the case is pending, and may be delivered either by the commissioner to such clerk in person, or sent by the hand of any other person; and the clerk is hereby authorized, whether the court be in session or not, to administer the usual oath, and enter the same on the package, with leave to open, as practiced in this State (as to interrogatories), and the package may be thereupon opened and published without further delay. 

§ 5321. (3899.) Power and fees of commissioner. The commissioner Acts 1872, shall have the same power and authority to summon witnesses, and compel their attendance to testify before him, as are now conferred upon justices of the peace in this State to compel witnesses to appear and testify in justices' courts; and the said commissioners shall receive, from the party seeking the testimony of the witnesses examined before him, the following fees, to wit: For the examina- tion of each witness, two dollars; for certifying and returning the testimony taken before him for the plaintiff or defendant, in each case, fifty cents; for issuing each subpoena, twenty cents. 

§ 5322. (3900.) Commissioners orders, how executed. The attach- ments or orders, or other process issued by said commissioners, for the purpose of compelling witnesses to appear and testify, shall be directed to, and may be executed by, the sheriff, his deputy, or any constable of the county. 

§ 5323. Application for injunction, etc., testimony, hoiv obtained, When any party to an application for injunction, motion for trials, or other case tried only on affidavits, is desirous of introduc- ing in evidence the affidavit of any witness not a party to the record, and the witness is unwilling to make affidavit, the party desiring to use the same may apply to the clerk of the superior court where the suit is pending, for a subpoena to compel the attendance of such wit- ness at the hearing, subject to the rules applicable to the case of or- dinary witnesses. Written questions may be prepared by the party desiring the evidence, and the witness shall answer the same in the presence of the judge, or of some person to be designated as commis- sioner by the judge, who may swear the witness to testify truly in answer to the questions propounded, and such answers shall be writ- ten down, sworn to and subscribed by the witness at the hearing. If however, the witness at the hearing will consent, an affidavit may be prepared, containing the facts, and may then be sworn to by the witness. No cross-examination shall be allowed. 

§ 5324. If ivitness resides out of county. If the witness whose affida- vit is desired resides out of the county, or falls within any of the classes for whom interrogatories must be taken in ordinary cases, the party desiring to use such witness's testimony in the cases re- ferred to in the foregoing section, may prepare written questions to elicit the information he desires; and on application the clerk of the superior court of the county where the witness resides, shall issue a subpoena requiring the witness to attend before some officer of the county named therein, authorized to administer oaths, on a day therein fixed to answer the questions. The answers shall be reduced to writing and sworn to before the officer, who shall forward or de- liver the questions and answers to the clerk of the court where the case is pending, as in cases of interrogatories. 

§ 5325. Females, etc. If the witness is a female, or from the condi- tion of his health or the nature of his business it is not possible to secure his attendance without manifest inconvenience to the public and to himself, the officer on the day named in the subpoena shall proceed to the residence of the witness and take the answers to the questions. 

§ 5326. Fees. The fees of the officer shall be paid by the party desir- ing the testimony, and may be taxed against the party cast in the suit on the final trial. 

§ 5327. Notices to pro'duce. The provisions of this Code in relation to subpoena duces tecum and production of books under notice are applicable to motions for injunction and other similar cases. 

§ 5328. Defaidting witness. Any witness summoned under the pro- visions of the preceding five sections, who fails or refuses to obey such subpoena, shall be liable to the penalties prescribed in case of defaulting witnesses in the superior court. 

§ 5329. (3559.) Verdict must cover the issues. The verdict must cover the issues made by the pleadings, and must be for the plaintiff or defendant. 

§ 5330. (3560.) Must show upon what plea it is found. If there are several pleas filed by the defendant, a verdict for the defendant must show upon which of the pleas the verdict is rendered. The jury may render such verdict upon all the pleas, if they see proper so to do. And the judges of the superior courts of this State, upon request of the jury, in the trial of all civil cases, shall furnish said jury with written instructions as to the form of their verdict. 

§ 5331. Direct verdict, when. Where there is no conflict in the evi- dence, and that introduced with all reasonable deductions or infer- ences therefrom demands a particular verdict, the court may direct the jury to find for the party entitled thereto. 

§ 5332. (3561.) Construction of verdicts. Verdicts are to have a reasonable intendment, and are to receive a reasonable construction, and are not to be avoided unless from necessity. 

§ 5333. (3562.) Moulding verdicts. It shall be within the power of the superior court, in proper case, to mould the verdict so as to do full justice to the parties, and in the same manner as a decree in equity, and the judgment and execution shall conform to the verdict. 

§ 5334. (3563.) Verdict in trover. In an action of trover the ver diet may be in the alternative; that is, it must be for the value of the property sued for, which may be discharged by the return of the property within a given time specified in the verdict. 

§ 5385 (3564.) Plaintiff may choose verdict. It shall be at the op- tion of the plaintiff, in an action to recover personal property, to say upon the trial thereof whether he will accept an alternative ver- dict for the property or its value, or whether he will demand a ver- dict for the damages alone, or for the property alone, and its hire, if any; and it shall be the duty of the court to instruct the jury to render the verdict as the plaintiff may thus elect. 

§ 5336. (3567.) Verdicts, how received. Verdicts shall not be re- ceived except in open court, unless by agreement of the parties. 

§ 5337. Juror not to act on private knoivledge. A juror should not act on his private knowledge respecting the facts, witnesses or par- ties, unless sworn and examined as a witness in the case. 

§ 5338. Juries may sustain verdict. The affidavits of jurors may be taken to sustain, but not to impeach their verdict. 

§ 5339. (3568.) Judgment, hoiv and when signed up. In all cases when a verdict shall be rendered, the party in whose favor it may be, or his attorney, shall be allowed to enter and sign up judgment thereon at any time within four days after the adjournment of the court at which such judgment was rendered, for the amount thereof and all costs recoverable thereon, and no execution shall issue on any verdict until such judgment shall be entered up and signed by the party or his attorney. 

§ 5340. (3569.) Appeal suspends judgment. If a judgment be en- tered within the time allowed for entering an appeal, and such ap- peal be entered, the judgment will be suspended. 

§ 5341. (3570.) Judgment for principal and interest. In all cases where judgment may be obtained, such judgment shall be entered up for the principal sum due, with interest: Provided, the claim upon which it was obtained draws interest; but no part of such judgment shall bear interest except the principal which may be due on the original debt. 

§ 5342. (3571.) Judgment on appeals. In all cases of appeal, where security has been given, the plaintiff, or his attorney, may enter up judgment against the principal and surety, jointly and severally, and execution shall issue accordingly, and proceed against either or both, at the option of the plaintiff, until his debt is satisfied. 

§ 5343. (3572.) Against sureties and indorsers. In all judgments against sureties or indorsers on any bill of. exchange, promissory note, or other instrument in writing, the plaintiff, or his attorney, shall designate and identify the relation of the parties under the contract on which such judgment is rendered, and execution shall issue ac- cordingly. 

§ 5344. (3574.) Judgment for costs against executors, etc. When the $ verdict of a jury is against an executor or administrator, or other trustee, in his representative character, a judgment for costs should be entered against him in the same character. 

§ 5345. (3575.) Judgment on bonds. All judgments entered against the obligors of any bond, whether official or voluntary, shall be for the amount of damnification found by the verdict of the jury, and not for the penalty thereof. 

§ 5346. (3576.) Judgments in favor of or against firms. entered up, or executions issued, in favor of or against copartners, when the partnership style is used therein instead of the individual names of such persons composing said firm, shall be good. 

§ 5347. Nonsuit, when granted. A nonsuit is not granted merely be- cause the court would not allow a verdict for plaintiff to stand. But if the plaintiff fails to make out a prima facie case, or if, admitting all the facts proved and all reasonable deductions from them, the plain- tiff ought not to recover, a nonsuit will be granted. A judgment of nonsuit is no bar to a subsequent action for the same cause brought in due time; 

§ 5348. (3577.) Conclusiveness of Judgments judgments. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction is conclusive between parties and privies, as to the facts which it decides, until reversed or set aside. 

§ 5349. (3578.) Judgments at same term of equal date. All judgments signed on verdicts rendered at the same term of the court shall be considered, held and taken to be of equal date, and no execution shall be entitled to any preference by reason of being first placed in the hands of the levying officer. 

§ 5350. (3579.) Rank of judgments affirmed by Supreme Court. A judgment in the superior court, which is taken to the Supreme Court and affirmed, loses no lien or priority by the proceeding in the Su- preme Court, but takes effect from the first judgment. 

§ 5351. (3580.) Dignity and binding effect of judgments. All judg- men t 8 obtained in the superior, justices' or other courts of this State shall be of equal dignity, and shall bind all the property of the de- fendant, both real and personal, from the date of such judgment, except as otherwise provided in this Code. 

§ 5352. (3581.) First judgment prevents alienation in cases of appeal. In all cases where a judgment shall be rendered and an appeal shall be entered from such judgment, the property of the defendant shall not be bound by the first judgment, except so far as to prevent the alienation by the defendant of his property between the signing of the first judgment and the signing of the judgment on the appeal, but shall be bound from the signing of such judgment on the appeal. 

§ 5353. (3582.) Judgments do not bind choses in action. A judgment has no lien upon promissory notes in the hands of the defendant, nor are choses in action liable to be seized and sold under execution, unless made so specially by statute. 

§ 5354. (3582 a.) Toll-cotton not subject, when. The toll-cotton received by persons in this State as a compensation for ginning the cotton of another, shall not be subject to seizure or sale under any judgment, mortgage, lien, decree or other process against the person owning or having such cotton ginned, existing prior to or at the time it was ginned: Provided, the toll so exempted shall not exceed one-fifteenth of the amount ginned. 

§ 5355. (3583.) Lien of of judgment on transferred property, how dis- charged. When any person has bona fide, appeal. and for a valuable consid- eration, purchased real or personal property, and has been in the possession of such real property for four years, or of such personal property two years, the same shall be discharged from the lien of any judgment against the person from whom he purchased. 

§ 5356. (3583.) Lien against defendant not resident a mone y of county judgment shall be rendered against any defendant who, at the time suit is begun, does not reside in the county where it is in- stituted, the property of such non-resident defendant, which is situ- ated, at the date of the judgment, without such county, shall, so far as affects bona fide purchasers for value, without actual notice of the judgment, not be bound by such judgment, unless the owner of such judgment shall, within thirty days from the final rendition of the judgment, have his fieri facias entered upon the execution-docket in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county where such defendant resided at the date of the judgment. If any such judgment is so docketed after the thirty days, these provisions shall not apply to purchases made after such docketing. 

§ 5357. (3584.) Lien of judgment on property removed from the State. When a judgment lien has attached on personal property which is removed to another State and sold, if brought back again to this State it will be subject to the judgment lien. 

§ 5358. (3585.) Effect of judgments in trover and trespass. When a vei *dict for damages shall be rendered in favor of a plaintiff in trover or trespass, and a judgment signed thereon, the said verdict and judgment shall not have the effect to change the property which is the subject-matter of the suit, or to vest the same in the defendant in said suit, until after the damages and costs recovered by the plain- tiff in such action are paid off and discharged, except so far as to subject such property to be sold under and by virtue of an execution issuing from such judgment in such action of trespass or trover, and to make the same liable to the payment of the damages and costs recovered in said action, in preference to any other judgment, order or decree against the said defendant in said action of trespass or trover. 

§ 5359. (3600.) Confession of judgment, where and when allowed. No confession of judgment shall be entered up but in the county where the defendant resided at the commencement of the action, except expressly provided for by law, nor unless the cause has been regularly sued out and docketed as in other cases. 

§ 5360. (3601.) Judge may confess judgment in his awn court. A judge $4045. of the superior court, or justice of the peace, may confess a judg- ment in his own court. 

§ 5361. (3602.) Right of confession and appeal. Either party has a right to confess a judgment without the consent of his adversary, and appeal from such confession without reserving the right so to do, in cases where an appeal is allowed by law. 

§ 5362. (3587.) Motion in arrest of judgment. When a judgment has been rendered, either party may move in arrest thereof, or to set it aside for any defect not amendable which appears on the face of the record or pleadings. 

§ 5363. (3588.) Nature of such motion. A motion in arrest of judg ment differs from a motion for a new trial in this: The former must be predicated on some defect which appears on the face of the record or pleadings, while the latter must be predicated on some extrinsic matter not so appearing. It also differs from a motion to set aside a judgment in this: The motion in arrest of judgment must be made during the term at which such judgment was obtained, while a motion to set it aside may be made at any time within the statute of limitations. 

§ 5364. (3589.) For defects in the pleadings. If the pleadings are so $4947. defective that no legal judgment can be rendered, the judgment will be arrested or set aside. 

§ 5365. (3590.) Amendable defects, no ground to arrest. A judgment cannot be arrested or set aside for any defect in the pleadings or record that is aided by verdict, or amendable as matter of form. 

§ 5366. (3591.) Judgments obtained by perjury will be set aside . judgment, or verdict, rule, or order of court, which may have been obtained, or entered up, shall be set aside and be of no effect, if it shall appear that the same was entered up in consequence of corrupt and willful perjury; and it shall be the duty of the court in which sucn verdict, judgment, rule, or order was obtained or entered up, to cause the same to be set aside upon motion and notice to the ad- verse party; but it shall not be lawful for the said court to do so, unless the person charged with such perjury shall have been thereof duly convicted, and unless it shall appear to the said court that the said verdict, judgment, rule, or order could not have been obtained and entered up without the evidence of such perjured person, saving always to third persons innocent of such perjury the right which they may lawfully have acquired under such verdict, judgment, rule, or order, before the same shall have been actually vacated and set aside. 

§ 5367. (3592.) Jurisdiction of the.motion to arrest. All motions to arrest or set aside a judgment must be made to the court by whom such judgment was rendered, and of which motion the opposite party must have reasonable notice. 

§ 5368. (3593.) Judgments, hoiv attacked. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction cannot be collaterally attacked in any other court for irregularity, but shall be taken and held as a valid judgment until it is reversed or set aside. 

§ 5369. (3594.) Judgments, when void. The judgment of a court having no jurisdiction of the person and subject-matter, or void for any other cause, is a mere nullity, and may be so held in any court when it becomes material to the interest of the parties to consider it. 

§ 5370. (3595.) Equity may set aside judgments. The judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction may be set aside by a decree in chancery, for fraud, accident, or mistake, or the acts of the adverse party unmixed with the negligence or fault of the complainant. 

§ 5371. (3596.) Judgments may be attacked by creditors, etc. Cred- itors or bona fide purchasers may attack a judgment for any defect appearing on the face of the record or pleadings, or for fraud or collusion, whenever and wherever it interferes with their rights, either at law or in equity. 

§ 5372. (3827.) Judgments in rem. A judgment in rem is conclu- sive upon everybody. 

§ 5373. (3828.) Hoiv attacked. A judgment that is void may be attacked in any court, and by anybody. In all other cases judg- ments cannot be impeached collaterally, but must be set aside by the court rendering them. 

§ 5374. (3597.) transferee may bona Judgments may be transferred. Any plaintiff or fide, and for a valuable consideration, transfer any judgment or execution to a third person, and in all cases the transferee of any judgment or execution shall have the same rights, and be liable to the same equities, and subject to the same defenses as the original plaintiff in judgment was. 

§ 5375. (3598.) Transfer by attorney. The transfer of a judgment or execution by the attorney of record shall be good to pass the title thereto as against every person, except the plaintiff, or his assignee without notice. The ratification by the plaintiff shall estop him also from denying the transfer. The receiving of the money shall be such a ratification 

§ 5376. (3599.) Joint debtors may control when. When judg- ments have been obtained against several persons and one or more of them has paid more than his just proportion of the same, he or they may, by having such payment entered on the enforce said judgment, have full power to control and use said fa. as securities in fi. fa. issued to control the same against principal or co- securities, and shall not be compelled, as heretofore, to sue the codebtors for the excess of payment on such judgment. 

§ 5377. (3603.) Need not be renewed. Judgments need not be re- newed on the court roll. 

§ 5378. (3604.) Dormant judgments may be revived. When any judg- ment obtained in any court of this State is or shall become dormant, the same may be renewed by an action, or scire facias, at the option of the plaintiff. 

§ 5379. (3605.) Debt on judgments, where to be brought. If an action be adopted, it must be brought in the county where the defendant resides at the commencement of the action. 

§ 5380. (3606.) Scire facias to revive. Scire facias to revive a judg- ment is not an original action, but the continuation of the suit in which the judgment was obtained. 

§ 5381. (3607.) Scire facias to revive, where to issue from. a scire fa- cias to revive a dormant judgment in the superior courts must issue from and be returnable to the court of the county in which the judg- ment was obtained, shall be directed to all and singular the sheriffs of this State, and signed by the clerk of such court, who shall make out copies thereof, which shall be served by the sheriff of the county in which the party to be notified may reside, twenty days before the sitting of the court to which it is made returnable, and the original returned to the clerk of the court from which it issued; and an orig- inal and copy shall issue in each county in which any party to be notified may reside. 

§ 5382. (3608.) Revival of judgments against non-residents. If the defendant, or party to be notified, resides out of this State, a dor- mant judgment may be revived against such defendant, or his repre- sentative, by such process as is now issued in cases where the de- fendant resides in this State: Provided, the defendant or party to be notified be served with scire facias, by publication in some public gazette of this State twice a month for two months previous to the term of the court at which it is intended to revive said judgment; which service shall be as effectual in all cases as if the defendant or person to be notified had been personally served. 

§ 5383. (3609.) Judgment of revival, when taken. In all cases of scire facias to revive a judgment, when service has been perfected as herein provided, such judgment may be revived, on motion, at the first term, without the intervention of a jury, unless the defendant shall put in an issuable plea, under oath, in which case the defend- ant shall be entitled to a trial by a jury, as in other cases. 

§ 5384. (3610.) Scire facias in favor of assignee. The scire facias,^ when the judgment has been transferred, shall issue in the name of the original plaintiff for the use of the transferee. 

§ 5385. (3675.) Who shall pay costs. In all civil cases in any of the courts of this State (except as provided for by this Code), the party who shall discontinue, fail, or be cast in such suit, shall be liable for the costs thereof. 

§ 5386. (3076.) Attorney liable for costs ivhcn negligent . Ifanyplain- tin' shall be nonsuited, or cast, by reason of the willful neglect or misconduct of his attorney, such attorney shall be liable for the costs which may have accrued in such case; and in like manner, if any defendant shall be cast by reason of the willful neglect or miscon- duct of his attorney, such attorney shall be liable for the costs thereof. 

§ 5387. (3677.) Attorney liable when client is non-resident. When any attorney shall institute a suit in any of the courts of this State for any person who resides out of this State, such attorney shall be liable to pay all costs of the officers of court in case such suit shall be dismissed, or the plaintiff be cast in his suit. 

§ 5388. (3678.) Costs when recovery is less than fifty dollars. When any action ex contractu shall be brought to the superior court, and the verdict of the jury, unreduced by matter of set-off or payment pending the action, shall be for a sum under fifty dollars, the defend- ant shall not be charged with more costs than would have necessarily accrued if such case had been before a justice of the peace; and the re- mainder of the court charges shall be paid by the plaintiff, and may be retained out of the sum recovered by the plaintiff, and, if that is insufficient, judgment shall be entered by the court against such plaintiff for the balance. 

§ 5389. (3679.) Costs payable in advance, when. When the plaintiffs and his attorney both reside outside of the limits of this State, the proper officers may demand their full costs before they shall be bound to perform any service in any cause about to be commenced by such non-resident attorney or plaintiff. 

§ 5390. (3680.) No more costs than damages, when. In all actions upon the case for slanderous words, in any court having jurisdic- tion of the same, if the jury shall render a verdict under ten dollars, then the plaintiff in such action shall have and recover no more costs than damages. 

§ 5391. (3681.) Costs in personal actions. In actions of assault and battery, and in all other personal actions, wherein the jury upon the trial thereof shall find the damages to be less than ten dollars, the plaintiff shall recover no more costs than damages, unless the judge, at the trial thereof, shall find and certify on the record that an ag- gravated assault and battery was proved. 

§ 5392. (3682.) Costs of witnesses of adverse party. No party plain- tifif or defendant shall be liable for the costs of any witness of the adverse party, unless such witness was subpoenaed, sworn, and ex- amined on the trial of said cause (or the plaintiff voluntarily dis- misses his cause before trial); and no party shall be liable for the costs of more than two witnesses to the same point, unless the court shall certify that the question at issue was of such a character as rendered a greater number of witnesses necessary to a single point. 

§ 5393. (3684.) Costs, when payable. The manner of collecting costs in all civil cases in any of the courts of this State (except as other- J \ r w ige provided in this Code) shall be as follows: The several officers of court are hereby prohibited from demanding the costs in any civil case, or any part thereof, until after judgment in the same, except as provided in the case of non-resident plaintiffs and attorneys. 

§ 5394. (3685.) Costs, how taxed. When a case is disposed of, the costs of the same, including fees of witnesses, shall be. included in the judgment against the party dismissing, being nonsuited or cast; and it shall be the duty of the clerk of any court in this State, and of any justice of the peace, or other officer who may issue an ex- ecution, to indorse on said execution, at the time it is issued, the date and amount of the judgment, the items of the bill of cost (written in words) and the amount of each item distinctly stated in figures; and no costs, or items of costs, shall in any case be demanded by any such officer, which are not itemized and indorsed as herein provided. 

§ 5395. (3686.) Plaintiff pays on return of nulla bona. If the plain- tiff should recover a judgment against the defendant, and execution issues thereon, and the executing officer shall return the same, "No property to be found," mfi.fa. may issue against such plaintiff for the purpose of making said cost out of him; and if the plaintiff re- sides out of the State, the fi. fa. shall issue against the attorney also. 

§ 5396. (3687.) Execution against attorney for costs. In all cases in which it is made to appear that an attorney is liable for costs by the provisions of this Code, the court shall, on motion, order a judg- ment and execution against him for the same. 5397. (3695.) Fees 35 A t' iorw p-5i. Acts 1880-1, pp. 87, 88, 89 - CHAPTER 2. FEES OF OFFICERS OF COURT. ARTICLE 1. FEES OF CLERK OF SUPERIOR COURT. of clerks of superior courts. The clerks of the superior courts of this State shall be entitled to charge and collect the following fees for official duties performed by them, to wit: For filing and docketing suit $ 2 00 ° m ° For copying and issuing process 2 00 For each copy after first copy 50 For entering verdict or judgment on minutes 2 00 For filing all pleas in any case 50- For recording proceedings in civil cases, per hundred words 15 For issuing fi. For entering^, fa fa. on execution-docket 25 For each subpoena issued 15 For writ of partition of land and recording proceedings in the case 5 00 For exemplification of .record, per hundred words 15 For recording articles of partnership under law regulating limited partnership 5 00 For recording incorporation of joint-stock or any other in- corporated company 5 00 For proceedings to forfeit charter 10 00 For furnishing and certifying any process, order, etc., for publication 1 00 For recording liens and mortgages and deeds, per hundred words 15 For trials of nuisances and recording proceedings 5 00 For issuing commissions to examine witness 1 00 For recording any instrument of writing not specified, per one hundred words 15 For recording each homestead of personalty, per one hun- dred words 15 For recording each petition of realty and personalty, per one hundred words 15 For recording plat of homestead 1 00 For each certificate of record of homestead 50 For every foreclosure of mortgage on personalty, whole service 3 00 

§ 5398. Deposit of costs required in divorce cases. The clerks of the superior court shall not be required to file any divorce case or pro- . . ceeding, until six dollars shall have been deposited with the clerk on account of costs, which shall be divided pro rata between the clerk and sheriff, according to the duties performed by each before the de- posit is exhausted. If the proceeding be dismissed, after paying the clerk and sheriff, if any of the sum remains in the hands of the clerk, it shall be repaid. 

§ 5399. Non-resident plaintiff must deposit costs. The clerks of the ^ in which the plaintiff is a non-resident, until ten dollars shall have superior and city courts shall not be required to. file any proceeding been deposited with the clerk on account of costs. The court, at any stage of such cause, on motion of the clerk, shall require such additional deposit as the case may require. If the case be with- drawn or dismissed, or. if, upon final judgment, the deposit exceeds the amount of the costs taxable by law, the clerk shall refund to the depositor the excess. 

§ 5400. Can obtain judgment for transmitting record to Supreme Court. When a clerk transmits a record to the Supreme Court, except in cases where affidavit of inability to pay cost is filed, he may make out a bill of costs for such transcript, and when presented to the judge of the court and by him found to be correct, the judge shall award, either in term time or vacation, judgment in favor of the clerk for such cost. 

§ 5401 - ( 3696 -) Fees ARTICLE 2. FEES OF SHERIFF. of sheriff. The sheriffs of this State shall be e °titled to charge and collect the following fees for official duties ' performed by them, to wit: 1866, p. 24. • $4385. A Cobb A Ct p A Ct p 2o 9 35o 18>1 «o! 2 88° 1 ' ' , . . . , ~~ For serving copy of a process and returning original , per copy $ 2 00 If suit from another county, to be paid in advance .... 2 00 -^ or summoning each witness 50 For summoning jury and attending trial to assess damages for right of way 5 00 For services in every case before a jury 1 25 For each levy on fi. fa For search and return of nulla bona 1 00 For serving summons of garnishment, or rule against gar- . . . 2 00 nishee 1 00 If more than one, for each additional copy 1 00 -^ or summoning jury to try case of nuisance For summoning juries at each term of superior court ... 10 00 For commissions on sales of property, on sums of fifty dol- lars or less, 5 per cent. On excess above fifty dollars U P to five hundred and fifty dollars, 2£ per cent. For all sums exceeding five hundred and fifty dollars, on excess, 1£ per cent. No commissions shall be charged unless property is actually sold. For making out and executing titles to land ARTICLE 2. . If presented by purchaser 1 00 For executing bill of sale to personal property, when de- manded by purchaser 1 00 For forthcoming bonds 1 00 For executing process against tenant holding over, or in- truder upon land to dispossess him 3 50 For taking and returning counter-affidavit when summary process to dispossess tenant or intruder is resisted ... 2 00 For settling each execution in his hands, settled without sale 2 00 For settling execution from justice's court . 1 00 For keeping a horse or mule, per day 50 For keeping each head of cattle, per day 15 For keeping each head of sheep, hogs, or goats, per day . . 05 For levying an attachment 2 00 For following property out of county with attachment, for every mile going and returning 05 For attendance on superior courts, not to exceed twenty days per annum, per day 5 00 For each day more than twenty 2 00 For attendance on courts of ordinary, per day 2 00 For attendance at elections as required by law, each day . . 2 00 The -per diem for attendance on courts and elections, and service in summoning jurors, shall be paid by the county. 

§ 5402. (3697.) Compensation to officers, 4. 1614 how allowed. The ordina- r* es °^ ^is State, who by law are vested with the management of the county business, and for whom no compensation is now provided, and the sheriffs and clerks of the superior courts, for public services in relation to which existing laws provide no compensation, shall be compensated as follows, to wit: Such officers shall state their re- spective claims in aaating, and make affidavit of the correctness and justice thereof, wn^cn so made out and verified shall be submitted to the grand juries of the superior courts of the respective counties at the spring term, and said grand juries may, in their discretion, require other proof of the justice and correctness of said claims, and when satisfied that such claims are just and correct, may allow the sum claimed, or so much thereof as they may deem right and proper; and when so allowed, the ordinary of such county, or other author- ity levying county taxes, shall assess so much with the other county taxes as will pay the same, which, when collected and paid over to the county treasurer of such county, shall be paid by him to the parties entitled thereto, without further order, he taking a proper receipt therefor. The compensation provided for in this section shall be in full of all compensation of said officers for such services. 

§ 5403. (3699.) Fees Act l 1877 ' of ARTICLE 4. FEES OF JUSTICES. justices of the peace, etc. The following shall be the fees for justices of the peace, and notaries public: For each original summons For affidavit and bond to obtain attachment, and issuing the attachment 1 70 ^ or eQ tering up judgment in each case 35 For trial of case when same is litigated 35 For issuing each execution 35 For affidavit to obtain possessory warrant and making out the same 1 25 For trying same 2 00 For making out interrogatories and certifying same .... 1 25 For making out recognizance and returning same to court . 35 or each subpoena for witness Fees of justices. ARTICLE 4. 

§ 5403 For each search-warrant issued 75 For each affidavit when there is no cause pending 30 For answering every writ of certiorari to superior court . . For presiding at a trial of forcible entry or detainer, or both — each trial 1 00 For presiding at a trial for right of way 1 00 For issuing a rule to establish lost papers 35 For trying the same 35 For presiding at trial of nuisance 1 00 For witnessing any paper JV"* For affidavit and bond to obtain garnishment ....... 75 For issuing summons of garnishment 30 For each additional copy of garnishment 10 For settling cases before judgment 25 For claim affidavit and bond 50 For trying same . For certifying transcript, same fee as clerk. For entering an appeal to the superior court 50 For each distress warrant . For taking testimony in criminal cases 1 25 For issuing order to sell perishable property 25 For each lien foreclosed and placed on docket 1 00 For entering appeal 30 ^fgl For drawing jury and making out list 30 For each case tried by said jury 30 For issuing commissions to take interrogatories 50 For bail-trover affidavit, summons, and trial 1 25 For backing fi. fa For rule nisi vs. officer 35 For trying the same 35 For judgment on same 35 For attachment for contempt against officer of court for failure to comply with any lawful order or process of the court . For issuing warrant to dispossess intruders or tenants hold- ing over 1 75 

§ EIGHTH TITLE.— CHAPTER 2, 5404 - as follows: (3700.) Fees Fees of constables. ARTICLE 5. FEES OF CONSTABLES. of ARTICLE 5. 1616 t" constables. The fees of constables shall be For serving a warrant, summons, or attachment For serving each additional copy 80 For copying and serving each original summons 85 For summoning each witness 30 For attending court, for each judgment rendered by a justice of the peace or notary public 35 For attending each trial on a day different from regular court day 35 For levying^, For settlement of fa., and advertising 35 fi.fa. when property is not sold 30 For return of nulla bona 30 For summoning jury on inquest 1 00 For collecting execution issued by coroner 75 For keeping a horse, mule, ass, or ox, per day 25 For each head of neat cattle, per day 05 For each head of sheep, goats, or hogs, per day 04 For all sales made by him, amount on sales For attending grand jury, per day 1 00 For serving warrant in criminal cases 1 25 For keeping and maintaining prisoner before examination, not exceeding twenty-four hours 75 For serving rule to establish lost papers 35 For every additional copy 30 For following property with attachments out of county, going aiad returning per mile 05 For levying each distress warrant 50 For taking bori&l|i civil cases 50 For taking bond^m criminal cases 1 00 For executing search-warrant 75 For serving garnishee 35 For each additional copy - ' ^ or summoning jury 50 Acts 1882-3, jr For attending trial on appeal 30 or executing warrants against intruders or tenants holding over 1 25 

§ 5408. (3705.) Fees, how charged to State. None of the fees here- inbefore expressed shall be charged to the State for failure to collect out of the person charged, unless otherwise expressly declared, or in their nature must necessarily be so paid. 

§ 5409. (3706.) Statement of fees to be given, when. Every public officer and person herein mentioned, their deputy, or agent, shall, when required, give a statement of the fees demanded, and a receipt for the same, to any person paying any lawful or pretended fees of office, on pain of ten dollars for every such neglect or refusal, to be sued for within twelve months, and recovered by the person paying the fees and making the demand. 

§ 5410. (3707.) Forfeiture for excessive charges. If such officer or^?^ person shall take or demand any greater fee than the law allows, or fee for services not performed, he forfeits fifty dollars, to be sued for and recovered as prescribed in the preceding section. 

§ 5411. (3708.) Table of fees to be kept in office. Every public officer must constantly keep, in a conspicuous place in his office or place where he usually executes the business thereof, a table of his fees, in fair words and figures, and on failure to do so, he forfeits one dollar per day for every day he so neglects, to be recovered at the suit of any informer, to whom the whole recovery shall go: Provided, that every public officer who may keep, in a conspicuous place in his office or place where he usually executes the business thereof, a copy of the Code of Georgia, shall be held and construed to have complied with the requirements of this section. 

§ 5412. (3709.) Treble costs payable, when. Wh6n public officers are sued on account of the provisions of this -Chapter, and there is a verdict in their favor, the persons suing sitall pay three times the ordinary costs. 

§ 5413. (3632.) Executions, how issued, directed and levied. Execu- tions (except as hereinafter provided) shall be issued by the clerks or> the several courts in which judgment shall be obtained, and bear test in the name of the judge of such court, and shall bear date from the time of their issuing, and (except as hereinafter provided) shall be directed "To all and singular the sheriffs of this State and their lawful deputies," and may be levied on all the estate, real and per- sonal,, of the defendant, subject to levy and sale. 

§ 5414.(3633.) When sheriff is a party, hoiv directed 'and executed. All executions, orders, decrees, attachments for contempt, and final proc- ess, to be issued by the clerks of the superior courts in favor of or against any sheriff of this State, shall be directed to the coroner of the county in which said sheriff may reside, and to all and singular the sheriffs of the State except the sheriff of the county in which the interested sheriff may reside, which may be levied, served and returned by the coroner, or other sheriff, or constable of the county, at the option of the plaintiff, or the party seeking the remedy. 

§ 5415. (3634.) Fi. Afi. fa. fa. may issue at any time, but appeal suspends it. may issue at any time after a verdict is rendered and. judg- ment entered thereon; but if it is issued before the expiration of the time allowed for entering an appeal, the same will be suspended on the entering of an appeal by either party. 

§ 5416. (3635.) How returnable . All executions, except as otherwise 

§ provided by this Code, shall be made returnable to the next term of the court from which they issued respectively. 

§ 5417. (3636.) Must follow the judgment. All executions must fol- low the judgment from which they issued, and describe the parties thereto as described in such judgment. 

§ 5418. (3637.) Writ of possession in ejectment. When a verdict in ejectment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, and a judgment entered thereon, the clerk of such court shall issue a writ of posses- sion, in which the clerk shall incorporate a clause directing the sheriff to collect, by levy and sale of the defendant's property, all such sums of money as, by the finding of the jury, shall have been awarded to such plaintiff in ejectment as mesne profits and costs. 

§ 5419. (3638.) Against whom writs of possession issue. The writ of possession shall not issue against third persons not known in the suit on which such writ of possession is founded, nor put in possession by, nor claiming under or by virtue of, any conveyance from the defendant in such suit. 

§ 5420. (3639.) The judge may frame executions. The judge of any superior court may frame and cause to be issued by the clerk any writ of execution, to carry into effect any lawful judgment or decree rendered in his court. 

§ 5421. (3640.) Form of levy. The officer making a levy shall always enter the same on the process by virtue of which such levy is made, and in such entry shall plainly describe the property levied on, and the amount of the interest of defendant therein. 

§ 5422. (4436.) Fraudulent levies. Any person who shall fraudu- lently cause any process, attachment, distress or execution to be levied on any real or personal property, knowing the same not to be subject to such process, shall be punished as prescribed in the Penal Code. 

§ 5423. (3641.) On what property fendant in fi. fa. first levied, right of. When a shall point out any property on which to levy the execution, such property being in the hands or possession of a per- son not a party to the judgment from which such execution issued, the sheriff or other officer shall not levy thereon, but shall proceed to levy on such property as may be found in the hands and posses- sion of the defendant, who shall nevertheless be at liberty to point out what part of his property he may think proper, which the sheriff or other officer shall be bound to take and sell first, if the same is, in the opinion of such levying officer, sufficient to satisfy such judg- ment and costs. 

§ 5424. Sale of fi. separate parcels subject to lien. Where property is subject to a lien and part of it is sold by the debtor, the part re- maining in him should be first applied to the payment of the lien. If the property subject to such lien is sold in several parcels at differ- ent times, the parcels should be charged in the inverse order of their alienation. 

§ 5425. (3642.) Growing crop to be sold, how. No sheriff or other officer shall levy on any growing crop of corn, wheat, oats, rye, rice, cotton, potatoes, or any other crop usually raised or cultivated by the planters or farmers of this State, nor sell the same, until such crop shall be matured and fit to be gathered: Provided, this provi- sion shall not prevent any levying officer from levying on and selling crops as heretofore practiced in cases where the debtor absconds or removes from the county or State, or from selling growing crops with the land. 

§ 5426. (8643.) Notice of levy on land. The officer levying on land under an execution shall, within five days thereafter, leave a written notice of such levy with the tenant in possession of the land, if any, or with the defendant if in the county, or transmit such notice by mail to the defendant within the time aforesaid. 

§ 5427. Setting aside execution sale. Courts have full power over^ their officers making execution sales, and whenever satisfied that a sale made under process is infected with fraud, irregularity, or error to the injury of either party, the sale will be set aside. 

§ 5428. (3644.) Officer not to sell land out of fide pur- render levy his county. A sheriff or other levying officer shall not sell land out of the county which he is sheriff or such officer, except when the defendant in ex- ecution shall own a tract or tracts of land divided by the line of the county of his residence, in which case it may be sold in the county of his residence; or if such tract of land is in other than that of the defendant's residence, it may be levied on and sold in either county. In all cases of levying on land, written notice of such levy must be given to the tenant in possession, and to the defendant if not in possession. 

§ 5429. (3645.) Constable may levy on land, when. No constable (except as provided by this Code) shall be authorized to levy on any real estate, unless there is no personal estate to be found sufficient to satisfy the debt, or such real estate, being in the possession of the defendant, was pointed out by such defendant, which he has a right to do, and then such constable is authorized to levy on such real estate, if to be found in his county, and deliver over the execution to the sheriff of the county, with a return of the property levied upon, who shall proceed to advertise and sell the same as in case of levies made by himself. 

§ 5430. (2626.) Levy on stock. Shares in a bank or other corpora- tibn may be levied on and sold, either under attachment or m an y c °u n ty where the corporation does business—notice of such levy being given to the defendant, if his residence be known, and also the officers or agent of the corporation in the county where the levy is made. Upon demand by any sheriff, constable, or other levying officer of this State, having in his hands any execution or attachment against any person who is the owner of any shares or stock of said bank or joint-stock company, upon the president, su- perintendent, manager, or other officer of any corporation or joint- stock company having access to the books thereof, said president, superintendent, manager, or other officer aforesaid shall disclose to said levying officer the number of shares and the par value thereof owned by the defendant in said execution or attachment, and on re- fusal to do so, shall be considered in contempt of court and punished accordingly. 

§ 5431. How sold. Such sale shall be made only by the sheriff or his deputy, and constables levying thereon shall turn over such levies to the sheriff. Only one share shall be sold at once. The sheriff shall give the purchaser a certificate of his purchase, which, on presentation to the officers of the corporation, shall authorize a transfer of the stock to him. Transfers of stock after levy of an at- tachment, or after judgment, and with notice to the corporation of the levy or judgment, are absolutely void. If the shares be in a railroad, canal, turnpike, or £>lank-road company, they maybe levied on and sold in any county through which the same passes. 

§ 5432. (3586, 3654, 1970.) Levy, when contract of fa.: 67 Ga. purchase or bond for title made. In cases where a contract to purchase has been made, or J bond for title made, or the purchase-money has been partly paid, or in cases where a deed to secure a debt has been executed, and the purchase-money or secured debt has been reduced to judgment by the payee, assignee, or holder of said debt, the holder of the legal title, or, if dead, his executor or administrator, shall, without order of any court, make and execute to said defendant in fi. fa., or, if he be dead, to his executor or administrator, a quitclaim conveyance to such real or personal property, and file and have the same recorded in the clerk's office; and thereupon the same may be levied upon and sold as other property of said defendant, and the proceeds shall be ap- plied to the payment of such judgment, or if there be conflicting claims, then the same shall be applied as determined in proceedings had for that purpose. 

§ 5433. (3654.) Where another than vendor, etc., has judgment. Where any person other than the vendor, or other than the holder or assignee of the purchase-money or secured debt, shall have any judgment against a defendant in^. fa. who does not hold legal title to property but has an interest or equity therein, such plaintiff in fi. fa. may take up the debt necessary to be paid by the defendant in order to give such defendant legal title to the property, by paying such debt with interest to date, if due, and interest to maturity if not due; and thereupon a conveyance to the defendant in if he be dead, to his executor or administrator, shall be made by the vendor or holder of title given to secure the debt, or, if dead, by the executor or administrator thereof; and when such conveyance has been filed and recorded, the said property may be levied on and sold as property of the defendant. The proceeds shall be applied, first, to the payment of liens superior to the claims taken up by the plaintiff in fi. said plaintiff in fa.; fi. next, to the payment of principal advanced by fa. to put title in defendant, with interest to date of sale; and the balance to the execution under which said property is sold, and to other liens according to priority, to be determined as in other cases of money rules. 

§ 5434. Notice of levy and sale must be given. In all such cases no- tice of the levy and time of sale shall be given by the levying officer to the vendor or holder of the title given to secure the debt, if known, and also to the defendant in fi. fa., and in case of death, their legal representatives. Depositing a letter in the post-office, properly addressed and stamped, shall be deemed sufficient notice under this section. 

§ 5435. (3672.) When forthcoming bond may be given. When an exe- cution shall be levied on personal property, and an illegality filed thereto as provided by this Code, and the party filing such illegality desires to take or keep possession of such property, he shall deliver to the sheriff, or other levying officer, a bond payable to the levying officer, with good security, in a sum equal to double the value of the property so levied upon, to be judged of by the levying officer, con- ditioned for the delivery of the property levied upon at the time and place of sale, in the event that such illegality shall be dismissed by the court or withdrawn, which bond shall be recoverable in any court having cognizance thereof. 

§ 5436. (3673.) Bonds taken by officers, valid. All bonds taken by the sheriffs or other executing officers, from the defendants in exe- cution, for the delivery of property (on the day of sale or any-other time) which they may have levied on by virtue of any other legal process from any court, shall be good and valid in law, and recoverable in any court in this State having jurisdiction thereof. 

§ 5437. (3674.) Rights fi. 

§ 

§ fa., of plaintiffs not affected. No bond taken in^g conformity with the previous section shall in any case prejudice or affect the rights of plaintiffs in execution, but shall relate to and have effect alone between the officer to whom it is given and the de- fendant in execution; and such officer shall in no case excuse him- self for not having made the money on an execution, by having taken such bond, but shall be liable to be ruled as now prescribed by law. 

§ 5438. Measure of damages on forthcoming bond. Whenever pergonal property is levied upon under any judicial process from the courts of this State, and a forthcoming bond is given for the same, the measure of damages to be recovered upon such bond shall be the value of the property at the time of its delivery under the bond, with interest thereon; and if the property shall deteriorate in value by reason of being used by the person giving the bond, or otherwise, and shall then be delivered up to the officer making the seizure, such officer or the plaintiff may recover on the bond the difference between the value at the time of the delivery of the property under the boud and its value when turned over to the officer making the levy, with interest thereon. The amount of damages shall in no case exceed the amount due on the execution levied. 

§ 5439. (3661.) Defendant may stay execution. In all cases in the A superior court where a verdict or judgment shall be rendered, the party against whom the same may be, may, either in open court or in the clerk's office, within four days after the adjournment thereof, enter into bond, with good and sufficient security, for the payment of such verdict or judgment and costs, within sixty days. 

§ 5440. (3662.) Execution, how stayed. Bond and security being given as provided in the preceding section, the verdict and judg- ment, or the execution thereon, shall be suspended for the said sixty days, and if the party shall fail to pay the said verdict or judgment within that time, execution shall then issue against such party and his security, without further proceedings thereon. 

§ 5441. (3663.) Security to have control, ivhen. The security paying off such judgment or execution shall have control thereof. 

§ 5442. (3657.) Levy on personalty unexplained. A levy upon per-^ sonal property sufficient to pay the debt, unaccounted for, is prima facie evidence of satisfaction to the extent of the value of such prop- erty, and the dismissal of such levy, unexplained, is an abandon- ment of the lien so far as third persons are concerned. 

§ 5443. (3658.) Release of property subject. If the plaintiff in exe- cution, for a valuable consideration, releases property which is sub- ject thereto, it is a satisfaction of such execution to the extent of the value of the property so released, so far as purchasers and cred- itors are concerned. 

§ 5444. (3659.) Allowing fund applied to younger lien. If an execu- tion creditor, having the older lien on a fund in the hands of the sheriff, or other officer, allows such fund by his consent to be applied to a younger fi. fa., it shall be considered an extinguishment pro tanto of such creditor's lien so far as third persons may be concerned. 

§ 5445. (3660.) Contract not to enforce judgment. An agreement for a valuable consideration, never to enforce a judgment or execution, releases the judgment or execution. 

§ 5446. (2619.) Judicial sale passes title. A sale regularly made by virtue of judicial process issuing from a court of competent juris- diction, shall convey the title as effectually as if the sale was made by the person against whom the process issues. 

§ 5447. (2620.) Such title is original. In all controversies in the courts of this State, the purchaser at such a sale shall not be required to show title-deeds back of his purchase, unless it be necessary for his case to show good title in the person whose interest he purchased. 

§ 5448. (2621.) Memorandum unnecessary . No note or memorandum j n writing shall be necessary to charge any person at a judicial sale. 

§ 5449. (2622.) Caveat emptor, fraud, warranty. The purchaser mus t look for himself as to the title and soundness of all property sold under judicial process. Actual fraud or misrepresentation by the officer or his agent may bind him personally. No covenant of warranty binds him individually, unless made with that intention and for a valuable consideration. 

§ 5450. (2623.) Purchaser has covenants running with land. The purchaser at judicial sales may enforce any covenants of warranty running with the land which may be incorporated in the previous title-deeds. 

§ 5451. (2624.) Purchaser shall have possession. Whenever a present interest in land is sold by any judicial officer, it shall be his duty J . J J .' to place the purchaser or his agent in possession of the land, and to this end he may dispossess the defendant in the process, his heirs and his tenants, or his lessees or vendees of younger date than the judg- ment upon which the process issues; but he may not dispossess other tenants claiming under an independent title. 

§ 5452. (2625.) Seizure of personalty. To authorize a sale of per- sonal property, there must be an actual or constructive seizure. A future interest in personalty cannot be seized and sold, but the lien of judgments will attach thereto, so far as to prevent alienation, be- fore the right to present possession accrues. 

§ 5453. (2627.) Titles made by successor . If a sheriff fails to make titles to a purchaser, his successor in office may make them in the* same manner as if he had sold the property. 

§ 5454. (2628.) Purchaser need not trace funds. The purchaser at judicial sales is not bound to look to the appropriation of the pro- ceeds of the sale, nor to the returns made by the officer, nor is he required to see that the officer has complied fully with all those reg- ulations prescribed in such cases. All such irregularities create questions and liabilities between the officer and parties interested in the sale. The innocent purchaser is bound only to see that the officer has competent authority to sell, and that he is apparently proceeding to sell under the prescribed forms. 

§ 5455. (3646.) Place, time, and manner ma(l ( N of sales. No sales shall be by the sheriffs or coroners, of property taken under exe- -eution, but at the court-house of the county where such levy was made, on the first Tuesday in each month, between the hours of 10 a. m. and 4 p. m., and at public outcry: Provided, that in all cases where any sheriff, coroner, or other levying officer shall levy any execution or other legal process, upon any corn, lumber, timber of any kind, bricks, machinery, or other articles difficult and expensive to transport, said officer may sell said property without carrying and exposing the same at the court-house door on the day of sale. But the levying officer shall give a full description of the property, and the place where it is located, in the advertisement of the sale. 

§ 5456. (3646 a.) Sale may continue from day to day. It shall and may be lawful for any sheriff, coroner, constable, tax-collector, guardian, trustee, or any other officer of this State, when selling property at public sale by virtue of any law of this State, to con- time such sale from day to day until such sale may be completed. Ana when any trustee or other officer shall desire to continue his sale from day to day by virtue of this section, it shall be his duty to give notice of such intended continuance in the advertisement of such sale. 

§ 5457. (3647.) Sales, how advertised. The sheriffs and coroners shall publish weekly, for four weeks, in some newspaper published in their counties respectively — and if there be do such paper pub- lished in the county, then in the nearest newspaper having largest or a general circulation in such county— notice of all sales of land and other property executed by him; in which advertisement he shall give a full and complete description of the property to be sold, making known the name of the plaintiff and defendant, and the person who may be in the possession of such property, except horses, hogs, and cattle, which may be sold at any time by the consent of the defendant; in which case it shall be the duty of such officer to give the plaintiff ten days notice thereof, and also to advertise the same at three or more public places in the county where such property may be, at least ten days before the sale. 

§ 5458. (2628 a.) Notices published once a ivcek 54/581 fi. for four weeks. In all cases where the law of force on October 21st, 1891, required citations, notices, or advertisements, by ordinaries, clerks, sheriffs, county bailiffs, administrators, executors, guardians, trustees or others, to be published in a newspaper for thirty days, or for four weeks, or once a week for four weeks, it shall be sufficient and legal to publish the same once a week for four weeks (that is, one insertion each week for each of the four weeks) immediately preceding the term or day when the order is to be granted, or the sale is to take place; and the number of days between the date of the first publication, and the term or day when the order is to be granted or the sale to take place, whether more or less than thirty days, shall not in any man- ner invalidate or render irregular the said notice, citation, adver- tisement, or order or sale. 

§ 5459. (3649.) Advertising paid in advance, when. No sheriff or deputy-sheriff in this State shall be required to advertise the property of any defendant in fi. fa. for sale, until the cost of such advertisement shall have been first paid by the plaintiff in^. agent or attorney: Provided, that when any such party plaintiff, or his agent or attorney for him, shall make and file an affidavit in writing, that owing to his poverty he is unable to pay such cost, then it shall be the duty of said sheriff or his deputy to proceed as now required by law. 

§ 5460. (3650.) Notice of change must be given. No sheriff, coroner, or other officer shall change the advertising connected with his office from one paper to another, without first giving notice of his inten- tion to do so, in the paper in which his advertisements may have been published. 

§ 5461. (3704 a.) Fees for advertising . fa., The rates to be allowed to publishers for publishing legal advertisements in this State, shall be as follows: For each one hundred words the sum of seventy-five cents for each insertion for the first four insertions; for each subsequent insertion, the sum of thirty-five cents per hundred words. In all cases fractional parts shall be charged for at the same rates; and it shall not be lawful for any ordinary, sheriff, coroner, clerk, marshal, or other officer to receive or collect from parties, plaintiff or defend- ant, other or greater rates than herein set forth. 

§ 5462. (3704 c.) Officer to make contracts. If the ordinary, sheriff or other officer is unable to procure the advertisements at the rates „. herein prescribed, in the newspaper published in the county, then he is authorized to have said advertisements published in any news- paper in this State having the largest general circulation in the county: Provided, said rates are agreed upon: Provided further, if contracts cannot be made with newspapers at the rates aforesaid, then the sheriff and ordinary, or other advertising officers, shall post their advertisements at the court-house and in a public place in each militia district in the county for the length of time required by law for advertising in newspapers.. 

§ 5463. (3648.) Sale of perishable property. Whenever any personal property of a perishable nature, or liable to deteriorate from keep- ing, or there is expense attending the keeping of the same, shall be levied on by virtue of emjfi. fa., attachment, or other process, and the defendant fails to replevy the same, and the same remains in the hands of the levying officer, upon the facts being made plainly to appear to the judge of the court from which such process issued, or to the judge of the superior court of the county, or to the ordinary of the county in which the levy is made, during the absence of the judge of the superior court, it shall be the duty of the judge of the court to which the process is returnable or from which it issued, or judge of the superior court of the county, or ordinary in his absence, to order a sale of the property. Such sale shall be at the usual place of holding sheriff's sales for the county where the property may be, except that when the^. fa. is returnable to a justice's court the sale shall be at the usual place of constable's sales of the dis- trict where the property may be, or at such other place as the mag- istrate ordering the sale may direct. 

§ 5464. (3648.) How sold. The time and place of holding such sale shall be advertised at the court-house and at two other public places when the sale is to take place, at least ten days before the day of sale; and when the fi. fa. is returnable to a justice's court, it shall be advertised at the court-house door of the district in which said levy is made; and the money arising from said sale shall be held by the officer making the same, subject to the order of the court having jurisdiction of the same: Provided, that the judge, ordinary or jus- tice may order a sale of live stock, fruit or other personal property in a perishable condition, after three days notice: Provided further, that no judicial officer shall grant any order for the sale of personal property, where the defendant in fi. fa. or other process, or his attor- ney, has not had at least two days notice of applicant's intention to apply for such order, which notice shall specify the time and place of hearing; and in cases of attachment for purchase-money falling within this section, like notice shall be furnished the plaintiff or his attorney, and in no case shall such notice be dispensed with, except where it shall be made to appear that it is impracticable to have such notice perfected, or the case is an urgent one; in which latter event the court may, in the exercise of a sound discretion, grant such order without notice. 

§ 5465. (3648a.) Sale Whenever a tax^. fa. of perishable property under tax or county court fi. fa. fi. fas., has been levied on prop- erty of a perishable nature, or that is liable to deteriorate in value from keeping, or that is attended with expense in keeping, the same may be sold under the provisions of the preceding sections, except that in the case of county court fi. fas. the county judge shall order the sale. 

§ 5466. (3655.) Purchaser 's liability . Any person who may become the purchaser of any real or personal estate at any sale which may be made at public outcry by any executor, administrator, or guardian, or by any sheriff or other officer under and by virtue of any execu- tion or other legal process, and shall fail or refuse to comply with the terms of such sale when requested so to do, shall be liable for the amount of such purchase-money, and it shall be at the option of such sheriff or other officer, either to proceed against such pur- chaser for the full amount of the purchase-money, or to resell such real or personal estate and then proceed against the first purchaser for the deficiency arising from such sale. 

§ 5467. (3656.) Form of action against purchaser. The action pro- vided for in the preceding section may be brought in the name of the sheriff or other officer making the sale, for the use of the plain- tiff or defendant in execution, or any other person in interest, as the case may be. 

§ 5468. (3651.) Officer shall put purchaser in possession. When any sheriff, or other officer, shall sell any real estate by virtue of and under any execution, it -shall be the duty of such sheriff, or other levying officer, upon application, to put the purchaser, his agent or attorney, in possession of the real estate sold: Provided, that the provisions of this Code shall not authorize the officer to turn out any other person than the defendant, his heirs, or their tenants, or assignees since the judgment 

§ 5469. (3652.) Possession, how obtained. If the purchaser of real** estate, at sheriff's and other sales under execution, shall fail to make application for possession thereof until the next term of the superior court after such sale takes place, or until the officer making such sale goes out of office, such possession can only be obtained under an order of said superior court. 

§ 5470. (3653.) Widow and lessee cannot be dispossessed. The widow of the defendant, claiming dower, cannot be dispossessed of the man- sion; nor can a lessee, whose lease is older than the judgment under which the sale was made, be dispossessed under the provisions of the two preceding sections. 

§ 5471. Purchaser at void mortgage sale. A purchaser at a void or irregular judicial sale under foreclosure of a mortgage, succeeds to all of the interests of the mortgagee. 

§ 5472. Defendant, where bound by void sale. Where property is sold under void process and the proceeds are applied to valid liens against the defendant, or he receives the benefit thereof, he is bound thereby, if present and not objecting to the sale. 

§ 5473. (3711.) What courts can grant. New trials can be granted ky the superior and city courts only. 

§ 5474. (3712.) Superior court may correct errors, etc. The several superior courts of this State shall have power to correct errors and grant new trials in any cause or collateral issue depending in any of the said courts, in such manner and under such rules and regula- tions as they may establish according to law and the usages and cus- toms of courts. 

§ 5475. (3723.) Rides nisi must be served. In all applications for a new trial the opposite party shall be served with a copy of the rule nisi, unless such copy is waived. The clerks of the superior courts of this State shall not be required, except by order of the presiding judge, to enter upon the minutes of said courts motions for new trials in cases tried therein, but said .motions shall be filed in office as other papers, and shall be recorded together with the other plead- ings in said cases when the same are finally disposed of, as now required by law. 

§ 5476. (3724.) A supersedeas, when. A mis nisi for anew trial shall not operate as a supersedeas, unless so or ^red by the court, in which case the court may demand bond and security for the eventual condemnation-money, when the exigency of the case requires it. 

§ 5477. (3713.) When verdict is contrary to evidence. In any case when the verdict of a jury is found contrary to evidence and the principles of justice and equity, the presiding judge may grant a new trial before another jury. 

§ 5478. (3714.) Illegal evidence a ground. The superior courts may grant new trials in all cases when any material evidence may be illegally admitted to, or illegally withheld from, the jury against the demand of the applicant. 

§ 5479. (8715.) For erroneous charge to jury, etc. A new trial may De granted in all cases when the presiding judge may deliver an erroneous charge to the jury against such applicant on a material point, or refuse to give a pertinent legal charge in the language re- quested, when the charge so requested is submitted in writing. And in the trial of causes in any of the courts of this State, either party or his counsel may make a written request to the court to charge the jury, at any time before the jury retires to consider of their verdict, and without submitting the same to the counsel of the opposite party. Requests to the court to charge the jury in writing may be made in any case, and at any time before beginning the charge. 

§ 5481. Rule in such cases. Ordinarily, cumulative and impeaching evidence is not ground for a new trial ; but when such a motion is made on the ground of newly discovered evidence, it must appear by affidavit of the movant and each of his counsel that they did not know of the existence of such evidence before the trial, and that the same could not have been discovered by the exercise of ordinary dili- gence. If the newly discovered evidence is that of witnesses, affida- vits as to their residence, associates, means of knowledge, character and credibility must be adduced. 

§ 5482. (3717.) When the verdict is against evidence. The presiding judge may exercise a sound discretion in granting or refusing new trials in cases where the verdict may be decidedly and strongly against the weight of evidence, although there may appear to be some slight evidence in favor of the rinding. 

§ 548$. (3718.) Judge may grant on other grounds. In all applica- tions for a new trial on other grounds, not provided for in this Code, the presiding judge must exercise a sound legal discretion in granting or refusing the same according to the provisions of the common law and practice of the courts. 

§ 5484. (3719.) Application for new trial. All applications for a new trial, except in extraordinary cases, must be made during the term at which the trial was had; and when the term continues longer than thirty days, the application shall be filed within thirty days from the trial, together with a brief of evidence, subject to the approval of the judge and subject to the right of amendment al- lowed in applications for a new trial; but all applications herein provided for may be heard, determined, and returned in vacation. 

§ 5485. Hearinq in vacation. Where an order is taken to hear a . .,. . „ motion for a new trial in vacation, the brief of evidence must be pre- sented for approval within the time fixed by the order, or else the motion will be dismissed. At the time fixed for the hearing, the judge may finally approve the motion and brief, with all amend- ments thereto, and pass on the motion, with the right to either party to except as in term time; but the judge in his discretion, before or at that time, may adjourn the hearing to another date in vacation, with like power, or until the next term. Where through no fault of the movant a motion is not heard in vacation, or where a hearing is adjourned to the next term, the motion stands for hearing in term as if no order had been taken. 

§ 5486. (3720.) Another judge may grant new trial. A judge may decide a motion for a new trial who did not try the case, either when he is presiding in the court in which the motion is pending, or when he is named in the rule. 

§ 5487. (3721.) Motion made after adjournment of 

§ 

§ 5486, 5487 court. In case of a motion for a new trial made after the adjournment of the court, some good reason must be shown why the motion was not made during the term, which shall be judged of by the court. In all such cases, twenty days notice shall be given to the opposite party. And whenever a motion for a new trial shall have been made at the term of trial in any criminal case in this State, and overruled, or when a motion for a new trial has not been made at such term, in either event no motion for a new trial from the same verdict shall ever be made or received, unless the same be an extraordinary motion or case, such as is provided for in section 5484 of this Code, and there shall be but one such extraordinary motion ever made or allowed. 

§ 5488. Brief of mandamus to evidence. The brief of evidence required in motions for new trial shall be a condensed and succinct brief of the mate- rial portions of the oral testimony, including a similar brief of in- terrogatories read on the trial. In such brief there shall be included the substance of all material portions of all documentary evidence. Documentary evidence copied as an exhibit or set out in the plead- ings, and introduced in evidence, shall not be set out in the brief ex- cept by reference to the same. In all cases in which the testimony has been stenographically reported, the same may be reduced to narrative form, or the stenographic report may be used in whole or in part in making up the brief, with immaterial questions and an- swers and parts thereof stricken, so as in every case to shorten the brief, and include therein only material evidence. 

§ 5489. (3722.) Time of new trial. When a new trial has been granted by the superior court, the case shall stand on the docket for trial at the next term as though no trial was had, subject to the rules for continuances provided in this Code. 

§ 5490. Cases decided by Supreme Court, returned when. All cases decided by the Supreme Court, which are not finally disposed of by such decision, shall stand for further hearing at the term next ensu- ing after the decision by the Supreme Court, unless the lower court be in session when such decision is made, in which event they shall stand for trial during such term of the lower court. 

§ 5491. Cases to be redocketed. The clerk of the lower court in s which a remittitur is entered, shall docket the case immediately after . the other cases then pending in his court which stand for trial at the term above fixed. 

§ 5492. Discretion of judge as to retrial. The judge presiding shall have it in his discretion to postpone the hearing of any such case to such day in the term as to him may seem reasonable; or, if necessary to give proper time for preparation, he may continue the case until the next term of the court. 

§ 5493. (42.) State one district. The entire State constitutes one supreme judicial district. 

§ 5494. (3238.) Time and place of session. The Supreme Court of the State of Georgia shall sit at the seat of government, and its ° ° term shall begin on the first Monday in March, and the first Mon- day in October of each year. The court shall be held by two or more of the judges thereof, and shall continue until the business of the court is disposed of. 

§ 5495. (3239.) Attendance of judges, and adjournments. It shall ^ e the duty of all the judges of said court to attend each term thereof; but if, from providential cause, any one of the judges can- not attend the court, such court may be held by two judges. If only one judge shall attend, he may adjourn the court to any time agreed upon by himself and another of said judges, whose consent shall be in writing and filed with the clerk of said court. If no judge at- tends, it shall be the duty of the clerk and sheriff, or either of them, to adjourn said court until the next regular term. 

§ 5496. (3240.) May be adjourned to some other place. When from providential cause the Supreme Court cannot be held at the time and place designated by law, it may be adjourned by order of the judges, or any two of them, in vacation, to some other convenient time and place, and the session then held shall be valid, and notice shall be given of such adjournment if possible. 

§ 5497. (3691.) Contingent expenses of Supreme Court. Any contin- gent expenses incurred in holding the several sessions of the Supreme Court, for lights, fuel, rent, and stationery, etc., shall be paid to the clerk of said court out of the State treasury, on the certificate of the judges thereof as to the necessity and fact of such expenditure. 

§ 5498. (218.) Powers enumerated. The Supreme Court has author- ity 1. To exercise appellate jurisdiction, and that only, and in no case to hear facts or examine witnesses. 2. To hear and determine all causes, civil and criminal, that may come before it, and to grant judgments of affirmance or reversal, or any other order, direction, or decree required therein, and, if neces- sary, to make a final disposition of the cause, but in the manner prescribed elsewhere in this Code. 3 To grant any writ necessary to carry out any purpose of its or- ganization, or to compel any inferior tribunal or officers thereof to obey its order. 4. To appoint its own officers, and to commission any person to execute any specific order it may make. 5. To establish, amend, and alter its own rules of practice, and to regulate the admission of attorneys. 6. To punish for contempt by the infliction of a fine as high as five hundred dollars, and imprisonment not exceeding ten days, or both. 7. To exercise such other powers, not contrary to the Constitution, as are or may be given to it by law. 

§ 5499. (210.) Organization Its judges. The powers of the Supreme Court are vested in, and its duties performed by, three judges, one of whom shall be styled the Chief Justice, who are$ elected by the General Assembly for the term of six years, and shall hold their offices until their successors are elected and qualified. 

§ 5500. (214.) Who are eligible. No person shall be judge of the Supreme Court unless at the time of his election he shall have at- tained the age of thirty years, and shall have been a citizen of the State three years, and have practiced law for seven years. 

§ 5501. (211.) Official terms of judges of f * the Supreme Court. The^ Chief Justice and Associate Justices shall hold their offices for six years and until their successors are qualified. The term of Chief Jus- tice Simmons will end December 31st, 1898. The term of Associate Justice Lumpkin began January 1st, 1891, and will end December 31st, 1896. The term of Associate Justice Atkinson began January 1st, 1895, and will end December 31st, 1900. Appointments to fill vacancies shall only be for the unexpired term, or until such vacan- cies are filled by election in the manner pointed out by the Consti- tution of the State. 

§ 5502. (212.) Their oath. Before entering on the discharge of their duties, they shall take the oath prescribed for judges of the superior courts, and all other oaths required for civil officers. 

§ 5503. (213.) Two may hold court. They, or any two of them, may hold said court, and the oldest judge in commission, in the absence of the Chief Justice, is president thereof, but without any greater powers than his associates. 

§ 5504. (215.) Vacancies, how filled. In case of a vacancy (from^ any cause) , the Governor shall appoint and commission some quali- fied person to supply it until the next meeting of the General Assembly. 

§ 5505. (216.) When a judge is disqualified. When one or more of the judges are disqualified from deciding any case, by interest or otherwise, the Governor shall designate a judge or judges of the superior court to preside in said case. 

§ 5506. Supplying place of judge incapacitated. Whenever one or more of the judges of the Supreme Court may be unable to preside in any case, from providential cause, and the parties desire a full bench, it shall be the duty of the Governor, when such fact is made known to him, to designate a judge or judges of the superior court to preside in the place of the absent judge or judges of the Supreme Court. 

§ 5507. (220.) The Its officers ; generally. The clerk. of the Supreme Court. The officers of the Supreme Court are a clerk, a reporter and assistant, a sheriff, and three stenographers. 

§ 5508. (221.) The clerk the Supreme Court. The clerk of the Supreme Court holds his office for six years, unless removed for incapacity, improper conduct, or neglect of duty, and before enter- ing upon his duties he must take an oath faithfully to discharge them, and also all other oaths required of civil officers. 

§ 5509. (222.) May appoint deputy. He may appoint one or more deputies in his discretion, under such rules as the court may adopt, he being responsible for the faithful performance of their duties; and when so appointed their powers and duties are the same as his. 

§ 5510. (223.) His duties. It is his duty keep an office at the seat of government in one of the apartments of the capitol, where all books, records and archives, an d the seal of the court shall remain. 2. To attend all sessions of the court and obey all of its lawful orders. 3. To keep in well-bound books fair and regular minutes of the court's proceedings, a record of its judicial acts, a docket of its causes, and such other books as said court may require him to keep. 4. To certify, when required, upon payment of his lawful fees, all minutes, records, or files of said court. 5 To arrange the cases on the docket by circuits, and to give notice in one of the newspapers printed at the place where the court is to be held, twenty days previous to its session, of the order of arrangement. 6. To submit to the Governor a fair statement of each criminal pauper case, showing the items of cost, the nature of the crime charged, and the county from whence it came, under the seal of the court, as a condition to a warrant in his favor for their payment. 7. To make out a remitter of every case within ten days from the adjournment of the court, and to transmit it to the attorney of the party prevailing, together with a certificate of the amount of the costs, and by whom paid, which remitter shall consist of a copy of the judgment of the court as entered on the minutes, and nothing more. See Eule 35, 97 Ga. xvi. 8. To issue and sign all writs and processes of every description issued under the authority of the court. ^" ness of the court or the law may require. 9. To administer such oaths and take such affidavits as the busi- 10. To discharge whatever other duty may be required by law, or necessarily appertains to his office. 11. To collect all costs due on cases in the Supreme Court, and to 1 ' pay over to the treasurer of the State all money arising from costs collected as aforesaid in excess of four thousand dollars, which sums of money so paid shall remain as on deposit in the State treasury, and constitute a separate and distinct fund, to be styled the "library fund," and subject only to be paid out as provided in this Code. 12. On or before the first day of January in each and every year, to submit to the treasurer of the State, in writing, a full and fair statement of each case before the Supreme Court during the year preceding his report, showing the items of cost, amount collected, and amount not collected; and if there shall appear any balance due by said clerk not collected (except costs due in pauper cases) , or if collected and not paid over, then said clerk shall be liable to be ruled by the State treasurer in the Supreme Court, in term time, on the same terms that other collecting officers are ruled. 

§ 5511. (223 a.) Funds, how applied. The funds thus arising from costs as aforesaid, in excess of said sum of four thousand dollars, shall be subject to the order of the judges of the Supreme Court, upon a warrant of the Governor, based upon the certificate of the judges aforesaid, and shall be used and applied solely to the pur- chase of such books, pamphlets, or other publications as may be se- lected or directed to be purchased by the judges aforesaid. 

§ 5512. (224.) Cost, how taxed. When judgment shall be pronounced in any cause, he shall tax the costs thereof, which shall be entered on the minutes at the foot of the judgment, without charge. He shall make no charge for attaching the seal to the remitter, nor to any precept issued by him, nor for anything but services actually rendered, nor shall he record the bill of exceptions or transcript of the records from the court below. 

§ 5513. (225.) Costs, attorneys, when liable for. Every attorney for the plaintiff in error, who argues or presents a cause to the Supreme Court, is liable to the clerk for costs, except in a pauper case. 

§ 5514. (225a.) Pay, four thousand dollars. The clerk of the Su- preme Court shall receive, as compensation for his services, the sum of four thousand dollars per annum, to be paid out of the money arising from costs in cases before the Supreme Court: Provided, said costs shall amount to said sum of four thousand dollars as aforesaid; and if the costs shall not amount to said mentioned sum, then the difference between the actual amount of costs and said four thou- sand dollars shall be paid said clerk from the treasury of the State, upon the certificate of the judges of the Supreme Court. 

§ 5515. (226.) Appointment and oath of. The reporter of the Su- preme Court holds his office for the same term and on the same con- L ditions as the clerk, and before entering upon his duties, must take . the same oaths. 

§ 5516. (228 e.) Reporter's duties and salary. The duties of the Supreme Court reporter shall remain as now provided by law; he shall furnish the printer the manuscript of the decisions, read the proof and carefully correct the same, and furnish for each volume a correct and carefully prepared index; and said reporter shall receive for his services a salary of two thousand dollars per annum, and no other perquisite or emolument whatever. 

§ 5517. (228.) To attend courts. It is the reporter's duty- 1. To attend all sessions of the Supreme Court by himself or his assistant. * J 2. To publish the decisions of the court in such form that all the decisions made during one term shall be published in one volume, unless it shall become necessary to add any part of the decisions of the succeeding term to make a volume of proper size; and the re- porter is authorized to publish the reports as rapidly as may be practicable after the delivery of decisions by the judges. 

§ 5518. Report of Stenographers. Sheriff. cases.The judges of said court may direct said^ reporter to omit the publication in full of such cases as, in their opinion, may be understood from the written synopsis of the points decided, made by them at the time of the decision; and said reporter shall only publish said synopsis in such cases. 

§ 5519. (227.) Assistant reporter. He may with the consent of the court, under such rules as the court may adopt, appoint an assistant reporter, whose duties are the same as the reporter's. The salary of such assistant reporter shall be two thousand dollars per annum, to be paid from the treasury, and no other perquisite or emolument whatever. 

§ 5520. Stenographers for court. The judges of the Supreme Court are authorized to appoint three shorthand-writers for the use of said, court, and to remove them at pleasure. & "H^ur^-/ yt 

§ 5521. Duties. It shall be the duty of said shorthand-writers to$ attend all sessions of the courts, if so ordered, to take down in short- hand, from the dictation of said judges, all decisions or discussions of points of law or evidence that may be necessary, to transcribe all notes, and generally to perform the duties of a copyist and expert amanuensis and scrivener. 

§ 5522. Salary. The salary of each of said shorthand-writers shall not exceed fifteen hundred dollars per annum. The salary shall be fixed from year to year by said judges, and paid by the treasurer out of any money not otherwise appropriated. 

§ 5523. Sheriff of the Supreme Court. The sheriff of the Supreme^. Court shall be appointed by the judges for such term as may be speci- fied by the order of appointment, not to exceed six years. 

§ 5524. Amount of salary. The sheriff of the Supreme Court shall receive for his services a salary of one thousand dollars per annum, payable quarterly, on warrant from the Governor to the treasurer. 6*t>- 

§ 5525. Costs not to be paid him. The sum of one dollar and twenty- five cents taxed in the bill of costs in the Supreme Court as sheriff's costs, shall be collected and paid into the treasury of the State, and not to the sheriff. 

§ 5526. (4250.) Writ of error. No cause shall be carried to the Supreme Court upou any bill of exceptions, so long as the same is pending in the court below, unless the decision or judgment com- plained of, if it had been rendered as claimed by the plaintiff in error, would have been a final disposition of the cause, or final as to some material party thereto; but, at any stage of the cause, either party may file his exceptions to any decision, sentence, or decree of the superior court; and if the same is certified and allowed, it shall be entered of record in the cause; and should the case at its final determination be carried by writ of error to the Supreme Court by either party, error may be assigned upon such bill of exceptions, and a reversal and new trial may be allowed thereon, when it is manifest that such erroneous decision of the court has or may have affected the final result of the case. 

§ 5527. (4251.) Bills of exceptions; cross-bills. Either party in any ci y il cause, and the defendant in any criminal proceeding, in the su- P ei *i°r courts of this State, may except to any sentence, judgment, or decision, or decree of such court, or of the judge thereof, in any matter heard at chambers. Such bill of exceptions shall specify plainly the decision complained of, and the alleged error, and shall be signed by the party, or his attorney, or solicitor. And when the successful party to any cause tried in any of the superior or city courts of this State, which is carried to the Supreme Court by the unsuccessful litigant, files a cross-bill of exceptions, complaining of errors in rulings made upon the trial, adverse to him, it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court to hear argument upon such cross-bill of exceptions, and to decide the questions therein made, if a reversal of the judgment of the court below is ordered, or if the effect of the affirmance is to leave the case to be again tried in the court below. 

§ 5528. Mode taking cases to Supreme Court by bill of ; statement exceptions . No case shall be taken to the Supreme Court by bill of exceptions, ex-^»_P' cept in the following manner 1 ° : 1. If the case is not one in which a judgment on a motion for new trial is to be reviewed, the plaintiff in error shall plainly and spe- cifically set forth the errors alleged to have been committed, and shall incorporate in the bill of exceptions a brief of so much of the written and oral evidence as is material to a clear understanding of the errors complained of, and shall specify therein such portions of the record as are material to such understanding. 2. If none of the evidence is material to elucidate the errors complained of, this fact shall be stated and the evidence omitted. 3. The judge to whom such bill of exceptions is tendered shall, if needful, change the same so as to conform to the truth and make it contain all the evidence, and refer to all of the record, necessary to a clear understanding of the errors complained of. 4. The judge shall require the clerk to send up only so much of the record as he may certify is material. 

§ 5529. Evidence in record instead of bill of exceptions. If the plaintiff in error shall so elect, he may have such brief of so much of the evidence as is necessary to a clear understanding of the errors com- plained of, approved by the judge, and made a part of the record and sent up by the clerk as a part thereof, rather than have the same incorporated in the bill of exceptions. 

§ 5530. On exception to grant or refusal of a new trial. When a party desires to review the judgment of the court in granting or refusing a new trial, the plaintiff in error shall specifically set out the errors complained of, and shall specify only so much of the brief of evi- dence and such other parts of the record as are material to a clear understanding of the errors complained of. The judge to whom such bill of exceptions is tendered shall, by any needful alteration, cause the same to conform to the truth and to refer to so much of the evidence and such other parts of the record as are material to a clear understanding of the errors complained of; and he shall cause the clerk to send up only so much of the evidence and other parts of the record as he may certify are material. 

§ 5531. Evidence in bill of exceptions. The plaintiff in error, at his election, may incorporate the brief of so much of the evidence as is necessary to a clear understanding of the errors complained of, in the bill of exceptions, rather than have the same sent up in the record. 

§ 5532. Form of certificate. The form of the certificate of the judge to the bill of exceptions shall be as follows: "I do certify that the foregoing bill of exceptions is true, and contains (or specifies, as the case may be) all the evidence, and specifies all of the record material to a clear understanding of the errors complained of; and the clerk of the court of county is hereby ordered to make out a complete copy of such parts of the record in said case as are in this bill of exceptions specified, and certify the same as such, and cause the same to be transmitted to the term of the Supreme Court, that the errors alleged to have been committed may be con- sidered and corrected." 

§ 5534. Judge to examine certificate. It shall be the duty of the judge, to whom any bill of exceptions is presented, to see that the certificate is in legal form before signing the same; and no failure of any judge to discharge his duty in this respect shall prejudice the rights of the parties by dismissal or otherwise. 

§ 5535. Cross-bills of exceptions. If a defendant in error excepts any case by bill of exceptions, he shall prepare his bill of exceptions and proceed in the same manner as above provided, but shall not take up any portion of the evidence or record that is taken up by the main bill of exceptions. 

§ 5536. Additional record, how procured. 1. If the defendant in error in either the main or cross bill of ex- w ceptions shall desire more of the evidence or other parts of the record, or all of the evidence or all of the record sent up, he shall, within twenty days after the bill of exceptions is served on the de$ fendant or his attorney, petition the judge who signed the same to order the whole or any part of the record sent up by the clerk, and the judge shall order the same certified accordingly and sent up. 2. If it should clearly appear to the Supreme Court that any superfluous or immaterial part of the record has been brought up at the instance of the defendant, the court shall designate such part in the judgment of affirmance or reversal, and the cost of bringing up the same shall be paid by such party. 3. Should the clerk below embody in the transcript of the record any part of the record not specified in the bill of exceptions, or in the judge's order, he shall be allowed nothing for that part of the transcript. 4. If, however, it appears to the Supreme Court from the read- ing of the reporter's statement as now prescribed .by the rules of the court, or from the argument of the counsel on the hearing, or in the consideration of the same preparatory to making up the judgment of the court, that any part or portion of the record of the case in the court below has not been brought up, and such part of the record is necessary, in the opinion of the court, to be before them in order to fully and fairly adjudicate the questions at issue and the alleged errors, then the court shall, by its order directed to the clerk of the court below, require him to certify and send up such portions of the record as, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, are needful or necessary in order to fully and fairly adjudicate the errors assigned. 5. There shall be no dismissal of the cause, or failure to decide the errors assigned, if by the issuing of the order aforesaid the rec- ord can be supplemented. 6. The cost of the supplementary transcript shall be taxed by the court against the plaintiff in error. 

§ 5537. (4253.) Brief of evidence is part of the record. The brief of evidence, on motion for new trial, filed and approved according to law, is a part of the record, and need not, except by reference thereto, be embodied in the bill of exceptions. 

§ 5538. (4282.) Diminution of record. If the transcript of the rec- ord is incomplete in a material point, the fact being suggested on the oath of the party or his counsel, the cause shall be postponed, and a mandamus issued requiring the clerk to complete the transcript. If, however, the other party will admit the existence and effect of the omitted record, such admission in writing shall constitute a part of the record, and the cause shall proceed to a hearing. If the clerk refuses to send up any of the papers, the plaintiff in error, or his counsel, may apply to any one of the judges of the Supreme Court in vacation and obtain a mandamus nisi against said clerk, return- able to the term of the court when the case should be tried; and for a continued failure or refusal, the Supreme Court may attach the clerk for contempt. 

§ 5539. (4252.) Bill of although com- exceptions, when to be tendered. The bill of exceptions shall be tendered to the judge who presided in the cause, within thirty days from the adjournment of the court, or the date of the decision at chambers, and in the event that the court shall not adjourn within thirty days from the date of the organization and opening of the court, then such bill of exceptions shall be tendered to the judge who presided in the cause within sixty days from the date of the decision, judgment, verdict or decree rendered; and if the same is true, and contains, in connection with the transcript of the record, all the facts necessary to the understanding and adjudication of the alleged error, the judge shall sign and certify the same. 

§ 5540. (3213.) Fast bills of 72/216. exception. In all cases where an ap- plication for an injunction or receiver is granted or refused; in all 187:^ p! 29! applications for discharge in bail-trover and contempt cases: grant- or refusing application for alimony, mandamus or other extraor- dmaiy remedy; the granting or refusing an application for attach- ment against fraudulent debtors; and in all criminal cases, the bill of exceptions shall be tendered and signed within twenty days from the rendition of the decision, and the opposite party be served with- * n n ^ een days from such signing, with the bill of exceptions; and A.-j'fr the clerk shall, within fifteen days from such service, make out a iV transcript of the record, and transmit the same immediately to the Supreme Court then in session, and if not in session, then to the very next session; and its arrival by the first day of the term, or at any time thereafter during the term, shall be sufficient to insure a hear- ing. If said record, being returned to a court then in session, should fail, after legal diligence, to arrive in time for a hearing before the adjournment, then it stands over until the next term. 

§ 5541. (4254.) Exceptions pendente lite. Exceptions tendered be- lo o&Cl,. fore the final judgment, for the mere purpose of being made a part f the record, shall be certified to be true by the judge, and ordered to be placed on the record. Such exceptions must be tendered dur- ing the term. 

§ 5542. (4255.) When the judge is dead or absent . 

§ 

§ If the judge try- ing the cause resigns, or otherwise ceases to hold his office as judge, when the bill of exceptions is tendered, he may nevertheless sign and certify; and if he should die before certifying the same, or other- wise becomes incapable of acting, then the party may verify his bill of exceptions by his own oath, or that of his attorney, together with the oath of at least one disinterested member of the bar who was present at the trial; and such verifications shall operate in the same manner as the certificate of the judge. If the judge is absent from home, or by other casualty fails to certify the bill of exceptions within the time specified (and without fault of the party tendering), he may still sign and certify as soon as possible, which shall be held and deemed valid. 

§ 5543. (3213 a.) On fast writs, etc., where judge is dead. All the laws of this State now in force, having reference to the signing^ and certifying of bills of exceptions after the expiration of thirty days from the adjournment of the court and the rendition of the decision, and in case of the death of the judge, shall apply, so far as the same will conform, to all bills of exceptions which are re- quired by law to be signed and certified in twenty days after the rendition of the decision. 

§ 5544. (4256.) Where parties die. If either party dies between the hearing and the tendering of the bill of exceptions, the judge shall nevertheless sign and certify the same, and parties shall be made in the Supreme Court as in other cases. The notices required in. such cases to be given and received may be given and received by the at- torneys of the respective parties, though such parties be dead. 

§ 5545. (4257.) Judge refusing to certify . If the judge shall deter- mine that the bill of exceptions is not true, or does not contain all the necessary facts, he shall return the same, within ten days, to the party, or his attorney, with his objections to the same in writing. If these objections are met and removed, the judge may then certify, specifying in his certificate the cause of the delay. If the judge sees proper, he may order notice to the opposite party of the fact and time of tendering the exceptions, and may hear evidence as to the truth thereof. 

§ 5546. (4258.) Judge failing to sign, how compelled. If from any cause the bill of exceptions is not certified by the judge, without fault of the party tendering, such party or his attorney shall ap- ply at the next term of the Supreme Court, and, on petition, obtain from said court a mandamus nisi, directed to such judge. 1. Such petition must set out substantially the bill of exceptions tendered, and shall be verified by the attorney as to the truth of the bill as tendered, and by the party or his attorney as to the other facts stated therein. 2. The mandamus nisi shall be served by some sheriff of this State, and his return made to the clerk of the Supreme Court. It shall be returnable at same term of the Supreme Court, at which term the court shall consider and determine the validity of the reasons given by the judge for his failure or refusal; but in no case shall a traverse as to the truth of such return of the judge be allowed. '3. If the reasons be insufficient, or the judge fails or refuses to make any return to the mandamus nisi, the Supreme Court shall issue a mandamus absolute, commanding the judge to sign and cer- tify the bill of exceptions. 4. If he still refuses so to do, the cause shall be heard by the Supreme Court on the exceptions as verified in the petition for mandamus. 

§ 5547. (4259.) Service of copy on defendants. Acti845, 1. Within ten days after the bill of exceptions is signed and certi- tied, the party plaintiff therein shall serve a copy thereof upon the opposite party or his attorney, and if there be several parties with 

§ 

§ 4975,5548, different attorneys, upon each, with a return of such service (or acknowledgment of service) indorsed upon or annexed to such bill of exceptions, and they alone are parties defendant in the Supreme Court who are thus served. 2. In cases where such opposite party is the State, or where such 

§ 

§ 4975, opposite party does not reside in the county where such bill of ex- ceptions is sued out, and such bill of exceptions cannot be served personally upon the attorney of such opposite party by reason of his absence from the county of his residence, service may be perfected by leaving a copy of such bill of exceptions at the residence of such attorney. **• -^° case sna H ^ e dismissed by the Supreme Court for want of service, when the party benefited by a failure to serve shall—if the bill of exceptions and a copy of the record in any case shall be in the hands of the clerk of the Supreme Court—waive service and agree that said case may be heard. 

§ 5548. Service on non-resident defendant. Whenever a bill of ex- o J ceptions is sued out in the trial court, and is certified, and filed in said court, and it appears that a defendant in error is anon-resident of this State, and is not represented by counsel so that he may be served with a copy of said bill of exceptions, the clerk, upon the re- quest -of the counsel suing out said bill of exceptions, shall give no- tice to the non-resident defendant, by mailing a letter addressed to him at his post-office; the notice to contain a statement of the case, that he is a defendant in error therein, that the bill of exceptions has been filed, that it will be forwarded to the Supreme Court, and will be heard in that court at the term thereof. This notice shall be sufficient to authorize the Supreme Court to hear and de- termine said case, and the judgment made therein shall bind the defendant so far as his assets in this State are concerned. 

§ 5549. Clerk's entry. When the clerk has mailed said notice, as above required, he shall enter his certificate of the fact upon the bill of exceptions. 

§ 5550. (4260.) Ex parte proceedings. If the proceedings in the court below be ex parte, and there is no opposite party, notice to no one is necessary. In cases of interpleader or otherwise, where the real contestant is not the opposite party on the record, notice shall be given to such real contestant in addition to the copy served as above. 

§ 5551. (4261.) In criminal cases. In a criminal case the copy bill of exceptions shall be served upon the attorney or solicitor-general, as the case may be, or upon a solicitor-general pro tern., who tried the cause, if he is still acting under the appointment. 

§ 5552. (4263.) Supersedeas, how obtained. The bill of exceptions thus filed shall operate as a supersedeas upon the plaintiff in error complying with the following terms: 1. In a civil cause the party shall, on or before filing the bill of Jj^ exceptions, pay all costs, and by himself, his agent or attorney in fact or at law, give bond with good security, payable to the opposite party, and conditioned for the payment of the eventual condemna- tion-money and all subsequent costs, which bond shall be attested and approved by the said clerk. 2. If the judgment of the court below is affirmed, it shall and may be lawful for the party gaining said case in the Supreme Court to enter up judgment against the principal and his securities on said bond, in the same way and manner that judgment is entered up on appeal bonds, or bonds given for the stay of execution. 3. Or he may file an affidavit with the said clerk, stating that he^ is unable, from his poverty, to pay the costs or give the security for the eventual condemnation-money, and that his counsel has advised him that he has good cause for a writ of error, which affidavit shall operate as if the costs were paid and bond given. 

§ 5553. (4263.) Affidavit in forma pauperis. If a pauper oath be made for the purpose of carrying any case to the Supreme Court without payment of costs, such oath shall state that the plaintiff in error, because of poverty, is unable to pay the costs in said case, and must not add conjunctively the inability of the plaintiff in error to give bond for the eventual condemnation-money. 

§ 5554. (4262.) Filing in clerk's office. Within fifteen days from ^, the date of the certificate of the judge, the bill of exceptions shall he filed in the office of the clerk of the court where the case was tried; and in ten days from the date of such filing, it shall be the J °' duty of the clerk to make out a copy of such bill, together with a complete transcript of the record in such cause. Such transcript, together with the original bill of exceptions, the clerk shall transmit, together with a certificate that the same is the true original bill of exceptions, and a true and complete transcript of the record in such case, to the next term of the Supreme Court, as required in the judge's certificate, directing the same to the clerk of the said court. The copy bill of exceptions shall be retained in the office of the clerk of the superior court. 

§ 5555. (4264.) Mandamus vs. clerk or sheriff. If any sheriff, or clerk, or other officer shall fail to discharge any duty required of him iu connection with the foregoing provisions, upon petition the Supreme Court, or the judge of the superior court, may compel the perform- ance of such duty by mandamus, and no suitor shall lose any right by reason of the failure of such officers to discharge their duties, where he has been guilty of no fault himself, and has exercised ordi- nary diligence to secure their discharge of duty. 

§ 5556. (4265.) Time of filing bill of exceptions. All bills of excep- tions, taking up cases for review before said court, shall be filed in the clerk's office at least twenty days before the commencement of the term at which the same is to be heard. Otherwise, the case shall be docketed for the term held next after riling the same. 

§ 5557. (4278.) Case heard, though not arriving in time. If a case has been transmitted in time to reach the clerk of the Supreme Court twenty days before the first day of the term, but does not, either party may, on the first day of the term, if the record has arrived, move the court to have it entered and heard in its order at that term, and if the court-shall be satisfied it was so transmitted in time, or if not transmitted in time it was by reason of the act of the defendant in error to produce delay, or tending to -produce delay, the motion shall be granted. 

§ 5558. (8214.) Duty of clerk as to fast writs, and hearing at once . Upon the receipt of any fast writ of error by the clerk of the Supreme Court, he shall place it immediately on the docket of the circuit to which it belongs; but at the request of either party, the judges of the Supreme Court shall hear said case without delay and without respect to the order of circuits, or its order in the circuit, unless said judges adopt some rule for the more speedy and systematic hearing of such cases, in compliance with the spirit of this section, giving them precedence. 

§ 5559. (4268.) Order of cases by circuit to be published. It shall be published on the first of January, 1867, for twenty days, in one news- paper in Augusta, Savannah, Atlanta, Macon, and Columbus, and in the Southern Recorder and Federal Union, at Milledgeville, the order in which the cases from the respective judicial circuits will be heard, which shall not be changed, except by an order of the court, published in the same manner at least sixty days before the term of the court at which the alteration is to take effect. 

§ 5560. (4269.) Number of cases from each circuit to be published. shall be the duty of the clerk of the Supreme Court to cause to 

§ be published in the manner specified in the preceding section, for fifteen days immediately preceding each session of said court, the number of cases docketed from each court in each circuit, for the information of all persons having business in said court. 

§ 5561. (4281.) Making parties. Should any party die after the bill of exceptions has been signed and certified, the death being sug- gested of record in the Supreme Court, parties shall be made by scire facias, in the manner heretofore prescribed by the rules of said court. 

§ 5562. Essential parties. When the record shows clearly who were the parties to the litigation in the court below, and the bill of ex- ceptions shows that all who were interested in sustaining the judg- ment of the court below have been served, the writ of error shall not be dismissed because the bill of exceptions sets forth the parties differ- ently from the record, or discloses that some party not interested in sustaining the judgment of the court below has not been served. No party shall be considered as interested in the litigation in the Su- preme Court who will not be affected by the judgment to be rendered in that particular case, such as sheriffs upon a money rule when the contest is between various claimants of the fund and not betweeD the sheriff and any one of them, or a receiver occupying a similar relation, or a complainant in a bill of interpleader, and other parties occupying similar positions. This recital of instances shall not be construed to exclude cases coming under the intention of this section but not mentioned therein. 

§ 5563. (4272.) No dismissal for want of 4. 1732 certificate. No case shall be dismissed for want of the certificate of the clerk of the lower court to, or the time of, the transmission of the record within the time re- quired by law: Provided, the record reaches the Supreme Court in time to be heard at the term to which it is returnable. 

§ 5564. Fast writs not to be dismissed for failure to transmit in time. No writ of error in a criminal case, or in an injunction case or other extraordinary remedy, shall be dismissed for the failure of the clerk of the lower court to transmit the proper papers within the fifteen days after service of the bill of exceptions, unless such failure is due to the neglect or fault of the plaintiff in error or his counsel. Such cases, when the proper papers are received in the Supreme Court, shall be heard and determined as though the clerk of the lower court had not failed in the prompt performance of his duty. But nothing in this section shall be construed to excuse the clerk for his omission of duty or to relieve him from any liability consequent thereon. 

§ 5565. Service of bill of exceptions after filing. No case shall be dis^V missed upon the ground that the service of the bill of exceptions was made, acknowledged or waived after such bill of exceptions was filed in the office of the clerk of the court below: Provided, such service has been made within the time required by law. 

§ 5566. (4272 a.) No dismissal for want of date to signature. No writ of error shall be dismissed in the Supreme Court because the clerk, sheriff, judge, or attorney at law shall have failed to affix a date to any official signature, unless it is affirmatively made to ap- pear by affidavit or other proof, in the Supreme Court, that such official signature was made after the time required by law. 

§ 5567. (4272 c.) No dismissal when ground can be removed. No writ of error shall be dismissed in the Supreme Court of this State, on any ground whatever which can be removed during the term of the court to which the said writ of error is returnable, and said Supreme Court shall give such time, during said term, even to the end of the same, as may be necessary to remove said ground, if it can be re- moved during the said term. 

§ 5568. (4274.) No case dismissed as a penalty. No rule of said Supreme Court shall have the effect to dismiss any case as a penalty, upon counsel or client, for non-compliance with any rule or rules of said court, where there has been a substantial compliance with the laws prescribing the method of bringing cases to said court; but the penalty for a violation of such rules shall be as for a contempt un- der the provisions of this Code. 

§ 5569. Unlawfid to dismiss for technical defect. It shall be unlawful for the Supreme Court of Georgia to dismiss any case for any want of technical conformity to the statutes or rules regulating the prac- tice in carrying cases to that court, where there is enough in the bill of exceptions or transcript of the record presented, or both together, to enable the court to ascertain substantially the real questions in the case which the parties seek to have decided therein. 

§ 5570. (4272 b.) Dismissal avoided by amendment. No writ of error shall be dismissed in the Supreme Court of this State, when, by an amendment to the bill of exceptions, which is hereby declared to be lawful and allowable, any imperfection or omission of neces- sary and proper allegations could be corrected from the record in the case. 

§ 5571. (4272 d.) No dismissal in what other cases. No case shall be A dismissed by the Supreme Court, or the hearing thereof postponed, by reason of a failure of the clerk of the superior court in transmit- ting the bill of exceptions and copy of the record, or either of them, in any case, to the clerk of the Supreme Court: Provided, the bill of exceptions and copy of the record in such case shall reach the clerk of the Supreme Court before said court shall have finished the circuit to which said case belongs; but said case must be entered by said clerk of the Supreme Court on the docket of cases from the circuit to which it belongs, and be heard by the Supreme Court at the term to which it should have been returned, after all the cases on the entire docket for that term have been heard; and upon entering said case on the docket aforesaid, said clerk of the Supreme Court must give notice, in writing, at once to the attorney of the defendant in error of the entry and time of hearing. In case the bill of exceptions and copy of the record shall not reach the clerk of the Supreme Court before the cases from the circuit to which it belongs shall have been disposed of, said case shall not be dismissed on account of a failure to return or send up the same at the proper time, but shall be placed by the clerk of the Supreme Court on the docket for the next term of said court, and then heard with the cases from the circuit to which said case belongs, and the clerk shall give a notice, in writing, to the attorney of defendant in error, at once, of the entry and time of hearing. Whenever, under this section, notice in writing is to be given by the clerk of the Supreme Court, it will be sufficient to ad- dress a letter to the attorney of defendant in error at his post-office. 

§ 5572. (4272 e.) Benefits lost by negligence. No person shall be en- titled to the benefit of the provisions of the preceding section who, by his own act or that of his counsel, has been the cause of the de- lay or failure to send up said bill of exceptions or a copy of the record, by consent, direction or procurement of any kind. 

§ 5573. (4288.) Bill of exceptions amendable . The bill of exceptions may be amended in the Supreme Court, so as to conform to the record in the cause. 

§ 5574. (4272 f.) Mistakes of clerk of superior court, how corrected. If any mistake shall be made by any clerk of the superior court in his entry of filing the bill of exceptions in any case, and it has been made so to appear-to the Supreme Court, said court shall take any necessary and proper constitutional order to secure the correction of such mistake, and a hearing of the case. 

§ 5575. (4272 g.) Incomplete record, how corrected. If at anytime, when a case is called for trial, or during the trial, or afterwards while the Supreme Court may have the same under consideration, it is discovered that the record is so incomplete that justice requires the case to be postponed or continued until the record can be made complete, the Supreme Court shall take such control and give such order and direction as may be proper in the premises and constitu- tional. 

§ 5576. (4276.) Time for argument. When the counsel on either Acts 1870, side shall apply to the court for an extension of time in argument 

§ 5602.' beyond the time prescribed by the rules, and the said counsel shall state in his place, or on oath, in the discretion of the court, that he or they cannot do the question involved justice within the time pre- scribed, and that for said purpose it will require additional time, stating how much in his judgment it will so require, the court shall grant the request. 

§ 5577. (4277.) Attorneys may argue in writing. Attorneys and so- licitors who have or may have causes pending in the Supreme Court, may argue the same in writing as hereinafter set forth. 

§ 5578. (4278. ) Written arguments. When any attorney or solicitor shall from any cause desire to make his argument in writing, he shall prepare the same, and address the package containing it to the clerk of the Supreme Court of Georgia, which said written argument shall be filed in the clerk's office of said court as prescribed by the rules of said court. 

§ 5579. (4279.) Duty of clerk. It shall be the duty of said clerk, when the cause is sounded, to furnish the court with said argument; which argument it shall be the duty of the court to read, or cause the same to be done. 

§ 5580 (4280.) Costs. It shall be the duty of the attorney or solicitor for the plaintiff in error, when forwarding his argument in writing, to furnish a sum sufficient to pay the costs of said suit, and in default thereof his cause shall be liable to be dismissed. 

§ 5581. (4275.) Third parties in interest may be heard. When a cause shall be for a hearing before said court, and there are parties be- sides the plaintiffs and defendants, whether shown by the record or not, who have a direct interest in its result, the court shall allow such other parties to appear by counsel on equal terms with the parties directly before the court: Provided, said interest is made to appear. 

§ 5582. (4271.) Decisions at first term. The Supreme Court shall proceed to hear at the first term (unless prevented by providential cause) all cases properly docketed, and with the records made up ready for a hearing. The court shall decide all questions presented in the record of each case carried up to it for review. And no con- tinuance shall be allowed except for providential cause. 

§ 5583. (4270.) Mode of announcing decisions. No decision shall be delivered ore tenus; but the same shall be announced by a written synopsis of the points decided, which shall be delivered during the term at which the decision was made. And no decision shall be published in the reports until the said decision shall have been re- vised by each of the judges presiding in the case. 

§ 5584. What Supreme Court shall decide. The Supreme Court shall not decide any question unless it is made by a special assignment of error in the bill of exceptions, and shall decide any question made by a specific assignment of error in the bill of exceptions. 

§ 5585. First grant of a new trial. The first grant of a new trial will hot be disturbed by the Supreme Court, unless the plaintiff in error shows that the judge abused his discretion in granting it, and that the law and facts require the verdict notwithstanding the judgment of the presiding judge. 

§ 5586. (4284.) Decision shall be entered on minutes. The decision in each case shall be entered on the minutes, and it shall be within the power of the Supreme Court to award such order and direction to the cause in the court below as may be consistent with the law and justice of the case. 

§ 5587. (219.) Two judges must concur. The concurrence of two of said judges is necessary to make a reversal, or to grant any order Su^f disturbing the judgment of the court below; and when only two pre- side in a cause, and they disagree as to the reversal or as to said order, the judgment stands affirmed. 

§ 5588. (217.) Decision of, how reversed. A decision concurred in bv three judges cannot be reversed or materially changed, except by a full bench, and then after argument had, in which the decision, by permission of the court, is expressly questioned and reviewed; and after such argument, the court in its decision shall state distinctly whether it affirms, reverses or changes such decision. 

§ 5589. (4283.) Rule when the judges differ. If the court is not unanimous in its decisions, the judges shall deliver the opinions seri- atim, but they shall not be required to write them out. The opinion of the majority shall decide each question. If but two judges pre- side, and they are divided in opinion, the cause shall be reargued before the remaining judge with a full bench, before the term closes, if- possible. If not possible, the judgment of the court below shall stand affirmed, upon the certificate of the fact of the division of the court, unless the judge is absent from providential cause, in which event the cause shall stand continued. 

§ 5590. (4289.) Transcripts to be filed. The transcript of the record shall not be recorded by the clerk of the Supreme Court, but shall be carefully labeled and filed, so as to be easily found when needed. 

§ 5591. (4290.) Attorney liable for costs . The attorney representing the plaintiff's cause shall, in all cases, be responsible for the costs in the Supreme Court. If there is a judgment of reversal, the plain- tiff in error shall be entitled to a judgment for the amount of such costs against the defendant in error, so soon as the remitter is re- turned to the court below. 

§ 5592. (4291.) Taxing costs. At the close of each judgment on the minutes, the clerk shall tax his costs, subject to revision by the judges of the Supreme Court, and the costs so taxed shall be entered as a part of the remitter. 

§ 5593. Costs in dismissed cases. When any cause in the Supreme Court of this State shall be withdrawn or dismissed, the cost to be^ paid by the plaintiff in error shall not exceed six dollars and twenty- five cents. 

§ 5594. (4286.) Damages in cases of affirmance. Ten per cent, dam- ages may be awarded by the Supreme Court upon any judgment for$ a sum certain, which has been carried to the said court, and there affirmed: Provided, in their opinion, the cause was taken up for delay only, and it shall be so entered in the remittitur. 

§ 5595. When opinion is to be transmitted to court below. Where a A further hearing of the cause is to follow in the lower court, the clerk of the Supreme Court shall, without charge, as soon as the opinion is written out, transmit a copy thereof to the clerk of the lower court, where the same shall remain on file for the information of the court and parties. 

§ 5596. Supreme Court to instruct clerk as to transmission. The Su- preme Court, on rendering its decision in any case, shall instruct the clerk whether the case comes within the terms of the preceding section, and a note of such instructions shall be entered on the min- utes of the court. {.j 

§ 5597. (4285.) Remitter. The decision of the court, and any direc- on awar(} eci i n the case, shall be certified by the clerk to the court below, under the seal of the Supreme Court, and shall be respected, and in good faith carried into full effect, by the superior court. The remitter shall contain nothing more, except the costs paid in the Supreme Court. 

§ 5598. (4287.) Judgment affirmed, execution at once. If the judg- ment below is affirmed, upon filing the remitter with the clerk of 

§ 5599. (3215.) Extraordinary orders enforced by lower court, when. When judgments are rendered in injunction or other extraordinary cases, the judges of the superior court are clothed with the power to give immediate effect to them either in term or vacation. 

§ 5600. Rule 1. Attorneys, how admitted. Any member of the bar of the superior courts may be admitted to practice in this court . ... '. by either division thereof upon his written application and the cerp. . . tificate of at least two attorneys of this court, that he is of good private and professional character. The oath required to be taken in open court is as follows: "I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will demean myself as an attorney or counselor of this court uprightly and according to law; and that I will support the Constitution of the State of Georgia and the Constitution of the United States. So help me God." On his admission, the applicant must pay to the clerk a fee of five dollars, and the clerk will issue to him a license, in proper form, under the seal of the court, as evidence of his authority to practice. Upon any satisfactory evidence in support of their application, at- torneys of „any of the courts of the United States, or of the highest court of any State or Territory, in good standing where they reside, may be admitted here, on taking the like oath and paying a like fee to the clerk. As matter of comity or professional courtesy, a visit- ing brother from another State, or from a Territory, may, by leave of the court, be heard as associate or even as leading counsel in a single case without being admitted as a regular practitioner. No such indulgence, however, will be extended to any attorney who is a resident of this State. 

§ 5601. Rule 2. Agreements or consents to be in writing. In the conduct of a case, no agreement or consent will be recognized or en- forced which is not reduced to writing, signed by the parties or their counsel, and filed with the clerk. 

§ 5602. Rule 3. Argument. Argument is limited to four hours upon each case, two hours on each side, unless by special leave an extension of time is granted, and none will be granted except on ap- plication made before the argument of the case is begun. Save when section 5581 of the Code applies, only two counsel on each side will be heard. The plaintiff in error. opens and concludes, and on mo- tions the movant has the like privilege. 

§ 5603. Rule 4. Personal remarks. Personal remarks discourteous 5281. $5488. $5527. s to opposing counsel, or m disparagement of the judge whose decision . is under review, are strictly prohibited. In the argument of cases counsel are entitled to all the latitude necessary to a full and fair discussion of the legal and constitutional questions involved in the assignments of error or other matter before the court, but they must not indulge in denunciation of any branch of the government, State or Federal, nor call in question the integrity or impugn the motives of any official, unless he is on trial or otherwise a party to the record, and his official conduct is properly the subject of scrutiny and adjudication. 

§ 5604. Rule 5. Waste of time or work. As time is precious and the necessary labor of the court is excessively onerous and exacting, every attorney is under obligation not to impose needless or unnec- essary labor upon the court, or waste its time by means of verbosity, redundancy, surplusage or irrelevancy, whether in argument, bills of exceptions, motions for new trial, briefs of evidence or other doc- uments. 

§ 5605. Rule 6. Bills of exceptions. Bills of exceptions must be plainly written or printed, and must distinctly specify the points on which error is assigned. Where the error alleged is in the granting or denying of a new trial, one assignment of error is sufficient to reach all the grounds of the motion on which the grant or refusal was based. Counsel, when signing bills of exceptions, or acknowl- edging service thereof, will add to their signatures their post-office addresses 

§ 5606. Rule 7. Objections to bill of exceptions, or transcript ord, how and when made. Objections to the bill of exceptions or to the transcript of the record must be made in writing and presented to the court when, or before, the case is called for argument. They will be disposed of at once, if practicable, and.if not, will be reserved for further consideration. Any suggestion of a diminution of the record will be controlled by this rule. 

§ 5607. Rule 8. Duty of clerks below. The clerk with whom a bill of exceptions is duly filed, shall, after certifying it under the seal of the court to be the true original bill of exceptions, transmit the same, within the time prescribed by statute, to the clerk of this court, together with a certified transcript of such parts of the record as the judge's certificate to the bill of exceptions may require him to transmit. Neither a party nor his counsel shall be intrusted by any clerk with these documents for transmission, but the exclusive medium of carriage shall be by mail or express, charges prepaid, un- less delivery is made by the clerk, or his deputy, in person. If for any cause a clerk delays transmission beyond the statutory limit, he shall certify to this court on the transcript the true cause of the delay, or be considered as in contempt. 

§ 5609. Rule 10. Transcript, how written. Every transcript shall be plainly and legibly written or printed on white paper, so as to be read without more than ordinary strain or effort. If written with pen or typewriter, the same must be done on only one side of each sheet. 

§ 5610. Rule 11. Various parts of transcript, how arranged. The various parts of the transcript shall be arranged in the order of time — that is, the first document filed shall be foremost in the transcript, and so on; matters copied from the minutes, such as ver- dicts, orders, judgments, etc., being also placed in due order accord- ing to dates. 

§ 5611. Rule 12. Where record confused or illegible, and no mandamus applied for, what direction given. If a mandamus to the clerk in default be not applied for, and the record should be found confused or illegible, the court will cause such order, direction or judgment to be entered as, in its legal discretion, should be awarded. Clerks who have not in the first instance complied with the re- quirements of Rules 10 and 11, may do so voluntarily by sending up a second transcript in conformity thereto, in which event resort to mandamus shall not be necessary. 

§ 5612. Rule 13. Briefs. Briefs must be plainly written or print- ed, with ample spacing between the lines, and be confined to a statement of the points insisted upon, and a citation of authorities. If counsel desire to furnish a written summary or narrative of the facts, or to make a written argument, this must be done in a separate document, and not by expandiug or overloading the brief. Besides furnishing to the court three copies of his brief on or before be- ginning his argument, the counsel for each party must exchange briefs with his opponent at least twenty-four hours before the ar- gument opens. This may be done by delivering a copy to the opponent directly, or by placing it for him, through the mail or otherwise, with the clerk of this court. Any failure to comply with 

§ this rule will subject the delinquent counsel to be dealt with as for contempt. 

§ 5613. Rule 14. Attorneys, etc., bound. All attorneys represent- ing the plaintiff in error, as well those heard orally or by briefs in this court as those signing the bill of exceptions, are jointly and sev- erally bouud for costs, save where the pauper affidavit is filed in the clerk's office of the court below, and a certified copy thereof is trans- mitted to this court with and as a part of the transcript of the record, or, if no transcript is required, with the bill of exceptions. This oath, to be effectual, must assert that the plaintiff in error is, be- cause of his poverty, unable to pay the costs, and must not add con- junctively that he is unable to do anything else. 

§ 5614. Rule 15. Costs, when payable. No case in which cost is 

§ due will be heard (except by special order of the court) until the cost is paid; and if not paid when the case is called, the clerk shall so inform the court, whereupon the case will be dismissed. The clerk shall, within ten days after the disposition of any case, issue execu- tion against the plaintiff in error and his counsel for any unpaid costs with which they are chargeable, in form as follows: State of Georgia \ vs. > To all and singular the sheriffs of said State and their lawful deputies : We command you that, of the goods and chattels, lands and ten- ements of , you cause to be made the sum of dollars and cents, Supreme Court costs in the case of vs. , at its term, 18 — , due the State, and also all costs on this that you make return hereof to the next term of said court. Witness the Honorables , Chief Justice, and Justices of said court, this day of , 18 — . fi. , , Clerk Supreme Court of Georgia. fa., and Associate 

§ 5615. Rule 16. Costs, how recovered. Upon the reversal of any judgment, order, or decree of a lower court, the party in whose favor the reversal is had shall be entitled to collect in the court below all costs paid by him in this court. 

§ 5615 (a). Rule 17. Disqualification of justices. Whenever all the justices in either division are under disability, whether by reason of interest or from providential cause, from hearing any case com- ing before that division, it shall be transferred to the other division. Where two justices in a division are under such disability, a quorum shall be made therein, by temporarily assigning to that division one of the justices of the other. If in any case four or more justices are under such disability, so that there will not be three qualified justices to decide the same, a full division of three shall be made up by requesting the Governor to designate one or more judges of the superior court to preside in that case. Whenever it shall become necessary to pursue this course, the matter should be brought to the attention of the court not later than the time when the circuit is reached to which belongs the case in which the services of the judge or judges to be designated are desired. Counsel are expected to exercise due diligence in com- plying with this requirement. Where cases are to be passed upon by the court as a whole, whether because of a difference of opinion between two justices in a division, or because so ordered, and three or more justices are under disability from presiding, a bench of at least four must be made up by the Governor's designation of one or more judges of the superior court to preside therein. 

§ 5616. Rule 18. Cases, how entered. All civil cases returned to this court shall be numbered and entered by circuits on the bench- docket for civil cases, on or before the first day of the term to which they are respectively returned, and the cases first received by the clerk shall be first entered. A separate bench-docket for criminal cases shall be kept, in which the cases of each term shall be num- bered as they are entered, serially and not by circuits. The bench- dockets shall not be open to the inspection of the bar during the sessions of the court. 

§ 5617. Rule 19. Bar-docket. The clerk shall furnish a transcript of the bench civil docket for the use of the bar. 

§ 5617 (a). Rule 20. Dockets, how called. For the purpose of hear- ing arguments the dockets shall be called by the court when sitting in separate divisions, the Chief Justice apportioning the cases be- tween the two divisions, and directing when each division shall occupy the bench. Either division, upon the call of any case civil or criminal, may order it to be argued before the court as a whole, set a day for hearing the same, and cause due notice to be given to counsel concerned. 

§ 5618. Rule 21. Civil docket. Civil cases in which speedy trials are provided for by statute may, on good cause shown, be set for hearing on motion of counsel for either party. Opposing counsel shall have ten days notice of the time fixed. Every such case not advanced and heard as above provided will be heard in its order on the docket, or if entered after the circuit to which it belongs has been passed, it will be heard at the heel of the docket. 

§ 5619. Rule 22. Criminal cases. Unless otherwise specially or- dered, criminal cases filed during term and before the docket has been closed, will be heard on the first Monday in the next month after the date of filing, if that date shall fall'on or before the fif- teenth day of the month in which the bill of exceptions is received by the clerk. If such date is later than the fifteenth, the hearing will be had on the third Monday in the next ensuing month. As soon as the bill of exceptions is received by the clerk, he shall give notice by mail to counsel for plaintiff in error and to the solicitor- general or city-court solicitor concerned, and, in capital cases, to the attorney-general, of the day of hearing. Criminal cases filed after the docket of a term has been closed will be heard at the next term in advance of all other business, and in the order of their filing. 

§ 5620. Rule 23. Other cases. All cases not ordered to be argued $ before the court as a whole, or provided for by Rules 21 and 22, shall be heard in their order on the docket, unless transferred, post- poned or continued by order of court. 

§ 5621. Rule 24. Want of prosecution. On the call of a case, if$ the plaintiff in error be unrepresented, counsel for defendant in error may move to open the record and insist on an affirmance of the judg- ment and an award of ten per cent, damages for delay; or the case will be dismissed for want of prosecution, and will not be reinstated except for providential cause. 

§ 5622. Rule 25. Notice of motion to dismiss. No motion to dis- miss a writ of error will be considered unless notice of such motion and of the grounds thereof, in writing, be given to counsel for plain- tiff in error twenty-four hours before the case is called for argument. If because of the absence of counsel for plaintiff in error such notice cannot be given, the motion will be entertained and such direction in reference thereto given as, in the discretion of the court, may seem proper. If the court has no jurisdiction, it will dismiss the writ whenever and however this may appear. 

§ 5622 (a). Rule 26. Judgments, when and how rendered. Judg- ments in any and all cases may be rendered whenever the court as a whole or either division is in open session, and it shall not be essen- tial to the validity of any judgment that any one or more of the justices who participated in making up the same shall be personally present at the rendition thereof; but each case shall be passed upon by at least three justices, and each judgment shall show upon its face how many and which justices concurred therein, and which, if any, dissented therefrom, and the facts with respect to these par- ticulars shall in each case appear upon the minutes and in the official reports of this court. 

§ 5623. Rule 27. Application for, when made. If any judge of the superior or city courts of this State shall neglect or refuse to certify any bill of exceptions required by law, or shall fail or refuse to specify in his certificate the cause of delay (in case he has withheld his signature till after the expiration of the time within which he is required to sign the same, for any of the causes justifying such de- lay), the party tendering the bill of exceptions, if he desires a man- damus nisi to be directed to such judge, must make his application by petition to this court as prescribed by section 5546 of the Code, on or before the third day of the term of this court next after the bill of exceptions is tendered, or he will not be heard, and the case, if upon the docket of this com c, will be dismissed and the judgment of the court below stand affirmed. 

§ 5623 (a). Rule 28. Minutes, how kept. Subject to the provisions embraced in these rules, the minutes shall be kept in substantially the same manner as has been heretofore observed. Orders passed in chambers, as provided in Rule 34, shall be entered on the min- utes without the necessity of convening the court as a whole or either division thereof in open session. 

§ 5624. Rule 29. Office papers, not to be taken without leave No paper belonging to the clerk's office shall be taken therefrom without leave of the court, and when such leave is granted, the party receiving the paper shall receipt the clerk for the same. 

§ 5625. Rule 30. Original opinion. All opinions delivered by the^ justices of this court shall be filed in the clerk's office, subject to use by the reporter for publication in the Georgia Reports. For no other purpose shall they be withdrawn from the clerk's office with- out leave of the court. When returned by the reporter, they shall be refiled in such manner as will secure ready access and reference thereto and the preservation thereof. 

§ 5626. Rule 31. Parties, how made. The death of a party to aS case pending in this court may be suggested by counsel for either side at any time in open court, and the court shall thereupon cause to be issued and served upon the legal representative of the deceased party, if there be one, a rule nisi requiring him to show cause, upon a day named, why he should not be made a party, and upon the return of such rule the court shall take appropriate action in the premises. The legal representative of the deceased party may vol- untarily become a party to the case at any time. If he does so on or before the call of the case at the first term, it will, with his con- sent, be heard at that term, or, in the absence of such consent, will be continued. Where a representative of the deceased party has not been appointed and made a party in this court on or before the last day for argument at the second term, the case will be dismissed. A temporary administrator will be regarded in this court as a com- petent party. 

§ 5626 (a). Rule 32. Changes, hoiv and when made. At the begin- ning of every October term, the personnel of the two divisions of this court shall, under the direction of the Chief Justice, be changed by transferring one or more of the associate justices from each division to the other. Whenever at any time an associate justice is succeeded in office by another person, the latter shall be assigned to the division in which the former was then serving. 

§ 5626 (b). Rule 33. Sessions, how held, etc. As a general rule, the court in its open sessions shall, for the transaction of all business, sit in divisions. The court shall sit as a whole in open session whenever the Chief Justice shall so direct, or either division shall so order. It shall sit in banc for the purpose of consulting upon and deciding cases argued before the court as a whole, and cases which under the law must be decided by the court as a whole; and it may sit in banc for the purpose of consulting upon and deciding any and all other cases. The sessions in banc shall be held at such times as may be agreed upon by the justices, or as may be directed by the Chief Justice. 

§ 5627. Rule 34. Orders in chambers. The court may at any time when in consultation, by appropriate order, direct that any case or cases be argued or reargued before it as a whole; in which event due notice shall be given to the counsel concerned. Either division may, when in consultation, pass any order neces- sary to the proper correction or to the completion of any record, or any other order which may be appropriately passed in chambers, and which will facilitate the prompt dispatch of business. 

§ 5628. Rule 35. Remittitur. The remittitur from this court shall $ contain the judgment of the court, with any direction that may be awarded in the case. It shall be certified by the clerk, under the seal of the court, and be transmitted to the clerk of the court from which the case was brought to this court, within ten days from this court's approval of the minutes containing the judgment. The clerk's certificate to every remittitur shall state the amount of costs taxed in the case, and by whom paid. 

§ 5629. Rule 36. Report, ivhen filed. Twenty-four hours prior to$ the call of any case upon the docket for argument, the reporter shall file a report of such case with the clerk, for use by the members of the court and the counsel interested. The reporter shall note on each report the date of filing the same, and make a similar note in his docket or list of cases. 

§ 5630. Rule 37. Mistakes or deficiencies. On or before the call of a case, counsel for the parties respectively may submit in writing any suggestion they think proper, pointing out mistakes or deficien- cies in the report. The suggestions must be brief and pointed in expression, and refer to the pages of the record which are relied upon for vindicating their truth. 

§ 5631. Rule 38. Breach of rules. Any breach of one or more of the foregoing rules by counsel, whether intentionally or by inex- cusable negligence, will subject the offender to be dealt with for contempt. 

§ 5632. RuleI. Exceptions and security . Exceptions to the security on appeal must be taken on or before the last day of the first term of the appeal; and if such exceptions are sustained, other and good security shall be given, or the appeal will be dismissed. If the se- curity, good at first, becomes insolvent pending the appeal, the party appealing shall give other good security, in the discretion of the court, or the appeal shall be dismissed. In either case an affidavit may be filed in forma pauperis . 

§ 5633. Rule 2. Before an applicant for admission to the bar can be examined, he must produce a certificate of some member of the bar, certifying upon his personal and professional honor that the applicant has, under his instruction and direction, satisfactorily completed the study of some standard work on the several subjects upon which he is required by the Code of this State to be examined. The form of the license issued by the clerks of the superior courts, to attorneys admitted to the bar, shall be as follows: State of Georgia, ) In the superior court for said county, term, County. \ 18 — Know all men by these presents, That at the present sitting of this court, A. B. made his application for leave to plead and practice in the several courts of law and equity in this State; whereupon, the said A. B., having given satisfactory evidence of good moral char- acter, and having been examined in open court, and being found well acquainted and skilled in the laws, he was admitted by the court to all the privileges of an attorney, solicitor and counselor in the several courts of law and equity in this State. In testimony whereof, the presiding judge has hereunto set his hand , > with the seal of the court annexed, this (L " S *' in the year 18—. C. D., r, „ p — — day of , Judge Superior Courts, Circuit, Ga. 

§ 5634. Rule 3. Arguments. Arguments of counsels shall be con- fined to the law and the facts involved in the case then before the court, on pain of being considered in contempt; and in all civil cases questions of law shall be argued exclusively to the court, and ques- tions of fact to the jury. 

§ 5635. Rule 4. Interruptions. No attorney shall be permitted to interrupt another, while addressing the court or jury, except to correct him in a misstatement of evidence, or misrepresentation of the position of counsel, upon pain of being considered in contempt; and such interruption, when made, shall always be addressed to the court, and never under any circumstances to the counsel. 

§ 5636. Rule 5 (6). Papers. Attorneys receiving papers from the clerk shall in all cases return the same on or before the case is called for trial; and after the trial of a case it shall be the duty of attorneys to return all of the papers connected therewith to the clerk. 

§ 5637. Rule 6 (7). Number of speeches and time for argument. Not more than two counsel shall be permitted to argue any cause for each party, except by express leave of the court; and in no case shall more than one counsel be heard in conclusion. In criminal cases below felony, and in cases of appeal from justices' courts and county courts, counsel for neither party shall, without special leave of the court, obtained before the argument is opened, occupy more than one half-hour in the whole discussion of the case after the evidence is closed. In all other cases, counsel shall in like manner be limited to two hours on a side. But if counsel on either side shall apply to the court for an extension of the time prescribed for argument in this rule, and shall state in his place or on oath, in the discretion of the court, that he or they cannot do the case justice within the time prescribed, and that it will require for that pur- pose additional time, stating how much additional time will be necessary, the court shall grant the extension so applied for. 

§ 5638. Rule 7 (8). Arguments after opinion pronounced. No at- torney shall ever attempt to argue or explain a case, after having been fully heard, and the opinion of the court has been pronounced, on pain of being considered in contempt. 

§ 5639. Rule 8 (9). Payments mi judgments, etc. In all cases where payment or satisfaction shall be made on any judgment or ex- ecution, either in whole or in part, it shall be the duty of the attor- ney receiving the same forthwith to enter an acknowledgment thereof, and file the same of record in the office of the clerk of the court where such judgment was rendered; and such clerk is required to record such acknowledgment among the other proceedings in the cause, and also to make a note thereof on the docket of judgments opposite the place where such judgment is entered. And any attor- ney failing to comply with this rule on or before the last day of the term next succeeding the making of such payment or satisfaction, shall be considered in contempt, and shall pay a fine not exceeding twenty-five dollars, which it shall be the duty of the court to impose, and he shall thereupon moreover direct the recording and noting of such payment or satisfaction. 

§ 5640. Rule 9 (10). Writs, how signed. Writs and other proceed-^ ings may be signed by professional firms. When there is no firm, the Christian name of the attorney shall be added; but the usual abbreviations and initials of all Christian names shall be sufficient. 

§ 5641. Rule 10 (11). Attorneys, etc., as bail. No attorney, or other officer of court, shall be taken as bail in any criminal cause depending on or undetermined therein, or as security on any appeal or other proceeding. And for a violation of this rule the attorney or officer of court so offending shall be punished as for a contempt, and the party shall be compelled to give other bail or security. 

§ 5642. Rule 11 (12). Must be annexed to copy. Inactions of as- sumpsit for the recovery of unliquidated demands, a bill of partic- ulars shall be annexed to the copy served on the defendant; and in every case where the plea of set-off shall be filed, a copy of the set- off shall be filed at the time of filing the answer; and when the bill of particulars is not annexed to the declaration, the plaintiff shall lose a term; and if service of said bill of particulars is not effected upon the defendant by the succeeding term, a nonsuit shall be awarded. 

§ 5643. Rule 12. No second claim received after property found sub-^ ject. No second claim shall be received and returned to court by any sheriff in any case where a claim has already been filed by the same claimant and a verdict had finding the property subject; and no sub- sequent claim shall be received from any person who holds under a conveyance from the first claimant, made subsequent to the filing of the first claim upon the trial of which the property has been found subject. 

§ 5644. Rule 13. Plaintiff concludes, when. In all cases of claim, where the burden of proof rests with the plaintiff in execution, he is entitled to the conclusion; but if the claimant introduces no evi- dence, he shall have the conclusion; and in cases of illegality the plaintiff in execution shall, in like manner, conclude. 

§ 5645. Rule 14. When claimant dies, party. In cases of claims, when the claimant dies pending the claim, his representative may be made a party, on motion, and on producing letters testamentary or of administration. 

§ 5646. Rule 15. Issue in five minutes. When a claim case is called in its order for trial, an issue must be tendered within five minutes after the announcement of ready by both parties, or the levy will be dismissed, in the discretion of the court; and no exceptions will be allowed to the bond or affidavit, in cases of claims or attach- ments, after issue joined, except such as are taken in writing at or before the joining such issue. 

§ 5647. Rule 16. Clerk not producing rules. Every clerk who can- 

§ not produce all the rules of court when required, shall be fined not exceeding ten dollars. 

§ 5648. Rule 17. Fines, when registered. The clerks shall keep a separate book, in which they shall register the names of all per- sons who may be fined by the court, the time when, the offense for which they are fined, the amount received and disbursed. 

§ 5649. Rule 18. Original papers not to be taken from file. shall suffer any original paper of file to be taken from his office in term time or vacation, without an order from the judge for that purpose, specifying the terms upon which it may be taken, and the length of time it may be kept, on pain of being considered in con- tempt of court. 

§ 5652. Rule 21. Pleadings, and lost agreements. No consent to^ dispense with pleading will in any case be allowed; nor will any evidence be received of the contents of any written agreement be- tween attorneys, alleged to be lost, other than a sworn copy of said agreement, where said agreement is denied. 

§ 5653. Rule 22. Five minutes. When a case is sounded for trial, the parties shall immediately announce ready, or move to continue; if five minutes should elapse before the announcement or motion to continue, the plaintiff's case will be dismissed, or the defendant's plea stricken. No argument, without express leave of the court, shall be heard on a motion to continue. 

§ 5654. Rule 23. Opening judgment by default. Upon opening a judgment by default, the defendant shall plead instanter to the merits of the action; and no default shall be opened but upon pay- ment of all costs which may have accrued. If the plaintiff allege himself to be surprised by the plea, and shall state wherein he is surprised, the cause shall be continued at the instance of the plain- tiff, in the discretion of the court. 

§ 5655. Rule 24. Affidavit in action on contract . The following form of affidavit to defenses in actions founded on unconditional con- tracts in writing, shall be used: "You, A. B., do swear or affirm (as the case may be) that the foregoing defense is true, to the best of your knowledge and belief. So help you God." 

§ 5656. Rule 25. Ejectment cause. No party shall be permitted^ to defend an ejectment cause, or an action of complaint for land, who does not admit that he was in possession of the premises in dis- pute at the commencement of the action. 

§ 5657. Rule 26. Judge''s dockets. After court is opened, and un-$ til it adjourns each day, the judge's dockets shall not be subjected to the inspection of the bar, or their clients. 

§ 5658. Rule 27. Causes, how called and tried. All causes shall be called and tried in the order in which they are docketed, without any preference or delay, unless it shall appear to the court that it shall be injurious to press a cause to trial when regularly called. A different order in calling the docket may be pursued by the court, in its discretion, for the purpose of giving facility and expedition to its proceedings, or for furthering the ends of justice. And the judge may, in his discretion, require the clerk to make a calendar of all cases pending in court. 

§ 5659. Rule 28. Defects in pleading taken advantage of, matters appearing on the face of the declaration or process, that would not be good in arrest of judgment, shall be taken advantage of at the first term, and be immediately determined by the court. 

§ 5660. Rule 29. Answers and pleas of, must be sworn to. An exec- utor or administrator shall not be permitted, in answer, to deny any deed, bond, bill, note, or other written instrument of his testator or intestate, being the foundation of the plaintiff's action, without an oath or affirmation indorsed on such plea or answer, that he has reason to believe, and does verily believe, that such plea or answer is true. 

§ 5661. Rule 30. Affidavit, etc. When an affidavit of illegality is made on account of partial payment made on the execution, the defendant, at the time of making such affidavit, must pay the amount he admits to be due, or the sheriff shall proceed to raise that amount and accept the affidavit for the balance. 

§ 5662. Rule 31. No second affidavit. No second affidavit of ille- gality shall be received by any sheriff or other officer, for causes which existed and were known, or in the exercise of reasonable dili- gence might have been known at the time of filing the first. 

§ 5663. Rule 32. Form. The following shall be the form of a commission to take testimony by interrogatories; eorgia, ) By his Honor County. ) , one of the judges of the court, for the county and State aforesaid. To and , Esquires — Greeting: Whereas, There is a certain matter of controversy now depend- ing in the court for said county between and whereas is a material witness in said suit, and cannot attend our said court in person, without manifest inconvenience: Now know ye, that we, reposing special trust and confidence in your prudence and fidelity, have appointed you; and you, or any two or more of you, are hereby authorized and required to cause said personally to come before you, and after being duly sworn, to examine concerning the said suit, agreeably to the interroga- tories hereunto annexed; and the answers to the same being plainly and distinctly written, you are to send the same, closed up under your hands and seals, to our said court, to be held on the day in next, together with this writ. Witness the Honorable day of 

§ 5664. Rule 33. Witnesses 1 names. The names of the witnesses intended to be examined by commission shall be distinctly specified in the notice served upon the adverse party, preparatory to issuing the commission. 

§ 5665. Rule 34. Time allowed for return. The time to be allowed for the return of commissions from any part of the United States of North America, if less than one hundred miles distant from the place of trial, shall be twenty days; if a greater distance, and lees than five hundred miles, thirty days; if a greater distance, forty days; to any part of the West Indies or South America, eighty days; or to any part of Europe, one hundred and twenty days, unless, in the discretion of the court, a longer time shall be allowed. 

§ 5666. Rule 35. Commissions not regular. In cases of commissions $ returned not executed or directed according to rule, either party in the cause shall, upon five days notice to the adverse party or his attorney, be permitted to return the commission and its contents (except the answers of the witness, which shall remain in the clerk's office) to the commissioners, to be properly executed and directed. 

§ 5667. Rule 36. Commissions by mail. When commissions are re-$ turned by mail, to entitle the party to open the same, the post- master, his deputy, or assistant, must indorse ivpon the back: "I certify that I received this package from A. B., one of the commis- sioners." The usual abbreviations of initials of Christian names of the commissioners, witnesses, attorneys, clerks, magistrates, and postmasters, shall be sufficient. 

§ 5668. Rule 37. Leading questions. No exception to a written in- terrogatory, on the ground that it is a leading question, shall pre- vail, unless it be filed with the interrogatories before the issuing of the commission. 

§ 5669. Rule 38. Judgment for plaintiff, when. The court shall render judgment without the verdict of a jury, in all civil cases founded on unconditional contracts in writing, where an issuable defense is not filed under oath or affirmation. 

§ 5670. Rule 39. Form. The following form of judgment, sub- stantially, shall be used in all civil cases founded on unconditional contracts in writing, where an issuable defense is not filed on oath: A. B. ) vs. > C. D. ) There being no issuable defense filed on oath in this case, judg- ment is rendered by the court for the plaintiff against defendant for dollars and cents as principal, dollars and cents as interest, and dollars and cents for costs of suit. This day of , 18—. E. D., Judge Superior Court, Circuit. 

§ 5671. Rule 40. Must return papers to superior court, when. The justices of the peace, and other committing magistrates, shall return all examinations and recognizances by them taken, or other papers that may be necessary to be acted upon by the superior courts of their respective counties, ten days before said courts, if taken that length of time before the sitting of the court. 

§ 5672. Rule 41. Time for striking. In striking juries, not more than one minute shall be allowed either party for each strike; and if either party shall fail to strike, by such failure he shall forfeit a strike; and if more than twelve jurors remain upon the jury-list, the first twelve not stricken shall constitute the jury. 

§ 5673. Rule 42. When secondary evidence admitted. Whenever a^ party wishes to introduce the copy of a deed or other instrument, between the parties litigant, in evidence, the oath of the party stat- ing his belief of the loss or destruction of the original, and that it is not in his possession, power or custody, shall be a sufficient founda- tion for the introduction of such secondary evidence. 

§ 5674. Rule 43. Grants. Whenever a party wishes to introduce the copy of a grant in evidence, the oath of the party, stating that the original is not in his power or possession, and that he knows not where it is, shall be sufficient foundation for the introduction of such copy. 

§ 5675. Rule 44. Motions to be insisted on at once. All grounds of motion for nonsuit, in arrest of judgment, for continuance, all ob- jections to testimony, and all exceptions to declarations, must be urged and insisted upon at once. And after a decision upon one or more grounds, no others afterwards urged shall be heard by the court. 

§ 5676. Rule 45. Who shall open and conclude. On all rules to show cause, and other motions, the party moving shall open and con- clude; and on all special matters springing out of a cause at issue, the actor or party submitting a point to the court shall in like manner begin and close. 

§ 5677. Rule 46. In writing. Every motion for any rule or order shall be submitted to the court in writing, by the counsel who makes it, and if granted by the court, shall be signed by the judge and de- livered to the clerk. 

§ 5678. Rule 47. What sufficient. It shall be deemed a sufficient^ compliance with the notice given under section 5249 of the Code (whether served heretofore or hereafter), if the party notified being a resident of any other county of the State, or temporarily absent from the county of his residence, than that wherein the case is pend- ing, shall make an affidavit in writing, before some judicial officer of the State, that the books or papers required and not produced, are not nor have been in his possession, power or control, since the serv- ice of such notice. When the party notified resides in the county, he may make the affidavit in open court, and it shall be held a suf- ficient compliance with the notice. 

§ 5679. Rule 48. In writing. All notices required to be given to any officer of the court must be in writing. 

§ 5680. Rule 49. Brief of testimony. In every application for a new trial, a brief of the testimony in the cause shall be filed by the party applying for such new trial, under the revision and approval of the court. If, pending the motion, the presiding judge shall die, or a vacancy otherwise occur, then his successor shall hear and de- termine the motion from the best evidence at his command. 

§ 5681. Rule 50. Bond to be given. No prochein ami shall be per- mitted to receive the proceeds of any personal action, in the name and behalf of an infant, until such prochein ami shall have entered into sufficient bond to the Governor of the State, for the use of the infant and his representatives, conditioned well and faithfully to account of and concerning his said trust, which bond may be sued by order of the court in the name of the Governor, and for the use of such infant; and such bond shall be approved by the clerk of the court in which the suit may be commenced, and filed in his office. 

§ 5682. Rule 51. Clerk must keep book for. All recognizances taken by the clerk for the appearance of either parties or witnesses shall be written in a book for that purpose, separate and distinct from the minutes, to which he shall affix an alphabetical index. 

§ 5683. Rule 52. No levy or service, etc. When a criminal or civil process shall have been delivered to the sheriff or his deputy, if no levy or service has been made in conformity with the exigency thereof, he shall state specially in his return the cause why such levy or service has not been made. If property which has been levied on remain unsold, it shall be his duty to state the cause of its so remaining unsold, and to give a particular description of the same. 

§ 5684. Rule 53. Returns. The sheriff shall make a return to the clerk of the court, at the opening thereof, of the names of four constables of the county, which constables the sheriff shall notify to attend said term. In the absence of efficient constables the court may appoint special bailiffs. 

§ 5685. Rule 54. Docket. The sheriff of each county shall keep a bench-warrant docket, on which he shall enter all bench-warrants delivered to him, the time when they may be delivered to him, and the time when executed, if executed, and if not, the reason why they were not executed, on pain of being considered in contempt of court. 

§ 5686. Rule 55. Copies of resurveys. County surveyors are quired to deliver copies of resurveys made by them under order of court, officially certified, to each of the parties concerned, upon their application, and at their own proper costs, within ten days after such application is made. 

§ 5687. Rule 56. Scale of plats. Surveys of lands in any quantity of two hundred acres, or less, shall be laid down by a scale of ten chains to the inch; and over that quantity, by a scale of twenty chains to an inch. 

§ 5688. Rule 57. Ten days notice,. No survey shall be received in evidence, unless it appears that at least ten days notice of the time of commencing such survey was given to the opposite party by the one who offers it in evidence. Either party to an action may have a survey made, without an order of court, upon giving the re- quired notice. 

§ 5689. Rule 58. Contents of plat. Every surveyor shall represent on his plat, as nearly as he can, the different inclosures of the parties, and the extent or boundaries within which each party may have exercised acts of ownership. 

§ 5690. Rule 59. Objections to survey. After a cause has gone to a jury and evidence been heard in it, neither party shall be allowed to make objection to the survey executed, provided that proper notice shall have been given. 

§ 5691. Rule 60. How examined. The regular mode of conduct- ing the examination of a witness shall be as follows: First, the witness shall be examined by the party introducing him, and then cross-examined by the other party; after which the original party may further interrogate the witness to explain the direct or rebut the cross examination, and if any new matter be thus elicited, the opp'osite party may further examine the witness as to such new mat- ter. In all cases in which more than one attorney is retained on either side, the examination and cross-examination shall be con- ducted by one of the counsel only; and at the opening of the case both parties shall state to the court to which attorney the exami- nation and cross-examination of witnesses is confined. 

§ 5692. Rule 1 Oath. The oath or affirmation" of a defend- ant to his or her answer to a petition for equitable relief shall be: "You, A. B., do swear, or affirm (as the case may be), that what is contained in your answer, as far as concerns your own act and deed, is true of your own knowledge, and that what relates to the act or deed of any other persons, you believe to be true. 

§ 5693. Rule 2 (3). What service sufficient. After appearance by the party defendant to any petition in equity, by any attorney of this court, the service of any process to make better answer, or any rule or order of the court on such defendant or attorney, shall be sufficient. Service upon plaintiff, or his attorney, shall in like manner be deemed sufficient service. 

§ 5694. Rule 3 (4). Copies of exhibits. Copies of all exhibits shall be filed with the petition or answer, and no exhibits shall be ad- mitted unless by order of the court for some special or good cause shown. The production of the original, if not admitted by the an- swer, may be required on the hearing; and upon application to the court, or to the judge in vacation, and cause shown, the original of any exhibit will be ordered to be deposited in the clerk's office for the inspection of the adverse party. 

§ 5695. Rule 4 (5). Auditors' 1 reports. When auditors have made$ up their report, the same shall be returned into the clerk's office without delay, and shall remain open to the inspection of both parties. 

§ 5696. Rule 5 (6). Bond of prochein ami. The rule at common law which requires a prochein ami of an infant to give bond to ac- count, etc., shall also be observed in equity. 

§ 5697. Rule 6 (7). Issues of fact, how submitted. When in the trial of any chancery cause either party shall request, in accordance with the provisions of the Act of February 27th, 1876, that the jury be required to find a special verdict of the facts only in said cause, the attorney of the party making the request shall prepare and sub- mit to the attorney of the opposite party a clear statement of the issues of fact which he claims arise under the pleadings in the cause to be passed upon by the jury; and the attorney of the opposite party may likewise submit such issues of fact as he claims arise under the pleadings in the cause to be passed upon by the jury. And the pre- siding judge when charging the jury shall instruct and require the jury to find a special verdict of the facts only in said cause, and shall inform the jury what issues of facts are made by the pleadings in said cause. And such issues of fact as are given in charge to the jury may be handed to the jury before they retire. 
