CHANCERY.
AN ACT relative to Proceedings in Chancery.

SEC. 1. Be:z'z‘ enacted by the Council and [lame of
Ii‘e])resentat,z've.s of the Territory of Iowa, That the severalidistrict courts, within the different counties of this
Territory, shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of all
matters in Chancery properly arising within their respective counties, in which a plain, adequate, and complete
remedy cannot be had at law. ,

Sec. 2. Either of said district courts at any stated time
thereof may appoint as many special ‘chaucery terms at
any place Within the proper district as they may deem
expedient, and at such special ‘terms may entertain jurisdiction of any case pending ‘in any court within said district. ‘ » '

SEC. 3. The proceedings in said courts, ?where they are

not regulated by the statutes of this Territory, shall be as

prescribed by the judges thereof, but shall in all matters of
principle be made to conform to the known usages of
courts of equity, except as otherwise provided by law.

Size. 4. All applications to the chancery side of either
of said courts shall be by petition, setting for ththe nature and grounds of such application, which shall ‘be filed
in the oilice of the clerk of such court. a ' '

Si«:c._5. Said clerk shall thereupon issue a summons to
the defendants named in such petition, commandingthem
l0 %l'=_Pe&I‘ at the next term of the court and answer the
petltiop of the complainant. If the petition be filed in
tertni time, the. summons may be made returnable forthwi 1. , ~

SEC-  In other respects the said summons shall as far
as practicable be made to conform to that authorized for

commencingproeeedings at law, as well to its form as to
its service and return, and the proper ollicer shall be subject to the same liability for not duly serving it.

SEO. 7-. VVhere there are several defendants, the suit
may be instituted in the courts where either of _them re_sides, and the clerk of the court in said county may issue
process directed to any other county, which shall be
served by the proper ollicer there and returned in the
same manner as aforesaid.

Sec. 8. Such process may be so served by any person
whatever within this Territory, but if served by any other

. person than the proper officer, and within his own county,

such service must be shown by aiiidavit. .

Sac. 9. Where any of the defendants cannot be found
to be served as aforesaid, the plaintiff may cause notice of‘
the pendeney of the petition, containing a brief statement;
of the object. and prayer thereof, to be published for six;
weeks successively in some newspaper printed in the
county where the petition is filed, if there be one, and if
not, then in some newspaper printed at the seat of government of this Territory. Such notice shall be equivalent
to a personal service, except as hereinafter otherwise deL-lared.

SEC. 10. The complainant may insert as many defend-i
ants in his petition as he may think proper, though they <
claim under dilferent titles; but if any of such defendants:
disclaim, he shall have his costs of the plaintiff, except
when the court for special reasons shall otherwise decree.

SEC. 11. Where the heirs of any decedent are made]
defendants,any of whose names are unknown to the com-i
plainant, they may be proceeded against without being
pained individually, and the court may make such order
in relation to notice as they may deem proper.

_SEc. 12. Where service shall have been effected by(
either of the methods aforesaid, the defendant shall be?
considered in court, and the court may by rule establish:
the times within which the answer or any other pleas oft
either party shall be filed.

Sec. 13. Ifthe defendant shall not file his plea, answer,orI
demurrer within the time limited as aforesaid,the said court5
may at their discretion render a decree thereon, or order:
the complainant to prove the allegations of his bill, and

-such decree may then be_made as the court shall think fit.

SEC. 14. Where the complainant conceives the plea of(
lhe defendant to be good, though not true, he may reply:

W: and take issue thereon, and proceed as in case of anp
answer. is

tr SEC. 15. ‘If the defendant! file :1 demurreraand answer,

3ft overruled, no other plea or demurrer shall be thereafter
received, but the'complainant’s petition may be taken as

SEC. 17. If the said plea or demurrer be allowed, the
‘complainant shall pay costs; and ifoverruled, the defend' ant shall pay them. . l ’ _
or SEC. 18. If the plaintiff donot file his replication or
exceptions within ‘the time fixed by the rules of court

' aforesaid, the cause shall stand for hearing on-petition and

r SEC. 19. Where exceptions shall be filed to an ansivver,
“J an order may be entered of course by the clerk, either in
:_term time or in Vacation, to refer the same to a master In
chancery, or the court itself may decide upon the sulhciency of the answer, and an appeal shall in all cases be
allowed from the 1naster’s‘report to the court. '
SEC. 20. The costs of. the reference to the master shall

be paid by the complainant or defendant, according as the

exceptions are overruled or the answer be adjudged insuliicient.

all have the same credit and effect as the

. defendant.’ If the complainant shall not
ansyver within the time fixed by the rules of the court, his
petltlon shall’ be dismissed with cost:~.‘-.

SEC. 24. If a cross ' '

confessed, and the court shall proceed to decree thereon; a

See. 25. All orders common or special, by the consent
of parties or their solicitors, shall he entered of course with
the clerk, whether in term time or in vacation.

Sad. 26. All amendments shall he made with or without costs, and upon such equitable terms, as the court shall
direct. _

Ssc.27. Every cause in a court of chancery shall be
deemed at issue on tiling,a replication.

Sec. 28. If a.complainant proceed to a hearing on the
petition and answer only, the answer shall be taken to be
true on all points, and no evidence shall be received to
contradict the same, unless it be matter of record to which
the answer refers and is provable by the said record.

Sec. 29. If there be an issue as to any matter of fact«
which shall render the intervention of a jury necessary,‘
the courts may direct an _ issue for the trial of the same”?
and the verdict may be entered of record and made use of
atthe hearingtof the cause. ,

SEC. 30. All pleadings subsequent to the original pe-1
tition shall be served on the, opposite party, or one of them ‘
where there are several. If such party shall have appear-i
ed by a solicitor, the said service shall be made upon such
solicitor.

Sec. 31. Depositions may be taken in cases in chant-.ery,]
under like circumstances and in the same manner as is
provided in cases at law.

SEC. 32. The court may examine witnesses orally, or‘
may directs master to take depositions in writing in such
manner as they shall by rule prescribe.

SEC. 33. If the complainant or his solicitor shall not‘
attend at the time appointed for the hearing of the cause,
his bill shall be dismissed with costs. 3.

Sec. 34. If the defendant shall not attend at the time]
appointed for the hearing of the cause, the bill, answer,“
replication, documents, and proofs shall be read, the wits"
nesses examined, and the court thereupon shall make such
decree as they shall think equitable and just.

' SEC. 35._ Any person having the possession of land, and S
claiming title thereto, may institute a suit against any other;‘
person.settin‘g up a claim thereto, for the purpose of (le- l
termtnmg who is the real owner thereof.

SEC. 36. If the petitioner shall substantiate his title toC
such land,_ the defendant shall be decreed to release to the‘“
Cdmplainant all claim thereto, and to pay the costs of their
Whole proceeding. But if the defendant by his answer
shalldisclaim all title to such land and give a release to

pel the performance of such decree, may require the petitioner to give security, in such sum, as they maypdirect,
‘conditioned that the said petitioner will abideand perform

any order or decree of the court, obtained byfsaid defend-ant in the manner hereinafterlprovided.
ty SEC. 38. If nosecurity be given as aforesaid,the estate

its SEC. 39. In case such defendant, his heirs, devisees,
executors, administrators, or assigns, as the case may re:,_ quire, shall within six months after being notihed of the
decree aforesaid, and within two years after such decree
shall have been mad e, petition the court to set‘ aside said
de_cree, and pay or secure to be paid such costs as the court
may think proper to direct, then in such case the person
so petitioning may be permitted to appear and answer the
complainant’s original petition, and such proceedings shall
thereupon be had as if said defendant had appeared in due
ta season and no decree had been made; but the title to any
It real or personal estate the subject of the former decree,
" which by it, or in consequence of it, shall have passed into

the hands of a lzonajzde purchaser, shall not be affected by
any proceedings under this section.

SEC. 40. Or such defendant may, within the times afore-’

f said, file his peti .' ' '
"settlement of the amount which was really due and owing
to thexcomplainant at the time of the decree, and to compel the said complainant to refund what he may wrongv‘e.recovered and received, together with interest

tlleatlme of making such decree, and such decree shallsbe

executed and performed as in cases where the defendant
shall have duly appeared. ‘

Sec. 42.‘ A decree of a court of chancery shall have the ‘
same operation, force, and effect, from the time of its be-!
ing pronounced, as ajudgment at law. 1]

Ssc.43. It shall not be necessary to enrol any decrcei
or dismission in a court of chancery, but immediately‘
after any decree shall have been pronounced the petition,}
answer, and all other proceedings in the cause shall be at-1
tached together by the clerk of the court and filed in his‘
ollice, together with a fair engrossed copy of such decree
or dismission, and also the report and decretal ordcr therein, but without any recital of the pleadings; and after the
same is signed by the court, the clerk shall annex itto the

petition, answer, and pleadings, which shall he of the like
effect as if the same had been enrolled.

Sec. 44. When a decree shall be made for aconveyance, release, or acquittance in any court of chancery, and
the party against whom the said decree shall pass fails to

comply therewith by the time appointed, such decree shall:
be considered and taken in all courts of law and equity to‘

have the same operation and effect and be as available as if

the conveyance, release, or acquittance had been executed
conformably to such decree.

_ Sec. 45. Where a decree in chancery is made in rela11011 to any real estate lying in a different county from that
wherein such decree was rendered, said decree, in order
tooperate as a lien upon such real estate, must be recorded in the oilice of the register of deeds in the county
where the real estate shall he situated.

Sac.46. Whenever a bill shall he filed fora foreclosure
of a mortgage, the court may decree a sale of the mort-*

: gaged premises, or such part thereof as may he suiiicient‘

to satisfy the mortgage.

SEC. 47. All sales of real estate under the decree of a
court of chancery shall be made by the sheriffof the county
Where the premises lie, unless otherwise directed in said

p decree.

SEC. 48. Deeds shall thereupon be executed by the per-.
son conducting such sale, which shall be valid and bind-‘
Lzifgainst all persons who are bound by the decree of the‘
I SEC. 49. The proceeds of such sale, after payment of
he debt and -costs, s‘_1all be brought into court for the use‘
‘lfllle person who may be entitled thereto, subject to the‘
Order of the court. SEC. 50. If such proceeds shall be insutlicient to satisfy

said deht and costs, the person conducting-siich sale shall

return that fact to t.he court, and thereupon executioh may
issue against any property of the defendant as in actions
at law». ~ .

SEC. 51.'No suit in chancery shall abate by reason of
the death of some of the complainants or defendants,

,where the cause of action will admit of survivorship; but
_in case the death of such persons ‘shall be suggestedand

satisfactorily shown to the court, the said “suit shall proceed in favor of or against the survivors as the case may’

require. , . r

SEC. .52..If the cause of action will not admit»of=survivorship, the suit (in case of the death of a defendant)
shall abate only as to‘the persons so dying as aforesaid,
and the complainant may proceed without reviving the
suit against the representatives of the deceased, or against
any other person who shall have become interested therein by reason of such death, but no order or decree of the
court shall bind a person not a party thereto.

Sec. 53. But if the coinplainaint “prefers making the
.representatives of the deceased party, or any other person
who shall have become interested in consequence of such
death, a party to such suit, no petition of revivor shall be
necessary, but the court may order the suit to stand rcvived. . a
See. 54. If the representatives of the~deceas_ed part)’:
or the parties in interest by reason of sued) death, shall not

appear and put -in their answer, or signify their disclaimer

of the suit within the time to be fixed by the court, the
complainant may cause their appearance to be entered,
and in such case the answer of, the deceased party, if one
shall have been put in, shall be deemed the answer of the
new parties aforesaid, and if -no such answer shall have
been put in,the petition of the complainant shall be talaen
as confessed against such new parties as aforesaid.

SEC. 55. If any of the complainants shall die pendinga
suit wherein the cause of action shall not survive, the
persons interested by such death may, on affidavit thereof
and motion in open court, he entered as complainantsill
the suit, and may be permitted to amend the petition as
their interests may require upon the payment. of the costs
occasioned by such amendment. To this amendment the
defendants shall answer, and the suit shall proceed as in
ordinary cases. i Sec. 56. In case the persons interested, in consequence
of the death ofone of the complainants aforesaid,.sh—all not
within ninety days aftervsuch death cause tliemselves.t0

be entered as complainants, as provided in the preceding
section, then. the surviving complainant, if there be one,
may insert his name as complainant in the suit and the
cause shall proceed as in ordinary cases.

See. 57. The courts may make rules for proceedings in 1
takinga petition as confessed, and also for the proceedings;
necessary to entitle either party to a decree or order of
such coitirtuagaiii.st the oppmlsitte pbartly by default, in every
case no 0 erwise pl‘O\’l( er or y aw.

Sec. 58. The court from time to time may make, alter,1
amend, or revoke any rule of practice so as to obviate‘
t2oulits,advanc'ejustice, and expedite suits in the said court,j‘
provided the same be not contrary to law.

‘SEC. 59. Any judge in vacation may make orders of‘
reference to a master in any cause depending in chancery:
which is ready for such reference, but the party applying;
for such order must have given reasonable notice to the‘
opposite party, or his solicitor, of the time and-place at
which the application for such order will be made.

Sec. 60. The said courts shall have power t.o enforce
their decrees and orders by attachment, sequestration, qr:
5y such final process against the property or person of the,
defendant as may be had on ajutlgnient at law.

See. 61. Such process shall be obeyed, executed, and
returned, by the sheriff or other oliicer to whom it shall:
have been directed, in like manner and under the same,
penalties as is provided in cases of process issuing from a

_ court of law.

.' Sec. 62. In all cases where judgments at law or decrees
In chancery may have been obtained and rendered against‘
any persop, who shall not have property subject to levy
tgntexecution sullicient to satisfy such judgment or decree,

‘I who may have any equitable interest in real estate, or
ahyinterest or stock in any incorporated company, or any

' "l°_ney, contracts, judgments, decrees, debts, or choses in
’ M1011, due to him, or which may become due, or moneys,
§‘;‘;d5s and effects in the hands or possession of any person
to “:1? corporate, the same may be subjected in cliancery

S payment of such judgment or decree.

mac. 63. ‘Applications may be made to the court, in the
hm)’ Vtfliere such judgment or decree was rendered, or
:m‘:‘19 satiddlands lie, to subject all or any of the interests

merae in the precediurr section to the avment of

‘t ' 6 . ‘ . P he Judgment or decree aforesaid, according to the usual

cou ' ' ~ .
_rse of proceeding and known usages ol ‘courts of
chancery.

SE0 54- The said courts shall decree sales and enforce

il

all necessary transfers and conveyances to vest in any
person, purchasing or taking under such decree, all the

f right, title, and interest of the said debtor in the interests

sold or the subject of the decree, at the time of the service
of process in such case, to be held in «the same manner such

debtor held the same.
SEC‘. 65. The sale of all equitable interests in real estate

. shall be conducted as far as practicable in the same manner as is provi«,led by law for the sale of real estate.

Sec. 66. Vfhcre a suit in chancery is brought for the
recovery of any money or damages, a writ of attachment
may be issued under the same circumstances and upon like
conditions as in actions at law; and the proceedings against
garnishees and in all other respects shall, as far as the nature of the case will admit, he made to conform to the corresponding proceedings in actions at law. °

SEC. 67. Any party complaining of any decree made by

la distri'ct court, may appeal therefrom to the supreme

court within thirty days from the time such decreetshall
have been entered in the minutes of the court.

Sec. 68. Every such appeal shall be made by serving
notice thereof on the solicitor of the opposite party, andon the clerk of the court where the decree was entered.

SEC. 69. Upon being served with such notice, said clerk
shall forthwith certify up to the clerk of the supreme court
all the papers and proofs in the cause, whichmay be in his
possession together with a transcript of the record in the
cause. ‘

Sec. 70. Such appeal shall not operate as a stayof proceedings upon the decree, unless the. appellant will give
security in such sum as a judge of the supreme court shall
direct, conditioned to pay, satisfy, and perform the decree
or final order of the supreme court, and all costs, in case the
decree or final order of the district court shall be aliirmed.

Sec. 71. If such decree or iinal ordershall be atiirmed
as aforesaid, the supreme court may award such damages
against the appellant as they may think proper, not exceeding twenty-five per cent on the amount of the money
or other subject matter of such decree. »

SEC. 72. No lien created by the decree of a district
court shall be vacated or removed by the appeal aforesaid,
but shall remain until the final adjudication of the cause in
the supreme court. .

SEC. 73. Petitions for a rehearing shall be signed by
counsel and preferred within thirty days after the making

of an order on the hearing; and the prayer of such petitions shall be allowed at the discretion of thecourt that
made the said order, or of a judge thereof if in vacation.
SEC. 74. Any person who was a party to a decree of a
court of chancery, his heirs, executors, or administrators,‘
may file a petition for a review of the proceedings in’
which such former decree was rendered, at any time within five years next after rendering such decree.
‘ SEC. 75. If the petition for a review be brought upont

‘ errors of law appearing in the body of the decree or pro-3

1 the bond, in addition to the requirements of the preceding law

ceedings themselves, it may be filed as an original pro-8
ceeding in chancery as a matter of course.

, SEC. 76. But if the petition for review be brought up- 1
on the discovery of new matter since the hearing on the"
former decree, it shall only be filed with the leave of the
court to which the same is exhibited. .

SEC. 77. In either case the court, ‘on motion, may atc
their discretion, stay their proceedings on the former de- P:
cree until the further order of the court, or until a final decree-is made on the petition for review.

SEC. 78. The motion to stay proceedings must be made V!
at the term at which the petition for review.is exhibited ‘°
and (with leave) filed, or if tiled in vacation, then at the ‘h
next succeeding term. .

Sec. 79. If proceedings are decreed to he stayed, the 1’
court shall require security to be first given as in case of
appeals. r ' - _

.' Sac. 80. If proceedings are notistayed by order of the If
court, the party against whom such former decree was :3‘
rendered shall fully comply therewith, and the court may, W,
if they deem it necessary, require security for costs to be Qc
given on the petition for review. - “°

_ SEC. 81. The several district courts, or any judge of the 
supreme court, in vacation, may grant writs of injunction”
in cases allowed by the general usages of courts of equity.

SEC. 82. In all cases the person making application for St.

an injunction must give suliicient security in such amount
as the court or judge shall direct, conditioned that the
‘complainant will compensate the defendant for all damages he may sustain in consequence of the injunction have .
ing been granted without suflicient cause. . . .

Sec. 83. If the injunction be to stay proceedings at law, If t

(386

W
C:

‘section, shall be conditioned to pay all money and costs ofb

due or to .become due to the plaintiff at law.
’ ‘SEC. 84. The writ of injunction may be directed and T05

tested like a summons, and served by the proper‘ ollicer W“
In the same manner as a summons. SEC. .85. If such injunction be disobeyed, the courtor
judge by whom it was granted may direct an attachment
to ‘be issued to bring the person guilty of the contempt
forthwith before the said court or judge; and unless s‘uliicient cause to the contrary be then shown, the offending
party may be punished byline notexceeding two hundred
and fifty dollars, and by imprisonment until the offender
shall give to said court or judgeisatisfactory security that

he will do so, or until he be otherwise legally discharged.

[0

0

SEC. 86. After filing his answer‘, thedefendant at any
general or special term may move for a! dissolutionsof the
injunction, or he may move to dismiss the proceedings
without filing" such answer.‘ i ‘ ‘

SEC. 87. The court upon the motion‘ to dissolve may
receive afiidavits on the part of the complainant, and may
make such order in the premises as they may deem proper.
_ SEC. 88. The courtin continuing or dissolving the injunction may require such security from either party, or
impose such other terms and conditions, as may be deem?‘
ed just and equitable.  s ': ‘

SEC. 89. Either of the district courts, or any judge of
the supreme court, may grant writs of ne eweat to prevent
the departure of any defendant out of this Territory, until
security be given to perform the decree inthe cause then

pending: the amount and sufliciency of such security to be
determined by any such court or judge.

SEC. 90. N 0‘ such writ shall be granted but upon petition filed, with an aflidavit annexed Elf the truth of the allegations contained in saidrpetition.

Sec.‘ 91. This writ being in the nature of equitable bail,
shall not in general be granted upon a legal demand, not

under circumstances dissimilar to those which would enti-‘ ‘

tle the plaintiff to bail at law. .

SEC. 92. If the defendant by his answer shall satisfy the
court or judge aforesaid that there is no reason for his restraint, or if he shall give security to perform the decree,
the writ may be discharged, otherwise he shall ‘be committed to jail in the same manner as when arrested by virtue of a capias. i \

SEC. 98. Petitions in chancery for the purpose of perpetuating testimony shall set forth specially the subject
matter relative to which such evidence is to be taken, and
the names of the parties if known to'the complainant,’ but
if not known they shall be described as accurately as p08sible. Such parties shall be brought into court like defendants in other cases.

SEC. 94. Previous to the order for ‘taking depositions
to perpetuate testimony, the party applying therefor shall

tile with the court the names of the witnesses and the in-‘
terrogatories to be propounded to each. The other party‘
may tile cross interrogatories. All which shall be forward-1

. ed to the person who is to take the depositions, and returns made in the same manner as provided for taking depositions in suits at law already pending. A

SEC. 95. The original depositions, or a certified copy?
thereof, shall be evidence in any suit in law or.equity'
which may be thereafter litigated between the parties to
such petition, or their privies, relative to the subject matter thereof, provided the deponent cannot be obtained to
testify.

SEC. 96. After. filing a petition in chancery to perpetu-3
ate testimony, or otherwise, and upon proof that either}
party will be in danger of losing the testimony of any.
witness by death, removal, or bodily infirmity, and also
that the other party has received reasonable notice of ‘the
time and place of making the application, the court, or any
judge thereof in vacation, may make and cause to be filed
among the records in such cause an order for taking the
deposition thus sought for and deemed necessary, in such
manner as the said court or judge shall deem proper; and
111 case such witness cannot be procured at the regular time
of taking testimony in the cause, or if he shall then be incapable of testifying on account of mental or bodily infirmity, such deposition shall have the same force and effect
as though it had been taken in the ordinary manner.

APPROVED, January 23, 1839.

PRAACTICE.
T AN ACT regulating Practice in the district courts of the Territory of Iowa.‘

, SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Council and Houseqf
l Representatives of the Territory of Iowa, That all writs
-issued by any court in this Territory shall run in the name
of the United States of America, and bear test in the name
of the presiding judge and shall be sealed with the seal of

said court, signed by the clerk thereof, and made returna- ‘

.ble to the first day of the next term, after the date of such
writs. V T

SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of the sheriff, or coroner, to
serve all process of summons, or capias, when it shall be
practicable, ten days before the return day thereof, and to
make return of such process to the clerk who issued the
same, by or on the return day, with an endorsement of
his service,’ the time of se ving it, and the amount of his
fees: Provided, That‘ \Vl1Q;rb such process shall have been
directed to a foreign count y, the oH'icer executing the same,
may make return thereof‘ by mail, and the clerk may
charge the postage and tax the amount in his fee bill. .

Sac. 3. If it shall not be in the power of such sheriff or
coroner to serve such summons or capias ten days before
the return day thereof, he may execute the same at an)’
time before or on the return day, but in such case the defendant, or defendants,» shall ‘be entitled to a continuance
and shall not be compelled to plead before the next sucsheri3', or comer, that the defendant or defeiidants are not
found, the clerk shall, at the request of the plaintiH',- issue
another summons, or capias, (as the case may be). and so
on until service be had and the defendant or defenda_nts
be summoned or brought into cou1“t; and if ‘such summons
or capias be served on any one or’ more, but not on all of
the defendants, the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be at liberty
to proceed to trial and judgment in the same manner as if
the defendants were in court, and any judgment so obtain:
ed, shall be valid against the defendant or defendants on
whom the process had been served, and the plaintif or
plaintiffs may at any time afterwards have a summons in
the nature of a scire facias against the defendant or defend:
ants not served with the first process as aforesaid, to cause
him, her, or them to appear in the said court and show”
cause why he, she, or they should not be made a party to
such judgment, and the court shall thereon proceed to hear
and determine the matter in the same manner as if such
defendant or defendants had been originally’ summoned
or brought into court; and such defendant or defendants
shall also be allowed the benefit of any payment which
may have been made on the judgment before recovered,
and the judgment of the court against the defendant or‘
defendants in such case shall be, that the plaintiff or plaintiffs recover against such defendant or defendants,together
with the defendant in the former judgment, the amount of
his debt, or damages, as the case may be.

SEC. 5. If any shefrifl‘, or coroner, to whom any sum-I
mons or capias shall be delivered, shall neglect or refusejf
to make return of the same‘ before or on the return day of i
such process, the plaintiff may enter a rule requiring said
sheriff or coroner to make return of such process, on aday
to be fixed by the court, or to show cause, on that day, why
he should, not be attached for a contempt of the‘cour’t; and,
the plaintiff shall thereupon cause a written notice of such:
rule to be served on such sheriff or coroner, and if good
and suliicient cause he not shown to excuse such otIicer,¢

the court shall adjudge hitn guilty of a contempt, and shall!

proceed to punish such officer as in other cases of contempt.‘ Sec; 6. If the plaintiff shall not file‘ his declaration, to-1
gather with a copy of theinstrument of writing, or account
On which the action is brought, in case the same b‘e brought;
On a written instrument or account, ten days before the.‘
court at which the summons or capias is- made returnable,
the court on motion of the defendant shall continue the
cause; at the costs of the plaintid, unless it shall appear‘
that the suit was commenced within ten days of the sit-‘

7

ting of the court, in which case the cause shall be continued without costs, unless the parties shall agree to have a
atrial, and if no declaration shall be iiledten days before
the. second term of the court, the defendant shall be entitled to ajudgment as in case of non-suit.
_ SEC. 7. The clerks of the district courts inthis Territory shall keep a docket of all the causes pending in their
arespective courts, in which shall be entered the names of
{the parties, the cause of actibn, and the names of the plaintiff’s attorney, and he shall furnish the judge and the bar
at each term with a copy of the same, in which all indictments and causes to which the United'States may be a par-‘ '

ty, shall be first set down, after which shall be set down
all cases in law, in order, according to the date of their
commencement, and lastly, the suits in chancery; and the
clerk shall also set and apportion the causes for as many

Qdays of the term as he may think necessary, or be directed by the judge, and all subpoenas for Witnesses. shall be
made returnableon the day on which the cause in which
the witnesses are to be called, is set for trial.

, ‘SEC. 8. The clerk shall from time to time issue subp<2-nas for such witnesses as may be required by either party,
returnable on the day‘ for which the cause in which they
are required to attend is set for trial, andvevery clerk who
shall refuse so to do, shall be fined at the discretion of the
court in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars. _

SEC. 9-. In all cases pending in any district court of this

‘Territory, if both the parties shall agree, both matters of
law and fact may be tried by the court.

3 SEC. 10. The several district courts shall have p0W€1‘
in any action pendingbefore them, upon motion,and g00d
and suflicient cause shown, and reasonable notice thereof
given, to require the parties, or either of them, to produce
books or writing in their possession or power, which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, and it shall be the du‘ty of the defendant or defendants, in all cases where he:
she, or they intend to prove on trial any accountsol‘ dt_’»'
mands against the plaintiff or plaintitls, to file with his
plea a hill of the particular items of such accounts or <13“
mands, and no other accounts ,or demands shall be suifered
to be proved to the jury, or court, on that trial.

SEC. 11. On the appearance of the defendantor defendants, the court may allow such time to plead as may be
deemed reasonable and necessary, and for want of appear‘
ance, may give judgment by default on calling the cause,
except in cases where the process has not been served or
declaration filed ten days before the term of the court, but

all the causes shall be tried, or otherwise disposed of, in
the order they are placed on the docket, unless the court,
for good and sufficient cause, shall otherwise direct. And
whenever either party shall apply for the continuance of
a cause on account of the absence of testimony, the motion
shall be grounded on the ailfidavit of the party so applying,
or his, her, or their authorized agent, showing that due diligence has been used to obtain it, and also the name and
residence of the witness or witnesses, and what particular
fact or facts the party expects to prove by such witness or
witnesses, and should the court be satisfied that such evidence would not be material on the trial of the cause, or if
the opposite party will admit the factor facts stated in the
aflidavit, the cause shall not be continued.

SEC. 12. The defendant may plead as many matters of
fact in several pleas as he may deem necessary, for his defence, or may plead the general issue, and give notice in
writing under the same of the special matters intended to
be relied on for a defence on the trial, under which notice,‘
if adjudged by the court to be sufliciently clear and expli-I
cit, the defendant shall be permitted to give evidence of
the facts therein stated, as if the same had been especially
pleaded and issue taken thereon; but no person shall bei
permitted to deny on trial the execution of any inslru-1‘
ment in writing, whether sealed or not, upon which any
action may have been brought, or which shall be pleaded
or set up by way of defence or set—oiT, ‘unless the person?
so denying the same shall, ifdefendant verify his plea by
atlidavit, and ifplaintitf shall file his or her ailidavit denying the execution of such instrument: Provided, If the]
party making such denial be prosecuting, or sued as exe-1
center or administrator, it shall be sutlicient to state in such,
affidavit the belief of the party making the same according
to his or her best knowledge, that such instrument was
not executed by the testator or intestate.SEC. 13. Wheneverjudgment shall be given against the.‘
defendant or defendants by default in any action brought‘
on any instrument of Writing for the payment of money:
only, the court may direct the clerk to assess the damages]

‘by computing the interest and principal and report the

|same to the court, upon which final judgment shall be
given, and in all other actions, when judgment shall go by
default, the plaintiff may have his damages assessed by the
Jury in court. ‘

SEC. 14. The court may, in its discretion, before final‘
judgment, set aside any default upon good and" sutlicientg
«muse, upon atlidavit, upon such terms and conditions as

shall be deemed reasonable: Provided, That no -judgment
by default shall be set aside unless the motion, is madeat
the term said judgment was rendered.

, SEC. 15. All affidavits made in court during the prosgrass of any cause and relating thereto, shall be filedi-and
preserved by the clerk. ll‘

SEC. 16. In actions brought on penal bond_s,conditi'on~

ed for the performance of covenants, the plaintiff may as‘.-.

sign in his declaration as many breachesas hemay think
.-fit, and the jury, whether on trial of the issue, or of inqui-s
ry,.shall assess the damages for so many breaches as the
plaintiff shall prove, and theudgment for the-penalty shall
stand’ as a security for such other breaches.as may aftera

rwards happen; and the plaintiff may, at any time after«-‘

wards, sue out a writ of inquiry to assess damages for the
breach of any covenant, or covenants, contained in such‘
bond subsequent to the former trial or inquiry, and when&
ever execution shall be issued on such judgment, theclerk
shall endorse thereon the amount of the damages assessed
by the jury, with the costs of suit, and the sheriff or ‘coroner (as the case may be) shall only collect the amount so
endorsed: Provided, That in all cases where a writ of inquiry of damages shall be issued for any such breaches
subsequent to the first trial or inquiry, the defendant,.or

'his agent or attorney shall have at leastten days’ ‘notice
in writing of the time of executing the same. ‘

Sec. 17. The defendant, or defendants, in any action
brought upon any contract or agreement, either express
or implied, having claims or demands against the plaintiff
insuch actions, may plead the same or give notice thereof
under the general issue, as is provided in the twelfth section of this act, or under the plea of _payment, and the same
.or such part thereof as the defendant shall prove on trial
shall beset oil’ and allowed against the plain~tift’s denianlla
and a verdict shall ‘be given for the balance‘ due, and If It
shall appear that the plaintiff be indebted to the defendant, the jury shall fiiid a yerdict for the defendant, and
certify to the court theamount so found, and the court
shall give judgment in favor of such‘ defendant for the
amount so certified, with the cdsts of his defence, and 31s
ecution shall be issued on such judgment, as in other cases.

SEC. l_8. In all civil actions each party shall be entltlad
toa challenge of three jurors without shoyving £3353 £9”
such cha}l_enge, and when the jury retire to consider °f
their verdicts they shall be permitted to take any papers
that may have been used as evidence on the n.~ia1- And
no plaintiff shall suffer 5. non-suit on the trial, unl6S_5 he ‘.19
£0 .b3.f01'° the jury retire from the bar. H

SEC.‘ 19. If during the progress of any trial in any civil 1
cause either party shall alledge an exception to the opin-1
ions of the court and reduce the same to writing, it shall
be the duty -of the judge to allow the said exceptions and
to sign and seal the same, and the said bill of exceptions
shall thereupon become ‘a partof the recordsof such cause;
and if any judge of the district court shall refuse to allow'
or ‘sign such bill of exceptions tendered and the same is
signed by three or more disinterested by-standers, or at-.
torneys of said court, the judge shall then permit the said
bill to be filed and become a part of the record, if the judge
refuse, the supreme court of this Territory may, when
such cause is brought before them, b writ of error or ap-I
peal, upon proper aflidavit of such relusal, admit such bill‘

of exceptions as a part of the record.

SEC. 20. It shall be sufficient for thdfjury to pronounce‘
their verdict by their foreman in open court, without re-1
ducing the same to writing, and the clerk shall enter the
same in form under the direction of the court, and if either;
party may wish to except to the verdict or for other causes
to move for a new trial, or in arrest of judgment, he shall,
before final judgment be entered, give by himself or counsel to the opposite party or his counsel, the 'points in wri-i
ting, particularly specifying the grounds of such motion,
and shall also furnish the judge with a copy of the same,
and final judgment shall thereupon he stayed until such
motion can be heard by the court:’ But no more than two
new trials shall be granted to the same party in the same
cause, nor shall any verdict or judgment be set aside for
irregularity only, unless cause be shown for the same during the sitting of the court ‘at the term such judgment or
Verdict shall begiven. _

SEC. 21. Whenever an entire verdict shall be given on
several counts, the same shall not be set aside or reversed
if any one or more of the counts be good.

SEO. 22. In cases of attachment against absent or abscondin g debtors, the attaching creditor shall, on the return
of the writ of attachment, or at the term of the court where
the same is made returnable, tile a declaration (unless otherwise provided in the act regulating writs of attachment,)
with a copy of the instrument, or account on which the attachment was issued as in other cases; after which the cause
shall proceed‘as in other cases, and if no declaration shall be
filed, the defendant, on entering his appearance, shall have
9 judgment against the attaching creditor for costs.

Sec. 23. Any person, for a debt bona iide due, may.

9 confess judgment by himself or attorney, duly authorized
without process, and every confession ofjudgment whether with or without process shall operate as a release of er.rors on the entering up of the judgment or making record
thereof, and in no case, except when the title of land shall

‘come in question, shall it be necessary for the clerk to
make a complete record, unless especially requested by
one of the parties, who shall pay the costs of the complete
record. j

1, SEC. 24. Where judgment shall be arrested for any defect in the record of proceedings, after the first process,
the plaintiff shall not be compelled to commence his ac.tion anew, but the court shall order new pleadings to commence with the error that caused the arrest. '

: SEC. 25. The clerks of the several district courts shall
keep a fee book, in which shall be clearly and distinctly
set down in items under the proper title, the costs of each
suit, including the sheriffs and witnesses, as well as clerk’s
fees, noting distinctly what fees have accrued‘ on the part
of each party, which fee book shall be a public record,and,
whenever any suit shall be determined and final judgment
entered, the costs and charges of each party litigant shall
be made up, and, together with the costs of the prevailing
party, shall be included in the judgment, and the clerk
shall always send out a bill of such costs with the execution, and the costs of the party failing in the suit, shall be
collected in the manner prescribed by law. '

SEC. 26. ‘If any clerk shall issue a fee bill, or a bill of
costs, with the execution,:_without first entering the same
in his fee book, or if any such bill of costs or fee billshallr
be so issued which shall not lie in substance a copy of the
recorded bill,the same shall be void, and any person having paid such bill of costs, or fee bill, may recover from
the clerk the amount thereof with costs of suit; in any.‘
court having cognizance thereof, and in every bill of costs
to be made or recorded as aforesaid, the names of the witnesses shall be stated with the number of dayseach attend”-ed at every term. .

SEC. 27. It shall not be necessary to insert in the judgment other than the docket book, the costs of the preva1l-ing party, except in cases where a complete record shall
be required, but the fee book of the clerk shall be takenand deemed a part of the record, subject, however, at all’
times to be corrected by the court. SEC. 28. The clerks of the several district courts shall
provide and keepain their respective ollices a well bound
book for entering therein an alphabetical docket of all

judgments and decrees rendered in their respective courts,
and it shall be the duty of the said clerks, during every
term, or within thirty days thereafter, to enter in such
term in alphabetical order by the name of the person against
whom the judgment or decree was entered, which shall
contain, in columns ruled for that purpose, the names of
the parties, the date, the nature of thejudgment, or degree,
the amount of the debt, damages and costs, the book and

— page in which it is entered, and leaving a blank column,

or columns, for entering a note or memorandum of the satisfaction, or other disposition thereof; and when anyjudg-.
mentor decree shall be satisfied by execution, or otherwise,
or shall be set aside, the said clerk shall enter a memorandum thereof in the column left for that purpose, showing
how disposed of, and the date, book, and page where the
evidence thereof ‘is recorded, and such docket may be
searched by persons, at all reasonable times, without fee;and every clerk who shall fail to keep such docket or to
enter therein any judgment, or decree, as aforesaid, shall
forfeit and pay a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars,
nor less than twenty-live dollars, and costs of suit, the one
half to the use of the county where such court is held,and
the other half to the use of any person who will sue fgr thel
same, to be recovered by action of debt in the district court. ‘

SEC. 29. Whenever any sheriff or coroner shall neglect;
or refuse to make return of any execution to him deliver-a
ed, and deliver when the same shall. be returnable, or shall‘
refuse or neglect to pay over any moneys collected on
such execution, the party suing out such execution on giv- _.
ing to said sheriff or coroner five days’ notice, in writing,3
of his, her, or their intention, may apply to the court for_
relief: and it shall be the duty of the court, on proof by af-‘l
iidavit of the delivery of such execution, if the same be
not returned, or on proof that such money has been col-_
lected andnot paid over, to grant an order against such,
sheriff or coroner, requiring him to make immediate return of such. execution, or if the amount, or any part thereof has been collected, to pay over the same immediately”
with twenty per cent. thereon from the time of collection:
till paid, and on failure of such sheriff or coroner to comply with such order. on demand, and being served with a
copy of the order, he shall be judge:l to be in contempt,
and punished accordingly; or the plaintiff in such execu—1
tion may have judgment for the money, with twenty per}
cent thereon so collected, and have execution as in other f
cases: Provided, That in such cases, no stay of execution]
shall be granted. i

SEC. 30. The clerk shall enter, in a bodl: to be keplby
him for the purpose, the return of the sheriii‘ or coroifer‘
of all executions within thirty days after the same shall be
returned, under the penalty imposed in the twenty-eighth
section of this act. _ '

SEC. 31. Appeals from the district court to‘ the supreme
court of this Territory shall be allowed in all cases when
the judgment or decree appealed from be final, and shall
’amoun_t, exclusive of costs, to the sum of twenty-five dol-_
lars: Provided, Such appeals he prayed for at the time of
rendering the judgment or decree, and provided the party
praying such appeal shall, by himself, agent, or attorney,give bond, with suflicient security, to be approved by the

court, and filed in the ollice of the clerk; which bond shall‘ .

be in a reasonable sum, suliicient to cover the amount of
the judgment appealed from, and all costs, interests, and
damages, in case the judgment shall be affirmed; and also‘
for the due prosecution of said appeal, and the obligee in
such bond may at any time on a breach of the condition
thereof, have and maintain an action at law, as on other
bonds. , A ,~
, Sec. 32. The appellant shall lodge in the oflice of the
clerk of the supreme court, an authenticated copy of the
record or‘ decree appealed from by or before the third day
of the next succeeding term of said supreme court: Fravided, That if there be not thirtyjdays between thetimeof making the appeal and the sitting of the court, then the ,

record shall be lodged as aforesaid, at or before the third
day of the next succeeding term of the supreme co‘m't;otherwise the said appeal shall be dismissed, unless further time to file the same shall have been granted by the su-'
preme court, upon good cause shown. '_ ,

Sec. 33. In all cases of appeals and writs of error, the
supreme court may give final judgment and issue exeeu-'
tion, or remand the cause to the district courtin order fl!“
an execution may be thereissued, or’ that other’ proceed-v
ings may be had thereon. ~ ,

Sad. 34. No writ of error shall operate as a supersede‘
as, unless the supreme court, or some justice thereof, In
vacation, after inspecting a copy of the record, shall ordet
the same to be made a supersedeas; nor until theparty 
curing such writ shall file a bond in the manner and with
the condition required in cases of appeals; when the c'l‘el‘l!
issuing‘ such writ shall endorse thereon that it shall be_3
Blipersedeas and operate accprdingly, and the partiesln
writs of error shall _be subject to the same judgment and‘
mode of execution as is provided in cases of appeals.

Sec. 35: Whenever the supreme court shall be equally
divided in opinion on hearin g an appeal or writ of error,
the judgment of the court below shall stand atlirmed.

Sec. 36. The district courts in charging the jury, shall
only instruct them as to the law of the case.

Size. 37. That any instrument of writing to which the
maker shall ailix a scrawl by way of seal, shall he of the
same effect and obligation to all intents as if the same was
sealed: Provided, The seal be referred to in the body of i
the instrument. ,

SEC. 38. A negro, mulatto, or Indian‘, shall not be a wit-‘~
ness in any court or in any case againsta white person.

S1-ac. 39. That in all cases where a judgment or decreei
shall be rendered in any district court in any case what-‘
ever, either in law or chancery, against two or more per-:
sons, either one of the said persons shall be permitted l’.O¢
remove said suit to the supreme court by appeal or writ‘
of error, and for that purpose shall be permitted to use the.
names of all of said persons, if necessary; but no costs shall
be taxed against any person who shall not join in said appeal or writ of error. And all such cases shall be determined in said supreme court as other suits are, and in the
same manner that it would have been if all the parties had

joined in said appeal.or writ of error.

See. 40. Hereafter minors may bring suits in all cases}
whatever by erson that they may select as their next;
friend, and th so selected, shall file a bond with
the clerk of the district court, or justice of the peace, before whom the suit may be brought, acknowledging himself bound for all the costs that may accrue and legally devolve upon such minor; and after bond shall have been so I
filed, said suit shall progress to final judgmat and execu-I 5

_ tion as in other cases.

See. 41. That in any species of personal actions in law 1
or equity when there is more than one defendant, the:
plaintiff commencing his action where either of them re- 3,
side,may have a writ or writs issued, directedto any county ct
or counties where the other defendants, or either of them,
may be found: Provided, That if a verdict shall not he I
found, or judgment rendered againstthe defendant or defendants, resident in the county where the action is commenced, judgment shall not be rendered against those defendants who do not reside in the county, unless they appear and defend the action. _

SEO. 42. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret I:
when necessary. SEC. 43. No declaration shall hereafter be considereds

necessary to be filed in any scire facias to revive a judg-ment. '

SEC. 44. 'That when any person, holding a bond or note
for the direct payment of property or money, shall desire
to put the same in suit, he may do so by filing with the
clerk of any district court having jurisdiction thereof, together with a petition purporting as follows:

District Court, t

County, Iowa l Territory} Sc '

. A. B., plaintiff, states that he holds a bond, or note,
(as the case may be) on the defendant, C. D., in substance
as followeth: (here insert a copy of the bond or note,) yet the
same debt remains unpaid, wherefore he prays judgment
for his debt and damages for the detention of the same, together with his costs. a,

SEC. 45. If the plaintiff shall hold the bond or note as
indorsee, then. after reciting the bond or note, say on which
is the following assignment: (recite the assignment) whereby the plaintiff hath becomethe proprietor thereof, of which
the defendant hath had due notice.

SEC. 446. A. copy of the petition shall be sent out with
the summons annexed thereto, requiring the defendant or
defendants to appear and answer the said demand on the
first day of the succeeding term, which shall be executed
by the sheriff by delivering a copy of the petition and
summons to the defendant, and each W1, if there be
more than ope. ~

. .
SEC. 47. The sheriff or other 0 er, in-his return, shall

 

‘note the day on which it shall lid’ e been executed; and ‘

whenever it shall appear therefrom that it wasexecuted
ten days or ore ‘before the return day, judgmentshall be
rendered ata first term-, subject to be continued on amdavit, as provided in this act, but if the process shall not.
have been executed ten days before the sitting of the‘ court
to whichthe same is made returnable, a continuance shall
be entered, unless a trial shall be had by consent of paI‘U93SEC. 48. The saidqaetition shall stand in the place of 3

.declaration, the defendant or defendants may appear and

plead, and then an issue may be joined as in actions of
debt on such bond or note; but if the defendant or defendants shall not appear and plead, the plaintiff may 13113
judgment by default, as in other cases.

. SEC. 49. After verdict, the act of jeofails shall apply.”
in actions of debt heretofore; nothing herein shall pr0hlb'
It any person who shall choose so to do, from suing In the

ordinary way, and the fees shall be the same as in other
cases.

SEC. 50. When a petition shall have been filed accord-3
ing to the provisions of this act, and on atiidavit to hold;
to bail as herein provided, there shall be a§_§_e_s_se'd by the clerk
a capias and an order to hold to bail, as is now or may be
provided by law. In such cases the afiidavit shall be in
substance as follows: ,

Territory of Iowa,; as p  ,

county. '  i‘  «~: ,_ .

A. B., plaintiff in the above petition, maketh oath and‘)
saith, that he has a real, subsisting, and unsatisfied cause of
action set out in the above petition, and amounts to the
sum of ; and further, that the deponent will be in
danger of losing his debt unless the defendant‘ be held to
bail. Signed, A. B.

Sworn to and subscribed before me at my oliice, this
day of — A. D. G. W. H. Clerk. 3
Which allidavit may be made before the clerk of~the district court, or any justice of the peace of the proper county.

SEC. 51. This act to take etfect and be in force from and
after the first day of May next.

Arpnovnn, January 25, 1839.

     

I
4
4

