TITLE XVIII.

THE ORGANIZATION OF THE SUPREME AND DISTRICT COURTS.

aL-.._;.. .___.. - ._——:—_. ....pi-.j..

CHAPTER 90.

THE SUPREME COURT.

§ 1543. Until otherwise ordered, the four supreme court districts will remain as at present organized and the times and
places for holding courts therein continue unchanged.

§ 1544. At any general term the court may change the
time for holding the next regular term in that district, but
there must be at least one term in each of said districts annually.

§ 1545. Special terms may also be called by the chief justice at his discretion for the trial of appeals in civil causes
with the consent of both parties, or for the trial of appeals in
criminal causes to which the accused consents and the prosecuting attorney can show no sufficient objections.

§ 1546. The court may prescribe the character of the record
to be kept by the clerk and the mode of keeping the same,
and subject to the regulations contained in the statute it may
prescribe his other duties and powers.

§ 1547. The sheriff of the county wherein the court is held:
together with all necessary assistants must attend upon the
sessions of the court, and shall each receive two dollars per
day as a compensation for such attendance.

§ 1548. All reasonable expenses of the suprene court must
be certified by one of the judges of the court and be allowed
by the auditor and paid out of the state treasury.

§ 1549. Appeals must be taken to the supreme court for
the district in which the causes respectively originate, unless
by the written consent of parties or their attorneys they are
taken to another district. But cases heard in one district
may be decided in another.

§ 1550. Such decisions and the order of the court thereon,

being certified back to the court where the cause was heard

,and entered on the records of that court, shall have the same
force and effect as if made and entered during the session of
the court in that district.

§ 1551. The presence of two judges is necessary for the
transaction of business, but one alone may adjourn from day
to day or to any particular day or until the next term.

§ 1552. When the court is equally divided in opinion the
cause must stand for a re-argument unless the third judge be
legally disqualified from serving. In such cases the judgment of the district court shall stand aflirmed, but the decision is of no farther force or authority.

§ 1553. If all the judges fail to attend on the first day of
the term the clerk must enter the fact upon the record and
the court shall stand adjourned until the next day. The
same proceedings shall be repeated from day to day until the
fourth day of the term, when if none of the judges appear
the court shall stand adjourned until the next term.

§ 1554. No process or proceeding is in any manner affected by an adjournment or failure to hold court, but all shall
stand continued to the next term without any special order
to that effect.

§ 1555. The supreme court has an appellate jurisdiction
over all final judgments and decisions of any of the district
courts, as well in cases of civil actions properly so called as
in proceedings of a special or independent character.

§ 1556. Intermediate orders involving the merits and materially affecting the final decision may also be reversed on
appeaL

§ 1557. The court may also in its discretion prescribe rules
for allowing appeals on such other intermediate orders or
decisions as they think expedient, and for permitting the
same to be taken and tried during the progress of the trial in
the court below; but such intermediate appeals must not retard proceedings in the trial in chiefin the district court.

§ 1558. The court may issue all writs and process necessary for the exercise and enforcement of its appellate jurisdiction.

§ 1559. The judges of the court may report their own decisions or they may appoint a reporter, who shall hold his
office at the pleasure of the court.

§ 1560. The opinions of the court on all questions reviewed
on appeal as well as such motions, colateral questions, and
points of practice as they may think of suflicient importance,
shall be reduced to writing and filed with the clerk of the
court.

§ 1561. All dissenting opinions must be written and filed
in the same manner.

§ 1562. The records and reports must in all cases show
whether a decision was made by a full bench, and whether
either, and if so which, of the judges dissented from the
decision.

§ 1563. The supreme court has a general supervision over
the district court to prevent and correct abuses where no
other remedy is provided for by law.

CHAPTER 91.

THE CLERK OF THE SUPREME COURT.

§ 1564. The supreme court may in its discretion remove
any of its clerks and appoint others in their stead. The location of their offices shall remain as heretofore, until changed
b ' law.

§ 1565. Each of the clerks must keep a complete register of ;
all proceedings of the court with an index to the same. And,
generally, they must perform all the other duties ordinarily
pertaining to their offices.

 

CHAPTER 92.

THE DISTRICT COURT.

§ 1566. The judicial districts, and the terms of the district]
courts therein respectively, shall remain as at present fixed’until otherwise directed—-provided that in any county where,
by the laws now in force, terms of the district court are holden
within any incorporated city or town not being the seat of
justice of such county, the said city or town shall provide and
furnish the necessary rooms and places for such terms of said
court free from charge to such county.

§ 1567. In counties where no time is now fixed for holding}
a court, the judge may appoint the terms by a written notice
to the clerk thereof.

§ 1568. The clerk shall thereupon prepare as many written I
notices of the time and place of holding such court as there
are townships in the county, and the sheriff shall post up one
of such notices in a public place in each of said townships at

least three weeks prior to the time therein fixed for holding
the court. ,

§ 1569. A special term may be ordered in any county at
any regular term of the court in that county.

§ 1570. Such special term may also be called at any time
by the judge for the trial of those causes in which both parties
consent.

§ 1571. The court in ordering a special term shall direct
whether a grand or petit jury or both or neither shall be
summoned.

§ 1572. The court may by its rules establish terms in any
county for the making up of issues or the transaction of any
other business not requiring a jury; but the number of trialterms above required shall not on that account be lessened.

§ 1573. VVhen a county is not provided with a regular
court house at the place where the courts are to be held they
shall be held at such place as the county court provides.

§ 1574. If no suitable place be_ thus provided the district
court shall direct the sheriff to procure one.

§ 1575. The district judges may interchange and hold each
other’s courts.

§ 1576. The several district courts shall exercise general
original jurisdiction both civil and criminal, and as well in
chancery as at common law, where not otherwise provided
by law. They shall also have a general supervision over all
inferior courts to prevent and correct abuses where no other
remedy is provided.

§ 1577. The clerk of each district court shall keep a record
of the proceedings of the court under the direction of the
judge. He shall from time to time read over all entries
therein in open court which when correct shall be signed by
the judge.

§ 1578. When it is not practicable to have all the records
prepared and thus approved during the term they may be
read, corrected, and approved at the next succeeding term,
but such delay shall not prevent an execution from issuing in
the mean time, and all other proceedings may take place in
the same manner as though the record had been approved
and signed. Entries authorized to be made in vacation shall
be read, approved, and signed at the next term of the court.

§ 1579. The record aforesaid is under the control of the
court and may be amended or any entry therein expunged
at any time during the term at which it is made or before it
is signed by the judge as aforesaid. .

§ 1580. Entries made approved and signed at a previous
term can be altered only to correct an evident mistake.

§ 1581. If the judge does not appear on the day appointed

for holding the court the clerk shall make an entry thereof in
his record and adjourn the court till the next day, and so on
until the third day unless the judge appear, provided three
days are allowed for such term.

§ 1582. If the judge does not appear by five o’clock of the
third day and before the expiration of the time allotted to the
term of the court, it shall stand adjourned till the next regular term.

§ 1583. If the judge is sick or for any other sufficient cause
is unable to attend court at the regularly appointed time, he
may by a written order direct an adjournment to a particular
day therein specified, and the clerk shall on the first day of
the term or as soon thereafter as he receives the order adjourn
the court as therein directed.

§ 1584. No recognizance or other instrument or proceeding
shall be rendered invalid by reason of there being a failure
of the term, but all proceedings pending in court shall be
continued to the next reguar term, unless an adjournment be
made as authorized in the last preceding section.

§ 1585. In cases of such continuances or adjournments,
persons recognized or bound to appear at the regular term
which has failed as aforesaid shall be held bound in like
manner to appear at the time so fixed, and their sureties (if
any) shall be liable in case of their non-appearance in the
same manner as though the" term had been held at the regular time and they had failed to make their appearance thereat.

§ 1586. Upon any final adjournment of the court all business not otherwise disposed of will stand continued generally.

CHAPTER 93.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 1587. No judge of the supreme or district court shall prac-.
tice as an attorney or counselor at law, or give advice in
relation to any case pending, or about to be brought, in any‘
of the courts of this state.

§ 1588. Each of the judges’ of the supreme and district.
courts shall report to the legislature at each regular session]
thereof all omissions, discrepancies‘, or other evident imperfections of the law, which have fallen under his observation.

§ 1589. The supreme and district courts shall respectively‘
have power (by the establishment of proper rules) to supply1
defects in this title, so as to carry out the general spirit and
intent of the system of practice herewith adopted.

§ 1590. The said courts may adopt also such other rules as
they may deem expedient, consistent with law, and may revise
the same as often as they think expedient.

§ 1591. The prime object of such rules shall be to carry out
the purposes of the statute, to preserve as far as is consistent with law the substance of previous remedies, dispensing
with all needless forms with the view of arriving at the prompt
attainment of justice.

§ 1592. All process issued by the clerk of the su reme or
any district court shall bear date on the day on w ich it is
issued, be tested in the name of the clerk who' issued the
same, and be under the seal of the court.

§ 1593. All judicial proceedings must be public unless otherwise specially provided by statute or otherwise agreed upon
by the parties.

§ 1594. All courts have power to administer oaths, connected with any matter pending before them, either by any judge,
justice, or clerk thereof, or by any other person appointed for
that purpose by them.

§ 1595. A judge or justice is disqualified from acting as
such except by mutual consent of parties in any case wherein he is a party or interested, or where he is related to either
party by consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree,
or where he has been attorney for either party in the action
or proceeding. But this section does not prevent them from
disposing of any preliminary matter not affecting the merits
of the case.

§ 1596. No court can be opened nor can any judicial business be transacted on Sunday except,

Fmsr—To give instructions to a jury then deliberating on
their verdict;

SscoNn—To receive a verdict or discharge a jury;

Tnmn—+To exercise the powers of a single magistrate in a
criminal proceeding.

§ 1597. All courts must sit at the places designated for
that purpose pursuant to statue unless by common consent
some other place is fixed upon.


CHAPTER 94.

CONTEMPTS.

§ 1598. The following acts or omissions are deemed to be
contempts and are punishable as such by any of the courts

of this state or by anyjudicial ollicer acting in the discharge
of an official duty, as hereinafter provided :

F ms'r—-F or contemptuous or insolent behavior towards
such court while engaged in the discharge of a judicial duty
which may tend to impair the respect due to its authority;

Sscorm-—For any wilful disturbance calculated to interrupt the due course of its official proceedings;

Tnum--For illegal resistance to any order or process made
or isssued by it ;

F ovn'ra——For disobedience to any subpoena issued by it
and duly served, or refusing to be sworn or to answer as a
witness ;

Firrn—For unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an
action or proceeding pending before such court while going
to, or remaining at, the place where the action or proceeding is thus pending ;

S1xrH—For any other act or omission specially declared
a contempt by law.

§ 1599. In addition to the above, the supreme and district
courts may punish the following acts or omissions as contempts : '

Finsr—-Failure to testify before a grand jury when lawfully
required to do so ;

SscoNn—Assuming to be an oilicer, attorney, or counsellor
of the court and acting as such without authority;

TmnD—Misbehavior as a juror, by improperly conversing
with a party or with any other person in relation to the merits of an action in which he is acting or is to act as a juror,
or, receiving a communication from any person in respect to
it without immediately disclosing the same to the court;

Foun'ru—Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate,
or officer, to any lawful judgment order or process of a superior court, or proceeding in any matter contrary to law after
it has been removed from such tribunal, magistrate, or officer.

§ 1600. The punishment for contempts may be by fine or
imprisonment or both, but where not otherwise specially
provided the supreme and district courts are limited to a fine
of"lifty dollars and an imprisonment not exceeding one day,
and all other courts are limited to a fine of ten dollars.

§ 1601. But if the contempt consistsin an omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to perform he may be imprisoned until he performs it. In that
case the act to be performed must be specified in the warrant of commitment.

§ 1602. Unless the contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the court or comes officially to its

_ knowledge, an affidavit showing the nature of the transac_',tion is necessary as abasis for farther action in the premises.
§ 1603. Before punishing for a contempt, unless the offender is already in the presence of the court, he must be served
personally with a rule to shew cause against the punishment,
and a. reasonable time given him therefor; or he may be
brought before the court forthwith or on a given day by warrant if necessary. In either case he may at his option make
a written explanation of his conduct under oath, which must
be filed and preserved. l

§ 1604. Where the action of the court is founded upon evidence given by others such evidence must be in writing and
be filed and preserved, and if the court act upon their own
knowledge in the premises a statement of the facts upon
which the order is founded must be entered on the records of
the court, or be filed and preserved when the court keeps no
record.

§ 1605. When the offender is committed the warrant must
state the particular facts and circumstances on which the
court acted in the premises, and whether the same was within the knowledge of the court or was proved by witnesses.

§ 1606. No appeal lies to an order to punish for a contempt,
but the proceedings may in proper cases be taken to a higher
court for revision by certiorari.

§ 1607. The punishment for a contempt constitutes no bar
to an indictment. But if the offender is indicted and convicted for the same offense, the court in passing sentence
must take into consideration the punishment before inflicted.

§ 1608. Any oflicer authorised to punish for a contempt is

a court within the meaning of this chapter.

 

CHAPTER 95.

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSFLORS.

§ 1609. All persons who, by the law heretofore in force,
were permitted to practice as attorneys and counselors may

continue to practice as such.

§ 1610. Any white male citizen of the United States who
is actually an inhabitant of this state and who satisfies any
district court of this state that he possesses the requisite
learning and that he is of good moral character, may by such
court be permitted to practice in all the district courts of the
state upon taking the usual oath of oflice.

§ 1611. The supreme court may on motion admit any practising attorney of the district court to practice in the supreme
court upon his taking the usual oath of office. \

§ 1612. Any practising attorney of another state, having]
professional business in either the supreme or district court,s
may on motion be admitted to practice in either of those
courts upon taking the oath as aforesaid.

§ 1613. The form of the oath aforesaid shall be in substance‘
as follows——“You do solemnly swear that you will support the
constitution of the United States and of this state and that
you will faithiiilly discharge the duty of an attorney and
counselor of this court according to the best of ‘ your ability.

§ 1614. It is the duty of an attorney and counselor: ’ 1

Fmsr-—To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice
and to judicial officers;

SECOND-—-TO counsel or maintain no other actions, proceedings, nr defenses, than those which appear to him legal
and just, except the defense of a person charged with a public offense ; '

Tm1u)—-To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes confided to him, such means only as are consistent
with truth, and never to seek to mislead the judges by any
artifice or false statement of fact or law;

Fouarn—To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at any
peril to himself to preserve the secret of his client;

F1r'rn—To abstain from all offensive personalities, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a
party or witness unless required by the justice of the cause
with which he is charged;

Srxrn—Not to encourage either the commencement or continuance of an action or proceeding from any motive of passion or interest;

SeveN'ru—Never to reject, for any consideration personal
to himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed.

§ 1615. An attorney and counselor who is guilty of deceit
or collusion, or consents thereto with intent to deceive a
court, or judge, or a party to an action or proceeding, is liable to be disbarred, and shall forfeit to the injured party treble damages, to be recovered in a civil action.

§ 1616. An attorney and counselor has power:

Fmsr-—To execute in the name of his client a bond for an
appeal, certiorari, or writ of error, or any other paper necessary and proper for ‘the prosecution of a suit already commenced.

SECOND-—T0 bind his client by his agreement in respect to
any proceeding within the scope of his proper duties and
powers, but no evidence of any such agreement is receivable
except the statement of the attorney himself, his written

agreement signed and filed with the clerk, or an entry there‘,of upon the records of the court;

Trunn—To receive money, claimed by his client in an
action or proceeding, during the pendency thereof or afterwards unless he has been previously discharged by his client, and upon payment thereof and not otherwise to discharge the claim or acknowledge satisfaction of the judgment. '

§ 1617. The court may, on motion for either party and on
the showing of reasonable grounds therefor, require the attorney for the adverse party or for any one of several adverse
parties to produce or prove by his own oath or otherwise the
authority under which he appears, and until he does so may
stay all proceedings by him on behalf of the parties for
whom he assumes to appear.

§ 1618. An attorney has a lien for a general balance of
compensation upon any papers of his client which have come
into his possession in the course of his professional employment ; upon money -in his hands belonging to his client, and
upon money due to his client and in the hands of the adverse
party in an action or proceeding in which the attorney was
employed, from the time of giving notice of the lien to that

arty.

§ 1619. Any person interested in such matter may release
such lien by giving security in a penalty double the amount
claimed by the attorney and conditioned to pay the amount
that may be finally found due for his services.

§ 1620. The supreme and district courts may respectively
revoke or suspend the license of any attorney or counselor
at law to practice therein, and a revocation or suspension
by the district court in one county operates to the same extent in the courts of all other counties.

§ 1621. The following are sullicient causes for such revocation or suspension :

Fms'r—VVhen. he has been convicted of a felony ‘or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, in either of which
cases the record of conviction is conclusive evidence; ..

Ssco1~m——When he is guilty of a wilful disobedience or
violation of the order of the court requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with, or in the course of, his profession ; .

Tnuu)—For a wilful violation of any of the duties of an
attorney or counsellor as hereinbefore prescribed;

FOURTH-—FOl‘ doing any other act to which such a consequence is by law attached.

§ 1622. The proceedings to remove or suspend an attorney
may be commenced by the direction of the court or on motion of any individual. In the former case. the court must
direct some attorney to draw up the accusation; in the latter the accusation must be drawn up and sworn» to by the

-person m,aking»it. . ~

§ 1623. If the court deem the accusation sufficient to justify farther action, it shall cause an order to be entered
requiring the accused to appear and answer on a day therein fixed either at the same or a subsequent term, and shall
cause a copy of the accusation and order to be served upon
him personally.

§ 1624. To the accusation he may plead or demur, and the
issues joined thereon shall in all cases be tried by the court,
all the evidence being reduced to writing, tiled, and preserved.

§ 1625. If the accused plead guilty or fail to answer, the
court shall proceed to render such judgment as the case
requires.

§ 1626. In case of a removal or suspension being ordered
by a district court, an appeal therefrom lies to the supreme
court, and all the original papers together with a transcript
of the record shall thereupon be transferred to the supreme
court to be there considered and finally acted upon. A judgment of acquittal by the district court is final.

§ 1627. An attorney who receives the money or property
of his client in the course of his professional business and
refuses to pay or deliver it in a reasonable time after demand
is guilty of a misdemeanor. ‘

§ 1628. VVhere the attorney claims to be entitled to a lien

.upon the money or property he is not liable to the penalties

of the two preceding sections until the person demanding
the money proffers sufficient security for the payment of the
amount of the attorney’s claim when it is legally ascertained.

§ 1629. Nor is he in any case liable as aforesaid provided
he gives sufficient security that he will pay over the whole
or any portion thereof to the claimant when he is found entitled thereto.

 

CHAPTER 96.

JUIORS.

§ 1630. All qualified electors of the state, of good moral
character, sound judgment, and in full possession of the sensee of hearing and seeing are competent jurors in their respective counties.

§ 1631. The foilowingfpersons are e1reInpt‘ti'om'.l%iliq-‘h

',act as jurors, to wit :-—All persons holding office under the
_laws of the United States or of this state ;—-all practising
attorneys, physicians and clergymen ; all acting professors
or teachers of any college, school, or other institution of learning; and all persons disabled by bodily infirmity, or over
sixty-five years of age, or specially exempted by any other
statute from serving on juries.

§ 1632. Any person may also be excused from serving on a
jury when for any reason his own interests or those of the
public will be materially injured by his attendance, or when
-the state of his own health or the death or sickness of a
member of his family requires his absence.

§ 1633. A jury list of one hundred and fifty competent persons liable to serve on juries shall be annually made in each
county from which to select jurors for the year commencing
on the first day of August annually.

§ 1634. Should there be less than that number of suchpersons in any county the list shall comprise all those who answer the above description.

§ 1635. On or before the first Monday in March in each
year the county clerk shall apportion the number to be selected from each township as nearly as practicable in proportion to the number of votes polled therein at the last general
election, and shall deliver a statement thereof to the sheriff.

§ 1636. The sherill‘ shall cause a written notice to be delivered to one of the judges of election in the several townships
of the county on or belore the day of the April election in
each year, informing them of the number of jurors apportioned for the ensuing year to their respective townships.

§ 1637. Said judges shall thereupon make the requisite
selection and return a list of the names so selected to the
county judge with the returns of the election.

§ 1638. The judge shall thereupon file said lists in his
office and cause a copy thereofto be recorded in the election
book.

§ 1639. Grand jurors shall be selected for the lirst term in
the year at which such jurors are required, commencing next
after the last day of July in each year, and shall serve for
one year. Petit jurors shall be selected for each term
wherein they are required.

§ 1640. At least twenty days previous to the first day of
any term at which a jury of either kind is to be selected, the
clerk must write out the names on the lists aforesaid, which
have not been previously drawn as jurors during that year,
on se arate ballots, and the judge of the county court and
sheritlf having compared said ballots with the jury list and

rectified the same, if necessary, shall place the ballots in a
box to be provided for that purpose.

§ 1641. After thoroughly mixing the same the clerk shall;
draw therefrom the requisite number of jurors to serve as

A aforesaid.

§ 1642. When grand jurors are to be selected their num-'
ber must be fifteen, and they shall serve for one entire year
thereafter; the number of the petit jurors shall be the same
unless the judge of the county court deems it expedient to
cause a larger number to be summoned.

§ 1643. Within three days after such drawing the clerk must‘
issue a precept to the sheriff, commanding him to summon
the said jurors to appear before the district court at eleven
o’clock, A. M. of the first day of the next term thereof (naming the month and day), unless the judge of the district court
has previously directed a different hour or day for their appearance, in which case such direction must be observed.

§ 1644. The sheriff shall immediately obey such precept
and on or before the day for the appearance of said jurors
must make return thereof, and on failure to do so without
sufiicient cause is liable to be fined for a contempt in any
amount not exceeding fifty dollars.

§ 1645. If a person summoned as a juror as aforesaid fail
to appear, the court may issue a rule returnable to that or the
succeeding term requiring him .to appear and show cause
why he should not be fined for a contempt, and unless he
render a reasonable excuse for his failure to attend the court
may fine him in any amount not exceeding ten dollars and
costs.

§ 1646. Except when required at a special term which has
been called in vacation, the grand jury need not be summoned after the first term, but must appear at the next term without summons under the same penalty as though they had
been regularly summoned.

§ 1647. If the requisite number of j urors does not appear by
the time appointed as aforesaid the court may at any time
thereafter direct the sheriff to summon, forthwith, the number
necessary to make up the deficiency.

§ 1648. Jurors shall be chosen in the manner heretofore
prescribed, to serve in all courts held prior to the first day of
August in the year -1852.. But the number of jurors must be
such as is above fixed. 1649. Within ten days after the close of each term the
-clerk of the court must make outta certificate to each juror of
‘the amount to which he is entitled for his services, which
srnust be allowed by the county court and paid as other doan ands against the county.

CHAPTER 97.

REI-‘EREES.

§ 1650. Referees may be appointed in the cases and for the
purposes provided by law.

§ 1651. When the number is not specified they shall consist of three, who shall possess the qualification of jurors and
be sworn to the faithful discharge of their duties. They must
also be competent jurors as between the parties. _

§ 1652. Where not otherwise declared, all the referees must
meet to hear proofs and to deliberate, but the decision of a
majority shall be regarded as their decision.

§ 1653. When appointed by a court, any judge of that court
may fill vacancies in vacation.

§ 1654. Any one of such referees has power to issue subpoenas having the same force and to the same extent as those
issued by a justice of the peace, and which shall be served
by the same otiicers. They may also administer all oaths
necessary for the discharge of their duties and the full exercise of all their powers.

§ 1655. Unless otherwise specially provided, referees shall
be entitled to two dollars per day for all the time actually
and necessarily occupied by them in the business of the
reference.

CHAPTER 98.

RECEIVERS.

§ 1656. On the petition of either party to a civil action or
proceeding, wherein he shows that he has a probable right to
any of the property which is the subject of the controversy
and that such property or its rents and profits are in danger
of being lost or materially injured or impaired, the court, if
satisfied that the interests of one or both the parties will be

thereby promoted and the substantial rights of neither undulyinfringed upon, may appoint a receiver to take charge of and
control such property under its direction.

§ 1657. Before entering upon the discharge of his duties he
must be sworn faithfully to discharge his trust to the best of
his ability, and must also file with the clerk a bond with

sureties to be by him approved, in a penalty to be tixed by

the court, and conditioned for the faithful discharge of his

duties and that he will obey the orders of the court in respect.

thereto.

§ 1658. Subject to the control of the court, a receiver has:

power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep possession of property, to collect debts, to receive the rents and
profits of real property, and, generally, to do such acts in

respect to the property committed to him as the court may
authorise.

TITLE XIX.

OF THE COURSE OF PROCEEDING IN THE DISTRICT AND SUPREME
COURTS.

CHAPTER 99.

LIMITATIONS OF ACTIONS.

§ 1659. The following actions may be brought within the
times herein limited respectively after their causes accrue,
and not afterwards except when otherwise specially declared,
that is to say: Fms'r——Actions of slander, libel, malicious prosecution, injuries to the person, or for a statute penalty, within two years;

Ssconn--Those against a sheriff or other public officer
growing out of a liability incurred by the doing of an act in
an oflicial capacity or by the omission of an official duty,
including the non-payment of money collected on execution,
within three years;

Tnnw—Those founded on unwritten contracts, those brought
for injuries to property or for relief on the ground of fraud in
cases heretofore solely cognizable in a court of chancery,
and all other actions not otherwise provided for in this respect, within five years;

Fouirru-—Those founded on written contracts, on judgments
of any courts (except those courts provided for in the next section), and those brought for the recovery of real property,
within ten years;

F1rru——Those founded on a judgment of a court of record,

whether of this or of any other of the United States or of the

.federal courts ofthe United States, within twenty years.

§ 1660. In actions for relief on the ground of fraud as above
contemplated the cause of action will not be deemed to have
accrued until the discovery of the fraud by the party aggrieVed.

§ 1661. In actions founded upon contract the above limitations shall not apply if from the answer of the defendant or
from his testimony as a witness it appears affirmatively that
the cause of action still justly subsists. But the answer of
one of several defendants shall not prejudice the interests of
others in this respect.

§ 1662. Where there is a continuous open current account
the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued on the
date of the last item therein as proved on the trial.

§ 1663. The delivery of the original notice to the sheriff of

‘the proper county with intent that it be served immediately
(which intent shall be presumed unless the contrary appears), or the actual service of that notice by another person,
is a commencement of the action.

§ 1664. The time during which a defendant is a non-resident of the state shall not be included in computing any of
the periods of limitation above prescribed.

§ 1665. But when a cause of action has been fully barred
by the laws of any country where the defendant has previously resided, such bar shall be the same defense here as
though it had arisen under the provisions of this chapter.

§ 1666. The above limitation of actions for the recovery of
real property shall not apply to minors so far as to prevent
them from having at least one year after attaining their majority within which to commence such actions.

§ 1667. If the person entitled to a cause of action die within
one year next previous to the expiration of the limitation
above provided for, the limitation above mentioned shall not
apply until one year after such death. '

§ 1668. If after the commencement of an action the plaintiff fail therein for any cause except negligence in its prosecution and a new suit be brought within six months thereafter, the second suit shall for the purposes herein contemplated be deemed a continuation of the first.

§ 1669. The above limitations and provisions shall not
apply to evidences of debt intended to circulate as money,
but shall in other respects be applicable to all actions brought
by or against all bodies corporate and politic except when
otherwise expressly declared-.

§ 1670. Causes of action founded on contract are revived

by an admission that the debt is unpaid as- well as by a new
promise to pay the same.

§ 1671. The provisions of this chapter are intended to apply
to causes of action which have already accrued and are not
yet barred, subject to the regulations contained in the follow-ing two sections.

§ 1672. The times hereafter allowed for commencing actions
in such cases shall not be less than one half the periods of
limitation herein respectively prescribed, except as provided
in the next section.

§ 1673. But where the period of limitation heretofore dxed
by statute is not enlarged by the provisions of the lirst section of this chapter, the time allowed for the commencement
of a suit shall in no case be greater than that fixed by the
law heretofore in force as applied to those cases.

§ 1674. The time of limitation in relation to actions for the
recovery of real estate as prescribed in this chapter shall not
commence to run in favor of a settler on any public lands
until such lands have been sold by the state;

 

CHAPTER 100.

THE PARTIES TO AN ACTION.

§ 1675. The party seeking to obtain or enforce a remedy
by any proceeding is, so far as that proceeding is concerned,‘
the plaintiff; the other party is the defendan . '_

§ 1676. Civil actions must be prosecuted in the names ofthe real parties in interest except in the ease of a trustee or’
other person legally authorized to sue for another and except
when otherwise provided for by law.

§ 1677. The preceding section merely prescribes a, rule of
practice and is in no wise to affect substantial rights.

§ 1678. Where not otherwise specially rovided, all per-‘
sons interested in obtaining the relief song t may be joined
as plaintiffs, those having adverse interests may be joined as
defendants.

§ 1679. Persons having an united interest must be joined:
on the same side either as plaintiffs _or defendants. But
when some who should thus be made plaintiffs refuse to join,
they may be made defendants, the reason thereof being set
forth in the etition.

§ 1680. hen the question is one of a common or general<
intermt to many persons, or when the parties are very numer-‘

l

ous and it is impracticable to bring them all before the court

,one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.

§ 1681. Persons severally liable on the same instrument,
including the makers and jndorsers of negotiable paper and
sureties, may all or any part of them be joined in the same
action.

§ 1682. Persons jointly "and severally liable on the same
instrument may all or any part of them be sued at once.

§ 1683. If a complete determination of the controversy
cannot be had without joining other parties they may be
brought in by amendment of the petition or by a supplemental petition and notice. ‘

§ 1684. In actions for the recovery of property any person
not a party thereto, on showing himself interested in the subject matter of the suit, may be allowed to appear as defendant therein.

§ 1685. At any time before answering. the defendant may
obtain the substitution in his place of any person not already
a party who claims the money or property which is the subject matter of the suit.

§ 1686. For this purpose he must file his aflidavit stating
the facts on which he founds his application and denying all
collusion with the person whom he seeks to substitute as the
defendant, and must proffer to pay the money into court or
deliver the property to any one the court shall direct. If, in
answer to a rule against the plaintiff and the person thus
sought to be substituted as defendant, sufficient cause to the
contrary be not shown the court shall make the order of
substitution and discharging the original defendant from all
liability to either party.

§ 1687. If husband and wife are sued together the wife
may defend for her own right, and if the husband neglect to
defend she may defend for his right also.

§ 1688. Minors may sue by their guardians, who shall be
responsible for the costs of suit. They may also defend by
guardian.

§ 1689. Those who have no guardian may sue by next
friend, who shall be responsible for costs. The court may
appoint a. guardian ad litem to defend for a minor who has
no other guardian.

§ 1690. Partners may sue or be sued either in their partnership name or by setting forth their individual names, at
the option of the plaintiff.

§ 1691. If suing or sued in their partnership name their individual property may be made liable to any judgment
against them unless suflicient cause be shown to the contrary.

§ 1692. Where an action is founded on a written instrument, suit may be brought by or against any of the parties.
thereto by the same name and description as those by which
they are designated in such instrument. '

§ 1693. When a bond or other instrument given to the state,‘
or to a county, or to any oilicer or person, is intended for the
security either of the public generally or of particular individuals, suit may be brought thereon in the name of any person intended to be thus secured who has sustained any injury
in consequence of a breach thereof.

§ 1694. When the precise name of any defendant cannot}
be ascertained he may be described as accurately as practi-‘
cable and when the name is ascertained it shall be substituted in the proceedings.

§ 1695. Corporations, foreign or domestic, may bring suit
in the courts of this state in their corporate name.

§ 1696. An unmarried female may prosecute an action for
her own seduction and may recover therein such damages as
shall be assessed in her favor.

§ 1697. The father, mother, or guardian, as the case may
be, may also bring suit for the seduction of a minor daughter
or ward though such daughter or ward be not living with nor
in the service of the plaintiff and though there be no loss of
service; but where the action is brought by the guardian the
damages recovered shall enure to the sole benefit of the ward.

§ 1698. Actions do not abate by the death, marriage, or
other disability of either party, or by the transfer of any in-‘
terest therein, if from the nature of the case the cause of action can survive or continue.

§ 1699. In such cases the court on motion may allow the
action to be _continued by or against his representative, or
successor in interest.

§ 1700. An action may be brought by one person against
another for the purpose of settling an adverse claim which
the latter makes against the former, to be regulated by such
rules as the court shall prescribe.

 

CHAPTER 101.

THE PLACE OF BRINGING SUIT.

§ 1701. Except where otherwise provided, personal actions
must be brought in a county wherein some of the defendants
actually reside. But if none of them have any residence

within this state they may be sued in any county wherein
, either of them may be found.

§ 1702. If a suit be brought in a wrong county it may be
there prosecuted to a termination unless the defendant
demand a change of venue to the proper county. In
cases of such change of venue the court shall order the same
at the cost of the plaintiff and may award the defendant a
reasonable compensation for his trouble and expenses in attending at the wrong county.

§ 1703. In cases of attachment of property when the defendant is not served, or in cases where the suit is brought to
obtain possession of personal property, or to enforce alien or
mortgage, or where it relates to real property, it may be
brought in any county where the real property or any portion
of it lies or where any part of the personal property may be
found.

§ 1704. When by its terms a contract is to be performed in
any particular place,suit for a breach thereof may be brought
in the county wherein such place is situated.

§ 1705. When a corporation, company, or individual has an
office or agency in any county for the transaction of business,
any suits growing out of or connected with the business of
that office or agency may be brought in the county where
such office or agency is located as though the principal resided therein, and service on any agent or clerk employed in
such office or agency shall be sutlicient service upon the
principal.

 

CHAPTER 102.

CHANGE OF VENUE.

§ 1706. A change of venue in any civil action may be had
in any of the following cases :

Fms'r—Where the county in which the suit is pending is a
party thereto;

S1-:coNn—Where the judge is a party or is directly interested in the suit, or is connected by blood or affinity with any
person so interested nearer than in the fourth degree;

THmn—Where either party files an allidavit stating that
the inhabitants of the county are so prejudiced against him,
or that the opposite party or his attorney has such an undue
influence over the inhabitants of the county, that he cannot
expect an impartial trial.

§ 1707. The venue shall be changed to some other county

in the same district unless the objections are to the judge, or
unless the same objection for which the change was made
exists to all the other counties of the district.

§ 1708. The application for the change of venue may be
made either to the court or to the judge in vacation, and the
change shall be to the most convenient county to which there
is no exception of the character of any of those above enumerated. No party is entitled to more than one change of
venue except for causes not in existence when the first change
was taken, ‘

§ 1709. If the change is ordered by the judge in vacation
he must immediately transmit to the clerk of the court where
the cause is pending the affidavit if any, and the order for
the change.

§ 1710. In such cases, as well as where the order is made
in open court, the clerk shall forthwith transmit to the clerk
of the proper court a transcript of the record and proceedings
in such cause with all the original papers filed therein, having first made out and filed in his own oflice authenticated
copies of all such original papers.

§ 1711. Upon filing such transcript and papers in the oflice
of the clerk of the court to which the same were certified the
cause shall be docketed and proceeded in as though it had
originated in that court.

§ 1712. The costs occasioned by such change of venue
shall be paid by the applicant and not taxed as a part of the
costs of the case, and the clerk may require payment of such
costs before the transcript and papers are transmitted as
aforesaid.

§ 1713. No discontinuance shall result from the papers not
being transmitted and filed in due time in the manner afore' said provided such failure was not owing to the negligence

of the plaintiff in the cause.

 

CHAPTER 103.

THE MANNER OF COMMENCING ACTIONS.

§ 1714. Actions originating in the district court are to be
commenced by serving the defendant with the notice hereinafter described.

§ 1715. Such a notice is to be known. as the original notice;
and must inform the defendant of the name of the plaintiffn
that on or before a certain day therein named a petition will

be filed in the oflice of the clerk of the district court of

Lcounty claiming of him (here state briefly the substance of
the remedy sought), and that unless he appears and pleads
thereto by (stating the time when by law or by the rules of
court he is required to plead) default will be entered against
him and judgment rendered thereon.

§ 1716. lfthe petition is not filed by the time thus fixed or
if not filed ten days before the first day of the next term the
action will be deemed discontinued unless good cause be
shown for the failure.

§ 1717. If the notice is placed in the hands of the sheriff for
service he must note thereon the time when thus left with
him.

§ 1718. The notice may be served by any person not a.
party to the action, and either within or without the limits
of the state.

§ 1719. If served out of the county in which the suit is pending return may be made by mail and the postage thereon
taxed among the costs.

§ 1720. If not served ten days before the then next term
the cause shall stand continued unless a trial he had by consent of parties.

§ 1721. The service is to be made by reading the notice to
the defendant and giving him a copy if demanded. If not
found he may be served by a copy left at his usual place of
residence with some member of the family more than fourteen years of age.

§ 1722. Unless previously served with a copy of the petition,
the defendant may at any time require a copy thereof to be
sent to him through the post oflice directed to any place he
may designate.

§ 1723. The return must state the time and manner of making the service. If made by leaving a copy as aforesaid it
must state at whose house and the name of the person with
whom the same was left or a sufficient reason must be given
for omitting to do so. If served personally it must state
whether a copy of the petition was required, and if so to what
point it was to be directed. '

§ 1724. The plaintiff may notify either of the defendant:
that no personal claim is made against him, in which case a
copy of that notice must accompany the return. If after
such notice and return such defendant unreasonably defend
the action he must pay costs to the plaintiff. .

§ 1725. Upon a return of ‘“not found” as to all or any of
the defendants, service on such defendants may be made by
giving notice of the commencement of the action for four
weeks successively in some newspaper printed as convenient

 

as practicable to.the court wherein the suit is pending, to
be determined by the clerk of the court.

§ 1726. If a county is defendant service may be made upon
the county judge or clerk of the county court. If any other
civil corporation, upon a trusteeor other officer thereof.

§ 1727. When an action is brought against a corporation of
any other description, service may be made upon either of its
oflicers or upon any clerk engaged in the active management
of the ordinary business of the corporation.

§ 1728. If brought against a partnership or corporation
having no oflicers, service may be made upon any member
thereof or upon any agent employed in the general management of their business. .

§ 1729. If against a minor or insane person, service must
be made upon the defendant personally, and in case of insane defendants or those under the age of fourteen years service must be made upon the father, mother, or guardian, and
if there be none such within the state then upon the person
having the legal care and control of such person, if there be
any. i

§ 1730. Upon being served with notice in either of the methods hereinbefore prescribed the defendant shall be considered in court.

§ 1731. Where a part of the defendants who should be individually served with process cannot be foundthe plaintiff,
instead of procuring service upon them by publication, may
proceed as though all the defendants were in court, but the
judgment in such cases shall not be valid as to those not
served until on scire facias they have had a full'opportunity
of showing cause against the judgment.

§ 1732. The service of papers is sufliciently proved:

Fms'r—By the written admission of the defend ant;

SECOND-—By the return of the sheriff of the county, when
made by him;

Tuuu)—By the affidavit of any other person who made the
same;

Fovnrn--By the proof of publication in the manner above
required.

 

CHAPTER 104.

THE PLEADING8.

§ 1733. All technical forms of actions and of pleadings are
hereby abolished. 

§ 1734. Any pleading which possessesthe following requi, sites shall be deemed sufficient:

F msr--When .to the common understanding it conveys a
reasonable certainty of meaning ; .

Ssco1m—VVhen by a fair and natural construction it she
a substantial cause of action or defense.

§ 1735. If defective in the first of the above particulars, the
court on motion shall direct a more specific statement; if in
the latter it is gound of demurrer.

§ 1736. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiffis the
petition, which must contain a statement of the facts constituting the cause of action as well as _a claim of the remedy
sought. If money be the object of the action the amount
demanded must be stated.

§ 1737. The defendant shall demur or answer or do both
on or before the morning of the second day of the term at
which he is required to appear unless the court by general
rule or special order otherwise direct.

§ 1738. The demurrer may be to one portion of the petition and the answer to another, or each may apply to the
whole. ’

§ 1739. In the latter case the answer shall not be held to
overrule the demurrer, but the issues growing out of such
pleadings shall be disposed of in their order.

§ 1740. The defendant ..may also set up by way of set-off
or cross action any claim which would have been the subject of an action against the plaintiff and which was held by
the defendant either matured or not at the time the suit was
commenced. But such claim must be matured at the time
it is so offered as a set-eff.

§ 1741. When the answer contains new matter by way of
avoidance or set-off the plaintiff may reply thereto by demurrer or otherwise, and like proceedings shall if necessary be
continued by way of rejoinder or farther pleadings until a
final issue is joined. ’

§ 1742. Each pleading subsequent to the petition shall, in
relation to every affirmative allegation to which it should
respond, contain a specific admission or denial or it must
state some suflicient reason for not doing so. _Allegations
not thus responded to will be taken as true.

§ 1743. Where the pleading thus shews a reason for not
admitting or denying a previous allegation it shall, for the
purpose of forming an issue and putting the other party to
the proof, be regarded as a‘ denial of the truth thereof.

§ 1744. The plaintiff in his petition may at his option
require the answer of the defendant to be given under ‘oath.
And in like manner the party filing any subsequent pleading

setting forth new matter may require the reply thereto to be
given under oath.

§ 1745. Any pleading thus required to be made under oath
shall be considered as evidence in the cause of equal weight
with that of a disinterested witness provided it be swcm to by
the party himself who was called upon to answer, but not
otherwise.

§ 1746. The pleading thus calling for a reply under oath
must itself be sworn to. If sworn to by any other than the
party himself he must show that he has reasonable means of
-information on the subject and what those means are.

§ 1747. Where the reply under oath is to create much delay or inconvenience the court may require satisfactory evidence (by oath of the party or otherwise) that such sworn
reply is important.

§ 1748. Such reply must be sworn to by the party himself,
or some one of the parties where there are several, or by
some one showing himself to he possessed of equal information with the party on the subject matter thereof and that he
has authority to make such sworn reply. No pleading verified as above required can be used in a criminal prosecution
against the party; nor can a party be compelled to state
facts which if true would subject him to a prosecution for

elony.

§ 1749. Either party may make a supplemental pleading
alledging any material facts which have come to his knowledge since the filing of his former pleading.

§ 1750. When a pleading is founded upon a written instrument or account a copy thereof must be annexed to such
-pleading or it will be sufficient ground for a demurrer thereto.- A set off is a pleading within the meaning of this sec'tion.

§ 1751. Several causes of action may be united in the same
petition provided they affect all the parties thereto in the
same capacities and if suit on all might be brought in that
county. But the court, to prevent confusion therein, may

' direct all or any portion of the issues joined therein to be

tried separately.

§ 1752. . Each party may state in either of his pleadings as
many different grounds of action or defense as he may think
material. .

§ 1753. The court may on motion cause irrelevant, redundant, or scandalous matter to be expunged from any pleading.

§ 1754. Demurrers for formal defects are abolished. Those
for substantial defects must set forth the true grounds of
.objection to the pleading demurred to.

§ 1755. Upon the determination of any demurrer the failing party may amend or plead over upon such terms as the court deems just or as it may by general rule prescribe.

§ 1756. No cause shall be continued in consequence of the amendment of any pleading unless the court is satisfied that substantial justice requires such continuance.

§ 1757. Immaterial variances, error, or defects, may be disregarded or the court may direct an amendment without costs.

§ 1758. No variance, error, or defect, shall be deemed material unless the court is satisfied tha tthe objecting party will be prejudiced by disregarding it or by allowing it to be amended. In such cases amendments shall be allowed in any stage of the proceedings upon such terms as the corut deems just.

§ 1759. The court may allow material amendments at any stage of the proceedings upon such terms and subject to such rules as it may prescribe.

§ 1760. If an original pleading or paper be lost or withheld by any person the court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and used instead of the original.

CHAPTER 105. i -s .

THE 'l‘RlAL AND ITS lNClDJ:‘.NT8.

§ 1761. The clerk shall keep a calendar-of the causes‘p0nding in his court arranging the civil and criminal causes~reqpectively in the order of their commencement, and shall fulnish the court and bar each with a copy at every term 0ft&
count.
§ 1762. The court may in its discretion direct the -.cleI:iM0
apportion the causes for as many days of the term as shall

be thought necessary. The clerk shall thereupon issue subpcanas for witnesses returnable on the days respectively on
which the causes are set for trial.

§ 1763. Except where otherwise provided causes shall be
tried at the lirst term after they are commenced unless reasonable cause for a continuance be shown.

§ 1764. VVhere time is asked for making application for a
continuance the cause shall not lose its place on the calcudar, or it may be continued at the option of the other party
and at the cost of the party applying therefor. '

§ 1765. Continuances shall not be granted for any cause

growing out of the fault or negligence of the party applying

therefor. Subject to this rule they may be allowed for any
cause which satisfies the court that substantial justice will.
thereby be more nearly attained.

§ 1766. Motions for a continuance on account of the ab-.
sence of witnesses must be founded on the affidavit of the‘
party, his agent or attorney, showing that due diligence has
been used to obtain such testimony, also the name and residence of such witness, what particular facts he expects to
prove by him, and that he knows of no other witness by
whom such facts can be fully proved.

§ 1767. If the opposite party will admit that the witness if
present would swear to the facts thus stated the cause shall
not be continued.

§ 1768. A separate trial between the plaintiff and any or:
all of several defendants may be allowed by the court whenever in its opinion justice will be thereby promoted.

§ 1769. The marriage of a party is no sufficient ground for
a continuance, nor shall a cause be continued on account of
the death of a party unless the court is also satisfied that
farther proceedings cannot then take place without causing
substantial injury to some of the parties.

§ 1770. Issues of law shall first be tried, but by going to
trial on an issue of fact without objection a party shall be
deemed to have waived his demurrer.

§ 1771. Upon the decision of a demurrer, if the unsuccessful party fail to amend or plead over the same consequences
shall ensue as though a verdict had passed against the plaintiff or the defendant had made default, as the case may be.

§ 1772. Issues of fact shall be tried by the court unless one
of the parties require a jury. Where a jury is thus required
a fee of three dollars shall be assessed against the party having to pay the costs of trial.

§ 1773. When a jury trial is demanded the clerk shall select twelve jurors by lot for the regular pannel.

§ 1774. The plaintiff first, and afterward the defendant,
shall complete his challenges for cause. They may then in
turn in the same order have the right to challenge one juror
each until each shall have peremptorily challenged five jurors, but no more.

§ 1775. After each challenge the vacancy shall if required
be filled before farther challenges are made, and any new
juror thus introduced may be challenged for cause as well as
peremptorily.

§ 1776. Or when both parties desire it a struck jury may
be ordered, whereupon eighteen jurors shall be called into

the box and the plaintiff‘ first and then the defendant shall

strike out one juror in turn until each has struck out six, and

,the remaining six shall try the cause.

§ 1777. When the requisite number of jurors cannot otherwise be obtained the sheriff sh all select talesmen to supply
the deficiency from the bystanders or the body of the county.

§ 1778. At any time before the cause is finally submitted
to the court or jury either party may be permitted by the
court to give farther testimony to correct an evident oversight or mistake, but terms may be imposed upon the party
obtaining this privilege.

§ 1779. Whenever in the opinion of the court it is proper
that the jury should have a view of the localities connected
with the pending controversy, it may order them to be conducted in a body in the custody of proper officers to the place.
And while thus absent no person must speak to them on any
subject connected with the trial except in a public manner
to point out the localities which they have come to examine.

§ 1780. At any time before the cause is submitted to the
jury they may be permitted to separate under the proper instructions of the court.

§ 1781. After the cause is submitted to the jury they must
be kept together without drink except water, and without
food exce t when otherwise directed by the court.

§ 1782. If after the impanneling of the jury and before verdict a juror becomes sick so as to be unable to perform his
duty he may be discharged. In such cases, unless otherwise
arranged by consent, the vacancy thus made must be filled
and the trial commence anew, or the court may in its discretion order the jury to be discharged and a new one impanneled.

§ 1783. Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may take
with them all papers, except depositions, which have been
received as evidence in the cause.

§ 1784. While. the jury is absent the court may adjourn
from time to time in respect to other business, but is to be
deemed open for every purpose connected with the cause
submitted to the jury until a verdict is rendered or the jury
discharged.

§ 1785. When by consent the jury have been permitted to
seal their verdict and separate before it is rendered such
sealing is equivalent to a rendition and recording thereof in
open court. The jury shall not be polled nor shall they be
permitted to disagree thereto, unless such a course has been
agreed upon between the parties.

§ 1786. In every action for the recovery of money only or
for specific real or personal property the jury in their discretion may render a general or special verdict.

§ 1787. In all other cases the court may direct the jury to
find a special verdict upon all or any of the issues or may.
direct them to return a general verdict upon particular ques-g
tions of fact to be stated in writing.

§ 1788. Where an action is for the recovery of money only-'
the jury shall assess the amount of the recovery.

§ 1789. The verdict shall in all cases be ret11med in wri-‘
ting and filed with the clerk and entered upon the record, ‘
after having been put in form by the court if necessary.

§ 1790. The verdict shall be sufficient in form if it expres-1
ses the intention of the jury.

§ 1791. The charge of the court shall be confined strictly<
to matters of law, and shall if desired by either party be in
writing and placed in the hands of the jury.

§ 1792. The court may in its discretion require any instruc-?
tion asked by either party to be committed to writing.

§ 1793. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the court its
decision if requested by either party shall be given in writing stating the facts found and the conclusion founded thereon separately, all which shall be entered upon the record.

§ 1794. Any or all of the matters involved in any suit may
be submitted to three referees unless one of the parties object
thereto. A different number of referees may be fixed upon
by consent. ‘

§ 1795. When the parties cannot agree upon the referees
the court may appoint them or it may allow each party to
select one and itself choose a third.

§ 1796. The referees when selected shall stand in place of
the court and shall possess the same power to preserve order. They may be required to state the facts found and
upon them the court shall render judgment. The court may
upon a sullicient showing set aside their report in whole or
in part and refer the matter anew or any part thereof either
to the same or other referees.

§ 1797. By the consent of the court and parties any person
may be selected to act as judge for the trial of any particular cause or question, and while thus acting he shall possess all the powers of the district court.

§ 1798. When a set—ofI' is proved a balance shall be struck
between it and the demand established by the plaintiff, for
which balance judgment shall be rendered in favor of the
party entitled thereto.

§ 1799. In all other cases judgment shall be rendered in
accordance with the law and the facts found in either of the
modes above provided.

§ 1800. Damages are recoverable at the same rate to which

the plaintiff would have been heretofore entitled for the same
substantial cause of action.

§ 1801. The plaintiff cannot take a nonsuit without the
consent of the defendant after the latter has claimed a setoff, but he may in such cases at any time before the jury
retire to consider of their verdict dismiss his cause of action
leaving the defendant to proceed on his set-off or counter
claim in the capacity ofplaintiff.

§ 1802. The defendant may in like manner withdraw his
counter claim at any time before the jury withdraw.

§ 1803. When there is no counter-claim to be considered
the plaintiff may at any time before the jury return with their
verdict submit to a nonsuit at his own cost.

§ 1804. If in any of the cases contemplated in the last three sections the trial is by the court instead of being by a jury,
the taking a nonsuit, the dismissal of the cause of action, or
the withdrawal of the counter-claim therein provided for,
may take place at any time before the court is prepared to
make its decision on the question of fact, but not afterward.

§ 1805. Either party may except to any decision or opinion
of the court. If for matters occurring during the trial, the
exceptions must be taken and reduced to writing before the
verdict is rendered unless otherwise arranged by consent.
And where a bill of exceptions is subsequently filed such consent shall be presumed unless the contrary is shown by the
record.

§ 1806. Such exceptions must be in writing, but the court
may allow such time as may be deemed reasonable to settle
and reduce the same to form.

§ 1807. If the truth of the case be fairly stated in such bill
of exceptions the judge shall sign the same and it shall thereupon become a part of the record of the case.

§ 1808. Motions in arrest of judgment or for a new trial
must be made within a reasonable time and at the term of
the court at which the trial took place.

§ 1809. The party making such motion shall forthwith furnish the counsel of the opposite party as well as the court
with a copy of the points upon which he relies, which points
must be plainly and particularly set forth.

§ 1810. In applications for newtrials the ailidavits of jurors
or officers of the court may be taken and used in relation to
such application.

§ 1811. Costs shall be recovered by the successful against
the losing party. But where the plaintiff is successful as to
part of his demands and fail as to others an equitable apportionment of costs may be made by the court.

§ 1812. The aggregate amount of costs of the parties adjudged against the losing party shall be added to and become
a part of the judgment.

§ 1813. Costs may be retaxed by the court and the judg-;
ment corrected in that respect at any time before it is paid
off and satisfied.

§ 1814. All final adjudications of civil actions are judgments.

§ 1815. Judgment may be rendered for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs or defendants, or the court when
practicable may determine the ultimate rights of the parties
on each side as between themselves and give judgment accordingly.

§ 1816. A judgment may be rendered for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs or defendants before the case 1s
ripe for decision as to all, where such a course will not unjustly prejudice the interests of other parties.

§ 1817. In cases where the title to land is involved and is
finally settled or determined the clerk shall make a complete
record of the whole cause and enter it in the proper book.
But in no other case need a complete entry be made except
at the request of a party who pays beforehand the expense
of such record.

§ 1818. In actions on penal bonds the petition must set forth
the breaches, and the judgment rendered thereon must be for
the actual damages only.

§ 1819. When a judgment is set aside or satisfied by execution or otherwise the clerk shall enter a memorandum
thereof in the column left for that purpose in the judgment
docket.

§ 1820. The relief granted to the plaintiff cannot exceed
that which he has demanded in his petition. In other respects the court may grant any relief consistent with the case
made. .

§ 1821. The defendant may at any time submit to any
judgment which shall be agreed upon between the parties,
which agreement must be in writing and filed with the clerk
unless done in open court.

§ 1222. Nonsuits when allowable, and judgments by agreement, may take place in vacation. In such cases the clerk
may at once make the entry accordingly and execution thereon may issue forthwith unless otherwise agreed upon between
the parties.

§ 1823. The provisions in this title relative to juries are
intended to be applied to the court when acting as a jury in
the trial of a cause so far as they are applicable and not incompatible with other provisions herein contained.

CHAPTER 106.

JUDGMENT BY DEFAULT.

§ 1624. If the defendant fail to file his answer or other
pleading by the time prescribed, or if having pleaded he withdraw his pleading without permission or authority to replead,
judgment by default may on motion of the plaintiff be entered
against him.

§ 1825. The district courts may provide by rule for entering defaults in vacation.

§ 1826. When service has been made by publication only
and no appearance had, default shall not be entered until
proof has been made that a copy of the petition and notice
was directed to the defendant through the post ofiice at his
usual place of residence (stating the place) in sufficient time
for his appearance, or that such residence is unknown to the
plaintiff or his attorney or business agent and could not with
reasonable diligence be ascertained.

§ 1827. Default may be set aside on such terms as the
court may deem just, but not unless an aflidavit of merits be
filed and a reasonable excuse be shown for having made such
default nor unless application be made therefor at the term
on which the default was entered, or if entered in vacation
then on the first day of the next succeeding term.

§ 1828. When the action is for a money demand and the
amount of the proper judgment is a mere matter of computation the clerk shall assess the amount.

§ 1829. When long accounts are to be examined the court
may refer the matter to referees.

§ 1830. In other cases the court shall assess the damages
unless a jury be demanded by the party not in default.

§ 1831. The defendant may appear at the time of the assessment and cross-examine the plaintiff’s witnesses, but for
no other purpose.

§ 1832. The proper amount having been ascertained‘ by
either of the above methods judgment shall be rendered therefor.

§ 1833. When the proceedings are of an equitable character the court, upon reading the pleadings and proofs and
hearing the testimony offered, shall render such judgment as
is consistent with the rules heretofore observed in chancery
cases.

§ 1834. When judgment by default is rendered against a
defendant who has not been personally served, the court

before issuing process to enforce such judgment may require
the plaintiff to give security to abide the future order of the
court as contemplated in the next succeeding section.

§ 1835. If such defendant or any person legally representing him shall, at the next term of the court after being notilied of the judgment and within one year after the rendition
thereof, petition the court to set aside such judgment and give
security and comply with such conditions as the court direct,
the court may in its discretion open the judgment and permit
the defendant to defend against the petition.

§ 1836. Such proceedings shall not disturb the rights of
bona iide purchasers of property under the judgment thus set
aside, but the court may make such order on behalf of the
defendant and against the plaintiff as the circumstances of
the case require.

 

CHAPTER 107.

JUDGMENT BY CONFFSSION.

§ 1837. A judgment by confession without action may be
entered by ‘the clerk of the district court, or by a justice of
the peace if within his jurisdiction, in the manner hereinafter
prescribed.

§ 1838. Such confession can be only for money due or to
become due, or to secure a person against contingent liabilities on behalf of the defendant, and must be for a specified
sum.

§ 1839. A statement in writing must be made and signed
by the defendant and verified by his oath to the following
effect, and filed with the clerk or justice of the peace:

Fms'r—lf for money due or to become due, it must state
concisely the facts out of which the indebtedness arose and
that the sum confessed therefor is justly due or to become
due as the case may be ; ‘

SscoNn—If for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against
a contingent liability, it must state concisely the facts constituting such liability and must show that the sum confessed
therefor does not exceed the same. .

§ 1840. If in the district court, the clerk shall thereupon
maketan entry of judgment in his court record for the amount
thus confessed and costs and shall issue execution thereon
forthwith unless otherwise stipulated by the defendant in his
confession. 

§ 1841. if in a justice’s court, the justice shall thereupon

enter a judgment on his docket with costs and issue execu',tion as above directed. If a transcript of such judgment be
filed with the clerk of the district court a copy of the statement must be filed with it.
§ 1842. Upon an authority given before this statute takeseffect and which was valid when given, judgment may be
rendered up as herein mentioned or as nearly so as the circumstances of the case will permit.

CHAPTER 108.

SUBMITTING CONTROVERSIES WITHOUT ACTION.

§ 1843. Parties to a question in difference which might be
the subject of a civil action may present an agreed statement of the facts thereof to any court having jurisdiction of
the subject matter.

§ 1844. It must be shown by aflidavit that the controversy
is real and that the proceeding is in good faith to determine
the rights of the parties thereto.

§ 1845. The court must thereupon hear and determine the
case and the judgment rendered thereon will be the same in
all respects as though suit had been regularly brought and
will be followed by the same consequences.

CHAPTER 109.

ATTACHMENT AND GARNISHMENT.

§ 1846. In an action for the recovery of money the plaintiff
may cause any property of the defendant which is not exempt from execution to be attached at the commencement
or during the progress of the proceedings by pursuing the
course hereinafter prescribed.

§ 1847. If it be subsequent to the commencement of the
action a separate petition must be filed, and in all cases the
proceedings relative to the attachment are to be deemed independent of the ordinary proceedings and only auxiliary

thereto. _
§ 1848. The petition which asks an attachment must in all

cases‘be sworn to. It must state that as the afiiant verily

believes the defendant is a foreign corporation or acting as
such, or that he is a non-resident of the state, or that he is

in some manner about to dispose of or remove his property
out of the state without leaving sufiicient remaining for the

payment of his debts, or that he has disposed of his property
(in whole or in part) with intent to defraud his creditors, or
that he has abseonded so that the ordinary process cannot
be served upon him.

§ 1849. If the plaintiff ’s demand is founded on contract the
petition must state that something is, due and as nearly as
practicable the amount which must be more than five dollars
in order to authorise an attachment.

§ 1850. The amount thus sworn to is intended as a guide
to the sheriff, who must as nearly as the circumstances of the
case will permit levy upon property fifty per cent. greater in
value than that amount.

§ 1851. If the demand is not founded on contract the original petition must be presented to some judge of the supreme
or district court or the judge of the county court, who shall
make an allowance thereon of the amount in value of the
property that may be attached. The provisions of this section apply only to cases in the district court.

§ 1852. The property of a debtor may be attached previous
to the time when the debt becomes due when nothing but
time is wanting. to fix an absolute indebtedness, and when
the petition in addition to that fact states that the defendant
is about to dispose of his property with intent to defraud his
creditors or that he is about to remove from the state and
refuses to make any arrangement for securing the payment
of the debt when it falls due, and which contemplated removal was not known to the plaintiff at the time the debt
was contracted.

§ 1853. Before any property can be attached as aforesaid.
the plaintiff must file with the clerk a bond for the use of the
defendant with sureties to be approved by the clerk, in a
penalty at least double the value of the property sought to
be attached and in no case less than two hundred and fifty
dollars if "in the district court nor less than fifty dollars if in
a justice’s court, conditioned that the plaintiff will pay all
damages which the defendant may sustain by reason of the
wrongful suing out of the attachment.

§ 1854. In an action on such bond the plaintiff therein may:
recover if he shows that the attachment was wrongfully sued
out, and if wilfully wrong he may recover exemplary damages. Nor need he wait until the principal suit is determined
before he brings suit on the bond.

§ 1855. Where suits are properly commenced in the dis-..
triet court of any county the auxiliary process of attachment}

may run into any other county where property of the defend.ant can be found.

§ 1856. The clerk shall issue a writ of attachment directing the sheriff of the county therein named to attach property of the defendant to the requisite amount therein stated.

§ 1857. The sheriff shall in all cases attach the amount of
property directed if sufficient not exempt from execution be
found in his county, giving that in which the defendant has
a legal and unquestionable title a preference over that in
which his title is doubtful or only equitable.

§ 1858. Writs of attachment from the district court may be
sent into different counties at the same time, but if more
property be attached in the aggregate than the plaintiff
is entitled to hold in that manner he must, abandon the
overplus and pay all costs incurred in relation to it. A

§ 1859. Stock or an interest owned by the defendant in any
company, and also debts due him, or property of his held by
third persons may be attached.

§ 1860. The mode of attachment must be as follows:

Fins-r—By giving the defendant in the action if found within the county and also the person occupying or in possession
of the property, if it be in the hands of a third person, notice
of such attachment;

SEcoNn——If' the property is capable of manual delivery the
sheriff must take it ihto his custody if it can be found ;

Tnmn—Stock in a company is attached by notifying the
president or other head of the company, or the secretary,
cashier, or other managing agent thereof, of the fact that the
stock has been so attached;

F ounrH———Debts due the defendant, or property of his held
by third persons and which cannot be found or the title to
which is doubtful, are attached by garnishment thereof.

§ 1861. The attachment by garnishment is effected by informing the supposed debtor or person holding the property
that he is attached as garnishee, and by leaving with him a
written notice to the effect that he is required not to pay any
debt due by him to the defendant or thereafter to become
due, and that he must retain possession of all property of the
said defendant then or thereafter being in his custody or under his control, in order that the same may be dealt with
according to law.

§ 1862. A sheriff or constable may be garnisheed for
money of the defendant in his hands. So may a judgment
debtor of the defendant when the judgment has not been
previously assigned, and also an executor for money due
from the decedent to the defendant.

§ 1863. Unless exempted as provided in the next section,

the notice must also require him to appear on the first day of
the next term of the district court wherein the main cause is
depending, or on the day fixed for trial if in a justice’s court,
and answer such interrogatories as may be then propounded
to him or that he will be liable to pay the entire judgment
which the plaintiff eventually obtains against the defendant.

§ 1864. The plaintiff may in writing direct the sheriff to
take the answer of the garnishee and append the same to his
return.

§ 1865. In such case the sheriff has power to administer an
oath to garnishees requiring them to make true answers to
the questions to be propounded, which questions shall be as
follows:

Fmsr—Are you in any manner indebted to the defendant
in this suit, or do you owe him money or property which is
not yet due? If so state the particulars.

SecoNn—Havc you in your possession or under your control any property, rights, or credits of the said defendant?
If so what is the value of the same, and state all the particulars.

Tuuu)———Do you know of any debts owing to the said defendant whether due or not, or any property, rights, or credits
belonging to him and now in the possession or under the control of others ? If so state the particulars.

§ 1866. If the garnishee refuse to answer fully and unequivocally each and all the foregoing interrogatories he shall be
notified and required to appear and answer on the first day
of the next term of the district court, or on the day fixed for
trial as above provided.

§ 1867. The questions propounded to the garnishee in court
may be such as are above prescribed to be asked by the sheriff
and such others as the court may think proper and right.

§ 1868. Where the garnishee is required to appear at court
unless he has refused to answer as contemplated above, he
is entitled to the pay and mileage of an ordinary witness and
may in like manner require payment before hand in order to
be made liable for non-attendance.

§ 1869. If, when duly summoned and his fees tendered (if
demanded), he fail to appear and answer the interrogatories
propounded to him without sufficient excuse for his delinquency, he shall be presumed to be indebted to the defendant to the full amount of the plaintiff ’s demand and shall be
dealt with accordingly.

§ 1870. But for mere failure to appear he is not liable to‘

pay the amount of the plaintiff ’s judgment until he has had
an opportunity to show cause against the issuing of an execution.

§ 1871. A garnishee may at any time after answer exone,rate himself from farther responsibility by paying over to the
sheriff the amount owing by him to the defendant and by
placing at the sheriff ’s disposal the property of the defendant,
or so much of said debts and property as is equal to the value
of the property to be attached, all of which may afterward be
treated as though attached in the usual manner.

§ 1872. When the answer of the garnishee is made at the
district court the plaintiff may controvert any facts contained therein and specified by him and issue being thereupon
joined may be tried in the usual manner. Upon such trial
the answer of the garnishee is competent testimony.

§ 1873. If in any of the above methods it is made to appear
that the garnishee was indebted to the defendant or had any
of the defendants’ property in his hands either at the time of
his being served with the garnishee notice aforesaid or at
any time subsequent thereto, he is liable to the plaintiff, in
case judgment is finally recovered by him, to the full amount
of that judgment or to the amount of such indebtedness and
of the property so held by him, and a judgment shall be entered up against him accordingly unless he prefers paying
or delivering the same to the sheriff as above provided.

§ 1874. Property attached otherwise than by garnishment
is bound thereby from the time of the service of the attachment only.

§ 1875. All money attached by the sheriff or coming. into
his hands by virtue of the proceeding in attachment shall
forthwith be paid over to the clerk to be by him retained till
the farther action of the court.

§ 1876. The defendant may any time before judgment discharge the property attached or any part thereof, by giving
bond with surety to be approved by the sheriff in a penalty
at least double the value of the property sought to be released, conditioned that such property or its estimated value
shall be delivered to the sheriff to satisfy any judgment which
may be obtained against the defendant in that suit, within
twenty days after the rendition thereof. This bond shall be
filed with the clerk of the court.

§ 1877. To determine the value of the property in such
cases, unless the parties agree otherwise, the sheriff shall
summon two disinterested persons having the qualification of
jurors who after being sworn by him to make the appraisement faithfully and impartially shall proceed to the discharge
of their duty.

§ 1878. If such persons disagree as to the value of the property the sheriff shall decide between them.

§ 1879. In an action brought upon the bond above contemplated, it shall be a sufficient defense that the property for
the delivery of which the bond was given did not at the'time.
of the levy belong to the defendant against whom the attach-1
ment was issued.

§ 1880. The sheriff must in all cases return an inventory!
of the property attached" as well as the appraisement above‘
provided for where such appraisement has been made.

§ 1881. When the sheriff thinks the property attached in
danger of serious and immediate waste or decay he may sum-3
mon three persons having the qualification of jurors to examine the same. If they are of the opinion that the property
requires soon to be disposed of they shall specify a day beyond which they do not deem it prudent that it should be
kept in the hands of the sheriff. He shall thereupon give
the same notice as for the sale of goods on execution and
for the same length of time unless the condition of the property renders a more immediate sale necessary. The sale
shall be made accordingly.

§ 1882. The money arising from such sale shall remain in
the hands of the clerk to abide the event of the suit.

§ 1883. The word “sheriff” as used in this chapter is meant
to apply to constables when the proceedings are in a justice’s court.

§ 1884. When the proceedings are in a justice’s court the
justice is to be regarded as the clerk of the court for all the
purposes herein contemplated.

CHAPTER 110.

EXECUTION .

§ 1885. Judgments or orders requiring the payment of
money or the delivery of the possession of property are to be
enforced by execution. Obedience to those requiring the
performance of any other act is to be coerced by attachment
for eontem t.

§ 1886. ecutions may issue at any time within five years
from the entering of the judgment.

§ 1887. After the lapse of five years such execution can
issue only after suing out a seire facias and obtaining the
requisite order of the court thereon.

§ 1888. Executions from the district court may issue in the
lirst instance into any county which the party ordering them
may direct.

§ 1889. When sent into any county other than that in

which the judgment was rendered return may be made by

, mail. But money cannot thus be sent except by the direction of the party entitled thereto or his attorney.

§ 1890. The execution must intelligibly refer to the judgment stating the time and place at which it was rendered,
the names of the parties thereto, its amount and the amount
still to be collected thereon, if for money, and if not for money
it must state what specific act is required to be performed.

§ 1891. Where the judgment is against husband and -wife

’the execution may issue against the property of either or
both of them.

§ 1892. Stock or interests owned by the defendant in any
com any, and also debts due him, and property of his in the
han s of third persons, may be levied upon in the manner
provided for attaching the same, and the proceeding by garnishment shall he the same as nearly as practicable.

§ 1893. Bank bills and other things in action may be levied upon and sold or appropriated as hereinafter provided,
and assignments thereon by the oliicer when necessary shall
have the same effect as if made by the defendant and may
be treated as so made.

§ 1894. After the rendition of judgment any person indebt“ed to the defendant in execution may pay to the sheriff the
amount of such indebtedness or so much thereof as is necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheritl"s receipt shall be
a suflicient discharge therefor.

§ 1895. Public buildings owned by the state or any county,
city, school district, or other civil corporation, and any other
public property which is necessary and proper for carrying
out the general purpose for which any such corporation is
organized, are exempt from execution. The property of a
private citizen can in no case be levied upon to pay the debt
of a civilcorporation

§ 1896. In case no property is found on which to levy which
is not exempted by the last section, or if the judgment creditor elect not to issue execution against such corporation, he
is entitled to the amount of his judgment and costs in the
ordinary evidences of indebtedness issued by that corporation. And if the debtor corporation issues no scrip or evidences of debt a tax must be levied as early as practicable
suflicient to pay 011‘ the judgment with interest and costs.

§ 1897. A failure on the part of the officers of the corporation to comply with the requirements of the last section renders them personally responsible for the debt.

§ 1898. The following property of private individuals is also
exempt from execution: All wearing apparel kept for actual
use and suitable to the condition of the party, and trunks and

other receptacles to contain the same; one musket or rillc;
the proper tools, instruments, or books of any farmer, mechanie, surveyor, pliysiciaii, teacher, or professor; the horse
or team and WE-l.;._I()l1 or other veliicle with the proper harness
or taclile by the use of whieli any pl'1ysicia11, public officer,
farmer, teamster, or other laborer habitually earns his living;
all libraries, faniily bibles, portraits and pai11t.i11gs ; a seat or
per.’ oecupietl by the debtor or his family in any liouse ol'p'ub—
lie worship; and an int.erest in a public or prix'at.e biirying
ground not f_‘X(3("l.?Lllllg' one a.e1‘e for any one (lel'e.nLla11t.

§ 1899. If the debtor is the head of a family there is farther exempt, his homestead as provided by law; one cow and calf; one horse (unless a horse has previously been exempted); fifty sheep and the wool therefrom; five hogs and all pigs under six months old; the necessary food for all animals exempt from execution, for sixty days; all flax raised by the defendant and the manufacturers therefrom; one bedstead and the necessary bedding for every two in teh family; all cloth manufactured by the defendant not exceeding one hundred yards in quantity; household and kitchen furniture not exceeding one hundred dollars in value; all spinning wheels and looms and other instruments of domestic labor kept for actual use; and the necessary provisions and fuel for the use of the family for six months.

§ 1900. The word "family" as used in the last section does not include strangers or boarders lodging with the family.

§ 1901. The earnings of such debotr for his personal services or those of his family at any time within ninety days next preceding the levy are also exempt from execution and attachment.

§ 1902. None of the exemptions contained in this chapter
are intended for the benefit of non-residents, but their property is liable to execution with the exception of ordinary
wearing apparel and trunks to contain the same; but any
person coming to this state with the intention of remaining is
a resident within the meaning of this chapter.

§ 1903. The officer shall in all cases select such property
and in such quantities as will be likely to bring the exact
amount required to be raised, as nearly as practicable.

§ 1904. He must execute the writ by levying on the property of the judgment debtor, collecting the things in action
by suit in his own name if necessary or by selling the same,
selling the other property and paying to the plaintiff the proceeds or so much thereof as will satisfy the execution.

§ 1905. The sheriff must give four week’s notice of the time

and place of selling real property, and two weeks notice of
that of personal property.

\.

§ 1906. Such notice shall be given by being posted up in
, at least three public places of the county one of which shall
.be at the place where the last district court was held. In
addition to which, in case of the sale of real estate or where
personal property to the amount of two hundred dollars or
upwards is to be sold there shall, if either party make of the
sheriff a written request therefor or if the defendant be a nonresident, be two publications of such notice in some newspaper printed in the county if there be one.

§ 1907. An ofiicer selling without the notice above prescribed shall forfeit one hundred dollars to the defendant in
execution in addition to the actual damages sustained by
either party, but the validity of the sale is not thereby affected.

§ 1908. The sale must be at public auction between nine
o’clock in the forenoon and four o’clock in the afternoon.

§ 1909. When there are no bidders, or when the amount
offered is grossly inadequate, or when for any cause the sale
is prevented from taking place on the day iixed, the sheriff
may postpone the sale for not more than three days without
being required to give any farther notice thereof, but he shall
not make more than two such postponements.

§ 1910. When property sells for more than the amount
required to be collected the overplus must be paid to the defendant unless the officer have another execution in his hands
on which said overplus may be rightfully applied.

§ 1911. If the property levied on sell for less than sufficient
for that purpose, the plaintiff may order out another execution which shall be credited with the amount of the previous
sale. The proceedings under this second sale shall conform
to those hereinbefore prescribed.

§ 1912. VVhen property is unsold for want of bidders the
levy still holds good and if there is sufficient time the property may again be advertised and sold under the same execution, or the execution may be returned and a venditioni
exponas issued.

§ 1913. When the purchaser fails to pay the money when
demanded the plaintiff or his attorney may elect to proceed
against him for the amount; otherwise the sheriff shall treat
the sale as a nullity and may sell the property again on the
same day or after a postponement as above authorized.

§ 1914. Money levied upon may be appropriated without
being advertised or sold. The same may be done with bank
bills, drafts, promissory notes, or other papers of a like character, if the plaintiff will receive them at their par value as
cash or if the oflicer can exchange them for cash at that
value.

§ 1915. Where, by the indorsement of the clerk upon the
writ, it appears that either of the persons against whom it
issued is only a surety for some of the others,the sheriff shall
in selling first exhaust the property of the principals before
he sells any of the property ofthe surety.

§ 1916. When the sheriff has doubts as to the defendant’s
ownership of personal property he may refuse to levy or if
he has levied he may refuse to sell, and may surrender the
property to the claimant unless the plaintiff will first give
him a bond of indemnity to enable him to proceed safely.

§ 1917. VVhen personal property is owned jointly by the
defendant and another the sheriff may take it into custody
subject to be released by a delivery-bond or a bond conditioned to pay the debt to the value of the defendant’s interest in the property levied on.

§ 1918. When a judgment has been obtained against the
executor of one deceased which his personal estate is insufticient to satisfy, the plaintiff may file his petition ‘in the
oflice of the clerk of the district court wherein judgment was
rendered, against the executor, the heirs, and devisees of real
estate (if there are such) setting forth the facts and that there
is real estate of the deceased within the state describing its
location and extent and praying the court to award execution against the same. .

§ 1919. A notice shall thereupon be indorsed upon said
petition notifying the persons against whom the petition is
tiled to appear on the first day of the next term and show
cause if any they have why execution should not be awarded.

§ 1920. The petition and notice shall be served and returned in the ordinary manner and the same consequences
as in civil actions shall result from not serving them ten days
before the next term of the court.

§ 1921. At the proper time the court shall award the execution unless sullicient cause be shown to the contrary.

§ 1922. The nonage of the heirs or devisees shall not be
deemed such sufficient cause.

§ 1923. Mutual judgments, the executions on which are in
the hands of the same officer, may be set-off the one against
the other, except that the costs shall not be so set-off unless
the balance of cash actually collected on the larger judgment is sufficient to pay the costs of both judgments, and
such costs shall be paid therefrom accordingly.

§ 1924. When real property has been levied upon, if the
estate is less than a lease-hold having two years of an unexpired term the sale is absolute. When the estate is of a

larger amount the property is redeemable as hereinafter pre,scribed.

§ 1925. At the time of the sale the sheriff shall give to
the purchaser a certificate containing a description of the
property and the amount of money paid by such purchaser,
and stating that unless redemption is made within one year
thereafter according to law he or his heirs or assigns will be
entitled to a deed for the same.

§ 1926. The defendant may redeem such property at any
time within one year from the day of sale as ereinafter provided and will in the mean time be entitled to the possession
of the property.

§ 1927. For the first six months after such sale his right to
redeem is exclusive, but if no redemption is made by him at
the end of that time any creditor of the defendant whose demand is a lien upon such real estate may redeem the same
at any time within nine months from the day of sale. But a
mechanic’s lien before judgment thereon is not of such a
character as to entitle the holder to redeem. '

§ 1928. Any creditor whose claim becomes a lien prior to
the expiration of the time allowed by law for redemption by
creditors may redeem. A mortgagee may thus redeem before or after the debt secured by the mortgage falls due.

§ 1929. Creditors having the right of redemption may redeem from each other within the time above limited and in
the manner herein provided.

§ 1930. The terms of redemption in all cases will be, the
reimbursement of the amount paid by the then holder added
to the amount of his own lien with interest upon the whole at
‘the rate of ten per cent. per annum together with costs, subject to the exception contained in the next section. But
where a mortgagee whose claim is not yet due is the person
from whom the redemption is thus to be made, a rebate of
interest at the rate of ten per cent. per annum must be made
by such mortgagee on his claim.

§ 1931. When a senior creditor thus redeems from ajunior
he is required to pay off only the amount of those liens which
are paramount to his own with the interest and costs appertaining to those liens.

§ 1932. But the junior creditor may in all such cases prevent a redemption by the holder of the paramount lien by
paying off that lien or by leaving with the clerk beforehand
the amount necessary therefor.

§ 1933. Whenever a senior creditor redeems from a junior
creditor the latter may in return redeem from the former, and
so on as often as the land is taken from him. by virtue of a
paramount lien.

§ 1934. After the expiration of nine months from the day of

-sale the creditors can no longer redeem from each other except as hereinafter provided. But the defendant may still
redeem at any time before the end of the year, as aforesaid.

§ 1935. Unless the defendant thus redeems, the purchaser
or the creditor who last redeemed prior to the expiration of
the nine months aforesaid will hold the property absolutely.

§ 1936. In case it is thus held by a redeeming creditor his
lien and the claim out of which it arose will be held to be
extinguished unless he pursue the course pointed out in the
next section.

§ 1937. If he is unwilling to hold the property and credit
the defendant therefor with the full amount of his lien he
must, within ten days after the expiration of the nine months
aforesaid, enter on the sale book the utmost amount that he
is thus willing to credit on his'claim.

§ 1938. Any unsatisfied lien-creditor, within ten days after
the expiration of the time thus allowed to make the entry
required in the last section, may redeem the property by paying the amount of the legal disbursements of the last Holder
as hereinbefore regulated added to the amount thus entered
on the sale book together with interest and costs.

§ 1939. Such redemptioner shall also credit the defendant
with the full amount of his lien unless within ten days after
redeeming as aforesaid he likewise makes a like entry. on the
sale book, in which case any other unsatisfied lien creditor
may in like manner redeem within ten days as aforesaid,and
so on until there are no more unsatisfied liens or until the
expiration of the year for redemption, the defendant having

' the Final privilege of redeeming from the last redemptioner at

the end of the year.

§ 1940. The mode of making the redemption is by paying
the money into the clerk’s office for the use of the persons
thereto entitled. The person so redeeming, ifnot the defendant in execution, must also file his affidavit or that of his
agent or attorney stating as nearly as practicable the amount
still unpaid and due on his own claim.

§ 1941. The clerk shall thereupon give him a receipt for
the money stating the purpose for which it was paid. He
must also at the same time enter in the sale book a minute
of such redemption, of the amount paid, and the amount of
the lieu of the last redemptioner as sworn to by him.

§ 1942. A creditor redeeming as above contemplated is entitled to receive an assignment of the certificate issued by the
sheriff to the original purchaser as hereinbefore directed.

§ 1943. When the property has been sold in parcels any?
distinct portion may be redeemed by itself.

§ 1944. VVhen the interests of several tenants in common
have been sold on execution the undivided portion of any or
either of them may be redeemed separately.

§ 1945. The rights of a defendant in relation to redemption
are transferable and the assignee has the like power to
redeem.

§ 1946. If the defendant or his assignee fail to redeem the
sheriff must at the end of the year execute a deed to the person who is entitled to the certificate as hereinbefore provided
or to his assignee. If the person so entitled be dead the deed
shall be made to his heirs, but the property will be subject to
the payment of the debts of the deceased in the same manner as if acquired during his life time.

§ 1947. The purchaser of real estate at a sale on execution
need not place any evidence of his purchase upon record
until twenty days after the expiration of the full time of
redemption. Up to that time the publicity of the proceedings is constructive notice of the rights of the purchaser
but no longer.

§ 1948. Deeds executed by a sheriff in pursuance of such
sales are presumptive evidence of the regularity of all previous proceedings in the case and may be given in evidence
without preliminary proof.

§ 1949. When real estate has been sold on execution, the
purchaser thereof or any person who has succeeded to his
interest may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for any injury to the property committed after the sale
and before possession is delivered under the conveyance.

§ 1950. Lands sold previous to the taking effect of this act_
shall be redeemed according to the laws heretofore in force.

§ 1951. The term “defendant” as herein used is intended
to designate the party against whom, and the term “plaintiff” the party in favor of whom any execution has issued.

§ 1952. The provisions of this chapter are intended to embrace proceedings in justice’s courts so far as they are applicable; and the terms “sheriff” and “clerk” are accordingly
to be understood as qualified in this chapterin the same manner in this respect as in that relative to attachment.

 

CHAPTER 111.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTAL TO EXECUTION.

§ 1953. When an execution against the property of a judgment debtor has been issued from the district or supreme

court to the sheriff of the county where such debtor resides,
or to the sheriff of the county wherein the cause was originally tried in case the said debtor resides out of the state,
and is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment
creditor is entitled to an order for the appearance and examination of the said debtor.

§ 1954. The like order may be obtained at any time after
the issuing of an execution upon proof, by affidavit of the
party or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court or oflicer
who is to grant the same, that any judgment debtor has property which he -unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

§ 1955. Such order may be made by the court in which the
judgment was rendered, or by any judge thereof in vacation,
or by the county‘ court of the county to which the execution
has been issued as aforesaid or by the judge thereof. And
the debtor may be required to appear and answer before
either of such courts or oflicers, or before a referee appointed
by the court or judge who issued the order.

§ 1956. The debtor on his appearance may be interrogated
in relation to any fact calculated to show the amount of his
property or the disposition which has been made of it, or any
other matter pertaining to the purpose for which the examination is permitted to be made. And the interrogatories and
answers shall be reduced to writing and preserved by the
court or officer before whom they are taken.

§ 1957. If any property, rights, or credits subject to execution are thus ascertained an execution‘ may be issued and
they may be levied upon accordingly.

§ 1958. Should the judgment debtor fail to appear after
being personally served with notice to that effect, or should
he fail to make full answers to all proper interrogatories thus
propounded to him, he will be guilty of contempt and may be
arrested and imprisoned until he complies with the requirements of the law in this respect.

§ 1959. Upon proof to the satisfaction of the court or odicer authorized to grant the order aforesaid that there is dan-,
ger that the defendant will leave the state or that he will‘
conceal himself, the said court or officer instead of the order
aforesaid may issue a warrant for the arrest of the debtor
and for bringing him forthwith before the court or officer
authorized to take his examination as hereinbefore provided.
After being thus brought before the said court or oflieer he
may be examined in the same manner and with the like
effect as is above provided.

§ 1960. Any person aggrieved by the judgment of the district court by ‘reason of any material error in fact, may within one year after the rendition thereof obtain from the clerk
of the court which rendered the judgment a writ of error coo
ram nobis returnable at the next term of’ said court.

§ 1961. Such writ of error does not operate as a superse-.

deas unless the party suing out the same give bond in like
manner as required in cases of appeals to the supreme court.

§ 1962. Notice of the suing out of such writ must be served
on the opposite party orhis attorney at least ten days prior
to the next term of the court or the cause shall be continued
to the next succeeding term, unless the defendant in error
consents to a trial at the first term.

§ 1963. In all cases of aflirmance, where the original judgment has been superseded, judgment shall be rendered
against the plaintiff in error and his sureties for the amount
of the fbrmer judgment, interest, and costs, together with
damages at the discretion of the court not exceeding ten per
cent on the amount of the judgment.

§ 1964. The court may prescribe rules for the service by
publication upon defendants who reside out of the state having no known attorney therein, for the assignment of errors,
for making up the issues thereon, and for all such other matters as are necessary to give full effect to this proceeding.

 

CHAPTER 113.

WRIT OF CERTIORARI.

§ 1965. The writ of certiorari may be granted whenever

‘specially authorized by law and also in all cases where an

inferior tribunal, board, or ollicer exercising judicial functions, is alledged to have exceeded their proper jurisdiction
or is otherwise acting illegally, when in the judgment of the
court applied to for the writ there is no other plain, speedy,
and adequate remedy.

§ 1966. The writ may be granted by the district court of
the proper county, but if to be directed to a district court or
the judge thereof then by the supreme court, and shall command the defendant therein to certify fully to the court from
which the same issues, at a specified time and lace, a
transcript of the record and proceedings as well as the facts
of the case (describing and referring to them or any of them
with convenient certainty) and also to have then and there
the writ. 1967. If a stay of proceedings is sought the court may
require a bond and may fix the penalty and conditions
thereof.

§ 1968. The motion for this writ must be made on affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to
be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to show
cause, or may in its discretion grant the writ without notice.

§ 1969. The writ must be served and the proof of such ser-I
vice made in the same manner as is prescribed for the ori-3

ginal notice in a civil action, except that the original shall
be left with the defendant and the return or proof of service
made upon a copy thereof.

§ 1970. If the return to the writ be defective the court may;
order a farther return to be made and may compel obedience to the writ-and to such .farther order by attachment if
necessary. - ‘ ,

§ 1971. When a full return has been made the court must.
proceed to hear the parties or such of them as may attend‘
for that purpose, and may thereupon give judgment affirming or annulling the proceedings below or in its discretion
correcting those proceedings and prescribing the manner in
which the defendant shall proceed farther in the matter.

§ 1972. From the decision of the district court an appeallies to the supreme court as in other cases. *

 

CHAPTER 1 14.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT TO THE SUPREME COURT.

§ 1973. Appeals in all cases hereafter tried must be taken
within one year from the time the judgment is rendered, in
all cases heretofore tried within one year from the time this
law takes effect. But the time allowed the appellant by the
pre-existing law is not to be enlarged.

§ 1974. Appeals are taken by the service of a notice in
writing on the adverse party, his agent, or attorney, and also
on the clerk of the court in which the proceedings were had

stating the appeal from the same or some specific part
thereof.

§ 1975. The clerk of the district court should not make out
.the transcript as required in the next section until payment
therefor is made by the appellant, and if he sends up such
transcript he is in all cases responsible to the county for the
amount of the fee for such transcript.

§ 1976. Upon receiving the notice and the payment aforesaid the clerk shall forthwith transmit to the supreme court a
transcript of the record in the cause or so much thereof as
the appellant in writing directs, to which shall be appended
the notice of the appeal and the written directions of the appellant above contemplated, if any.

§ 1977. All proper entries made by the clerk and all papers
pertainingto a cane and filed therein (except subpoenas, depositions, and other papers which are used as mere evidence)
are to be deemed parts of the record. But a transcript of
motions, aflidavits, and other papers, when they relate to
collateral matters should not be certified unless by direction
of the appellant. If so certified when not material to the determination of the appeal the court may direct the person
blameable therefor to pay the costs thereof.

§ 1978. The notice of the appeal must be served on the
respondent fifteen days prior to the next term or the cause
will not be then tried unless by consent of the appellee.

§ 1979. A part of several co-parties may appeal, but in
such a case they must serve notice of the a peal upon all the
other co-parties and file the proof thereo with the clerk of
the supreme court.

§ 1980. If the other co-parties refuse to join they cannot
take an appeal afterward nor shall they derive any benefit
from the appeal unless from the necessity of the case.

§ 1981. Unless they appear and decline to join they shall
be regarded as having joined and shall be liable for their due
proportion of costs.

§ 1982. The death of any or all of the parties shall not
cause the proceedings to abate, but the names of the proper
persons being substituted the cause may proceed. The court
in such cases may in its discretion grant a continuance when
such a course will be calculated to promote the ends of justice.

§ 1983. Nor shall the appeal in any case stay the execution
of the judgment unless a bond be filed in the office of the
clerk of the court which rendered the judgment, in a penalty
and with sureties to be approved by the clerk thereof, conditioned that if the judgment appealed from or any part thereof is aiiirmed or judgment rendered against him in the supreme court the appellant will pay the judgment and all the
damages and costs which may be awarded against him, and
otherwise obey the orders of the court.

§ 1984. If the judgment was for the payment of money then
the penalty shall be in at least twice the amount of the judgment and costs. If not for the payment of money, the penalty shall be sufficient to save the appellee harmless from the
consequences of taking the appeal. But it shall in no case be
less than one hundred dollars.

§ 1985. The taking of the appeal from a part of a judgment and the filing of the bond as above directed does not
cause a stay of execution as to any portion of the judgment

not appealed from.

§ 1986. The supreme court when it aflirms the judgment
shall also, if the appellee moves therefor, render judgment
against the appellant andhis surcties in the bond above mentioned for the amount of the judgment, damages, and costs
referred to therein, in case such damages can be accurately
known to the court without an issue and trial.

§ 1987. If execution has issued prior to the giving of the
bond above ‘contemplated the clerk shall countermand the
same.

§ 1988. Property levied upon and not sold at the time such
countermand is received by the sheriif shall forthwith be de' livered up to the judgment debtor.

§ 1889. The supreme court may reverse or affirm the judg-t
ment below or render such judgment as the district court‘
should have done, according as they may think proper. y

§ 1990. Upon the aflirmance of any judgments where a stayof execution was obtained as above contemplated, the court
may award to the appellee such damages as it may deem
proper not exceeding twelve per cent. upon the amount of
the judgment.

§ 1991. If the supreme court aflirm the judgment it may
remand the cause to the district court to have the same car-‘
ried into effect, or it may itself issue the necessary process
for this purpose and direct such process to the sheriff of the
proper county.

§ 1992. If by the decision of the supreme court the appel- 1
lant becomes entitled to a restoration of any part of the
money or property that was taken from him by means of such
judgment, either the supreme or district court may direct
execution or writ of restitution to issue for the purpose of
restoring to such appellant his property or the value thereof.

§ 1993. Property acquired by a bona fide purchaser under
a judgment subsequently reversed shall not be affected by
such reversal.

TITLE XX.

1. SPECIAL ACTIONS AND PRODEEDINGB.

_,_-.+-_...___.‘._.- - ._., - .._..._

CHAPTER 1 15.

REPLEVIN.

§ 1994. When the object of the action is to recover the possession of personal property the petition must in all cases be
under oath.

§ 1995. It must state that the property (describing it) is
wrongfully detained by the defendant, that the plaintiff is
entitled to the present possession thereof, and that it was not
taken from him by any legal process or if so taken that it
was exempt from seizure by such process.» It must also state

the alledged cause of detention according to his best know-- .

ledge and belief and also the value of the property.

§ 1996. He shall also execute a bond to the defendant with
sureties to be approved by the clerk in a penalty at least
equal to twice the value of the property sought, conditioned
that he will appear at the next term of the court and prosecute his suit to judgment and return the property if a returnbe awarded, and also pay all costs and damages that may be
adjudged against him. This bond shall be filed with the
clerk of the court and is for the use of any person injured by
the proceeding.

§ 1997. The clerk shall thereupon issue a writ of replevin
directed to the sheriff to take the property therein described
and deliver the same to the plaintiff. The ordinary original
notice must also be served on the defendant in the usual
manner.

§ 1998. In obedience to such writ the sheriff must forthwith
take possession of the property if in the possession of the
defendant or his agent, for which purpose he may break open
any dwelling house or other inclosure having first demanded .
‘entrance and exhibited his authority if required.

§ 1999. If a third person claim the property he must be
made a co-defendant.

§ 2000. If the property sought be not obtained the plaintiff,
if he establishes his right thereto, shall recover the value of
that right. Vi/hether obtained or not he shall recover the

damages he has sustained in consequence of the illegal detention thereof.

§ 2001. If the plaintiff fail to establish his right to the pro-:
perty the defendant shall recover such damages as under the
circumstances he shows himself entitled to.
 

CHAPTER 110.

ACTIONS FOR THE RECOVERY OF REAL PROPERTY.

§ 2002. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in
real property and a right to the immediate possession thereof may recover the same by action, which may be brought
against any person acting as owner, landlord, or tenant of
the property claimed.

§ 2003. Whenever it appears that the defendant is only aj
tenant the landlord may be substituted, reasonable notice1
thereof being given him.

§ 2004. When the defendant is a non-resident having an
agent for the property in the state, service may be made upon
such agent in the same manner and with the like effect as
though made on the principal.

§ 2005. The answer of the defendant must set forth under
what claim of right (if any) he holds possession, and if as
mere tenant the name and residence of his landlord must be
gven.

§ 2006. The court may grant continuances in cases of this
nature for reasons of less importance than those required to
be set forth in ordinary civil actions. 

§ 2007. Where the defendant makes defense it is not ne-1
cessary to prove him in possession of the premises.

§ 2008. The plaintiff cannot recover for the use and occu-1
pation of the premises for more than six years prior to the‘
commencement of the action.

§ 2009. When the plaintiff shows himself entitled to the‘
immediate possession of the premises judgment shall be en-0
tered and a writ of possession issued accordingly.

§ 2010. If the interest of the plaintiff expire before the time.
in which he could be put in possession he can obtain a judg-‘
ment for damages only.

§ 2011. Where there is no proof against some of the defendants the court may order a discontinuance as to them before
the testimony in the case is closed. 

§ 2012. Judgments in proceedings of this nature are as.

conclusive as those in actions relating to personal property
;except as herein otherwise provided.

§ 2013. The preceding section is intended to apply only to
interests existing at the time of the trial, and is not intended
to prevent a new action to test the validity of rights acquired
subsequently to the former trial.

§ 2014. The court in its discretion may grant a new trial
on the application of a party or those claiming under him
made at any time within two years after the determination
of the former trial.

§ 2015. The result of such new trial (if granted after the
close of the term at which the first trial took place) shall in
no case affect the interest of third persons, acquired in good
faith for a valuable consideration since the former trial.

§ 2016. But the party, who on such new trial shows himself entitled to lands which have thus passed to a bona fide
purchaser, may recover the proper amount ofdamages against
the other party either in the same or a subsequent action.

§ 2017. The party who has been successful in such new
trial shall (if the case require it) have his writ of restitution
to restore him his property.

§ 2018. In an action against a tenant the judgment shall
be conclusive against the landlord who has received notice
as hereinbefore provided.

§ 2019. If not notified, he shall be regarded as a defendant who has not been served with the original notice and

shall be treated accordingly.
§ 2020. The plaintiff must recover on the strength of his

own title.

§ 2021. The court, on motion and after notice to the opposite party, may for cause shown grant an order allowing the
party applying therefor to enter upon the property in controversy and make survey and admeasurement thereof for
the purposes of the action.

§ 2022. The order must describe the property, and a copy
thereof must be served upon the owner or person having the

occupancy and control of the land.

§ 2023. When the plaintiff in an action of this nature is
entitled to damages for withholding or using or injuring his
property, the defendant may set off the value of any permanent improvements made thereon to the extent of such damages, unless he prefers to avail himself of the law for the benefit of occupying claimants.

§ 2024. In case of wanton aggression on the part of a. defendant the jury may award exemplary damages.
§ 2025. An action in the nature of that authorized in this chapter may also be brought by one having a reversionary

interest or by one either in or out of possession, against
another who claims title to real property, although the de-.
fendant may not be in the possession thereof, for the purpose of determining and quieting the question of title.

§ 2026. The rules above prescribed shall in such cases be?
observed as far as they are applicable.

§ 2027. In an action for the recovery of dower before ad-«
measurement, or by a tenant in common or joint tenant of‘
real property against his co-tenant, the plaintid‘ must show
in addition to his evidence of right that the defendant either
denied the plaintiff’s right or did some act amounting to
such denial.

 

CHAPTER 117.

PARTITION .

§ 2028. When the object of the action is to effect a parti-;
tion of real property among several joint owners the petition
must describe the property and the respective interests of the
several owners thereof if known.

§ 2029. If the number of shares or interests is known but
the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are,or are supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent, or
doubtful, these facts must_ be set forth in the petition with
reasnnable certainty.

§ 2030. Creditors having a specilic or general lien upon all
or any portion of the property may or may not be made parties at the option of the plaintiff.

§ 2031. If the lien is upon one or more undivided interests?
of any of the parties it shall, after partition or sale, remain a
charge upon those particular interests or the proceeds thereof. But the due proportion of costs is a charge upon those
interests paramount to all other liens.

§ 2032. The answers of the defendants must state among.
other things the amount and nature of their respective interests. They may deny the interest of any of the plaintiffs
and by supplemental pleading if necessary may deny the
interest of any of the other defendants.

§ 2033. Where there are two or more plaintiffs they may
reply jointly, or either of them may reply to any or all the
answers of the defendants.

§ 2034. Issues may thereupon be joined and tried between
any of the contesting parties, the question of costs on such

issues being regulated between the contestants agreeably to’
,the principles applicable to other cases.

§ 2035. Each of the parties appearing, whether as plaintiff
or defendant, must exhibit his documentary proof of title (if
he has any) and must file the same or copies thereof with the
clerk.

§ 2036. If the statements in the petition and answers are
not contradicted in the manner aforesaid or by the documentary proof exhibited as above required they shall be taken as
true.

§ 2037. After all the shares and interests of the parties
have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid judgment
shall be rendered confirming those shares and interests and
directing partition to be made accordingly.

§ 2038. Upon entering such judgment the court shall appoint referees to make partition into the requisite number of
shares.

§ 2039. For good and sufiicient reasons appearing to the
court the referees may be directed to allot particular portions of the land to particular individuals. In other cases
the shares must be made as nearly as possible of equal
value.

§ 2040. If it appears to the referees that a partition cannot
be made without great prejudice to the owners they shall so
report to the court.

§ 2041. If satisfied with such report the court shall cause
an order to be entered directing the referees to sell the premises so situated and shall also fix the terms of sale. a

§ 2042. Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall each
give security to be approved by the court or judge thereof
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties. At any
time thereafter the court may require farther and better security.

§ 2043. The same notice of sale shall be given as when
lands are sold on execution by the sheriff and the sales shall
be conducted in like manner. _

§ 2044. After completing said sale the referees must report
their proceedings to the court with a description of the different parcels of land sold to each purchaser and the price
bid therefor, which report shall be filed with the clerk.

§ 2045. After making the order of sale as aforesaid, the
court shall direct the clerk to report whether there be any
general incumbrance by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise
upon any portion of the property.

§ 2046. If deemed advisable, the court may appoint a referee to inquire into the nature and amount of incumbrances

and to report accordingly. From that report an appeal lies
* to the court.

§ 2047. The referees shall give the parties interested at leasts
five days notice of the time and place when he will receive
proof of the amounts of such incumbrances.

§ 2048. In taking such proof he may receive, with other
evidence, the affidavit of the parties interested.

§ 2049. If any incumbrance be ascertained to exist the pro-1

ceeds of the sale of that portion (after the payment of costs)<
or so much thereof as is necessary shall, if the owner consent,
be paid over to the incumbrancer.

§ 2050. If the owner object to the payment of such incum-E
brance the money shall be retained or invested by order of
the court to await final action in relation to its disposition,
and notice thereof shall be forthwith given to the incumbrancer unless he has already been made a party.

§ 2051. The court may direct an issue to be made up be-I
tween the incumbrancer and the owner, which shall be decisive of their respective rights.

§ 2052. If an estate for life or years be found to exist as an

' incumbrance upon any part of said property, and if the parties cannot agree upon the sum in gross which they will consider an equivalent for such estate. the court shall direct the
avails of the incumbered property to be invested and the proceeds to be paid to the incumbrancer during the life time of
the incumbrance.

§ 2053. The proceedings in relation to incumbrances shall
not delay the distribution of the proceeds of other shares in
respect to which no such difiiculties exist.

§ 2054. The court in its discretion may require all or any of
the parties, before they receive the moneys arising from any
sale anthorised in this chapter, to give satisfactory security to
refund such moneys with interest in case it afterward appears that such parties were not entitled thereto.

§ 2055. If the sales aforesaid be approved and confirmed by
the court an order shall be entered directing the referees or
any two of them to execute conveyances pursuant to such
sales. But no conveyances can be made until all the money
is paid, without receiving from the purchaser a mortgage of
the land so sold or other equivalent security.

§ 2056. Such conveyances so executed, being recorded in
the county where the premises are situate, shall be valid
against all subsequent purchasers, and also against all persons interested at the time who were made parties to the proceedings in the mode pointed out by law.

§ 2057. If the owner of any share thus sold has a husband
or wife living and if such husband and wife do not agree as

to the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds of such

,sale, the court must direct it to be invested in real estate

under the supervision of such person as it may appoint, taking the title in the name of the owner of the share sold as
aforesaid.

§ 2058. If the sales are disapproved the money paid and
the securities given must be returned to the persons respectively entitled thereto.

§ 2059. When a partition is deemed proper the referees
must mark out the shares by visible monuments, and may
employ a competent surveyor and the necessary assistants
to aid them therein.

§ 2060. The report of the referees must be in writing signed by at least two of them. It must describe the respective
shares with reasonable particularity and be accompanied by
a plat of the premises.

§ 2061. Unless the shares are allotted to their respective
owners by the referees as hereinbefore contemplated the clerk
shall number the shares and then draw the names of the future owners by lot.

§ 2062. When partition can be conveniently made of part
of the premises but not of all, one portion may be partitioned
and the other sold as hereinbefore provided.

§ 2063. On good cause shown the report may be set aside
and the matter again referred to the same or other referees.

§ 2064. Upon the report of the referees being confirmed
judgment thereon ‘shall be rendered that the partition be firm
and effectual forever.

§ 2065. When all the parties in interest have been duly
notitied to appear and answer, either by the service of the
petition and notice or by the publication prescribed by law,
any of the proceedings above authorized shall be binding and
conclusive upon them all. If only a portion of such parties
be served they only shall be bound by such proceedings.

§ 2066. This judgment of partition shall be presumptive
evidence of title in all cases, and as between the parties
themselves it is conclusive evidence thereof, subjecthowever
to be defeated by proof of a. title paramount to, or independent of, that under which the parties held as joint tenants or
tenants in common.

§ 2067. All the costs of the proceedings in partition shall
be paid in the first instance by the plaixititfs but eventually
by all the parties in proportion to their interests, except those
costs which are created by contests above provided for.

§ 2068. Any person claiming to hold an incumbrance upon
any portion of the property involved in the suit may, in default of the owner, appear and act as his representative in
any of the proceedings under this act.

§ 2069. Persons having contingent interests in such property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the proceeds of the property so situated (or the property itself in
case of partition) shall be subject to the order of the court
until the right becomes fully vested.

§ 2070. The ascertained share of any absent owner shall
be retained or the proceeds invested for his benefit.

 

CHAPTER 118.

FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES.

§ 2071. Any mortgage to secure the payment of money
only and where the time of payment is therein fixed may be
foreclosed by notice and. sale as hereinafter provided unless
a stipulation to the contrary has been agreed upon by the

arties.
§ 2072. The notice must contain a full description of the
ppopeirty mortgaged together with the time, place, and terms
0 sa e. .

§ 2073. Such notice must be served on the mortgagor, and
upon all persons having recorded liens upon the same property which are paramount to the mortgage or they will not
be bound by the proceedings.

§ 2074. The service and return must be made in the same
manner as in case of the original notice b which civil actions are commenced, except that no pu lication in the
newspapers is necessary for this purpose, the general publication directed in the next section being a sufficient service
upon all the parties in cases where service is to be made by
publication. ‘

§ 2075. After notice has been served upon the parties it
must be published in the same manner and for the same
length of time as is required in cases of the sale of like property on execution, and the sale shall be conducted in the
same manner.

§ 2076. The purchaser shall take all the title and interest
on which the mortgage operated as a lien.

§ 2077. The sheriff conducting the sale shall execute to

_ the purchaser a bill of sale of the personal pro erty or a deed

of the real estate, which shall be respective y effectual to
carry the whole title and interest purchased.

§ 2078. The deeds of real estate must be acknowledged
{and recorded like deeds for lands sold on execution.

§ 2079. Evidence of the service and publication of the
notice aforesaid and of the sale made in accordance therewith together with any postponement or other material matter may be perpetuated by proper affidavits thereof

§ 2080. Such afiidavits shall be attached to the bill of sale
of personal property or recorded with the deed of real property and shall then be receivable in evidence to prove the
facts they state.

§ 2081. Sales made in accordance with the above requirements are valid in the hands of a bona fide purchaser whatever may the equities between the mortgagor and mortgagee.

§ 2082. The right of the mortgagee to foreclose as well as
the amount claimed to be due may be contested by any one
interested in so doing, and the proceeding may be transferred
to the district court for which purpose an injunction may
issue if necessary.

§ 2083. The holder of any mortgage may in all cases——and
where the mortgage is given for any other purpose than to
secure the payment of money at a day certain hr must—proceed by civil action in the district court when he wishes to
foreclose the same.

§ 2084. If any thing be found due the plaintiff the court
shall render judgment therefor a.nd must direct the mortgaged property or so much thereof as is necessary, to be sold
to satisfy the amount due with interest and costs. A special
execution shall issue accordingly.

§ 2085. If the mortgaged property does not sell for sufficient to satisfy the execution a general execution may be
issugd :3.1,‘i§'aln8t the mortgagor unless the parties have stipua e o erwise. - °

§ 2086. If separate suits are brought on the bond or note
and on the mortgage given to secure it the plaintiff must
elect which to prosecute. The other will be discontinued at
his costs.

§ 2087. VVhen a judgment is obtained in an action on the
bond the property mortgaged may be sold on the execution
issued thereon, and the judgment shall be a lien thereon
frogagge dine of tltre recording off!‘ the Imortgdage.

§ 2088. At any time prior to t e sa e ma e In acco anee
with either of the above modes of foreclosure, a person having a lien on the property which is junior to the mortgage
will be entitled to an assignment of all the interest of the
holder of the mortgage by paying him the amount secured
with interest and costs together with the amountof any other
liens of the same holder which are paramount to his. He

may then proceed with the foreclosure or discontinue it at

his option.
§ 2089. If there is an overplus remaining after satisfying4

the mortgage and costs, and if there are no other liens upon

‘the property, such overplus shall be paid to the mortgagor.

§ 2090. If there are other liens on the property sold, or<
other payments secured by the same mortgage, they shall be
paid offin their order. And if the money secured by any

such lien is not yet due a suitable rebate of interest must be

made by the holder thereof or his lien on, such property will
be postponed to those of a junior date, and if there are none
such the balance will be paid to the mortgagor.

§ 2091. As far as practicable, the property sold must be:
only sufficient to satisfy the mortgage foreclosed in either of
the methods aforesaid. _

§ 2092. The same costs and fees shall be allowed for ser-'
vices rendered and acts performed under the provisions of
this chapter as for like acts and services in other cases,which
will be paid out of the proceeds of the sales made.

§ 2093. Whenever the amount due on any mortgage is paid?
off the mortgagee or those legally acting for him must ack-‘
nowledge satisfaction thereof in the margin of the record of
the mortgage. If he fails to do so within six months after
being requested he shall forfeit to the mortgagor the sum of
twenty-five dollars. '

§ 2094. The vendor of real estate, when part or all the purchase money remains unpaid after the day fixed for payment,
whether time is or is not the essence of the contract, may file
his petition asking the court to require the purchaser to perform his contract or to foreclose and sell his interest in the
property.

§ 2095. The vendee shall in such cases, for the purpose of
the foreclosure, be treated as a mortgagor of the property
purchased and his rights may be foreclosed in a similar
manner.

§ 2096. Deeds of trust of real or personal property may be
executed as securities for the performance of contracts, and
sales made in accordance with their terms are valid. Or
they may be treated like mortgages and foreclosed by action
in the district court.

§ 2097. Nothing herein contained is intended to prevent
parties from fixing their own terms to any contract and prescribing the manner in which those contracts shall be enforced; nor to change the rule, or affect the rights of the vendor
of real estate, in those cases where time is of the essence of
the contract. ‘

CHAPTER 119.

ARBITRATION S.

§ 2098. All controversies which might be the subject of
civil actions may be submitted to the decision of one or more
arbitrators as hereafter provided.

§ 2099. The parties themselves, or those ersons who might
lawfully have controlled a civil action in t eir behalf for the
same subject matter, must sign a written agreement specifying particularly what demands are to be submitted, the names
of the arbitrators, and the court by which the judgment on
their award is to be rendered.

§ 2100. They shall then appear before some justice of the
peace of the county and acknowledge the instrument by them
signed to be their free act and deed.

§ 2101. The submission may be of some particular matters
or demands, or of all demands which the one party has
against the other, or of all mutual demands on both sides.

§ 2102. A submission to arbitration of the subject matter of
a suit may also be made by an order of court upon agreement ofparties after suit is commenced.

§ 2103. All the rules prescribed by law in cases of referees
are applicable to arbitrators except as herein otherwise expressed, or except as otherwise agreed upon by the parties.

§ 2104. Neither party shall have the power to revoke the
submission without the consent of the other.

§ 2105. If either party neglect to appear before the arbitrators after due notice they may nevertheless proceed to hear
and determine the cause upon the evidence which is produced before them.

§ 2106. If the time within which the award is to be made
is fixed in the submission, no award made after that time
shall have any legal effect unless made upon a recommitment of the matter by the court to which it is reported.

§ 2107. If the time of filing the award is not fixed in the
submission it must be filed within one year from the time such
submission is signed and acknowledged, unless by mutual
consent the time is prolonged.

§ 2108. The award must be in writing and shall be delivered by one of the arbitrators to the court designated in the
agreement, or it may be enclosed and sealed by them and
transmitted to the court and not opened until the court so
orders.

§ 2109. The cause shall be entered on the docket of the

court at the term to which the award is returned and shall
be called up and acted upon in its order. But the court may 3
require actual notice to be given to either party when itt
appears necessary and proper before proceeding to act on ‘the *3
award.

§ 2110. The award may be rejected by the court for any]
legal and sufiicient reasons, or it may be recommitted for a
rehearing to the same arbitrators or any others agreed upon
by the parties.

§ 2111. When the award has been adopted it shall be filed]
and entered on the records and shall have the same force and
effect as the verdict of a jury. Judgment may be entered
and execution issued accordingly.

§ 2112. When an appeal is brought on such judgment, cow
pics of the submission and award together with all affidavits
shall be returned to the supreme court.

§ 2113. If there is no provision in the submission respectingt
costs the arbitrators may award them at their discretion.

§ 2114. The compensation of the arbitrators shall be two‘
dollars per day for the time actually and necessarily spent‘
unless the court fix a less amount, and the fees of the justice
of the peace shall be twenty-five cents for making out the
agreement of submission (in case he does so), and the like
amount for taking and certifying the acknowledgment thereto.

§ 2115. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to af-l
feet in any manner the control of the district court over the
parties, the arbitrators, or their award; nor to impair or
affect any action upon an award or upon any bond or other
engagement to abide an award.

 

CHAPTER 120.

ACTIONS AGAINST BOATS.

§ 2116. Any boat found in the waters of this state is liable;

Fms'r——For all debts contracted by the master, owner, agent,‘
clerk, or consignee thereof on account of supplies furnished
for the use of such boat; on account of work done or services
rendered for such boat; or on account of work done or materials furnished in building, repairing, iitting out, furnishing,
or equipping such boat; ,

SECOND-—-F01‘ all demands or damages accruing from the
non- erformance or mal-performance of any contract of affraig tment, or any contract relative to the transportation of

persons or property, entered into by the master, owner, agent,
,clerk, or consignee thereof;

Tnmn—For all injuries to persons or property by such boat,
or by the officers or crew, done in connexion with the business of said boat.

§ 2117. Claims growing out of any of the above causes are

liens upon the boat, its apparel, tackle, furniture, and appendages, including barges and lighters if owned by the owners
of the boat and used therewith at the time the suit is commenced.
§ 2118. Such liens take preference of any claims against.
the boat itself or any or all of its owners growing out of any
other causes than those above enumerated, and as between
themselves they are to be preferred in the following order:

Fn=.s'r—Those resulting from wages for services rendered
on board of such boat within the year then passed, provided
suit be commenced within twenty days after the cessation of
such labor;

SncoNn—Those resulting from contracts made within this
state;

Tmnn—AIl other causes.

§ 2119. Actions against boats under the provisions of this chapter cannot be brought after the lapse of one year from
the time the cause of action accrued.

§ 2120. The lien attaches from the commencement of the
suit subject only to such other liens as are of a preferred class.

§ 2121. The original petition must be in writing sworn to
and filed with the clerk or justice of the peace, who shall
thereupon issue a warrant to the proper oflicer commanding
him to seize the boat, its apparel, tackle, furniture and appendages and detain the same until released by due course
of law.

§ 2122. The usual notice shall also be issued, directed to
the boat by name, and served upon the master, owner, agent,
clerk, or consignee thereof, and if none of them can be found
it may be served by posting up a copy in some conspicuous
part of the boat. The warrant shall be served according to
the direction it contains.

§ 2123. Any person interested in the boat may appear for
the defendant by himself, his agent, or attorney and conduct
the defense of the suit, and no continuance shall be granted
to the plaintiff while the boat is held in custody.

§ 2124. The boat may be discharged at any time before
final judgment by the giving of a bond with sureties, to be
approved by the officer serving the warrant or by the clerk or
justice who issued it, in a penalty double the plaintiH"s demand conditioned that the obligors therein will pay the

amount which may be found due to the plaintiff together with
costs. 

§ 2125. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff before the
boat is thus discharged a special execution shall be issued
against it. If it have been previously discharged the execution shall issue against the principal and sureties in the bond
without farther proceedings. .

§ 2126. The sheriff may sell any of the furniture or appendages of the boat if by so doing he can satisfy the demand.
If he sell the boat itself he must sell it to the bidder who will
advance the amount required to satisfy the execution for the
lowest fractional share of the boat, unless the person appearing for the boat desire a different and equally convenient
mode, of sale.

§ 2127. If a fractional share of the boat be thus sold the.
purchaser shall hold such share or interest jointly with the
other owners. A

§ 2128. If an appeal be taken by the defendant before theboat is discharged as above provided, the appeal bond, if one
be liled, will have the same effect in discharging the boat as
the bond above contemplated, and execution shall issue
against the obligors therein after judgment in the same manner.

§ 2129. Nothing herein contained is intended" to affect the
rights of a plaintill‘ to sue in the same manner as though the
provisions of this chapter had not been enacted.

§ 2130. In actions commenced in accordance with the pro-«
visions of this chapter it is sufficient to allege the contract to
have been made with the boat itself.

CHAPTER 121.

NUISANCE, VVASTE, AND TRESPASS.

§ 2131. \Vhatever is injurious to health, or indecent, or]
offensive to thesenses, or an obstruction to_the free use of
property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property is a nuisance and the subject
of an action.

§ 2132. Such action may be brought by any person.
whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal en-'
joyment is lessened by the nuisance.

§ 2133. VV here a proper case is made the nuisance may be
enjoined or abated and damages recovered therefor.

§ 2134. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint tenant,

or tenant in common, of real property commit waste thereon

',he is liable to pay three times the damages which have
resulted from such waste to the person who is entitled to sue
therefor.

§ 2135. Judgment of forfeiture and eviction may be rendered against the defendant whenever the amount of damages so recovered is more than two-thirds the value of the
interest such defendant has in the property wasted and when
the action is brought by the person entitled to the reversion.

§ 2136. Any person whose duty it is to prevent waste and
who has not used reasonable care and diligence to prevent it
is deemed to have committed it.

§ 2137. For wilful trespasses in injuring any timber, tree,
or shrub on the land of another, or in the street or highway
in front of another’s cultivated ground, yard, or town lot, or
on the public grounds of any town, or any land held by this
state for any purpose whatever, the perpetrator shall pay
treble damages at the suit of any person entitled to protect
or enjoy the property aforesaid. 1

§ 2138. Nothing herein contained authorises the recovery
of more than the just value of timber taken from uncultivated
wood land for the repair of a public highway or bridge upon
the land in its immediate neighborhood.

§ 2139. The owner of an estate in remainder or reversion
may maintain eitherof the aforesaid actions for injuries done
to the inheritance notwithstanding any intervening estate for
life or years.

§ 2140. An heir, whether a minor or of full age, may maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his ancestor
as well as in his own time, unless barred by the statute of
limitations.

§ 2141. Whenever lands or tenements are sold by virtue of
an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain his
action against any person for either of the causes above mentioned occurring or existing after his purchase.

§ 2142. This provision is not intended to prevent the per. son who occupies the lands in the meantime from using them

in the ordinary course of husbandry or from using timber for
the purpose of making suitable repairs thereon.

§ 2143. But if for this purpose he employ timber vastly superior to that required for the occasion he will be deemed to
have committed waste and will be liable accordingly.

§ 2144. Any person settled upon and occupying any portion
of the public lands held by the state is not liable as a trespasser for improving it or cultivating it in the ordinary course
of husbandry, nor for taking and using timber or other material necessary and proper to enable him to do so, provided

the timber and other materials be taken from land properly‘
constituting a part of the “claim” or tract of land so settled.

upon and occupied by him.

 

CHAPTER 122.

ACTIONS ON OFFICIAL SECURITIES, AND FOR FINES AND FOR!-‘EI'I"
URES.

§ 2145. The official bond of a public ofhcer is to be con-‘
strued as a security to the body politic or civil corporation
of which he is an oflicer, and also to all the members thereof
severally who are intended to be thereby secured.

§ 2146. The individual injured by the breach of such bond?
may sue thereon in his own name or in the name of the obli-’
gee. The body politic 'may sue in the name of the obligee
in the bond.

§ 2147. A judgment in favor of a arty for one delinquency
does not preclude the same or anot er party from an action
on the same security for another delinquency, except that
sureties can be made liable in the aggregate only to the extent of their undertaking.

§ 2148. Fines and forfeitures not otherwise disposed of gel
into the treasury of the county where the same are collected,
for the benefit of the school fund.

§ 2149. Actions for the recovery thereof may be prosecuted.
by the oflicers or persons to whom they are by law given in‘
whole or in part, or by the public officer into whose hands
they are to be paid when collected.

§ 2150. A judgment for a penalty or forfeiture, rendered by‘
collusion, does not prevent another prosecution for the same
subject matter.

CHAPTER 123.

INFORMATION S.

§ 2151. An information may be filed against any person’
unlawfully holding or exercising any public office or franchise?
within this state, or any office in any corporation created by
the laws of this state, or when any public oiiicer has done or
suffered any act which works a forfeiture of his oflice; or
when any persons act as a corporation within this state

without being authorized by law, or if being incorporated
;they do or omit acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or when
they exercise powers not conferred by law.

§ 2152. Such information may be filed by the district attorney of the proper county whenever he deems it his duty so
to do.

§ 2153. He must file such information when directed to do

so by the governor, the general assembly, or the district
court.
§ 2154. Such information shall consist of a plain statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of the proceeding addressed to the court, which shall stand for an original petition.

§ 2155. Such statement shall be filed in the clerk’s office
and notice issued and served in the same manner as hereinbefore provided for the commencement of actions in the district court.

§ 2156. The defendants shall appear and answer such information in the usual way, and issue being joined it shall
be tried in the ordinary manner.

§ 2157. When the defendant is holding an oflice to which
another is claiming the right the information should set forth
the name of such claimant, and the trial must if practicable
determine the rights of the contesting parties.

§ 2158. If judgment be rendered in favor of such claimant
he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the oflice after
he has qualilied as required by law.

§ 2159. The court, after such judgment, shall order the’

defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his custody
or under his control belonging to said office.

§ 2160. When the judgment has been rendered in -favor of
the claimant, he may at any time within one year thereafter
bring suit against the defendant and recover the damages
he has sustained by reason of the act of the defendant.

§ 2161. VVhen several persons claim to be entitled to the
same office or franchise, an information may be filed against
all or any portion thereof in order to try their respective
rights thereto.

§ 2162. If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully holding or exercising any ollice franchise or privilege, or if a corporation be found to have violated the law by which it holds
its existence or in any other manner to have done acts which
amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its privileges, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant be ousted and
altogether excluded from such ollicc franchise or privilege,
and also that he pay the costs of the proceeding.

§ 2163. If the defendant be found to have exercised merely certain individual powers and privileges to which he was not entitled, the jugment shall be the same as above directed, but only in relation to those particulars in which he is thus exceeding the lawful exercise of his rights and privileges.

§ 2164. When an information is upon the relation of a private individual it shall be so stated in teh petition and proceedings, and such individual shall be responsible for costs in case they are not adjudged against the defendant. In other cases the title fo the cuase shall be teh same as in a criminal prosecution, and the payment of costs shall be regulated by the same rule.

§ 2165. In case judgment is rendered against a pretended, but not real, corporation the costs may be collected from any person who has been acting as an officer or proprietor of such pretended corporation.

§ 2166. If a corporation is ousted and dissolved by the proceedings herein authorised the court shall appoint three disinterested persons as trustees of the creditors and stockholders.

§ 2167. Said trustees shall enter into bond in such a penalty and with such security as the court approves, conditioned
for the faithful discharge of their trust.

§ 2168. Suit may be brought on such bond by any person
injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the trustees in
the discharge of their duties.

§ 2169. The trustees shall proceed immediately to collect
the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation, and to
divide the surplus among those thereto entitled. 1

§ 2170. The court shall, upon an application for that purpose, order any officer of such corporation or any other person having possession of any of the effects, books, or papers
of the corporation in any wise necessary for the settlement of
its affairs, to deliver up the same to the trustees.

§ 2171. As soon as practicable after their appointment the
trustees shall make and file in the ofilce of the clerk of the
court an inventory of all the effects rights and credits which
come to their possession o1- knowledge, the truth of which inventory shall be sworn to.

§ 2172. They shall sue for and recover the debts and property of the corporation and shall be responsible to the creditors and stockholders respectively to the extent of the effects which come to their hands, in the same manner as
though they were the executors of a deceased person.

§ 2173. When judgment of ouster is rendered against a
corporation on account of the misconduct of the directors or

oflicers thereof, such oflicers shall be jointly and severally

liable to an action by any one injured thereby.

§ 2174. Any person, who without good reason refuses to
obey any order of the court as herein provided, shall be
deemed guilty of a contempt of court and shall be lined in
any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars and imprisoned in the county jail until he comply with said order, and
shall be farther liable for the damages resulting to any person on account of his refusal to obey such order.

§ 2175. A proceeding of this kind may be instituted in the
manner above contemplated for the purpose of annulling or
vacating any letters patent granted by the proper authorities of this state when there is reason to believe that the same
were obtained by fraud, or through mistake or ignorance of
a material fact, or when the patentee or those claiming under
him have done or omitted an act in violation of the terms
and conditions on which the letters were granted, or have by

any other means forfeited the interest acquired under the
same.

 

CHAPTER 124.

SCIRE FACIAS.

§ 2176. Where a scire facias is allowed by law it shall be
commenced by petition and notice filed and served as in
other civil actions.

§ 2177. The petition must be accompanied'by an affidavit
of the plaintiff in the roceeding, his agent or attorney, stating that the judgment as not been satisfied to his knowledge,
information, or belief, and must specify the amount due
thereon.

§ 2178. The answer of the defendant must also be under

oath, and the issue joined if any, shall be tried in the usual
manner.

 

CHAPTER 125.

MANDAMUS.

§ 2179. The writof mandamus issues from the district court
to any inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to

compel the performance of an act which the law specially
enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust, or station. 1
§ 2180. Where adiscretion is left to an inferior tribunal the;
writ of mandamus can only compel it to act. It cannot control the discretion of the inferior tribunal.

§ 2181. The writ may also be issued by the supreme court‘
to any district court if necessary, and also in any othercase
where it is found necessary to enable it to exercise its legitimate power.

§ 2182. It ought not to be issued in any case where there is‘
a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary course
of the law.

§ 2183. It is issued on the information, under oath, of the
party beneficially interested and is either alternative or peremptory.

§ 2184. The alternative writ commands the defendant to;
do the act required to be performed or show cause before the
court forthwith or at a specified time and place why he has
not done so, and that he then and there return the writ.

§ 2185. The peremptory writ omits the words which require
the defendant to show cause why he has not done as commanded.

§ 2186. The mode of obtaining the writ, the service and
proof thereof, the return and enforcement of obedience thereto
must be in the same manner as in case of the writ of certiorari.

§ 2187. On the return day of the alternative writ or on such
farther day as the court_may allow, the party on whom the
writ has been served may show cause by a sworn answer

_made in the same manner as an answer to a petitionin acivil

action, and issue may be made thereon and tried accordingly. 

§ 2188. If the defendant make default, or judgment after‘
answer be rendered against him, a peremptory mandamus
issues forthwith. The subject of cost is regulated upon the
same principles as in ordinary civil actions.

CHAPTER 126.

INJUNCTIONS AND ORDERS.

§ 2189. An injunction, may be granted as an independent
means of relief or as auxiliary to other proceedings in accordance with the rules heretofore observed except as herein
modified.

§ 2190. VVhen it is a mere auxiliary measure resorted to

fduring the trial of the principal cause, the terms on which it

is allowed as well as the kind of notice to be given to the
opposite party shall be such as the court prescribes.

§ 2191. When applied for as an independent means of
relief the petition must be sworn to and presented to the district court, if in session in the county, for an allowance of
the injunction. If not in session application for that purpose may be made to any judge of the supreme or district
court or to the judge of the county court of the proper
county.

§ 2192. If the order of allowance is made by the court in
session, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the court
record and issue the writ accordingly. If made in vacation
the judge must indorse the said order upon the petition.

§ 2193. ln both the cases contemplated in the last section
the order of allowance must direct the writ to issue only after
the filing of a bond in the oflice of the clerk of the district
court in a penalty to be therein fixed, with sureties to be approved by said clerk (unless the court or judge granting the
said order has previously approved said sureties), and conditioned for the payment of all the damages which may be
adjudged against the petitioner by reason of such injunction.

§ 2194. W'hen proceedings in a civil action are sought to
be enjoined the suit must be brought in the county wherein
such proceedings are pending. The bond must also in that
case be farther conditioned to pay any judgment that may
be ultimately recovered against the party who seeks the
injunction, for the cause of action on which the suit sought
to be enjoined is founded.

§ 2195. The penalty of the bond must be fixed by the
court or judge who makes the order and must be doubly sufficient to cover any probable amount of liability to be thereby incurred.

§ 2196. Upon the nling of the bond as required, the clerk
must issue the writ of injunction as directed by the order of
allowance.

§ 2197. The court or judge before granting the writ may,
if deemed advisable, allow the defendant an opportunity to
show cause why such order should not be granted.

§ 2198. If the writ is granted without allowing the defendant to show cause, he may at any time before the next term
of the court apply to the judge who made the order to vacate
or modify the same.

§ 2199. Such application must be with notice to the plaintiff and may rest upon the ground that the order was improperlygranted or it may be founded upon affidavits on the part
of the defendant. In the latter case the plaintiff may fortify.
his application by counter allidavits and have reasonable
time therefor.

§ 2200. The judge may thereupon decide the matter atonce unless some good cause for delay be shown. But the
vacation of the order shall not prevent the cause from proceeding if any thing be left to proceed upon.

§ 2201. Any judge of the supreme or district court, being?
furnished with an authenticated copy of the writ of injunction and also with satisfactory proof that such injunction has
been violated, shall issue his precept to the sheriff of the
county where the violation of the injunction occurred or to
any other sheriff (naming him) more convenient to all parties concerned, directing him to attach said defendant and
bring him forthwith before the same or some other judge at
a place to be stated in said precept.

§ 2202. If, when thus produced, he files his affidavit deny- ‘
ing or sufficiently excusing the contempt charged he shall
be released and the affidavit shall be filed with the clerk of
the court for preservation. '

§ 2203. But if he fail to do so, the judge may require him‘
to give bond with surety for his appearance at the next term
of the court and also for his future obedience to the injunction, which bond shall be filed with the clerk.

§ 2204. If he fail to give such security he may be committed to the jail of the county where the proceedings are pending until the next term of the court. ‘

§ 2205. If the security be given, the court at the next term
shall act upon the case and punish the contempt in the usual
mode.

§ 2206. The defendant may move to dissolve the injunction either before or after the filing of the answer.

§ 2207. Issue may be joined on the defendant’s answer and
a trial had as in other cases.

§ 2208. When practicable, the whole matter connected with
the injunction shall be disposed of on such trial and complete justice administered to all parties.

§ 2209. If the injunction be dissolved in whole or in part
damages may be awarded against the obligors of the bond,
which shall be assessed by a jury when required by either
party.

§ 2210. For good cause shown, a judge’s order may issue
in vacation directing any of the officers of the court in relation to the discharge of their duties.

§ 2211. Such order shall be in force only during the vacacation in which it is granted and for the first two days of the
, ensuing term. _,
§ 2212. The judge granting it may require the filing of a
bond as in case of an injunction unless from the nature of
the case such requirement would be clearly unnecessary and

improper.

 

CHAPTER 127.

HABEAS CORPUS.

§ 2213. The petition for the writ of habeas corpus must be
sworn to and must state:

Fuisr--That the person in whose behalf it is sought is restrained of his liberty and the person by whom and the place
where he is so restrained, mentioning the names of the parties if known, and if unknown describing them with as much
particularity as practicable;

Sr.coNn——The cause or pretence of such restraint according
to the best information of the applicant; and if it be by virtue of any legal process, a copy thereof must be annexed or
a satisfactory reason given for its absence;

Tnmn—It must state that the restraint is illegal and
wherein;

Foum-n-—That the legality. of the imprisonment has not
already been adjudged upon a prior proceeding of the same
character, to the best knowledge and belief of the applicant;

F1rrn——It must also state whether application for the writ
has been before made to, and refused by, any court or judge,
and if such application has been made, a copy of the petinon
in that case with the reasons for the refusal thereto appended must be produced or satisfactory reasons given for the
failure to do so.

§ 2214. This petition must be sworn to by the person confined or by some one in his behalf and presented to some
court or ollicer authorised to allow the writ.

§ 2215. The writ of habeas corpus may be allowed by the
supreme or district court or by any judge of either of. those
courts. In such cases it may be served in any part of the
state.

§ 2216. It may also be allowed by any county court except
when the commitment was made by order of one of the courts
or oflicers mentioned in the last section, but when allowed by
the county court it is valid only within the limits of the county

where issued.

§ 2217. Application for this writ, when made 11) the supreme
or district courts or to either of the judges thereof, must be.
made to the court or judge most convenient in point of dis—.
tance to the applicant, and the more remote court or judge‘
if applied to for the writ may refuse the same unless a sufficient reason he stated in the petition for not making the application to the more convenient supreme or district court or
a judge thereof.

§ 2218. If, from the showing of the petitioner, the plaintiff
would not be entitled to any relief the court or judge may
refuse to allow the writ.

§ 2219. But if the petition show a sufficient ground for relief and is in accordance with the foregoing requirements,the
writ shall be allowed and may be substantially as follows:

THE S'rA'ri:-: or IowA,
To the Sheriff of &c. (or to A. B. as the case may be,)

You are hereby commanded to have the body of C. D. by
you unlawfully detained as is alledged, before the court (or
before me, or before E. F. judge &c. as the case may be) at
on (or immediately after being served with

 

c this writ) to be dealt with according to law, and have you

then and there this writ with a return thereon of your doings
in the premises.

§ 2220. When the writ is allowed by a court it is to be issued by the clerk, but when allowed by a judge he mut issue
the writ himself subscribing his name thereto without any
seal.

§ 2221. If the writ is disallowed, the court or jndge shall
cause the reasons of said disallowance to be appended to the
petition and returned to the person applying for the writ.

§ 2222. Any judge, whether acting individually or as a
member of a court, who wrongfully and wilfully refuses such
allowance of the writ when properly applied for shall forfeit
to the party aggrieved the sum of one thousand dollars.

§ 2223. Whenever any court or judge authorised to grant
this writ has evidence, from a judicial proceeding before them,
that any person within the jurisdiction of such court or officer is illegally imprisoned or restrained of his liberty, it is
the duty of such court or judge to issue or cause to be issued
the writ as aforesaid though no application be made therefor.

§ 2224. The writ may be served by the sheriff or by any
other person appointed for that purpose by the court or judge
by whom it is issued or allowed. If served by any other than
the sheriff, he possesses the same power and is liable to the

same penalty for a non-performance of his duty as though he
Iwere the sheriff. ,

§ 2225. The proper mode of service is by leaving the original writ with the defendant and preserving a copy thereof on
which to make the return of service.

§ 2226. If the defendant cannot be found or if he have not
the plaintiff in custody, the service may be made upon any

person having the plaintiff in his custody in the same man-.

ner and with the same effect as though he had been made
defendant therein.

§ 2227. If the defendant conceal himself or refuse admittance to the person attempting to serve the writ, or if he attempt wrongfully to carry the plaintiff out of the county or
the state after the service of the writ as aforesaid, the sheriff
or the person who is attempting to serve or who has served
the writ as above contemplated is authorised to arrest the
defendant and bring him together with the plaintiff forthwith
before the officer or court before whom the writ is made returnable.

§ 2228. In order to make such arrest the sheriff or other
person having the writ possesses the same power as is given
to a sheriff for the arrest of a person charged with a felony.

§ 2229. If the plaintiffcan be found and if no one appear
to have the charge or custody of him, the person having the
writ may take him into custody and make return accordingly. And to get possession of the plaintiff’s person in such
cases he possesses the same power as is given by the last section for the arrest of the defendant.

§ 2230. The court or judge to whom the application for the
writ is made, if satisfied that the plaintiff would suffer any
irreparable injury before he could be relieved by the proceedings as above authorised, may issue a precept to the
sheriff or any other person selected instead commanding him

to bring the plaintiff forthwith before such court or judge.

§ 2231. When the evidence aforesaid is farther sutlicient
to justify the arrest of the defendant for a criminal offense
committed in connexion with the illegal detention of the
plaintiff, the precept must also contain an order for the arrest of the defendant-.

§ 2232. The officer or person to whom the precept is directed must execute the same by bringing the defendant, and
also the plaintiff if required, before the court or judge issuing
it, and thereupon the defendant must make return to the writ
of habeas corpus in the same manner as if the ordinary course
had been ursued.

§ 2233. he defendant may also be examined and committed or bailed or discharged, according to the natureof the
case.

§ 2234. The writ of habeas corpus must not be disobeyed
for any defect of form or misdescription of the plaintiff or defendant provided enough is stated to show the meaning and
intent of the writ.

§ 2235. Any person served with the writ is to be presumed to
be the person to whom it is directed‘ although it may be directed to him by a wrong name or description, or to another
person.

§ 2236. Service being made in any of the modes hereinbefore
provided the defendant must appear at the proper time and
answer the said petition. '

§ 2237. He must also bring up the body of the plaintiff or
show good cause for not doing so.

§ 2238. A wilful failure to comply with the above requisitions renders the defendant liable to be attached for a contempt and to be‘ imprisoned till a compliance is obtained,
and also subjects him tothe forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party thereby aggrieved.

§ 2239. Such attachment may be served by the sheriff or
any other person thereto authorized by the judge, who shall
also be empowered to bring up the body of the plaintiff forthwith and has for this purpose the same powers as are above
conferred in similar cases.

§ 2240. The court or officer allowing the writ must cause
the prosecuting attorney of the proper county to be informed
of the issuing of the writ and of the time and place when
and where it is made returnable.

§ 2241. The defendant in his answer must state plainly
and unequivocably whether he then has, or at any time has
had, the plaintiff under his control and restraint, and if so
the cause thereof.

§ 2242. If he has transferred him to another person he
must state that fact, and to whom, and the time thereof, as
well as the reason or authority therefor.

§ 2243. If he holds him by virtue of a legal process or written authority, a copy thereof must be annexed.

§ 2244. The plaintiff may demur or reply to the defendant’s
answer, and all issues joined thereon shall be tried by the
judge or court.

§ 2245. Such replication, except when the hearing is before the judge of the county court may deny the sufficiency
of the testimony to justify the action of the committing magistrate, on the trial of which issue all written testimony beiore
such magistrate may be given in evidence before the court

or judge in connection with .any other testimony which may

.then be produced.

§ 2246. But it is not permissible- to question the correctness of the action of a grand jury in finding a bill of indictment, or of the petit jury in the trial of a cause, nor of a court
or judge when acting within their legitimate province and in
a lawful manner.

§ 2247. If no suflicient legal cause of detention is shown
the plaintiff must be‘ discharged.

§ 2248. Although the commitment of the plaintiff may have
been irregular, still if the court or judge is satisfied from the
evidence before them that he ought to be held to bail or
committed either for the offense charged or any other the
order may be made accordingly.

§ 2249. The plaintiff may also in any case be committed.
let to bail, or his bail be -mitigated or increased, as justice
may require.

§ 2250. Until the sufficiency of the cause of restraint is
determined the defendant may retain the plaintiff in his custody and may use all necessary and proper means for that
purpose.

§ 2251. The plaintiff in writing, or his attorney, may waive
his right to be present at the trial, in which case the proceedings may be had in his absence. The writ will in such
cases be modified accordingly.

§ 2252. Disobedience to any order of discharge subjects
the defendant to attachment for a contempt, and also to the
forfeiture of one thousand dollars to the party aggrieved
besides all damages sustained by him in consequence of such
disobedience.

§ 2253. If the defendant attempt to elude the service of the
writ of habeas corpus or to avoid the effect thereof by transferring the plaintiff to another or by concealing him, he ‘shall
on conviction be imprisoned in the penitentiary or county
jail not more than one year and fined not exceeding one
thousand dollars. And any person knowingly aiding or
abetting in any such act shall be subject to the like punishment.

§ 2254. Any oflicer refusing to deliver a copy of any legal
process by which he detains the plaintiff in custody to any
person who demands such copy and tenders the fee therefor shall forfeit two hundred dollars to the person so detained.

§ 2255. When the proceedings are before a judge (except
when the writ is refused) all the papers in the case, including
his final order, shall be filed with the clerk of the district
court of the county wherein the final proceedings were bad,

and a brief memorandum thereof shall be entered by the
clerk upon his judgment docket.

 

CHAPTER 128.

CHANGING NAM E8.

§ 2256. The district court has power to change the names
of persons in the following manner.

§ 2257. The applicant for such change must file his petition verified by his oath, stating that he is a resident of the
county and has for one year then last past been a bona fide
resident of the state. It must also in a general way give a
description of his person, stating his age, height, the color of
his hair and eyes, the place of his birth, and who were his
parents.

§ 2258. An order of the court shall thereupon be made and
entered of record giving a description of the applicant as set
forth in the petition, the new name given, the time at which
the change shall take effect (which shall not be less than
thirty days thereafter), and directing in what newspaper of
general circulation in the county notice of such change shall
be published.

§ 2259. Previous to the time thus prescribed for the taking
effect of such change the applicant shall cause notice thereof
to be published for four successive weeks in the -newspaper
directed by the court.

§ 2260. The ordinary proof of such publication being filed
in the oilice of the clerk of the court shall be by him filed for
preservation, and on the day fixed by the court as aforesaid
the change shall be complete.

TITLE XXI.

CHAPTER 129.

or wsnces or ‘run rues AND rxuzm COURTS.

§ 2261. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace when not
specially restricted, is geographically coextensive with their
respective counties.

§ 2262. Within the prescribed limit, it extends to all civil
cases (except cases in chancery and cases where the question of title to any real estate may arise) where the amount
in controverry does not exceed one hundred dollars; and by
consent of parties it may be extended to any amount not

exceeding five hundred dollars.
Where suit may be brought.

§ 2263. Suits may in all cases be brought in the township
where the defendant, or one of several defendants, resides.

§ 2264. They may also be brought in any other township
of the same county if actual service on one or more of the
defendants is made in such township.

§ 2265. Actions of replevin and suits commenced by attachment may be commenced in any county and township wherein
any portion of the property is found.

§ 2266. If none of the defendants reside in the state, suit
may be commenced in any county and township wherein
either of the defendants may be found.

§ 2267. On written contracts stipulating for payment at a
particular place suit may be brought in the township where
the payment was agreed to be made.

§ 2268. If there is no justice in the proper township qualified or able to try the suit it may be commenced in any
adjoining township in the same county.

§ 2269. Every justice of the peace shall keep a docket in
which shall be entered in continuous order, with the proper
date to each act done:

Fms'r—The title to each cause;

SECOND--A brief statement of the nature and amount of the

plainti&"s demand and defendant’s set-off (if any), giving‘

date to each where dates exist;

Tmnn—The issuing of the process and return thereof;

FOUR'l‘H——The appearance of the respective parties ;

Fxr'rn—Every adjournment, stating at whose instance and
for what time ;

S1xrn—The trial, and whether by the justice or by a jury;

Seven-rn—-The verdict and judgment; '

E1en'rn—The execution, to whom delivered, the renewals
if any, and the amount of debt, damages, and costs indorsed
thereon ;

N1N'rn—The taking and allowance of an appeal (if any);

Tmvrn--The giving a transcript for filing in the clerk’s
office or for set-off (if one is given);

ELEvr:Nrn—A note of all motions made and whether refuused or granted. '

Suits how brought.

§ 2270. The parties to the action may be the same as in
the district court, and all the proceedings prescribed for that
court so far as the same are applicable and not herein changed shall be pursued in justice’s courts. The powers of the
court are only as herein enumerated.

§ 2271. Ordinary actions in justices’ courts are commenced
by voluntary appearance or by notice.

§ 2272. When by notice, no petition need be filed as is
required in the district court except where the petition must"
be sworn to, but the notice must state the cause of action in
general terms sufficient to apprise the defendant of the nature of the claim against him.

§ 2273. It must be addressed to the defendant by name,i
but if his name is unknown a description of him will be suf-'

ncient. It must be subscribed by the plaintiff or the justice

before whom it is returnable.

§ 2274. It must state the amount for which the plaintiff
will take judgment if the defendant fail to appear and answer
at the time and place therein fixed.

§ 2275. The time thus fixed in the notice must be not more
than fifteen days from the date, and the notice must be

served not less than five days previous to the trial.

§ 2276. The service and return thereto must be made in
the same manner as in the district court except that no service shall be made by publication other than is herein provided, nor shall any return made by another than the sheriff
or aconstable of the county be valid unless sworn to.

§ 2277. The defendant may at any time pay to the officer

having the process, or to the justice of the eace, the ambunt
of the claim together with the costs which ave then accrued
and thereupon the proceedings shall cease.

§ 2278. An agent appearing for another may be required
by the justice to show his authority if written, or prove it
by his own oath or otherwise if verbal.

§ 2279. The parties in all cases are entitled to one hour
in which to appear after the time fixed for appearance and

neither party is bound to wait longer for the other.

§ 2280. Upon the return day, if the justice be actually engaged in other official business he may postpone proceedings in the case until such business is finished.

§ 2281. If from any cause the justice is unable to attend to
the trial at the time fixed, or if a jury be demanded, he may
adjourn the cause for a period not exceeding three days, nor
shall he make more than two such adjournments.

§ 2282. In case of the absence of witnesses, either party, at
his own cost, may obtain an adjournment not exceeding sixty
days by filing an aflidavit like that required to obtain a continuance in the district court for the like cause.

§ 2283. Either party applying for an adjournment must, if
required by the adverse party, consent that the testimony of
any witness of the adverse party who is in attendance be
then taken to be used on the trial of the cause. .

§ 2284. The pleadings must be substantially the same as in
the disti.ct court. They may be written or oral. If oral, they
mustin substance be written down by the justice in his docket,
and sworn to when such verification is necessary.

§ 2285. Cross-demands or set-offs must be made, if at all,
at the time the answer is put in. ’

§ 2286. The original or a. copy of all written instruments
upon which a cause of action or set off is founded must be
filed with the claim founded thereon, or asufiicient reason
given for not doing so.

§ 2287. If in a suit for trespass on real property the defendant justifies by pleading title, it must be in writing. The
justice shall thereupon make an entry thereof in his docket,
and return the original papers and a transcript of all the entries in his docket to the district court in the same manner
and within the same time as is required in cases of appeals.

§ 2288. When,f'rom the plaintiff ’s own showing on the trial,
it appears that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the decision of a question of title to real property,

the justice must dismiss the action stating in his docket the
reason therefor.

§ 2289. But when a case is thus transferred or dismissed
on account of the title to lands being involved, if there are
other causes of action not necessarily connected they may
be severed and the latter tried before the justice.

§ 2290. Unless one of the parties demand a trial by jury at
or before the time for joining issue, the trial shall be by the
justice.

§ 2291. If the plaintiff fails to appear by himself, his agent,
or attorney, on the return day or at any other time fixed for
the trial, the justice shall render a judgment of non-suit
against him with costs except in the case provided in the
next section.

§ 2292. When the suit is founded on an instrument of writing purporting to have been executed by the defendant, in
which the demand of the plaintiff is liquidated, if the signature of the defendant is not denied under oath and if the
instrument has been filed with the justice previous to the day
for appearance, he may proceed with the cause whether the
plaintiff appear or not.

§ 2293. In the ease provided for in the last section, if the
defendant does not appear judgment shall be rendered
against him for the amount of the plaintiff ’s claim.

§ 2294. But if, where the plaintiff’s claim is not founded on
such written instrument, the defendant does not appear, the
justice shall proceed to hear the allegations and proofs of
the plaintiff and shall render judgment thereon for the amount
to which he shows himself entitled not exceeding the amoun
stated in the notice hereinbefore required. ’

§ 2295. In the cases contemplated in the last two sections,
if the defendant has previously filed a set-oil‘ founded on a
written instrument purporting to have been signed by the
plaintiff, calling for a sum certain, the justice shall allow such
set-off in the same manner as though the defendant had appeared and shall render judgment accordingly.

§ 2296. Judgment of non-suit or by default may be set
aside by the justice at any time within six days after being
rendered if the party applying therefor can show a satisfactory excuse for his default.

§ 2297. In such case a new day shall be fixed for trial and
notice thereof given to the other party or his agent.

§ 2298. Such order shall be made in relation to the addi_tl)%lial costs thereby created as the justice shall think equilta e.

§ 2299. Any execution which may in the meantime have
been issued shall be recalled in the same manner as in cases
of appeals.

§ 2300. Before either party is entitled to a jury he must
deposit three dollars with the justice as jury fees, which shall
be included in the judgment as part of the costs in case the
party thus calling the jury recover judgment.

§ 2301. The justice shall thereupon issue his precept to
some constable of the township directing him to summon the
requisite number of jurors possessing the same qualifications
as are required in the district court.

§ 2302. The jury shall consist of six jurors unless a smaller number he agreed upon between the parties. Each party
is entitled to three peremptory challenges. Any deficiency
in their number arising from any cause may be supplied by
summoning others in the manner above directed.

§ 2303. The justice may discharge the jury when satisfied
that they cannot agree, and shall immediately issue a new
precept for summoning another to appear at a time therein
lixed not more than three days distant unless the parties otherwise agree. ’

§ 2304. No motion in arrest of judgment or to set aside a
verdict can be entertained by a justice of the peace.

§ 2305. The verdict of the jury must be general. But
where there are several plaintilfs or defendants the verdict
may be for or against one or more of them. 

§ 2306. In cases of nonsuit, confession, or on the verdict of

a jury, the judgment shall be rendered and entered upon the
(locket forthwith. In all other cases the same shall be done
within three days after the cause is submitted to the justice
for linal action.

§ 2307. If the sum found for either party exceed the jurisdiction of the justice such party may remit the excess and

take judgment for the residue, but he can never afteward sue
for the amount so remitted.

§ 2308. Instead of so remitting the excess the party obtaining such verdict may elect to have judgment of nonsuit entered against the plaintiff, in which case the plaintiff shall
pay the costs.

§ 2309. Mutual judgments between the same parties, rendered by the same or different justices, may be set off against

each other.

§ 2310. When rendered by the same court, the same course
shall be pursued as is prescribed in the district court.

§ 2311. If the judgment proposed to be set off was rendered
by another justice, the party offering it must obtain a transcript thereof with a certificate of the justice who rendered it,
indorsed thereon, stating that no appeal has been taken and
that the transcript was obtained for the purpose of being used
as a set off in that case.

§ 2312. Such transcript shall not be given until the time
for taking an appeal has elapsed. 3

§ 2313. The justice so giving a transcript shall make an
entry of the fact in his docket, and all other proceedings in
his court shall thenceforth be stayed. _

§ 2314. Such transcript being presented to the justice who
has rendered a judgment between the same parties as aforesaid, if execution has not been issued on the judgment rendered by him he shall strike a balance between the judgments

, and issue execution for such balance.

§ 2315. If execution has already issued, the justice shall
also issue execution on the transcript filed with him and deliver it to the same officer who has the other execution.

§ 2316. Such otlicer shall, treat the lesser execution as so
much cash collected on the larger, and proceed to collect the
balance accordingly.

§ 2317. The above rules as to set of are subject to the
same prohibition as to setting off costs, when the effect will
be to leave an insutlicient amount of money actually collected to satisfy the costs of both judgments, as is contained in
the rules of proceeding in the district court.

§ 2318. When the judgment of another justice is thus allow-'
ed to be set off, the transcript thereof shall be filed among the papers of the casein which it is so used and the properentry

made in the justice’s docket.

§ 2319. If the justice refuses the judgment as a set off he}
ball so certify on the transcript and return it to the party‘
who offered it. When filed in the office of the justice who
gave it, proceedings maybe had by him in the same manner
as though no such transcript had been certified by him.


§ 2320. The party obtaining a judgment in a justice’s court‘
for more than ten dollars may cause a transcript thereof to‘
be certified to the oilice of the clerk of the district court in
the county.

§ 2321. The clerk shall forthwith file such transcript and]
enter a memorandum thereof in his judgment docket noting!

the time of filing the same, and from the time of such filing
;it shall be treated in all respects as to its effect and mode of
enforcement as a judgment rendered in the district court as
of that date.

§ 2322. Executions for the enforcement of judgments in a.
justice’s court, except when docketed in the officeof the clerk
of the district court, may be issued by the justice before
whom the judgment was rendered, on the application of the
party entitled thereto, at any time within five years from the
entry of the judgment but not afterwards.

§ 2323. Such execution shall be against the goods and chattels of the defendant therein and shall be directed to any
constable of the county.

§ 2324. It must be dated as on the day on which it is issued and made returnable within thirty days thereafter. a

§ 2325. If not satisfied when returned it may be renewed
from time to time by an indorsement thereon to that effect
signed by the justice and dated of the date of such renewal.

§ 2326. Such indorsement must state the amount paid on
such execution (if any) and shall continue the execution in
full force for thirty days from the date of renewal.

§ 2327. Property levied on before such renewal may be retained by the oflicer and sold after renewal.

§ 2328. Any person aggrieved by the final judgment of a
justice may appeal therefrom to the district court in the
county.

§ 2329. The appeal must be taken and perfected within
twenty days after the rendition of the judgment.

§ 2330. If within the twenty days the appellant is prepared
to take his appeal and is prevented only by the absence or
death of the justice or his inability to act, he may apply to
the clerk of the district court of the county for the allowance
of his appeal.

§ 2331. Such application shall be founded on an affidavit
stating the amount and nature of the judgment, and the
time of the rendition thereof as nearly as practicable, and
the reason why he thus applies.

§ 2332. The clerk has thereupon the same power to act in '
the premises as the justice would have had. He may require the books and papers of the justice to be delivered to
him, for which purpose be may issue a precept to the sheriff

to that effect if necessary, and may make out and file the
transcript. After this he shall return to the office of the jus-C

tice of the peace all the papers proper to be kept by the justice.

§ 2333. The appeal shall in no case be allowed until a re-1
cognizance of the following form or its equivalent is taken
and filed in the office of the justice, the sureties being approved by him (or by the clerk acting for him as above authorized), and the sum therein inserted being sufficient to
secure the judgment as well as the costs of the appeal.

We the undersigned acknowledge ourselves indebted to]
in the sum of dollars, upon the following condition. W'hereas has appealed from the judgment of
a justice of the peace in an action between
as plaintiff and defendant ;

Now if the said appellant pays whatever amount is legally

adjudged against him in the farther progress of this cause,
then this recognizance is to be void, and otherwise in force.
A1-rasr, E. F., Justice.

   

 

A. B., principal.
C. D., surety.

§ 2334. Upon the appeal being taken in accordance with
the foregoing provisions all farther proceedings in the cause‘
by him shall be suspended.

§ 2335. If, in the mean time, an execution has been issued
the justice shall give the appellant a certificate that the ap-’
peal has been allowed. Upon that certificate being presented to the constable he shall cease farther action and release
any property that may have been taken in execution.

§ 2336. U9on the taking of any appeal, the justice shalli
file in the o cc of the clerk of the district court all the original papers relating to the suit with a transcript of all the
entries in his docket.

§ 2337. Upon the return of the justice being tiled in the
office of the clerk the cause will be deemed in the district
court.

§ 2338. The district court may by rule compel the justice
to allow an appeal or to make or amend his return according
to law.

§ 2339. Where an omission or mistake has been made by
the justice in his docket entries and that fact is made unquestionable, the district court may correct the mistake or
supply the omission or direct the justice to do so.

§ 2340. If an appeal is allowed ten days before the next
term of the district court the justice’s return must be made

at least five days before that term. All such cases must be
ftried when reached unless continued for cause.

§ 2341. If the appeal is not allowed on the day on which

judgment is rendered, written notice thereof must be served

upon the appellee or his agent at least ten days before the .

term of the court to which the cause is returnable (provided
there be ten days intervening), or the ‘suit, on motion of the
appellee, shall be continued at the cost of the appellant.

§ 2342. Such notice may be served like the original notice,
and if the appellee or his agent have no place of residence
in the county it may be served by being left with the justice.

§ 2343. An appeal brings up a cause for trial on the merits and for no other purpose. All errors, irregularities, and
illegalities are therefore to be disregarded under such circumstances if the cause might have been prosecuted in the
district court.

§ 2344. No new demand or set-off can be introduced into
a case after it comes into the district court unless by mutual
consent. 

§ 2345. The appellant must pay the costs of the ap eal
unless he obtains a more favorable judgment than that tgom
which he appealed. 

§ 2346. If the judgment below is against the appellant he
may proffer to pay a certain amount with costs, and if the
final amount recovered be less favorable to the appellee than
such proffer he shall pay the costs of appeal.

§ 2347. Any judgment in the district court against the appellant shall be entered up against him and his sureties
jointly.

§ 2348. If an appeal is taken for delay the district court
shall award such damages, not exceeding ten per cent on the
amount of the judgment below, as may seem right.

§ 2349. Any person aggrieved by an erroneous decision in
matter of law, or other illegality in the proceedings of a justice of the peace, may remove the same or so much thereof
as is necessary into the district court for correction, by writ
of error.

§ 2350. The basis of the proceeding is an aflidavit filed in
the office of the clerk setting forth the errors complained of.

§ 2351. The clerk shall thereupon issue the writ commanding the justice to certify the record and proceedings so far as
they relate to the facts stated in the aflidavit.

§ 2352. A copy of the affidavit shall accompany the writ

and be served upon the justice who shall with the‘ least
practicable delay make the return required. .

§ 2353. All proceedings in the justice’s court subsequent
to judgment may be stayed by a recognizance, entered into=
like that required in cases of appeals and on which recognisance judgment shall be entered against the principal and
surety in like manner and under like circumstances.

§ 2354. The district court may compel an amended return.
when the first is not full and complete.

§ 2355. The district court may render final judgment, or itmay remand the cause to the justice for a new trial or such
farther proceedings as shall be deemed proper, and may prescribe the notice necessary to bring the parties again before
the justice.

§ 2356. If the district court render a final judgment reversing the judgment of the justice of the peace after such judgment has been collected in whole or in part, it may award
restitution with interest and issue execution accordingly or
it may remand the cause to the justice for this purpose.

§ 2357. The proceedings to gain possession of personal pro»
perty wrongfully withheld will be the same as are prescribed
in such cases in the district court, except as modified in this chapter.

§ 2358. Attachments are not allowable in justices’ courts
if the sum claimed is less than five dollars. And if more is
claimed and less recovered the plaintiff shall pay all the
costs of the proceedings so far as they relate to the attachment. _

§ 2359. The attachment can issue only at the commencement of the action and only where the action is founded on
contract and the money is due.

§ 2360. The constable has the same power to administer
an oath to the garnishee and to take his answer as is giv-en to the sheriff in cases of attachment in the district

court.

§ 2361. Garnishees may be required to appear and answer
at the time fixed for the appearance of the parties to the
action.

§ 2362. This proceeding is allowable:

Fu:s'r——-Where the defendant has by force or intimidation
or fraud or stealth entered upon the prior actual possession
of another in regard to real property and detains the same;

Ssconn——Where a lessee holds over after the termination,

or contrary to the terms of, his lease ;

Tmnn—Where the defendant continues in possession after
a sale by foreclosure of a mortgage or on execution, unless
he claims by a title paramount to the lien by virtue of which
the sale was made or by title derived from the purchaser at
the sale.

§ 2363. The mere non-payment of rent by the time stipulated in the lease does not enable a plaintiff to resort to this
action unless expressly so stipulated in the lease.

§ 2364. The legal representative of the ‘person who might
have been plaintiff if alive, may bring this suit after his
death.

§ 2365. Before suit can be brought in any except the lirst
of the above classes, three days notice to quit must be given
to the defendant in writing.

§ 2366. The petition must be in writing and sworn to.

§ 2367. The proceedings may be had before a justice of
the peace of the township where the p1'emises are situated,
or if there is no justice therein able or qualified to act they
may be brought before some justice in any adjoining township. They shall be governed by the same rules as other
cases before justices of the peace except as herein modified.

§ 2368. The time for appearance and pleading must be not
less than two nor more than six days from the time the notice
is served on the defendant.

§ 2369. No adjournment shall° be made for more than ten
days, nor to any other place except by consent of parties.

§ 2370. It the defendant is found guilty judgment shall be
entered that he be removed from the premises and that the
plaintiff be put in possession thereof, and a warrant of removal shall issue accordingly, to which shall be added a
clause commanding the otiicer to levy the costs as in ordinary cases.

§ 2371. The question of title cannot be investigated in this
action. And nothing herein contained prevents a party from
suing for a trespass or from testing the right of property in
any other manner.

§ 2372. Thirty days’ peaceable and uninterupted possession
with the knowledge of the plaintiff after the cause of action
accrued, is a bar to this proceeding.

§ 2373. An action of this kind cannot be brought in connection with any other, nor can it be made the subject of setoff.

§ 2374. The warrant for removal can be executed only in
the day time. '

§ 2375. An appeal taken in the usual way, if the proper
security is given, suspends the execution for costs, and may
with the consent of the plaintiff prevent the warrant of removal from being executed, but not otherwise.

§ 2376. The district court on the trial of the appeal may issue a warrant of removal or restitution, as the case may require.

§ 2377. Every justice of the peace upon the expiration of
his term of ollice must deposit with his successor his official
dockets as well as those of his predecessors which may be
in his custody, there to be kept as public records. All his
official papers shall also be turned over to his successor.

§ 2378. if his oflice become vacant by death, removal from
the township, or otherwise, before his successor is elected,
the said docket and papers shall be placed in the hands of
the clerk of the district court to be by him turned over to the
successor of thejustiee when elected and qualified.

§ 2379. The justice with whom the docket of his predecessor is thus deposited may issue execution on, or give a transcript of, any judgment there entered in the same manner
and with like effect as the justice who rendered judgment
might have done.

§ 2380. When two or more justices are equally entitled to
be deemed the successor in otiice of anyjustice as aforesaid,
the judge of the county court shall determine by lot which is
the successor and shall certify accordingly.

§ 2381. Such certilicate shall be in duplicate, one copy of
which shall be filed in the county oflice and the other given
to the said successor.

§ 2382. In case of the sickness, other disability, or necessary absence of a justice at the time fixed for a trial of a
cause or other proceeding, any other justice of the township
may at his request attend and transact the business for him
without any transfer of the business to another otlice. The
entries shall be made in the docket of the justice at whose
otlice the business is transacted and the same etfect shall be
gi"en to the proceedings as though no such interchanging of
otllcial service had taken place.

§ 2383. A justice may in writing specially depute any discreet person of suitable age to perform any particular duty
properly devolving upon a constable. Such person has the
powers of a constable for that particular purpose and is subject to the same obligations, but can receive no fee for his
;service.

§ 2384. No process can issue from a justice’s court into
another county except when specially authorised.

§ 2385. The constable is the proper executive officer of a
justice’s court, but the sheriff may perform any of the duties
required of him. The powers and duties of the sheritf in relation to the business of the district court, so far. as the same
are applicable and not modified by statute, devolve upon the
constable in relation to the justice’s court.

§ 2386. The justice may be regarded as his own clerk and
performs the duty of both judge and clerk. .

§ 2387. When the term of office of a justice of the peace
for any cause expires, his successor may issue execution or
renew an execution in the same manner and under the same
circumstances as the former justice might have done if his
term of office had not expired.

TITLE XXII.

MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS.

.__n¢.

CHAPTER I30.

§ 2388. Every human being oftsuflicient capacity to understand the obligation of an oath is a competent-witness in all
cases both civil and criminal except as herein otherwise declared. But an indian, a negro, a mulatto or black person
shall not be allowed to give testimony in any cause wherein
a white person is a party.

§ 2389. Facts which have heretofore caused the exclusion
of testimony may still be shown for the purpose of lessening
its credibility.

§ 2390. A person who has a direct, certain, legal interest in
the suit is not a competent witness unless called on for that
purpose by the opposite party as hereinafter provided.

§ 2391. The husband can in no case be a witness against
the wife nor the wife against the husband, except in a criminal proceeding for a crime committed by the one against the
other; but they may in all criminal prosecutions be witnesses
for each other.

§ 2392. Neither husband nor wife can be examined in any
case as to any communication made by the one to the other
while married,nor shall they after the marriage relation ceases
be permitted to reveal in testimony any such communication
made while the marriage subsisted.

§ 2393. No practising attorney, counselor, physician, surgeon, minister of the gospel, or priest of any denomination
shall be allowed in giving testimony to disclose any contidential communication properly intruéted to him in his professional capacity and necessary and proper to enable him
to discharge the functions of his office according to the usual
course of practice or discipline.

§ 2394. The prohibitions in the preceding sections do not
apply to cases where the party in whose favor the respective
provisions are enacted waives the rights thereby conferred.

§ 2395. A public ofiicer cannot be examined as to communications made to him in official confidence, when the
public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

§ 2396. No witness is excused from answering a question
upon the mere ground that he would be thereby subjected to
a civil liability.

§ 2397. But when the matter sought to be elicited would
tend to render him criminally liable or to expoe him to public ignominy, he is not compelled to answer except as provided in the next section.

§ 2398. A witness may be interrogated as to his previous
conviction for a felony. But no other proof of such conviction is competent except the record thereof.

§ 2399. When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or
writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the
same subject may be inquired into by the other-thus when a
letter is read, all other letters on the same subject between
the same parties may be given. And when a detached act,
declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence,
any other act declaration or writing which is necessary to
make it fully understood or to explain the same may also be
given in evidence. 

§ 2400. When an instrument consists partly of written and
partly of printed form, the former controls the latter when
the two are inconsistent. ~

§ 2401. When the terms of an agreement have been inten-‘
tended in a different sense by the parties to it, that sense isl
to prevail against either party in which he had reason to
suppose the other understood it. ~

§ 2402. Historical works, books of science or art, and pubLlished maps or charts, when made by persons indifferent between the parties, are presumptive evidence of facts of general notoriety or interest.

§ 2403. VVhen a subscribing witness denies or does not
recollect the execution of the instrument to which his name
is subscribed as such witness, its execution may be proved
by other evidence.

§ 2404. Evidence respecting hand writing may be given by

comparison made by experts or by the jury with writings of

the same person which are proved to be genuine.

§ 2405. The entries and other writings of a person deceased
made at or near the time of the transaction and in a position
to know the facts therein stated, are presumptive evidence
of such facts when the entry was made against the interest
of the person so making it, or when made in a professional
capacity or in the ordinary course of professional conduct,
or when made in the performance of a duty specially enjoined
by law.

§ 2406. Books of account containing charges by one party
against the other made in the ordinary course of business
are receivable in evidence only under the following circumstances, subject to all just exceptions as to their credibility:

F1Rsr——The books must show a continuous dealing with
persons generally, or several items of charge at different
times against the other party in the same book or set of
books;

SecoNn—It must be shown by the party's oath or otherwise
that they are his books of original entries;

Tmno-—It must be shown in like manner that the charges
were made at or near the time of the transactions therein
entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for not making
such proof;

Four:rn—The charges must also be verified by the party
or the clerk who made the entries. to the effect that they
believe them just and true, or a snliicient reason must be
given why such verification is not made.

§ 2407. Every private writing. except a last will and testament, after being acknowledged or proved and certified in
the manner prescribed for the proof or acknowledgment of

conveyances of real property, may be read in evidence without farther proof.

§ 2408. The judge of the court is a competent witness for
either party and may be sworn upon the trial. But in such
a case it is in his discretion to order the trial to be postponed
or suspended and to take place before another judge.

§ 2409. Except when otherwise specially provided, no evidence of any of the contracts enumerated in the next succeeding section is competent unless it be in writing and:
signed by the party charged or by his lawfully authorized.
agent. ‘

§ 2410. Such contracts embrace:

Fms'r—-Those in relation to the sale of personal property
when no part of the property is delivered and no part of the
price is paid ; ‘

SscoNn-—Those made in consideration of marriage, but not
including promises to marry ;

Tnnu)—Those wherein one person promises to answer for
the debt, default, or miscarriage of another, including promises by executors to pay the debt of their principal from their
own estate ; '

Founrn-—Those for the creation or transfer of any interest
in lands except leases for a term not exceeding one year;

Fnrrn-—’l'hose that are not to be performed within one
year from the making thereof.

§ 2411. The provision of the first subdivision of the pre-‘
ceding section does not apply when the article of personal
property sold is not at the time of the contract owned by the
vendor and ready for delivery, but labor, skill, or money are
necessarily to be expended in producing or procuring the
the same: nor do those of the fourth subdivision of said section applywhere the purchase money or any portion thereof
has been received by the vendor, or when the vendee with
the actual or implied consent of the vendor has taken and
held possession thereof under and by virtue of the contract,
or when there is any other circumstance which by the law
heretofore in force would have taken a case out of the statute of frauds.

§ 2412. The above regulations, relating merely to the proof
of contracts, do not prevent the enforcement of those which:
are not denied in the pleadings, unless in cases where the
contract is sought to be enforced or damages to be recovered
for the breach thereof against some person other than him
who made it.

§ 2413. Nothing in the above provisions shall prevent the
party himself, against whom the unwritten contract is sought‘
to be enforced, from being called as a witness by the opposite party nor his oral testimony from being evidence.

§ 2414. The usual protest by a notary public without proof .
of his signature or notarial seal is evidence of the dishonor
and notice of a bill of exchange or promissory note.

How testimony is to be procured.
§ 2415. A subpcena is the proper way of bringing a witness

into court. It must require the witness to be. present at a

prescribed time and place to give testimony in a case therein

stated. It may also require him to bring with him any books,
documents, or other writings under his control and which he
is not excused by law from producing in evidence.

§ 2416. Witnesses in civil cases cannot be compelled to
attend the district court out of the state where they are served,
nor at a distance of more than seventy miles from the place
of their residence or from that where they are served with a
subpoena unless within the same county. No other eubpcnna
but that from the district court can compel his attendance at
a greater distance than thirty miles from his place of residence or of service if not in the same county.

§ 2417. Witnesses are entitled to receive (in advance if
demanded) their travelling fees to and from the court together
with their fees for one day’s attendance. At the commencement of each day after the first they are farther entitled on
demand to receive the legal fees for that day in advance.
If not thus paid they are not compelled to attend or remain
as witnesses.

§ 2418. For a failure to obey a valid subpcena without a sufficient cause or excuse,or for a refusal to testify after appearance, the delinquent is guilty of a contempt of court. He is
also liable to the party by whom he was subpoenaed for all
consequences of such delinquency together with fifty dollars
additional damages.

§ 2419. Before a witness is thus liable for a contempt for
not appearing he must he served personally with the process
by reading it to him, and by leaving a copy thereof with him
if demanded, and it must be shown that the fees and travelling expenses allowed by law were tendered to him if required; or it must appear that a copy of the subpwna, if left at
his usual place of residence, came into his hands together
with the said fees and travelling expenses above mentioned.

§ 2420. If a witness conceal himself or in any other manner attempt to avoid being personally served with a subpoena,
any sheriff or constable having the subpmna may use all
necessary and proper means to serve the same, and for that
purpose may break into any building or other place where the
witness is to be found having first made known his business
and demanded admittance.

§ 2421. In addition to the above remedies, if a party to a
suit in his own right on being duly subpaanaed fail to appear
and give testimony, the other party may at his option have
a continuance of the cause as in cases of other witnesses and
at the cost of the delinquent.

§ 2422. Or the party so calling his opponent may in such acase himself become a witness, or, if he shows by his own

testimony or otherwise that he could not have a full personal‘

knowledge of the transaction, the court may order his pleading to be taken as true; such order is however subject to be‘

reconsidered during the term of the court upon satisfactory
reasons being shown for such delinquency.

§ 2423. The district court may by rule require the production of any papers or books which are material to the just
determination of any cause pending before it, for the purpose
of being inspected and copied by or for the party thus calling
for them. “

§ 2424. The petition for that purpose must state the facts
expected to be proved by such books or papers and that as
the petitioner believes such books and papers are under the
control of the party against whom the rule is sought, and
must show wherein they are material. The rule shall thereupon be granted, to produce the books and papers or show
cause to the contrary, if the court deems such rule expedient
and proper.

§ 2425. On failure to obey the rule or show sufficient cause
for such failure the same consequences shall ensue as if the
party had failed to appear and testify when subpcenaed by
the party now calling for the books and papers.

§ 2426. Though a writing called for by one party is by the
other produced, the party thus calling for it is not obliged to
use it as evidence in the case.

§ 2427. Publications required by law to be made in a newspaper may be proved by the affidavit of any person having
knowledge of the fact, specifying the times when and the paper in which the publication was made. But such aflidavit
must, for the purpose now contemplated, be made within six
months after the last day of publication.

§ 2428. The posting up or service of any notice or other
paper required by law may be proved by the afiidavit of any
competent witness, attached to a copy of said notice or paper, and made within six months of the time of such posting
up.

§ 2429. Any other fact which is required to be shown by
affidavit and which may be required for future use in any
action or other proceeding may be proved by pursuing the
course above indicated as nearly as the circumstances of the
case will admit.

§ 2430. Such proof so made may be perpetuated and preserved for future use by filing the papers above mentioned in

the ofiice of the judge of the county court. And the original

Zaflidavit appended to the notice or paper if there be one, and
if not the affidavit by itself, is presumptive evidence of the
facts stated therein, but does not preclude other modes of
proof now held sufficient. .

§ 2431. A copy of the field notes of any surveyor or a plat
made by him and certified under oath as correct may be received as evidence to show the shape or dimensions of a tract
of land, or any other fact whose ascertainment requires only
the exercise of scientific skill or calculation.

§ 2432. Duly certified copies of all records and entries or
papers belonging to any public office or by authority of law
filed to be kept therein, shall be evidence in all cases of
equal credibility with the original record or paper so filed.

§ 2433. Every officer having the custody pf a public record
or writing is bound to give any person on demand a certified
copy thereof on payment of the legal fees therefor.

§ 2434. The certificate of a public officer that he has made
diligent and ineffectual search for a paper in his oflice is of
the same efiicacy in all cases as if such officer had personally appeared and sworn to such facts.

§ 2435. ‘The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of any
land oflice or, if that be lost or destroyed or beyond the
reach of the party, the certificate of such receiver that the
books of his office show the sale of a tract of land to a certain individual, is proof of title equivalent to a patent against
all but the holder of an actual patent.

§ 2436. In the cases contemplated in the last three sections
the signature of the officer shall be presumed to be genuine
until the contrary is shown.

§ 2437. A judicial record of this state or of any of the federal courts of the United States may be proved by the production of the original, or by a copy thereof certified by the
clerk or the person having the legal custody thereof authenticated by his seal ofoflice if he have one.

§ 2438. That of a sister state may be proved by the attestation of the clerk and the seal of the court annexed if there
be a seal, together with a certificate of a judge, chief justice,
or presiding magistrate that the attestation is in due form of
law.

§ 2439. The oflicial certificate of a justice of the peace of
any of the United States to any judgment and the preliminary
proceedings before him, supported by the oflicial certificate
of the clerk of any court of record within the county in which
such justice resides stating that he is an acting justice of the
peace of that county and that the signature to his certificate

is genuine, is sullicient evidence of such proceedings and
judgment.

§ 2440. Copies of records and proceedings in the courts of
aforeign country may be admitted in evidence upon being
authenticated as follows:

Fmsr——By the oliicial attestation of the clerk or oflicer in
whose custody such records are legally kept, and

SecoNn——By the certificate of one of the judges or magistrates of such court that the person so attesting is the clerk
or oflicer legally entrusted with the custody of such records
and that the signature to his attestation is genuine, and

Tnmn-—By the official certificate of the officer who has the
custody of the principal seal of the government under whose
authority the court is held, attested by said seal, stating that
such court is duly constituted, specifying the general nature
of its jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of the court.

§ 2441. Acts of the executive of the United States, or of
this or any other state of the union, or of a foreign govern-‘
ment are proved by the records of the state department of the
respective governments, or by public documents purporting
to have been printed by order of the legislatures of those governments respectively or by either branch thereof.

§ 2442. The proceedings of the legislature of this or any?
other state of the Union, or of the United States, or of any7
foreign government are proved by the journals of those bodies respectively or of either branch thereof. and either by
copies ollicially certified by the clerk of the house in which
the proceeding was had or by a copy purporting to have been
printed by their order. .

§ 2443. Printed copies of the statute laws of this or any!
other of the United States, or of Congress, or of any foreign
government purporting or proved to have been published under the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the courts of such
state or government, shall be admitted in the courts of this
state as presumptive evidence of such laws.

§ 2444. The public seal of the state or county affixed to at
copy of a written law or other public writing is also admissi-1
ble asevidence of such law or writing respectively. The unwritten laws of any other state or government may be proved
as facts by parol evidence, and also by the books of reports
of cases adjudged in their courts.

§ 2445. After the commencement of a civil action, or after\‘
an 188116 is joined in any other civil proceeding, if a witness“

resides within this state but in a different county from the place
of trial, or is about to go beyond the reach of a subpcnna, or
is for any other cause expected to be unable to attend court
at the time of trial, the party wishing his testimony may,
whenever he judges it expedient, take his deposition in writing before any person having authority to administer oaths.

§ 2446. Reason able notice of the time and place when and
where the same will be taken must be given to the opposite

arty.
§ 2447. Under the state of pleadings above mentioned, if
the case is in the district court the deposition of a witness residing out of the county, whether within or without the state,
may be taken before one or more commissioners on written
interrogatories.

§ 2448. The party wishing to take such deposition may
select any of the officers mentioned in the next section as
such commissioner, or the parties may agree upon, or the
court appoint in the commission any other individual for that
purpose.

§ 2449. The clerk or any judge of any court of record, any
notary public, or any commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take acknowledgments of deeds in another
state, may be appointed such commissioner by his name of
otiice or otherwise, but the name of the court of which such
commissioner is clerk or judge and the state and county in
which such notary or commissioner of deeds resides must be
stated in the commission.

§ 2450. None of the above named oflicers is permitted to
take the depositions aforesaid by virtue of a commission directed to him merely as such olficer unless taken within the
geographical limits to which his otlicial jurisdiction extends.

§ 2451. it-asonable notice must be given to the opposite
party of the time when a commission will be sued out of the
oflice of the clerk of the district court for taking the deposition of the witness (naming him) which notice must be accompanied with a copy of the interrogatories to be asked him.

§ 2452. At or before the time thus fixed the opposite party
may file cross interrogatories.

§ 2453. The reasonable notice hcreinbefore mentioned is
at least five days; and when depositions are to be taken in
pursuance of the first of the above methods one day in addition must be allowed for every thirty miles travel from the
place where the notice is served to the place where the depositions are to be taken.

§ 2434. Subject to the regulations herein contained the
court may establish farther rules for taking depositions and
all other acts connected therewith.

§ 2455. The commissionissues in the name of the court

and under its seal. It must be signed by the clerk and need‘

contain nothing but the authority conferred upon the commissioner, a statement of the cause in which the testimony
is to be‘ used, and a copy of the interrogatories on each side
appended. .

§ 2456. The person before whom any of the depositions

above contemplated are taken must cause the interrogatories

propounded (whether written or oral) to be written out and
the answers thereto to be inserted immediately underneath
the respective questions. The answers must be in the language, as nearly as practicable, of the witness if either party
requires it. The whole being read over by or to the witness
must be by him subscribed and sworn to in the usual manner.

§ 2457. All exhibits produced before the person taking the
deposition, or proved or referred to by any witness, or correct
copies thereof, must be appended to the depositions and returned with them unless sufficient reasons be shown for not
so doing.

§ 2458. The person taking the deposition shall attach his
certificate thereto stating thatit was subscribed and sworn to
by the deponent at the time and place therein mentioned.
The whole, including the commission and interrogatories
(when any such were issued), must then be sealed up and
returned to the clerk of the proper county by mail unless
some other mode be agreed upon between the parties.

§ 2459. The depositions when thus returned must be opened by the clerk and placd on file in his oflice; after which he
shall at any time furnish any person with an attested copy of
the same upon payment of the customary fees, but must not
allow them to be taken from his office previous to the next
term" of the court unless by the mutual written consent of the
parties.

§ 2460. The depositions when returned by mail must be
directed to the clerk of the court. They should state on the
outside of the envelop the title of the cause in which they are
to be used, and the clerk is not required to take them from
the otlice until the postage is paid by the party wishing to
use them.

§ 2461. Unimportant deviations from any of the above
directions shall not cause the depositions to be excluded
where no substantial prejudice could be wrought to the opposite party by such deviation.

§ 2462. Where depositions are directed to be taken before a
judge or justice of the peace merely by his name of office the.
return must contain an authentication by the clerk of the

proper court of record under his seal of oiilce verifying the
fact that the person who took the deposition is really such
officer. '

§ 2463. The deposition in each of the above cases must
show that the witness is a non-resident of the county or such
other fact as renders the taking of the deposition legal, and
no such deposition shall be read on the trial if at that time
the witness himself is produced in court.

§ 2464. All motions to exclude depositions must be made
before the commencement of the trial or objections to their
introduction will be deemed waived. '

§ 2465. ln cases in a justice’s court, when the deposition
of a witness is to be taken out of the state the commission
shall issue from the clerk of the district court under his seal
of oflice. The appointment of the commissioner shall be in
point of form made as from the district court but the commission shall state in what court it is to be used.

§ 2466. Depositions taken to be used in a justice’s court
shall be transferred to the district court if the case be appealed
and may be used on the trial there in the same manner as
if taken regularly after the case was in the district court.

§ 2467. Any person apprehensive of becoming a party to a
civil action or proceeding may cause the evidence of any fact
to be perpetuated so as to be used on the trial in case the
oral testimony of the witness would be then admissible and
cannot, by the exercise of due diligence, be then procured.

§ 2468. Such testimony must be taken before the judge or

clerk of the supreme, district, or county court.

§ 2469. The same notice must be given to all persons interested, of the subject matter of the testimony and the time
and place when and where the same will be taken, as is
herein before provided for taking depositions on mere notice
in suits already pending.

§ 2470. If any of the parties are minors or otherwise incapable of managing their own affairs the notice must be given
to their guardians or persons otherwise authorized to act for
them.

§ 2471. The testimony when thus taken is receivable only

-as against those persons who have been thus served with

notice and those claiming under them.

§ 2472. In order to render such testimony receivable against
all persons, the notice above prescribed must be published
for four successive weeks prior to the time therein fixed, in
some newspaper printed as convenient as practicable to the

place where the trial may be reasonably expected to’ take‘
place. ,
§ 2473. The officer before whom such depositions are taken

.must direct in what clerk’s office they shall be filed for preservation.

§ 2474. In all cases of taking depositions as hereinbefore
provided the costs thereof must be paid.in the first place by‘
the party at whose instance they are taken, sub_)ect like other
costs to be taxed against the failing party in the suit.

§ 2475. {affidavits {taken (glut ofbtliie state before arliy judge
or c er 0 a court 0 recoi; , or e ore a notary pu ic, or a‘
commissioner appointed by the governor of this state to take’
acknowledgment of deeds in the state where such affidavit
is taken. are of the same credibility as if taken within this
state.

§ 2476. The signature and seal of such ofthe officers herein
authorised to take depositions or affidavits as have a seal,
and the simple signature of such as have no seal, are presumptive of the genuineness of such signature as well as of
the official capacity of the officer, except as herein otherwise
declared. ‘

§ 2477. VV hen by the laws of any other state or country testimony may be taken in this state to be used in the courts of
such state or country, and also in all cases hereiii provided
for taking depositions, the persons authorised to take such
depositions have power to issue subpaanas and compel obedience thereto, to administer oaths, and do any other act of
a court which is necessary for the accomplishment of the piirose for which the are acting.
§ 2478. Subpoenas issued  them are valid to the same
geographical extent as those emanating from a justice’s
court, and may be served and returned in the same manner.

§ 2479. Any sheriff or constable when called upon for that
purpose shall serve such Sl1l)p(l?I1itS and make return thereto.

§ 2480. Where a person is desirous of obtaining the affidavit of another who unwilling to make phe Tame fully, he
may app y to any 0 cer competent to ta (e (epositions as
herein declared, by petition stating the object for which he
desires the affidavit. «

§ 2481. If such officer is satisfied that the object is legal
and proper he shall issue his subpaana to bring the witness
before him, and ifhe fails then to make a full affidavit of the
facts within his knowledge to the extent required of_liim by
the officer the latter may proceed to take his deposition by
question and answer in writing in the usual way, iyhich depplsition may afterwards be used instead of an ordinary attiavit.

§ 2482. The oflicer thus applied to may in his discretion

, require notice of the taking of such affidavit or deposition to
be given to any other person interested in the subject matter and allow him to be present and cross-examine such witness.

§ 2483. The court or officer to whom any ex-parte affidavit
is presented as a basis for some action, in relation to which
any discretion is lodged with such court or officer,‘ may if
deemed proper require the witness to be brought before some
proper officer and subjected to cross interrogatories by the
opposite party. _

§ 2484. The ordinary rules of evidence not incompatible
with those herein prescribed are not intended to be hereby
changed. '

mm

CHAPTER 131.

JUDGMENT LIEN8.

§ 2485. Judgments in the supreme or district court of this

state, or in the district or circuit court of the United States
it‘ rendered within this state, are liens upon the real estate

owned by the defendant at the time of such - rendition and
also upon all he may subsequently acquire before the expiration of the lien as hereinafter provided.

§ 2486. VVhen the lands lie in the county wherein the judgment was rendered the lien shall attach from the date of
such rendition.

§ 2487. If the lands lie in any other county the lien does
not attach until an attested copy of the judgment is tiled in
the office of the clerk of the district court of the county in
which the land lies.

§ 2488. Such clerk shall, on the filing of a transcript of the

judgment in his office, immediately proceed to docket and
index the same in the same manner as though rendered in
the court of his own county.

§ 2489. The liens above authorized continue in force for
the term of ten years only from the date of thejudgment.

CHAPTER 132.

DEPOSITS.

§ 2490. VVhen it is admitted by the pleading or examina-‘
tion of a party that he has in his possession or under his control any money or property capable of delivery, which is in
any degree the subject of litigation and which is held by
him as trustee for another party or which belongs or is due
to another party, the court may order the same to be deposited in the oflice of the clerk or delivered to such party with
or without security, subject to the farther direction of the
court. ._

§ 2491. VVhenever in the exercise of its authority a court?
has‘ ordered the deposit or delivery of money or other prop-‘
erty and the order is disobeyed, the court, besides punishing
the disobedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to
take the money or property and deposit and deliver it in conformity with the directions of the court.

§ 2492. The sheriff has the same power in such cases as
when acting by authority of a writ of replevin. , T

 

CHAPTER 133.

NOTICES, AND THE SERVICE OF PAPERS.

§ 2493. VVhen not otherwise provided, notices required by
law must be in writing and served as hereinafter provided.

§ 2494. All papers requiring to be served upon a party to
an action or other "proceeding must be served as follows,
when no other mode is particularly pointed out.

§ 2495. The service may be upon the party or upon his
agent or attorney.

§ 2496. The service may be personal or it may be left at
the usual place of residence of either of the persons aforesaid
in the same manner as is provided for the service of the original notice in civil actions; or it may be served upon the
attorney by being left at his oflice with any person having
the charge thereof, and if there is no person in the ofiice
then by leaving it in a conspicuous place therein during day
light.

§ 2497. When the party making the service and he on
whom it is to be made reside in different places between

which ,there is a regular communication by mail, service may
,be made by directing the paper properly through the post
oflice and paying the postage thereon. The paper shall in
that case be deemed served at the time at which the next
regular mail would reach the place of residence of the party
on whom it is to be served.

§ 2498. If a party resides out of the state and has an agent
or attorney within the state, service must be made upon the
latter.

§ 2499. The return or proof of service must show particularly the manner in which it was made.

 

CHAPTER 134.

GENERAL PROVISIONS.

§ 2500. The right of civil remedy is not merged in a public offense, but may in all cases be enforced independently of
and in addition to the punishment of the latter.

§ 2501. When a wrongful act produces death the perpetrator is civilly liable for the injury. The parties to the action
shall be same as though brought for a claim founded on contract against the wrong deer and in favor of the estate of the
deceased. And the sum recovered shall be disposed of in
the same manner, except that when the deceased left a wife,
child, or parent surviving him it shall not be liable for the
payment of debts.

§ 2502. If from the necessity of the case, no cause of
action ex delicto dies with either or both the parties, but the
prosecution thereof may be commenced or continued by or
against their respective representatives.

§ 2503. The rule that laws in derogation of the common
law are to be strictly construed has no application to this
statute, but shall receive a liberal construction in order to
carry out its general purposes and objects.

§ 2304. A person whose religious faith and practice are to
keep the seventh day of the week as a day set apart by
divine command, and dedicated to rest and religious uses,
cannot be compelled to attend as a juror on that day, and
shall in other respects be protected in the enjoyment of his
opinions to the same extent as those who keep the first day
of the week.

§ 2505. When security is required by law to be given and
no particular mode is prescribed, it shall be by bond.

§ 2506. Such security, when not otherwise directed, may,

if for the benefit of individuals, be given to the party intended to be thereby secured. ‘If in relation to public matters.
concerning the inhabitants of one county or part of a county,

it may be made payable to the county; if concerning the

inhabitants of more than one county, it may be made~payable to the state. But a mere mistake in these respects will

not vitiate the security. . r

§ 2507. Where investments of money are directed to be]
made and no mode of investment is pointed out by statute,‘
they must be made in the stocks of this state or in those of
the United States, or upon bond and mortgage of real property of the clear unincumbered value of at least twice the
investment.

§ 2508. VVhen such investment is made by order of any!
court, the security taken shall in no case be discharged, im-‘
paired, or transferred without an order of the court‘to that
effect entered on the minutes thereof. ‘

§ 2509. The clerk or other person appointed in such cases}
to make the investment must receive all moneys as they be-'
come due thereon and apply or reinvest the same under the‘
direction of the court, unless the court appoint some other
person to do such acts. , . '

§ 2510. Once in each year, and oftener if required by the.
court, the person so appointed must render to the court an‘
account in writing and on oath of all moneys so received by
him and of the application thereof.

§ 2511. No defective bond or other security, or affidavit in:
any case, shall prejudice the party giving or making it, pro-I
vided it be so} rectified within a reasonable time after the.
defect is discovered as not to cause essential injury to the
other party. '

§ 2513. The future proceedings of all officers and of all:
courts of limited and inferior jurisdiction within this state‘.
shall, like those of general and superior jurisdiction, be pre-'
sumed regular except in regard to matters required to be
entered of record, and except where otherwise expressly declared.

§ 2513. The mode of computing time is by excluding the
first day and including the last, and should the last day fall‘
on Sunday the length of time prescribed shall be extended
one day so as to include the whole of the following Monday
unless otherwise expressed. .

§ 2514. Proceedings already commenced for the enforcemcnt of remedies may be continued in accordance with the
rules herein prescribed as far as they are compatible with the
proceedings which have already taken place.

§ 2515. In other cases, rights of action secured by previous

existing laws may be prosecuted in the manner herein pro,vided. Should a case arise in which an adequate remedy
,cannot thus be had the practice heretofore in use may be
adopted so far as is necessary to prevent a failure of justice.
But the judge of the court shall in such cases forthwith report the fact to the governor who shall lay the same as soon
as practicable before the general assembly.

§ 2516. The rules of proceeding prescribed for civil actions
proper, in the district court, shall be followed in all proceedings of a special character whether before the district court
or other tribunals, so far as they are applicable and not
otherwise regulated.

§ 2517. No corporation is subject to the jurisdiction of a
court of this state unless it appears in the court, or has been
created by or under the lanes of this state, or has an agency
established herein for the transaction of some portion of its
business, or has roperty herein, and in the last case only to
the extent of such property.

CHAPTER 135.



§ 2518. The following or other equivalent forms are sufficient for the purposes for which they are intended.

For an original notice in the District Court.

To A B——, ~
S1n:——You are hereby notified that there is now [or that

on or before the day of there will be] on file
in the office of the clerk of the district court in ——- countya
petition of C D , claiming of you dollars as
money due “on a promissory note” [or “on account,” or “for
labor,” or “for a trespass committed by your cattle,” or for
whatever else may be the subject of the action] [or claiming
of you “the specific performance of a contract,” or “the recovery of a tract of land,” or “the foreclosure of a mortgage,”
as the case may be], and that unless you appear and answer
thereto on before the day of judgment will be
rendered against you thereon.
D——, Plaintiff.

(Signed) C
[or E F——-, Att’y for plaintiff]

   

     

 
 

For a petition in the District Court.

To the District Court of
Your petitioner_ C——-- D , claims of the defendant
A B——--, the sum of dollars which he alleges to
be due him from the said defendant. And for cause of such
claim states that the said defendant executed a promissory
note to one G——— W , dated for the sum of
dollars payable [state when], which said promissory note has
now become the property of your petitioner, and that the
amount above claimed is still due thereon. He therefore

asks judgment for that amount with interest and costs.

(Signed) C—-'—-- D , Plaintiff.

[or E.—--‘- F———-, Att’y for plaintiff]

 
 

County :

   

     

§ 2519. If the action is brought for any other cause, enough
must be stated to show substantially the nature of the particular claim and its amount. And if from the nature of the
cause of action as stated in the petition a demand was necessary before suit could be legally brought, such demand must
be averred. But nothing need be stated by way of rebutting
any defense which the petition itself has not shown to exist.

§ 2520. Original notice in a Justices’ court.

To A———- B———,

Sm :-—You are hereby notified that I claim of you
dollars as justly due me “on account,” [or “for labor,” or “for
fraud in the sale of a horse,” or “for injury caused by burning my fence,” as the case may be] and that unless you appear at the office of M N , a justice of the peace on
the - day of at o’clock, --- M.
and make defense to said claim, judgment will be rendered
against you for the whole amount with interest and costs.

(Signed) C D , Plaintiff.

   
       

§ 2521. When the notice is ‘signed by the justice it must
be modified accordingly. l

 

CHAPTER 136.

COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.

§ 2522. No oflicer is allowed fees or other compensation:
for any services farther than is expressly permitted by law. ‘

§ 2523. Any ofilcer legally called upon to perform any of
',the following services is entitled to the following compensation:
For drawing and certifying an aflidavit, or for giving a certificate not attached to any other paper or
For fixing his oflicial certificate to any paper,
whether the certificate be under seal or nnt- - - -- - - - - 35

For making out a copy or transcript of any public
papers or records under his control, for the use‘ of a
private individual or company, or recording articles
of incorporation, ten cents for every one hundred ~
words.

§ 2524. The secretary of state may take the following fees
in addition to his salary ;

For making out each commission for a commissioner of deedg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For a copy of laws or records upon the request of
any private person or company, for every one hundred

\V0rds..o.................. .'......... 10
For recording articles of incorporation for each one

hundred words . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
For certificate and seal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 ()0

§ 2525. The clerk of the supreme court may take the following fees as his whole compensation, and where they are
payable by a party to a suit they may (except in criminal
cases) be required in advance. If not so paid in advance
the clerk may at any time after judgment issue a fee bill
which shall have the force of a special execution against the

party adjudged to pay costs : i

Upon filing each appeal, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 3 00
Upon entering each judgment where the cause has

been decided upon its merits, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 00
Upon each continuance of a cause, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
Upon issuing each execution, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ._ . 1 2.5
Entering satisfaction of judgment, . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 50
Upon issuing each writ, rule, or order to be serve

upon any person not in court, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

For copying an opinion to be transmitted to the district court in case of a reversal ofjudgmcnt, ten cents
for every one hundred words, to be paid by the party
against whom costs are adjudged.

§ 2526. In criminal cases the clerk shall charge no fees
against the county or state, except that where a judgment is
reversed he is entitled to the legal fees for a copy of the
decision to be paid from the county treasury. As against the

accused he is entitled to the same compensation as is allowed
in civil cases. 

§ 2527. The clerk of the district court must, in addition to
the fees elsewhere authorised, charge and collect the followmg;

On the filing of an appeal or the commencement of
an originalguit, . . . . . . . . ......................... 2 

Additional amount on issuing an attachment,- - - - - 2 00

On entering‘ a judgment by confession in a case not
pendingingour1;’ina]l . . . . ...................... 3 00

If the case is already pending, in addition to the first
charge at the commencement of the suit,- - - - - - - - - - - l 00

On the submission of a cause without action,» - - - - - 2 50

On entering judgment when not by c0nfession,~ - - - 2 50

On entering a. general continuance, - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1 00
On entering a special continuance at a party’s costs and judgment thgl-eon, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 
On issuing execution and entering return, - - - - - - - - l 25
On entering satisfaction of judgment, - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - 50

§ 2528. The above fees of the clerk of the district court, as
well as the jury fee required by law, must be paid in advanced
unless ample security is given to the approval of the clerk
for the payment thereof when the suit is determined.

§ 2529. Where security is given as contemplated in the
preceding section, if the money is not paid at the time sti ulated the security shall be treated as an authority to con ess
judgment for the proper amount, and the clerk must enter up
judgment either in term time or vacation and issue execution
thereon accordingly. And in all cases heretofore decided
in the district court, the clerk is authorised to issue a fee bill
in the same manner as is above provided for the clerk of the
supreme court.

§ 2530. The above fees of the supreme or district court:
clerk must, unless otherwise provided by law, be paid in the]
first instance by the plaintiff or appellant as the case may be,
except in cases where the services are rendered at the
instance and for the benefit of some other person, in which
case the fees must be paid by such person. But unless otherwise ordered by the court the party paying such fees, if
successful in the suit, is entitled to recover them back from
the opposite party.

§ 2531. In criminal cases where the defendant is adjudged‘
to pay the costs, the clerk of the district court must charge}
fees as follows; ,

In cases of appeals, the same fees in all respects as
are allowed on appeals in civil cases;

On an indictment for a misdemeanor where there

;is no trial, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5 00
Where there is atrial by the court,. .. ..  7 O0
Whereby ajury,..., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10 00

In cases of indictment for felonies the above fees

shall be doubled.
The same fees for issuing execution and entering

satisfaction of judgment must be charged in criminal

as in civil cases.
§ 2532. In criminal cases, whether commenced by indictment or brought up on appeal, the fees shall not be required
in advance but must be collected by execution against the
defendant, being added to and treated as a part of the judgment or fine in case a judgment for money has been rendered

against the defendant.
§ 2533. The county judge shall, in addition to the fees

elsewhere permitted, charge ten cents for every one hundred
words for all wills and certificates recorded in his office as
required by law, and shall retain pay therefor out of the first
money coming into the hands of the executor after the payment of the charges of the last sickness and funeral expenses
of the deceased.
§ 2534. The recorder of deeds must charge for re- .

cording each premium note given to a mutual insurance company containing less than fifty words, - - - - - 25
For each deed and mortgage containing not more

thanonehundpgdwords. . . .. .. .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . 50
For every additional one hundred words or fraction

thereof in either case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

§ 2535. The fees allowed the recorder must be paid him in
advance, and he will be charged with them as so much money
actually received by him.

§ 2536. The sheriff is entitled to the following fees;

For serving any writ or notice (not including subpcenas) and return thereofFor the nrst person served . . . . . . . r . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50

For each additional person ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

For each copy of such writ or notice when required, a
ten cents for each hundred words ;

Serving writ with posse comitatus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50
Each commitment to prison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
,Di3chapge frgm P1-igon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Attending with a person before a. judge or court
when required—not at a regular term of the court in
his county—for each day, besides mileage - - ~ - - - - - - 1 00

Copy of a paper required by law, for each one hun- _
dredwordg . . . . ................................ 10

Serving and returning subpaana, for each person 20
Calling ajury,in each case  - - - - - - - . . .. 105
Summoning a grand or petit jury, for each pannel including mileage, (to be paid out of the county treasury) . . . . . . . . . . . . . , _ , _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... 
Traveling fees in other cases required by law, going
and returning per mile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05
Selling land or other property on execution, per

day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00

For time actually employed by him as assessor two
dollars per day, to be regulated by the same rules and
allowed in the same manner as the compensation of
supervisors of roads.

Making and executing a deed for land sold on execution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
Serving one person with order of court, besides mileage . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  50
For each additional person embraced in the same

order . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .. 25
Summoning a jury in cases of forcible entry and

detainer including mileage - - - - - - ~ -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - l 50
Serving an execution or order for the partition of

real estate or assigning‘ dower (besides mileage)- - - - - 2 00
Foreachbondrequiredbylaw............  25

For summoning a jury to assess the damages to the
owner of lands taken for any work of internal improvment and attending upon them, in all- e - - - - - - - - - - - 5 00
If such case occupies more than one day he may
charge for each additional day or fraction thereof . . . l 50
For serving each attachment . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . 1 00
For the time necessarily employed in making an
inventory of property attached or levied upon, per day l 00
For collecting and paying over money on the first
two hundred dollars or part thereof, three per cent;
On the next three hundred dollars or any part thereof two per cent;
And on all excess over five hundred dollars, one per
cent.
But when property is purchased by a plaintiff in execution, so that the money does not pass through the

sheriff ’s hands he is entitled to only one half the above
named rates.

Returning a writ not served . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 05
Receiving prisoner on surrender by bail . . . . . . . . . . 25
Takjngnewbai]... . . . . . . ..................... 25
Dieting a prisoner per day . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

§ 2537. The above items, when chargable in criminal

cases where the prosecution fails or where the money can.not be made from the person liable to pay the same, the

facts being certified to by the clerk as far as his knowledge
extends, and sworn to by the sheriff, shall be allowed andpaid out of the county treasury.

§ 2538. The sheriff is also entitled to receive one tenth of
the annual salary of the county judge for delivering notices
(including mileage) and for other services for which no other
compensation is allowed by law

Comncr’s fccs.

§ 2539. For a view of each body and for taking and
returning inquest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 00
Each subpoena, warrant, or venire - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 25
The above fees are to be paid from the county treasury where they cannot be obtained from the estate of
the deceased.

For all other services the same fees as are allowed
to sheriffs in similar cases.

Constable’s F ecs.

§ 2540. For serving any notice or process, on each

person named therein . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Copy thereof when required . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
For serving an attachment or writ of replevin . . . . 50
Traveling fees, going and returning, per mile . . . . . 05
Summoning a jury (including mileage) . . . .. . . . . . 50
Attending same on trial . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Serving execution (besides mileage) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Advertising and selling property (besides mileage) 50
Advertising without selling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Notifying plaintiff of the time of such sale (besides

mileage) unless he waives such notice . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Return of execution when no levy is made . . . . . . . . O5
Ontakingbondinanycase------------H  25

On all sums collected on execution and paid over,
four per cent.

Serving subpoena (besides mileage) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 15

Posting up each notice required by law (besides
mileage) . ‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

Commitment to prison, besides mileage . . . . . . . . . . 25

§ 2541. The fees of a constable for services in criminal cases where the prosecution fails or when the money cannot be
made from the person liable to pay the same, the facts being

certified by the justice and sworn to by the constable, shall

be allowed and paid out of the county treasury.
Nota7jy’s fccs.

§ 2542. For every protest of a bill or note- ~ ~ -- - - N otinga bill of exchange for non-acceptance or nonpayment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

N otarial aliidavit to an account under seal - - - - - - . .

Registering protest of a bill of exchange or promissory note for non-acceptance or non-payment - - Certifying power of attorney, - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Administel-ing any oath. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Being present at demand, tender, or deposit, and noting the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Other services, the same fees as are allowed to
other officers for like services.

Justice’s fees.

§ 2543. At thecommencement of each suit . . . . . . .

In case of an attachment or forcible entry and.detainer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

On taking judgment by confession after suit is commenced s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

If not on suit previously brought . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On submitting controversies without action the same
fees as on suit brought.

The following additional fees are allowed in the cases to which they apply:

On entering jndgment when not contested. . . . . . .

If contested - - - - - - - - - - Ifjury is called, additional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On issuing execution (for issuing as well as for return and entering satisfaction) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - When any cause consumes more than one entire
day of six hours the justice is entitled to one dollar
for each day or fraction of a day thereafter in addition.

And on all amounts of money coming into the justice’s hands without suit and by him actually paid
over, two per cent shall be allowed him therefor.

For every continuance or adjournment at the request

ofei[;hepparty..... . . . . . . . .....................

Making and certifying transcript- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - f On setting aside a judgment of non-suit or by deault . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .......................

25
25

50
25
O5

35

50.

50

50
l 00
l 00

50

50
50

50

Justices’ shall also be allowed the following fees in

criminal cases.

For process of any kind except subpcenas- - - - - - - Enteringjudgment................. . . . . ..
Taking recognizance or any undertaking, - - - - - - - Order of discharge to jailer - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - The first of the above charges shall be payable by
the county in cases where the prosecution fails.

VVit1zcsses.

§ 2544. Each witness for attending before the district court, each day is entitled to - - - - - -' - - - - - - - - - - Before ajustiee of the peace - - - - - - - - - - - - - . .
Mileage for actual travel per mile, each way - - - - - An attorney or juror or oliicer who is ‘in habitual
attendance on the court during the term at which he
is subpaanaed as a witness shall charge for only one
day’s attendance.

A witness who is subpoenaed in two or more cases
by the same party shall be entitled to but one single
compensation from such party for the same days attendance or travel.

The court may disallow to the successful party any
witness who without suflicient cause was absent at
the trial or whose testimony was unimportant or unnecessary.

For attendingbefore a grand orpetit jury in a criminal case witnesses are entitled to a like fee, which,
when they are called in behalf of the prosecution,
shall be paid out of the county treasury. But they
cannot claim their fees in such cases in advance.

Jurors.

§ 2545. A juror, for each day’s attendance whether
as a grand or petitjuror. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Before justices’ of the peace - - - - . . . . - - - - - - - - - - - Traveling per mile, going and returning- « - - - - - - County Surveyor.

§ 2546. For each day’s service actually performed
in traveling to and from the place where the survey
is to be made, making survey and return - - - - - - - - . .

For a certified copy of the plat or field notes- - - - - 50
50
25
25

1 O0
50
05

l 00
50
05

300
25

Supervisor qf Roads.

§ 2547. The supervisor of roads is entitled to receive from
the road fund the sum of two dollars per day’s service actually rendered in the discharge of his duty. He must keep
a weekly register of all the time so spent, marking down
the days and fractions of a day spent by him during the
week reckoning eight hours service as a day’s labor as nearly
as practicable, and at the settlement of his accounts with the
county court, which must be as often as once in each year,
he must be sworn to the correctness of his register.

§ 2548. The township trustees and township clerk shall
each receive at the rate of one dollar per day for services
rendered by them reckoning six hours as one day. And from
week to week when they perform any services for which they
are entitled to compensation from the county treasury they
must keep a register thereof and must at the time of their
settlements with the county court, make oath to the correctness of their accounts. W'hen serving as fence viewers they
must be paid by the parties interested.

§ 2549. Every officer charging fees shall, if required by the
person paying them, give him a receipt therefor setting forth
the items and the date of each.

§ 2550. Every appraiser of property is entitled to fifty cents
for each day or fraction thereof during which he is employed
as such, except when a diderent compensation is provided.

§ 2551. Anyperson authorized to marry is entitled to charge
two dollars for ofliciating in each case and making return
thereof.

§ 2552. Any officer or person taking depositions is authorized to charge therefor at the rate of ten cents per hundred
words exclusive of the certificate.

§ 2553. Where fees are charged against the county as hereinbefore provided in certain cases, their correctness and the
actual rendition of the services for which they are charged
must be sworn to.

§ 2554. All fees allowed to the county judge, prosecuting
attorney, clerk, and recorder, whether in this chapter or elsewhere, are to be deemed a part of the county revenue and
appropriated as provided by law, but are to be paid in cash.

§ 2555. The county judge is authorized in his discretion to
procure printed blanks necessary for the use of the salaried
officers of the county as far as can be conveniently done,
and to pay therefor out of the county treasury.

§ 2556. In all cases unless otherwise provided, the party in‘
whose favor judgment is given shall recover costs, but all‘

courts may allow or refuse costs at their discretion upon all
.motions.

§ 2557. Where no other provision is made on the subject,
'the party requiring any service shall pay the fees therefor
upon the same being rendered, and a bill of particulars being
presented if required.

§ 2558. In all cases. where an officer in the discharge of his
duty is required to set up an advertisement he shall, when
not otherwise provided, be allowed twenty-five cents, and if
an advertisement is required to be published in a newspaper,
the money therefor shall be paid by the party and may be
taxed in the bill of costs.

§ 2559. Every officer entitled to fees shall keep posted up
in his otlice a fair table thereof on pain of forfeiture of two
dollars per day for the benefit of the county for each day he
fails to keep such table of fees thus posted up.

§ 2560. Any oflicer who wilfully takes higher or other fees
than are allowed by law is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may
be fined therefor a sum not less than ten nor more than fifty
dollars.

§ 2561. An attorney appointed by a court to defend a person indicted for any offense, on account of such person being unable to procure counsel, isentitled to receive from the
county treasury one of the following fees;

For defending in a case of murdel - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 25 00
In cases of other felonies - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - - - - 10 00
In cases of misdemeanor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 ()0

§ 2562. An attorney cannot in such case be compelled to
follow a case into another county or into the supreme court,
and if he does so may recover an enlarged compensation to
be graduated on a scale corresponding to the prices above
allowed.

§ 2563. Only one attorney in any one case shall receive the
compensation above contemplated, nor is he entitled to this
compensation until he files his atiidavit that he has not directly or indirectly received any compensation for such services from any other source.

§ 2564. The provisions of this chapter which relate to fees
of the clerks of the supreme or district courts do not apply
to cases already pending in those courts respectively, except
that the fees received by the clerk of the district court shall
go into the county treasury in the same manner as hereinbefore provided. Butthe provisions of this chapter are intended to apply fully in all other respects and to all other
ofiicers in regard to all cases pending when this statute takes
effect, so far as it respects the compensation for their future
services.

