GENERAL LAWS

OF THE

TERRITORY or IDAHO.

CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.

AN ACT

TO ESTABLISH A CODE OF CIVIP PROCEDURE FOR
IDAHO TERRITORY.

Be it enacted by the Le 'slative Assembly of the T erritory of dalco, as follows:

PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS.

SEC. 1. This act takes effect at twelve o’clock,
noon, on the twenty-first day of May, eighteen hundred‘
and eighty-one. and shall be known and may be cited as‘
the Code of Civil Procedure. '

SEC. 2. No part of it is retroactive, unless expressly so
declared.

SEC. 3. The rule of the common law, that statutes i n‘
derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no;
application to this Code. The Code establishes the law!
of this Territory, respectin the subjects to which it relates, and its provisions an all proceedin 3 under it, are
to be liberally construed, with a view to e ect its objects
and to promote justice. '

SEC. 4. The provisions of this Code, so far as they are
substantially the same as existing statutes, must be construed as continuations thereof, and not as new enactments.

Sec. 5. No action or proceeding commenced before
this Code takes effect, and no right accrued, is affected by:

, its rovisions, but the proceedings therein must contorm
to t ne requirements of this Code as far as applicable.

SEC. 6. When a limitation or period ct’ time prescribed in any existing statute for acquiring a ri ht or
barring a remedy. or for any other purpose, has begun
to run before this Code goes into effect, and the same or
any limitation is prescribed in this Code, the time which
has already run shall be deemed art of the time prescribed as such limitation by this gods.

SEC. 7. Holidays, within the meaning of this Code.
are: every Sunday, the first day of January, the fourth
day of July, the twenty-fifth day of December, every
day on which an election is held throughout the Territory, and every day appointed by the President of the
United States, or by the Governor of this Territory, for
a public fast, thanksgiving or holiday.

SEC. 8. The time in which any act provided by law
is to be done is computed by excluding the lirst day, and
including the last, unless the last day is a holiday, and
then it is also excluded.

SEC. 9. Whenever any act of a secular nature, other than a work of necessity or mercy, is appointed by law
or contract to be performed upon a particular day, which
day falls upon a holiday, such act may be performed upon the next business day with the same effect as if it had
been performed upon the day appointed.

Sec. 10. When the seal of a Court, public oiiiccr, or
person is required by law to be ailixed to any aper, the
word “seal” includes an impression of ‘such sea upon the
paper alone as well as upon wax or a wafer atiixed thereto.

SEC. 11. Words giving a joint authority to three or
more public oflicers or other persons, are construed as
giving such authority to a majority of them, unless it is
otherwise expressed in the Act giving the authority.

SEC. 12. Words and phrases are construed according.

to the context and the approved usage of the language; but
technical words and phrases, and such others as have acguired a peculiar. and appropriate meaning in law, or are

etined in the succeeding section, are to be construed according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning or dehnition.

SEC. 13. Words used in this Code in the present
tense include the future as well as the present; words
used in the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter; the singular number includes the plural, and the
plural the singular; the word person includes a corporation as well as a natural person; writing includes printing; oath includes affirmation or declaration, and every’.
mode of oral statement, under oath or atlirmation, is embraced by the term “testify,” and every written one in

the term “de e;” signature or subscription includes

mark, when t e person cannot write, his name being

written near it, and witnessed by a person who writes

his own name as a witness.

The fnllowin words also have in this Code the signideation attac zeal to them in this section, unless otherwise a arent from the context:

1. llllie word “property” includes both real and per-:
sonal property; ‘

2. The words “real property” are co-extensive with:
lands, tenements and hereditaments, possessory rights
and claims;

3. The words “personal property” include money“
goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt;1

4. The wor “ month” means a calendar month, un- ;
less otherwise expressed;

5. The word “ will” includes codicils; .

6. The word “writ” signifies an order or prece t in‘
writing, issued in the name of the people, or of a ourt
or judicial oflicer, and the word “process” a writ or
summons issued in the course ofjudicial proceedings.

7. The word “ State,” when applied to the different:
parts of the United States, includes the District of Coumhia and the Territories; and the words “ United
States” may include the District and Territories.

SEC. 14. No statute, law, or rule is continued in:
force because it is consistent with the provisions of this
Code on the same subject; but in all cases provided fori
lay this Code, all statutes, laws, and rules heretofore in
lurce in this Territory, whether consistent or not with
the provisions of this Code, unless expressly continued
in force by it, are repealed and abrogated. This repeal
or abrogation does not revive any former law heretofore
repealed, nor does it affect any right already existing or
accrued, or any action or proceedin already taken, except as in this Code provided; nor oes it affect any private statute not ex ressly repealed.

SEC. 15. This Xct, whenever cited, enumerated, referred to, or amended, may be desi ated simply as
“Tm: Conn or Cxvn. Paocsnuau,” ad ing, when necessary, the number of the section.

SEC. 16. When the violation of a right admits of
both a civil and criminal remedv, the right to prosecute
the one is not merged in the other.

CHAPTER I.

COURTS OF JUSTICE IN GENERAL.

Stones 17.. The several Courts of this Territory.
18. Courts of Record.


SEC. 17. The following are the Courts of justice of
this Territory:
1. The Supreme Court;
2. The District Courts;
3. The Probate Courts;
4. The Justices’ Courts.

SEC. 18. The Courts enumerated in the first three subdivisions of the preceding Section are Courts of record.

CHAPTER II.

OF THE SUPREME COURT.

Bzcrtou 19. Jurisdiction of two kinds.
20. Original jurisdiction.
21. Appellate jurisdiction.
9 22. May reverse, amrm. or modify. etc., remittitur.
23. Number of Judges neceaary for the transaction of business.

24. Number to pronounce judgment.
25. Terms, when held. Additional terms.

SEC. 19. The jurisdiction of this Court is of two
kinds:

1. Original; and

2. Appellate.

SEC. 20. Its original jurisdiction extends to the issuance of writs of mandate, review, prohibition, habeas
cor us, and all writs necessary to the exercise of its appel ate jurisdiction.

SEC. 21. Its apsrellate jurisdiction extends to a review
of all cases remove to it under such regulations asare
or may be prescribed by law, from the iinal decisions of
the District Courts.

SEC. 22. The Court may reverse, aflirm, or modify
any order or judgment ap ealed from, and may direct
the proper judgment or 0 er to be entered, or direct a

new trial or further proceedings to be had. Its judgment
must be remitted to the Court from which the appeal was
taken.

The decisions of the Court shall be iven in writino;
and in fving a decision, if a new tria be granted. the
Court s all ass upon and determine all the questions of
law involved) in the case, presented upon such appeal, and
necessary to the final determination of the case.

Sec. 23. The presence of two justices is necessary for‘
the transaction of business, but one of the justices may’
adjourn the Court from day to day with the same effect
as if all were resent. .

SEC. 24. he concurrence of two justices is necessary
to pronounce a judgment ; if two do not concur, the case‘
must be re-heard.

SEC. 25. There must be at least one term in each;
year for the hearing of causes, to be held at the Capital‘
of the territory, at such time as the Court may by rule,
or order, designate. Additional terms may also be held

by order of the Court.

CHAPTER III.

OF THE DISTRICT COURTS.

Sncrrozc 16. Jurisdiction.
27. Duration of terms.
28. Adjournment ofthe Court. 29. J ndgmenta may be entered in vacation.

SEC. 26. The jurisdiction of the District Courts

extends:

1. To all civil actions for relief formerly given in
Courts of Equity;

2. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation
is not capable of pecuniary estimation;

3. To all civil actions in which the subject of litigation
is capable of pecuniary estimation, which involve the title or possession of real estate, or the legality of any
tax. im st, assessment, toll, or municipal fine, or in
which t e demand, or the value of the property in controversy exceeds one hundred dollars; *

4. To all special proceedings;

5. To the issuance of writs of mandate, review, prohibition, habeas corpus, and all writs necessary to the exercise of its powers;

6. To the trial of all indictments;

7. Its appellate urisdiction extends to all cases arising
in Probate or Justices Courts; and to all other matters
and cases wherein an appeal is allowed by law.

SEC. 27. Each term mustbeheld until the business is
disposed of, or until a day fixed for the commencement
of some other term in the district.

SEC. 28. The Court may adjourn from time to time
during the term, and may, when the public convenience
requires, adjourn the term over the time fixed by law for
the commencement of another term in the same district.

SEC. 29. Judgments and orders of this Court may
be entered either in term or vacation.

CHAPTER IV.

OF‘ THE PROBATE COURT.

Section 30. court in each county.

31. Jurisdiction of. ,

82. Presumptions in favor of its Judgments.
33. Terms of thetcourt in the respective counties.

84. Terms. where held. Shall have a Clerk.

SEC. 30. There must be a Probate Court held in
each of the counties.

SEC. 31. The Probate Court has °urisdiction :

1. To open and receive proof of ast wills and testaments, and to admit them to proof ;

2. To grant letters testamentary, of administration
and of uardianship, and to revoke the same;

3. o appoint appraisers of estates of deceased persons;

4. To compel executors, administrators, and guardians to render accounts;

5. To order the sale of property of estates, or belonging to minors;

6. To order the payment of debts due from estates:

7. To order and regulate all distributions of property or estates of deceased persons;

8. To compel the attendance of witnesses, and the
production of title deeds, papers, and other property of
an estate, or of a minor;

9. To make such orders as may be necessary to the
exercise of the powers conferred upon it.

10. In addition to their probate jurisdiction; to hear
and determine all civil causes wherein the damage or
debt claimed does not exceed the sum of live hundred

dollars, exclusive of interest, and concurrent jurisdiction
with Justices of the Peace in criminal cases. .

SEC. 32. The proceedings of this Court are construed
in the same manner, and with like intendments, as the
proceedings of Courts of general jurisdiction, and to its
records, orders, jud merits, and decrees there is accorded
like force, effect, an legal presuinptions as to the records,
orders, judgments, and decrees of District Courts.

Provided, that this section shall be applicable to its
probate proceedings, records, orders, judgments and
decrees, only.

Sec. 33. The terms of the Probate Courts in the several counties, for the transaction of all probate business
except that special! autiiorizedb law to be done in vacation, must be held on the fourth hlonday in each month.
For the transaction of all civil, other than probate business, aiid all criminal business, these Courts are always
o n.

SEC. 34. The terms of the Probate Court must be
held at the county seats.

There shall be a Clerk of said Court to be appointed
by the judge thereof; or the Probate Jud may act as

Clerk of his own Court. Every Probate udge shall be
responsible upon his official bond, for every default or
misconduct in otiice of his Clerk.

 

CHAPTER V.

OF JUSTICES' COURTS.

Bncnoit E5. Justices of the Peace must hold.

3. Civil jurisdiction.
87. Civil jurisdiction restricted.
88. Territorial extent of civil jurisdiction.

no. criminal jurisdiction.

SEC. 35. Every Justice of the Peace must hold a
J ustice’s Court in the precinct or city for which he

is elected or a pointed.
SEC. 36. he civil jurisdiction of these Courts within.

their respective precincts or cities extends: ‘
1. To an action arising on contract, for the recovery of
money only, it’ the sum claimed does not exceed one
hundred dollars;
2. To an action for damages for injury to the person,
or for taking or detaining personal property, or for injnring personal property, or for an injury to real property, where no issue is raised by the answer involving
the plaintiti"s title, or possession of the same, if the
damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars;

3. To an action for a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, not
exceeding one hundred dollars, given by statute or the
ordinance of an incorporated city;

4. To an action upon a bond or undertakin conditioned for the pa ment of money not exce ing one
hundred dollars, t ough the penalty exceed that sum;
the jud ment to be given for the sum actually due.
When t e payments are to be made by installments, an
action may be brought for each installment as it becomes
due; .

5. To an action to recover the possession of rsoual
property, when the value of such property oes not
exceed one hundred dollars;

6. To take and enter judgment on the confession of
a defendant, when the amount confessed does not exceed
one hundred dollars.

SEC. 37. The jurisdiction conferred by the last section shall not extend, however:

To a civil action in which the title or possession of
prcéperty is put in issue.

SEC. 38. Means and final process of Justices’ Courts
may be issued to any part of the county in which they
are held.

SEC. 39. These Courts have jurisdiction of the following public offenses, committed within the respective
counties in which such Courts are established:

1. Petit larceny;

2. Assault and battery, not charged to have been
gommitted upon a public officer in the discharge of his

uties; '

3. Breaches of the peace, riots, affrays, committing a
willful in°ury to property, and all misdemeanors punishable by ne not exceeding one hundred dollars, or imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.

CHAPTER
GENERAL PROVISIONS RESPECPING COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS.

Bscrrox 40. Sittings public.
41. Limitation on preceding section.

Powers of court respecting the conduct of judicial proceedings.
Courts of record may make rules.

When rules take emaet.

Days on which Courts. etc.. may be held.

Days on which Courts shall not be opened.

Court appointed. etc.. for those days. deemed for next day.
Adjournment oi‘ Court for absence of J udge.

Same.

Judge may, in certain cases, change place of holding Court.
Parties to appear at place appointed.

Rooms. etc.. when Judge may order.

What Cour s have seals.

Seals. by whom kept.

To what proceedings tobe ainxed.

Places of residence of Judges. District Judges may hold Courts in another district.

Powers of District Judges at chambers.

When disqualiiied.

Nottoactasattorneyinhisowncourt. Certain Judges not to act as attorneys.

No judicial oillcer to have a partner.

General powers of Judges out of Court.

Powers of judicial omcers as to conduct of proceedings before

them.

Same.

Same. Subsequent applications for orders. when prohibited.
Violation of last section.

No proceeding aifected by a vacancy in otllce of Judge. etc.
Proceedings to be in the English language.

Abbreviations and ilgures.

lleans to be used to execute Judicial powers in certain cases.

assesses sasessssssssssszssssrpe

SEC. 40. The sittings of every Court of justice are
public, except as provided in the next section.
SEC. 41. In an action for divorce, criminal conversation, seduction, or breach of promise of rnarria e, the

Court may direct the trial of any issue of fact join therein to be private, and may exclude all persons exce t the
oiilcers of the Court, the parties, their witnesses, an counsel ; provided, that in any cause the Court may, in the exercise ofa sound discretion, during the examination of a witness, exclude any and all other witnesses in the cause.

SEC. 42. Every Court has power :

1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate
presence ;

2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before aperson or persons empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under its authority;

3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings
before it or its officers ;

4. To compel obedience to its judgments, orders, and
process, and to the orders ot'a Judge out of Court in an
action or proceeding pending therein ;

5. To control, in furtherance of nstice, the conduct of
its ministerial oflicers, and of all other persons in any
manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it,
in every manner appertaining thereto ;

6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in an
action or proceeding pending therein, in the cases and
manner provided in this Code ;

7. To administer oaths in an action or proceeding
pending therein, and in all other cases where it may be
necessary in the exercise of its powers and duties ;

8. 'l‘o amend and control its process and orders, so as
to make them conformable to law and ustice.

SEC. 43. Every Court of record may make rules, not
inconsistent with the laws of this Territory, for its own
government and the government of its oliicers; but such
rules must neither impose a tax or charge upon any legal
proceeding nor give an allowance to any oliicer for
services.

SEC. 44. The rules adopted bv the Supreme Court '

take effect sixty days. and those adopted by other Courts,
thirty days, after their publication.

SEC. 45. The Courts of Justice may be held, and judicial business may be transacted, on any day except as
provided in the next section.

SEC. 46. No Court can be 0 ened, nor can any judicial business be transacted, on unday, on the first day
of January, on the fourth of July, on Christmas or
Thanksgiving day, or on a day on which the general election is held, except for the following purposes:

1. To give, upon their request. instructions to a jury
when deliberating on their verdict;

2. To receive a verdict or discharge a jury;

3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a
criminal action, or in a roceeding of a criminal nature;
prom°ded, that in civil) causes orders of arrest may
he made and executed; writs of attachment, executions,
injunctions and writs of prohibition, may be issued and
served; proceedings to recover possession of personal
property may be had; and suits for the purpose of obtaining any such writs and proceedings may be instituted
on any day.

Sec. 47. If any of the days mentioned in the last section happen to be the day appointed for the holding
of a Court, or to which it is adjourned, it is deemed appointed for or adjourned to the next day.

SEC. 48. If no Judge attend on the day appointed for
holding the Court, or on the day to which it may have
been adjourned, before noon, the Sheriff or Clerk must
adjourn the Court until the next day at ten o’clock A. M ;
and if no Judge attend on that day, before noon, the Sheriff
or Clerk must adjourn the Court until the following
day, at the same hour, and so on from day to day, for one
week, unless the Judge, by written order, directs it to be
adjourned to some day certain fixed in said order, in
which case it shall be so adjourned.

SEC. 49. If no Judge attend for one week, and no
written order is made, as provided in the last section, the
Sheri&' or Clerk shall adjourn the session until the time
appointed.for the holding of the next regular session. .

SEC. 50 A Judge authorized to hold or preside at a
Court appointed to be held in a county, city, or town,
may, by an order filed with the Clerk, and published as
he may prescribe, direct that the Court be held or continued at any other place in the city, town, or county
than that ap p inted, when war, insurrection, pestilence,
or other pub ic calamity, or the dangers thereof’, or the
destruction or danger of the building appointed for holding the Court, may render it necessary; and may, in the
same manner, revoke the order, and, in his discretion,
appoint another place in the same city, town, or county,
for holding the Court.

SEC. 51. When the Court is held at a place a (pointed
as provided in the last section, every person he to appear at the Court must appear at the place so ap ointed.

SEC. 52. If suitable rooms for holding the istrict
Courts, and the chambers of the Judges ofsuch Courts, be
not provided in any county by the commissioners thereof,
together with attendants, furniture, fuel, lights, and stationery suflicient for the transaction of business, the Courts
may direct the Sheriff of such county to provide such
rooms, attendants, furniture, fuel, lights, and stationery,
and the expenses thereof are a charge against such county.

SEC. 53. Each of the following Courts has a seal:

1. The Supreme Court ;

2. The District Courts;

3. The Probate Courts.

SEC. 54. The Clerk of the Court must keep the seal
thereof. .

SEC. 55. The seal of the Court need not be afiixed to
any proceeding therein, or document, except :

1. To a writ ;

2. To the certificate of the probate of a will, or of the
appointment of an executor, administrator, or uardian ;

3. To the authentication of a copy of a recor or other
proceeding of a Court, or of an ofiicer thereof, or of a
copy ot'a document on tile in the oflice of the clerk.

SEC. 56. Each Probate Judge shall reside at the
county seat of his county, and every Justice of the Peace
shall reside in the precinctin which his Court is held.

SEC. 57. A District Judge may hold a Court in any
county in this Territory, upon the request of the Judge
of the district in which such Court is to be held; and
when, by reason of sickness or absence from the Territory, or from any other cause, a Court cannot be held in
any county in a district by the Judge thereof, a certificate
of that fact must be transmitted by the Clerk to the
Governor, who may thereupon direct some other District J udge to hold such Court.

SEC. 58. District Judges, at chambers, may grant all
orders and writs which are usually granted in the first
instance upon ex-parte applications, and may, at chambers, hear and dispose of such writs and of motions for
new trials, and try and determine writs of review, mandate and roliibitnons, and may hear applications to discharge all)such orders and writs. In case of vacancy in
the otiice of any District Judge, or his absence from the
Territory, motions may be made before and orders granted by any other District Judge.

Sec. 59. A Judge cannot act as such in any of the
following cases:

1. In an action or proceeding to which he is a party,
or in which he is interested;

2. When he is related to either party by consanguinity
or afiinity within the third degree, computed according
to the rules of law;

3. When he has been attorney or counsel for either
party in the action or proceeding;

But this section does not apply to the arrangement of
the calendar or the regulation of the order of business, nor
to the power of transferring the cause to another county.

SEC. 60. A Judge cannot act as attorney or counsel
in a Court in which he is Judge, or inan action or receeding removed therefrom to another Court for tria or

review, or in an action or proceeding from which an appeal may lie to his own Court.

Sec. 61. A Justice of the Supreme Court, or Judge
of the District Court, cannot act as attorney or counsel
in any Court, except in an action or proceeding to which
he is a party on the record.

Sec. 62. N 0 Judge or other j udical oilicer, shall have
a partner acting as attorney or counsel in any Court of
this Territory.

SEC. 63. A J udge may exercise, out of Court, all the
powers expressly conferred upon a Judge, as contra-distiuguished from the Court.

Sec. 64. Every judicial oflicer has power:

1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate
presence, and in the proceedings before him, when he is
engaged in the performance of an odicial duty;

2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in this Code;

3. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in a
proceeding before him, in the cases and manner provided
111 this Code; '

4. To administer oaths to persons in a proceeding
pending before him, and in all other cases where it
zlnay be necessary, in the exercise of his powers and

uties.

Sec. 65. For the effectual exercise of the powers conferred by the last section, a judicial otlicer may punish
for contempt, in the cases provided in this Code.

Sec. 66. The Justices of the Supreme Court, and the
Jud 3 of the District Courts, have power in any art
of tgg Territory, and Probate Judges and Justices o the
Peace within their respective counties, to take and certify:

1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance

' of real property, or of any other written instrument;

2. The acknowledgment of a satisfaction of a judgment of any Court;

3. An ailidavit or deposition to be used in this Territorv.

Sec. 67. If an application for an order, made to a
Judge of a Court in which the action or proceeding is
pending, is refused, in whole or in part, or is granted
conditionally, no subsequent ap lication for the same‘ order can be made to any other udge, except of a higher
Court; but nothing in this section applies to motions refused for any informality in the papers or proceedings
necessary to obtain the order, or to motions refused, with
liberty to renew the same. 
SEC. 68. A violation of the last section may be punished as a cuutem t, and an order made contrary thereto
may be revoked iy the J udge who made it, or vacated
by a Judge of the Court in which the action or proceeding is pendin§.

Sec. 69. o proceeding in any Court of justice. in an
action or special roceeding pending therein, is affected
by a vacancy in t ie otlice of all or any of the J udges, or
by the failure‘ of a term thereof.
SEC. 70. Every written proceedingin a Court of justtice in this Territory shall be in the English language,
and judicial proceedings shall be conducted, preserved,
and published in no other.

SEC. 71. Such abbreviations as are in common use
may he used, and numbers may he expressed by iigu res
or numerals, in the customary manner.

SEC. 72. \Vhen jurisdiction is, by this Code or by
any other statute, conferred on a Court or udieial oflieer,
all the means necessary to carry it into effect are a!so
given ; and in the exercise of the jurisdiction, if the
course of proceeding he not specifically pointed out by
this Code or the statute, any suitable process or mode of
proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the spirit of this Code.

i

CHAPTER VII.
or JUROI‘. .

Section 73. Jury donned.
7-l. Ditferent kinds ofjuriea.
75. Grand Jury detlned.
76. Trial jury defined.
77. Number of a trial jury.
78. Jury of inquest detlned.
Who are competent touct as jurors.
Whoare not competent to act as jurors.
Who are exempt.
Who may be excused.
Exempt juror may tlle atlldavit.
List of persons to serve as jurors to be made by Comm!-eioucra.
How selection shall be made.
List to be placed with Clerk.
Duty of Clerk on receiving lists.
Regular jurors to serve one year.
. Jury to be drawn upon the order of the Judge.

90. Clerk to notily County Judge and Sheril‘ of time of drawing.
91. Shem!’ and Judge to witness drawing.

92. D awing. when to be adjourned.
93. Shall proceed. when.

8533333333?

3

Drawing. how conducted.

95. Aner adjournment of Court. disposition to be made of ballots.
Copy of list to be nuntshed by Clerk.

Sheriff to summon jurors, how.

Court may order jury drawn. when.

99. When jury may be completed from the body of the crunty. or bystander-s.

100. Jurors {or Probate and Justices‘ Courts. by whom summoned.
101. 3- w summoned.

112. Otltcefs return.

103 llsnner of summoning juries of inquest.

lot. Obedience to summons, how en forced.

105. Grand Jury. when to be lmpnneicd.

106. Gran d Jury. how constituted.

107. Jury to be impsneled as prescribed by law.

NB. Names of trial jurors, how kept.

109. Trial juries. how impaneled.

no. Empaneling jury in Justices’ C‘.ul'tC111. In criminal cases.

112. Juries of inquest. how impaneled.

335$

SEC. 73. A jury is a body of men temporarily selectcd from the citizens of a particular district, and invested

with power to present or indict a person for a public

offense, or to try a question of fact.

SEC. 74. Juries are of three kinds:

1. Grand juries;

2. Trial juries;

3. Juries of inquest.

SEC. 75. A Grand Jury is a bod of men, sixteen in‘
nmnber, returned in pursuance of law from citizens of
the county, before a Court of competent jurisdiction, and

sworn to inquire of public offenses committed or triable

within the county.

SEC. 76. A trial jury is a body of men returned‘
from the citizens of a particular district, before a‘
Court or oiiicer of competent jurisdiction, and sworn
to try and determine, by a unanimous verdict, a question of fact. , ~

Sec. 77. A trial jury in the District consists of;
twelve, and in the Probate and Justices’ Courts of six
men, unless the at-ties to the action or proceeding agree
upon a less num r.

SEC. 78. A jury of inquest is a body of men, sum-.t
nnoned from the citizens of, a particular district, before‘
the Sheriff, Coroner, or other ministerial otlicer, to
in uire of particular facts.

SEC. 79. A person is competent to act as a juror if:
he be: i 1
1. A citizen of the United States, and an elector of

the county;

2. In possession of his natural faculties and not
decrepit; 3. Possessed of suflicient knowledge of the language
in which the proceedings of the Courts are had.

SEC. 80. A person is not competent to act as a jnror:.

1. Who does not possess the qualifications prescribed
by the receding section;

2. $110 has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor. involving moral turpitude.

SEC. 81. A person is exempt from liability to act as
ajuror if he be:

1. A judicial, "civil, or military oflicer of the United
States, or of the Territory of Idaho;

2. A person holding a county ofiice;

3. An attorney and counselor at law;

4. A minister of the gospel or a priest of any denomination;

5. A teacher in a college, academy, or school;

6. A practicing physician;

7. An oflicer, keeper, or attendant of an almsliouse,
hospital, asylum, or other charitable institution;

8. Engaged in the rformance of duty as oflicer or
attendant ot a County Elli} or the Territorial Prison;

9. An express agent, mail carrier, telegraph operator,
or keeper of a public ferry or toll gate;

10. A dispensing druggist of a prescription drugstore;

11. A superintendent, engineer, conductor, fireman,
or station agent of a railroad;

12. A person drawn as a juror in the District Court,
and who has served as such within a year; but this exemption shall not apply to a person who is summoned
on a special vem°re, or to serve as a juror in the Probate
or J ustice’s Court.

SEC. 82. A juror cannot be excused by the Court for
slioht or trivial cause, or for hardship, or inconvenience

~ to is business, but only when material injury or destruction to his property, or that of the public intrusted to
him, is threatened, or when his own health, or the sickness or death of a member of his family, requires his
absence. ~

SEC. 83. If a person exempt from liability to act

1' as a juror, as provided in section eighty-one, be summoned as a juror, he may make and transmit his ailidavit to the Clerk of the Court for which he is summoned, stating his otlice, occupation or employment;
and such aflidavit shall be delivered, by the Clerk, to the

Judge of the Court when the name of such person is
called, and, if sutlicient in substance, it shall be received
as an excuse for non-attendance in person. The aliidavit
shall then be filed by the Clerk. 

SEC. 84. The Board of Commissioners of each county
must, at their first regular meeting in each year, or at
any other meeting if neglected at the first, make a list of
persons to serve as jurors in the District Court of the
county, for the ensuing year.

SEC. 85. They must proceed to select and list from
the poll lists of the_several precincts in their respective
counties, last returned to the Clerk of their Board, the
names of one hundred and fifty rsons competent to
serve as jurors; and in making suc selection, they must
take the names of such only as are exempt from serving,
who are in possession of their natural faculties, and not
infirm or decrepit, of fair character, of approved integrity,
and of sound judgment: provided, that if, in any of the
counties, the county commissioners shall not be able to
select the number required by this section, for jurors, they
ma select a less number, and the highest ossible.

SEC. 86. Certiiied lists of the persons se ected to serve
as jurors must at once be placed in the possession of the
Clerk of the District Court.

Sec. 87. On receiving such lists, the Clerk must file
the same in his office, and write down the names contained therein on separate pieces of paper, of the same
size and appearance, and fo d each piece so as to conceal
the name thereon, and deposit them in a box to be called
the “jury box.” *

SEC. 88. The rsons whose names are so returned:
are known as regu ar jurors, and must serve for one year,}
and until other persons are selected and returned.

SEC. 89. Not less than fifteen nor more than thirty.
days before the commencement of any term of the Dis-1
trict Court, the Judge thereof, if a °ury will be required‘
therefor, must make and iile with tllie Clerk an order that
one be drawn. The number to be drawn must be fixed
in the order ; if to form aGrand Jury, it must betwenty,
and if a trial jury, such number as the Judge may direct.

SEC. 90. At least one day before the drawing. the

Clerk must notify the Sheriff and Probate Judge of the}
time when such drawing will take place, which time‘

must not be more than three days after the receipt by him
of the order for such drawing.

SEC. 91. At the time so appointed, the Sheriff, in;
person or by deputy, and the Probate Judge, must attend‘

at the Clerk’s oilice to witness such drawing, and if they
do so, the Clerk must, in their presence, proceed to draw
the jurors.

SEC. 92. If the oiiieers so notified do not ap ear, the
Clerk must adjourn the drawing until the next ay, and,
by written notice, require two electors of the county to
atteudsuch drawing on the adjourned da .

SEC. 93. If, at the adjourned day, tie Sheriff, Probate Judge, and electors, or any two of such persons,
appear, the Clerk must in their presence proceed to draw
the jurors.

SEC. 94. The Clerk must conduct such drawing as
follows :

1. He must shake the box containing the names of
jurors returned to him, from which jurors are required
to be drawn, so as to mix the slips of paper upon which
such names were written, as much as possible ;

2. He must then publicly draw out of the box as
many such slips of pa r as are ordered by the Judge;

3. A minute of tie drawing must be kept by one
of the attending oiiiecrs, in which must be entered
the name contained on every slip of paper so drawn,
before any other slip is drawn;

4. If, after drawing the whole number required, the
name of any person has been drawn who is dead or
insane, or who has permanently removed from the
county, to the knowledge of the Clerk or any other
attending otlicer, an entry of such fact must be made
in the minute of the drawin , and the slip of paper
containing such name must be %estroyed;

5. Another name must then be drawn, in lace of
that contained on the slip of paper so destroy , which
must in like manner, he entered in the minutes of the
drawinor;

6. 'llhe same proceedin must be had as often as
may be necessary, until t e whole number of jurors
re uired are drawn;

. The minute’ of the drawin must then be signed
by the Clerk and the attending 0 cers or persons, and
filed in the Clerk’s ofiice;

8. Separate lists of the names of the persons so
drawn for trial jurors, and of those drawn for grand
'urors, specifying for what Court they were drawn, must

made and certified by the Clerk and the attendingoilicers or persons, and delivered to the Sheriff of the
county.

Sec. 95. Athr the adjournment of any Court at,
which jurors have been returned, as herein provided, the
Clerk must enclose the ballots containing the names
of those who attended and served as jurors in an envelope,

undersea], and the ballots of those who did not attend
and serve must be returned to the jury box. The ballots

sealed in envelopes must not be returned to the jury
box. '

Sec. 96. The Clerk of the District Court must«
furnish any rson applying therefor, and paying the
fees allowed y law for the same, a copy of the list of ‘

jurors drawn to attend any Court.

SEC. 97. As soon as he receives the list of jurors
drawn, the Sheriff must summon the persons named
therein to attend, by giving personal notice to each,
or by leaving a written notice at his place of residence,
with some person of proper age, and must return the list
to the Court at the time hxed in the order for their appearance, specifying the names of those who were summoned
and the manner in which each person was notified.

The grand jurors shall be summoned to ap -ear on the
hint day of the term, at the hour of eleven o’clock in the
forenoon, and the trial jurors on such day of the term,
and at such hour as the presiding Judge of the Court
may by order direct. . .

Sec. 98. Whenever jurors are not drawn and sum-rnoned to attend any Court of record, or a sullicientf
number of jurors fail toappear, such Court may, in its
discretion, order a sufficient number to be drawn and
summoned to attend such Court; or it may, by an order
entered on its minutes, direct the Sheriff of the county
to summon so many good and lawful men of his county
to serve as jurors as the case may uire. And in either
case such jurors must be summon in the manner provided by the receding section.

SEC. 99. hen there are not competent jurors euoughj
present to form a panel, the Court may direct the Sheriff ,
or other roper olhcer to summon a suiiicient number of j
persons, avmg the qualification of jurors, to completel
the panel, from the bed of the county or from the bystanders, and the Sheri must summon the number so
ordered, accordingly, and return the names to the Court.

The jurors summoned under this, or the preceding section may be required to ap r forthwith or at a time to
he named in the order, as t e Court may direct, and the
oflicer summoning such jurors shall return the order as
hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 100. \Vhen jurors are required in any Probate
or Justices Court, they must, upon the order of the Judge
or Justice thereof, be summoned by the Sheriff, Marshal,
or Constable of the Jurisdiction.

SEC. 101. Such jurors must be summoned from the
persons resident of the city or precinct, competent to
serve as jurors, by notifying them orally that they are so
summoned, and of the time and place at which their
attendance is required. ’

SEC. 102. The oflicer summoning such jurors must,
at the time fixed in the order for their appearance, return
it, with a list of the persons summoned mdorsed thereon.

SEC. 103. Juries of inquest must be summoned by
the oiiicer before whom the proceedings are had, or any
Sheriff, or Constable, from the persons resident of the
county competent to serve as jurors, by notifying them
orally that they are so summoned, and of the time and
place at which their attendance is r uired.

SEC. 104. Any juror summoned w o willfully, and

‘without reasonable excuse, fails to attend, may be attached and compelled to attend, and the Court may also
impose a line not exceeding one hundred dollars, upon
which execution may issue. If the juror was not personally served, the iine must not be imposed until. upon an
order to show cause, an opportunity has been offered the
juror to be heard.

SEC. 105. At the opening of each regular term of the
District Court (unless otherwise directed by the Judge),
and as often thereafter as to the Judge may seem proper,
a Grand Jury may be impaneled.

SEC. 106. Sixteen persons shall constitute a Grand
Jury, twelve of whom shall constitute a uorum, and
when of the urors summoned no more nor(less than sixteen attend they shall constitute the Grand Jury. If
more than sixteen attend the Clerk must call over the
list summoned, and the sixteen first answering shall constitute the Grand Jury. If less than sixteen attend, the
panel may be tilled to sixteen as provided in Section 98.

SEC. 107. Thereafter such proceedings shall be had in
impanelingr the Grand Jury as are prescribed in the
Criminal §ractice Act.

SEC. 108. At the time when the order for the trial
jurors was made returnable, oras soon thereafter as convenient, the Clerk under the direction of the Court must
call the names of those summoned, and the Court may
then hear the excuses of jurors summoned. /The Clerk
must then write the names of the jurors present and not

_Probate or Justices’ Courts, the list of j

excused, upon separate slips or ballots of paper, and fold
such slips so that the names are concealed, and then in
the presence of the Court, deposit the slips or ballots in
a box, which must be kept sealed until ordered by the
Court to be opened.

SEC. 109. When thereafter an action is called for trial ;
by the Court such proceedings shall be had in impanel-1
ing the trial jury as are prescribed in this Act.

SEC. 110. At the time appointed for a jury trial, in;
'urors summoned:
must be called, and the names of those attending must‘
be written upon separate slips of paper, folded so as,to
conceal the names, and placed in a box, from which the
trial jury must be drawn.

SEC. 111. Thereafter, if the action is a criminal one,1
the jury must be impaneled as provided b the statutes‘
relating thereto. If a civil one as providedy by this Act.

SEC. 112. The mode and mannerof impaneling uries;
of inquest are provided forin the provisions of the iffer-3
ent statutes relating to such inquests. i

\

CHAPTER VIII.

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW.

Bacnox 113. Who may be admitted as attorneys.
114. Qualiiications.
115. certincate of admission. License.
116. Oath.
117. Attorneys of other States and Territories.
Roll of attorneys.
119 Penalty for practicing without license.
General duties.
Authority of attorney.
Change of attorney.
Notice of change
Death or removal of attorney.
Removal and suspension.
Conviction of felony. Moral turpitude.

Proceedings for removal or suspension.
Accusation.

Verincation.
Citation to answer.

Appearance.
How to answer.

Demurrer.
Answer.
Trial.
Reference.
187. Judgment.

§?£§§§5§.§§§E.§§is'i§E.§. E

SEC. 113. Any white male citizen, or white male
person, resident of this Territory, who has bona iide declared his intention to become a citizen in the manner
required by law, of the age of twent -one years, of good
moral character, and who ppssesses t 1e necessary qualifications of learning and a ility, is entitled to admission
as attorney and counselor in all Courts of this Territory.

SEC. 114. Every applicant for admission as an attorlney and counselor must produce satisfactory testimonials

of good moral character, and, except as hereinafter provided, undergo a strict examination in o In Court as to
his qualifications, by the Justices of the upreme Court;
_provided, that the several District Courts of this Territory may admit applicants to practice as attorneys and
counselors in their respective Courts upon like testimonials and examination.

Sec. 115. If, upon such examination in the Supreme
Court, the applicant is found qualified, the Court shall
admit him as attorney and counselor in all the Courts of
this Territory, and shall direct an order to be entered to
that effect upon its records, and that acertiiicate of such
record be given to him by the Clerk of the Court, which
certificate is his license.

SEC. 116. Every person, before receivin license to
practice law, shall take the oath prescribed y law, and
shall y to the Territorial treasurer the sum of twentyiive ollars for the use of the Territorial library fund,
and the Clerk of the Court shall require of the person so
admitted the receipt of the said treasurer, before issuing
such license, and in no case shall the oath be administered or the license issued until such receipt is produced
and tiled in the oiiice of the Clerk.

Sec. 117. The examination may be dis nsed with in
the case of a rson who has been admit attorney and
counselor in t 1e hi hest Court of any State or other Territory, and his afli avit of such admission, showing the
county State or Territory, the name of the Court, and
the time when such admission was obtained, or his licensehshowingi the same, shall be deemed sufficient to entitle im to a mission.

SEC. 118. Each Clerk must keep a roll of attorneys
and counselors admitted to practice by the Court of
which he is Clerk, which roll must be signed by the per.
son admitted before he receives his license.

SEC. 119. If any person shall practice law in any
‘Court, except a J ustice’s Court, without having received

a license as attorney and counselor, he is guilty of a contempt of Court.

SEC. 120. It is the duty of an attorney and counselor:

1. To support the Constitution and laws of the
United States and of this Territory;

2. To maintain the respect due to the Courts of justice and judicial omcers;

3. To counsel ormaintain such actions, proceedings,
or defenses only as appear to him legal or just, except
the defense of a person charged with a public offense;

4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the
causes confided to him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead the Judges
by an artifice or false statement of fact or law;

5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every
peril to himself, to preserve the secrets of his client;

6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to
advance no fact prejudicial to the honor or reputation of
a party or witness, unless required by the justice of the
cause with which he is charged;

7. Not to encourage either the commencement or
the continuance of an action or proceeding from any
motive of passion or interest;

8. Never to reject, for anyconsideration personal to
himself, the cause of the defenseless or the oppressed;

Sec. 121. An attorney and counselor has authority:

1. To bind his client in any of the ste s of an action
or proceeding, by his agreement filed wit the the Clerk,
or_ entered upon the minutes of the Court, and not otherwise;

2. To receive money claimed by his client in an ac}
tion or proceeding, during the pendency thereof, or after
judgment, unless a revocation of his authority -is filed,
and upon the ayment thereof, and not otherwise, to
discharge the c aim or acknowledge satisfaction of the
judgment.

Sec. 122. The attorney in an action or special proseeding may be changed at any time before judgment or
tiual determination, as follows: »

1. Upon his own consent, filed with the clerk, or
entered upon the minutes;

2. Upon the order of the Court or 9J udge thereof,
upon the application of the client, after notice to the
attorney. 

Sec. 123. When an attorney is changed, as provided;
in the last section, written notice of the change and of‘
the substitution of a new attorney, or of the appearance

of the party in person, must be given to the adverse
party; until then, he must recognize the former attorney.

Sec. 124. When an attorney dies, or is removed or
suspended, or ceases to act as such, a party to an action
for whom he was acting as attorney must, before any
further proceedings are had against him, be required
by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint
another attorney or to appear in person.

SEC. 125. An attorney and counselor maybe removed
or suspended by the Supreme Court, and by the District
Courts for either of the following causes, arising after
his admission to practice:

1. His conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, in which case the record of
conviction is conclusive evidence;

2. Willful disobedience or violation of an order of
the Court requiring him to do or forbear an act connected with or in the course of his profession, and any
violation of the oath taken by him, or of his duties as
such attorney and counselor;

3. Corruptly and without authority, appearing as
attornegefor a party to an action or proceeding;

4. nding his name to be used as an attorney and
counselor by any other person who is not an attorney
and counselor.

In all cases where an attorney is removed or suspended
by a District Court, the ud ent or order of removal or
suspension may be review on appeal, by the Supreme
Court. 

SEC. 126. In case of the conviction of an attorney or
counselor of a felony, or misdemeanor involving moral
tur itnde, the Clerk of the Court in which a conviction
is lliad must, within thirty da s thereafter, transmit to
the Supreme Court a certifi _copy of the record of
conviction.

SEC. 127. The proceedings to remove or suspend an
attorney and counselor, under the first subdivision of Section 125, must be taken by the Court on the receipt
of a certilied copy of the record of conviction. The proceedings ‘under the second subdivision of Section 125
may be taken by the Court for matters within its knowledge, or may be taken upon the information of another.

Sec. 128. If the proceedings are upon the inlormation of another, the accusation must be in writing.

SEC. 129. The accusation must state the matters
charged, and be verified by the oath of some person, to
the effect that the charges therein contained are true.

SEC. 130. After receiving the accusation the Court!
must, if in its opinion the case require it, make an order‘
requiring the accused to appear and answer the accusation at a specified time in t e same or subsequent term,
and must cause a co y of the order and of the accusation
to be served upon t e accused within a prescribed time
before the day appointed in the order.

SEC. 131. The accused must appear at the time ap-«
pointed in the order, and answer the accusation, unless

or sufiicient cause the Court assign another day for that
purpose; if he do not appear, the Court may proceed and
determine the accusation in his absence.

SEC. 132. The accused may answer to the accusation:
either by objecting to its suliicieucy or denying it. '

Sec. 133. If he object to the sutiicicncy of the accu-1
sation, the objection must be in writing. but need not be
in any speciiic form, it being sufiicient if it resents intelligibly the grounds of the objection. If edeny the
accusation, the denial may be oral and without oath, and
must be entered upon the minutes.

SEC. 134. If an objection to the sumciency of the ac-.
cnsation be not sustained, the accused must answer within such time as may be desi ated by the Court.

Sec. 135. If the accus plead guilty, or refuse to‘.
answer the accusation, the Court must roceed to judgment of removal or suspension. If he eny the matters
charged, the Court must, at such time as it may appoint,
proceed to try the accusation.

Sec. 136. The Court may, in its discretion, order a1
reference to a committee to take depositions in the
matter.

Sec. 137. Upon conviction, in cases arising under;
the first subdivision of section 125, the judgment of the
Court must be that the name of the part must be stricken
from the roll of attorneys and counse ore of the Court,
and that he be precluded from practicin , as such attorney or counselor in all the Courts of this erritory, and,
upon conviction in cases under the other subdivisions of
that section, the 'udgment of the Court may be according
to the gravity 0 the offense charged—deprivation of the
right to ractice as an attorney or counselor in the Courts
of this erritory, permanently, or for a limited period.

CHAPTER IX.

OF THE FORM OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sscnoxc 138. One form of civil action only.
1%. Parties to action. how designated '
140. Special issues not made by pleadings, how tried.

SEC. 138. There is in this Territory but one form
of civil actions for the enforcement or protection of private rights and the redress or prevention of private
wrongs.

SEC. 139. In such action the party complaining is
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defendant. 

SEC. 140. A question of fact not put in issue by the
pleadings may be tried by a jury. upon an order for the
trial, stating distinctly and plainly t e question of fact
to be tried; and such order is the only authority necessary for a trial.  

CHAPTER X.

OF THE TIME OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Sacnox 141. Commencement ofcivil actions.

142. When the people will not sue.

148. Seizin within five years when neceuary in action that real property.

144. Such seisin, when necessary in action or defense arising out of title to or rents of real property.

15. Entry on real estate.

146. Pomession, when presumed. Occupation deemed under legal title. unlea adverse.

147. Occupation under written instrument or Judgment, when deemed
adverse.

148. What constitutes adverse possession under written instrument or
judgment.

149. Premises actually occupied under claim of title deemed to be
held adversely.

150. What constitutes adverse possession under claim of title not
written.

151. Relation of landlord and tenant as affecting adverse possession.

152. Right of possession not atfected by descent caste.

153. Certain disabilities excluded from time to commence actions.

154. Periods of limitation prescribed.

155. Within six years.

156. Within iive years.

15?. Within {our years.

158. Within three years.

159. Within two years.

10. Within one year.

161. Within six months.

16?. Where cause of action accrues on mutual account.

163. Action for a deposit.

164. Actions for relief not hereinbefore provided for.

165. Actions by the people subject to the limitations of this Chapter1$. Action to -redeem a mortgage without account of rents and

profits.

167. Same. when there are two or morefsuch mortgages.

168. When an action is commenced.

169. Exception. where defendant is out of the Territory.

170. Exception. as to persons under disabilities.

17]. Provision where person entitled dies before limitation expires.
172. In suits by aliens. time ‘of war to be deducted.

173. Provision where judgment has beenjreversed.

174. Provision where action is stayed by injunction.

175. Disability must exist when right of action seemed.

176. When two or more disabilities exist. etc.

177. This Title not applicable to actions against Directors. etc. Limitations in such cases prescribed.

178. Acknowledgment or new promise must be in writing.

179. Limitation laws of other States. effect of.
180. Existing causes of action not affected.
181. Word “ action" construed. how.

SEC. 141. Civil actions can on] be commenced:
within the periods rescribed in this hapter, after the}
cause of action shal have accrued, except where, in special cases, a different limitation is rescribed by statute.

SEC. 142. The People of this Eferritory will not sue‘
any person for or in respect to any real property, or the}
issues or profits thereof, by reason of the right or title
of the pie to the same, unless:

I. uch right or title shall have accrued within ten
years before any action or other proceeding for the same
is commenced; or,

2. The people, or those from whom they claim, shall
have received the rents and proiits of such real property, or of some art thereof, within the space of ten years.

SEC. 143. No action for the recovery of real property,:
or for the recovery of the possession thereof, can 
maintained, unless it appear that the plaintiff,‘ his,‘
ancestor, predecessor, or grantor, was seized or pos-I
sessed of the property in uestion, within live years]
before the commencement 0 the action; and this section
includes possessory rights to lands and mining claims.

SEC. 144. No cause of action, or defense to an action,;
arising out of the title to real property, or to rents or‘,
profits out of the same, can be eifectual, unless its
appear that the person prosecuting the action, or mak-%
ing the defense, or under whose title the action is
prosecuted, or the defense is made, or the ancestorpredecessor, or grantor of such person was seized or
ssessed of the premises in uestion within live years
fore the commencement of t e Act in respect to which.
such action is rosecuted or defense made.

SEC. 145. No entry upon real estate is deemed
suiiicient or valid as a claim, unless an action be commenced thereu n within one year after making such
entry, and wit in ‘five years from the time when the
right to make it descended or accrued.

SEC. 146. In every action for the recovery of real

‘ propert , or the possession thereof, the person establishing a egal title to the property is presumed to have
been ssessed thereof within the time required by law,
and t e occupation of the property by any other person

_ is deemed to have been under and in subordination to

the legal title, unless it ap ar that the property has

been held and ssessed a versely to such legal title,

for five years he ore the commencement of the action.
SEC. 147. When it appears that the occupant, or

‘ those under whom he claims, entered into the possession
L of the property under claim of title, exclusive of other

right, founding such claim upon a written instrument,
as being a conveyance of the property in question, or
upon the decree or judgment of a competent Court,
and that there has been a continued occupation and
ssession of the property included in such instrument,
ecree or judgment, or of some part of the property under
such claim, for five years, the property so included is
deemed to have been held adversely, except that when it
consists of a tract divided into lots, the ssession of
one lot is not deemed a possession of any ot er lot of the
same tract.

Sec. 148. For the purpose of constituting an adverse
possession by any person claiming a title founded u n
awritten instrument, or a judgment or decree, lan is
deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the followin cases:

1. , here it has been usually cultivated or improved;

2. Where it has been protected by a substantial
inclosure;

3. Where, although not inelosed, it has been used for
the su ply of fuel, or of fencing timber for the purposes
of husliandry, or for pasturage, or for the ordinary use of

' the occu ant;

4. here a known farm or single lot has been partly
improved, the portion of such farm or lot that may hav
been left not cleared, or not enclosed according to the

usual course and custom of the adjoining country, shall
be deemed to have been occupied for the same length of
time as the part improved and cultivated. ‘

SEC. 149. Where it appears that there has been an
actual continued occupation of land, under a claim of title, exclusive of any other right, but not founded upon
a written instrument, udgment or decree, the land so actually occupied, and no other, is deemed to have been
held adversely.

Sec. 150. For the purpose of ‘constituting an adverse
possession, by a person claiming title not founded upon
awritten instrument, judgment, or decree. land is deemed
to have been possessed and occupied in the following
cases only:

1. Where it has been protected by a substantial
iuclosure;

2. Where it has been usually cultivated or improved.

Provided, however, that in no case shall adverse possession be considered established under the provisions of
any Sections of this Code, unless it shall be shown that
the land has been occupied and claimed for the period of
five years continuously, and the party or persons, their
predecessors and grantors. have paid all the taxes, Territorial, county, or mnnici pal, which have been levied and
assessed upon such land according to law.

SEC. 151. When the relation of landlord and tenant
has existed between any persons, the possession of the
tenant is deemed the possession of the landlord until
the expiration of live years from the termination of the
tenancy, or, where there has been no written lease, until
the expiration of five years from the time of the last

ayment of rent, notwithstanding that such tenant may

nave acquired another title, or may have claimed to
hold adversely to his landlord. But such presumptions
cannot be made after the periods herein limited.

Sec. 152. The right ot' a person to the possession of
real property is not impaired or affected by a descent
cast in consequence of the death of a person in possession
of such property.

SEC. 153. If a rson entitled to commence an action
for the recovery 0 real property, or for the recovery of
the possession thereof, or to make any entry or defense
founded on the title to real property, or to rents or services out of the same, be at the time such title first descends or accrues, either:

1. Within the age of majority; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution,
upon conviction of a criminal offense, for a term less than
for life; or,

4. A married woman, and her husband be is necessary party with her in commencing such action or makin such eat or defense;
—1‘he time uring which such. disability continues is
not deemed any portion of the time in this Chapter limited for the commencement of such action or the making
of such entry or defense; but such action may be commenced, or entry or defense made, within the period of
live years after such disability shall cease, or after the
death of the person entitled’who shall die under such
disability; but such action shall not be commenced, or
entry or defense made, after that riod.

SEC. 154. The periods prescri for the commencement of actions other than for the recovery of real property, are as follows:

SEC. 155. Within six years:

1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any Court
of the United States, or of any State or Territory within
the United States;

2. An action for mesne profits of real property.

SEC. 156. Within five years: '

An action upon any contract, obligation, or liability
founded upon an instrument in writing.

SEC. 157. Within four years:

An action upon a contract, obligation, or liability, not
founded upon an instrument of writing.

SEC. 158. Within three years:

1. An action upon a liability created by statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture;

2. An action for trespass upon real property;

3. An action for taking, detaiuin , or injuring any
goods or chattels, including actions or the speci c recovery of personal property;

4. An action for relief on the ground of fraud or
mistake. - The cause of action in such case not to be
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the ag-.
gr1i(eved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mista 6.

SEC. 159. Within two years:

1. An action against a Sheriff, Coroner, or Constable,
upon the liability incurred by the doing of an act in his
oflicial capacity, and in virtue of his office, or by the
omission of an oilicial duty, including the nonpa_vment of money collected upon an execution;

.9

2. An action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture, where the action is given to an individual, or to an
individual and the Territory except where the statute
imposing it prescribes a different limitation;'

3. An action upon a statute, or upon an undertaking in a criminal action, for a forfeiture or penalty to
a county or to the people of the Territory;

4. An action to recover damages for the death of one
caused by the wrongful act of another;

An action for libel, slander, assault, battery, false
imprisonment, or seduction;

6. An action against a Sheriff, or other oflicer, for
the escape of a prisoner, arrested or imprisoned on civil
process.

SEC. 160. Within one year:

An action against an otiicer, or oflicer defacto:

1. To recover any goods, wares, merchandise, or other propert , seized by any such ofiicer in his oiiicial capacity as ax Collector, or to recover the price or value
of any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal
property so seized, or for damages for the seizure, detention, sale of, or injury to any goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property seized, or for damages
done to any person or property in making any such
seizure.

2. For money paid to any such oflicer under protest,
or seized by such officer in his oiiicial capacity as a collectgr of taxes, and which, it is claimed, ought to be reun ed.

SEC. 161. Actions on claims against a county, which;
have been rejected by the Board of Commissioners, must‘
be commenced within six months after the first rejection
thereof by such Board.

SEC. 162. In an action brought to recover a balance‘
due upon a mutual, open and current account, where:
there have been reciprocal demands between the arties,*
the cause of action is deemed to have accru from
thaa time of the last item proved in the account on either
31 e.

Sec. 163. To actions brought to recover money or:
other property deposited with any bank, banker, trust
company, or savings and loan society, no limitation begins to run until after an authorized demand.

SEC. 164. An action for relief not hereinbefore pro-,
vided for must be commenced within four days after the}
cause of action shall have accrued. 1

Sec. 165. The limitations prescribed in this Chapter

apply to actions brought in the name of the Territory,
or for the benefit of the Territory, in the same manner
as to actions by private parties.‘

SEC. 166. An action to redeem a mortgage of real
property, with or without an account of rents and profits,
may be brought by the mortgagor or those claiming under him, against the mortgagee in possession, or those
claiming under him, unless he or they have continuously
maintained an adverse possession of the mortgaged
premises for five years after breach of some condition of
the mortgage.

SEC. 167. If there is more than one such mortgagor,
or more than one person claiming under a mortgagor,
some of whom are not entitled to maintain such an action nnder the provisions of this Chapter, any one of
them who is entitled to maintain such an action may redeem therein a divided or undivided part of the mortgaged premises, according as his interest may appear, and
have an accounting, for a part of the rents and profits
proportionate to his interest in the mortgaged premises,
on payment of a part of the mortgage money, bearing
the same pro ortiou to the whole of such money as the
value of his ivided or undivided interest in the premises
bears to the whole of such premises.

SEC. 168. An action is commenced, within the meanin of this Chapter, when the complaint is tiled.

SEC. 169. If, when the cause of action accrues against
,a person, he is out of the Territory, the action may be
commenced within the term herein limited, after his
return .to the Territory, and if, after the cause of action
accrues, he departs from the Territory, the time of his
absence is not part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 170. If a person entitled to bring an action,
other than for the recovery of real property, be, at the
time the cause of action accrued, either:

1. Within the age of majority; or,

2. Insane; or,

3. Imprisoned on a criminal char , or In execution
under the sentence of a criminal Cgoeurt for a term less
than for life; or,

4. A married woman, and her husband be a necessary
party with her in commencing such action:

—-‘The time of such disability is not a part of the time
limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 171. If a person entitled to bring an action die
before the expiration of the time limited for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an
action may be commenced by his representatives, after
the expiration of that time, and within one year from his
death. If a person against whom an action may be
brought die before the expiration of the time limited
for the commencement thereof, and the cause of action
survive, an action may be commenced against his representatives, after the expiration of that time, and within
one year after the issuing of letters testamentary or of
administration.

Sec. 172. When a person is an alien subject, or
citizen of a country at war with the United States, the
time of the continuance of the war is not part of the
period limited for the commencement of the action.

SEC. 173. If an action is commenced within the time
prescribed therefor, and a judgment therein for the
plaintiff be reversed on appeal, the plaintih‘, or if he
die and ‘the cause of action survive, his representatives,
may commence a new action within one year after the
reversal.

Sec. 174. When the commencement of an action is
stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time;
of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition is?
not part of the time limited for the commencement of
the action.

SEC. 175. No person can avail himself of a disability,i
unless it existed when his right of action accrued. 3

Sec. 176. When two or more disabilities coexist at?
the time the right of action accrues, the limitation does
not attach until they are removed.

SEC. 177. This Chapter does not affect actions against«
Directors or stockholders of a corporation, to recover a
penalt or forfeiture imposed, or to enforce a liability:
crea by law; but such actions must be brought
within three years after the discovery by the aggrieved
party of the facts upon which the penalty or forfeiture
attached, or the liability was created.

Sec. 178. No acknowledgment or promise is suHi—.
cient evidence of a new or continuing contract, b which
to take the case out of the operation of this hapter,
unless the same is contained in some writing, signed by
the party to be charged thereby. 1

SEC. 179. When a cause of action has arisen in
another State or Territory, or in a foreign country, and,
by the laws thereof an action thereon cannot there be
maintained against a person by reason of the lapse of
time, an action thereon shall not be maintained against

i

him in this Territor , except in favor of one who has
been a citizen of this Territory, and who has held the
cause of action from the time it accrued.
SEC. 180. This Chapter does not extend to actions
already commenced, nor to cases where the time prescribed in any existing statute for acquiring a right or
barringa remedy has iully run, but the laws now in force
are applicable to such actions and cases, and are repealed
subject to the revisions of this section.

SEC. 181. he word “action,” as used in this Chapter, is to be construed, whenever it is necessary so to do,
as including a special proceeding of a civil nature.

 

CHAPTER XI.

OF THE PARTIES TO CIVIL ACTIONS.

Bacnoil 182. Action to be in name of party in interest.
183. Amignment of thing in action not to prejudice defense.
184. Executor, trustee. etc., may sue without joining the persons benencialiy interated.

185. When a married woman is a party, actions by and against.
186. Wife may defend, when.

187. Infant to appear by guardian.
188. Guardian, how appointed.

189. Unmarried female may sue for her own seduction.
190. Father, etc., may sue for seduction of daughter. etc.
191. Father. etc.. may sue for injury or death of child.

192. When representatives may sue for death of one caused by the
wrongful act of another.

193. Who may be Joined as plaintidh.

194. Who may be joined as defendants.

195. Parties defendant in an action to determine conflicting claims
to real property.

196. Parties holding title under a common source. when may Join.

197. Parties in interest. when who joined. When one or more may
sue or defend for the whole.

198. Piaintiif may sue in one action the din‘erent parties to commercial paper.

199. Tenants in common,’etc.. ‘may sever in bringing or defending
actions.

200. Action. when not to abate by death. or other disability. Proceedings in such case.
201. Another person may be substituted for the defendant.

202. Intervention, when it takes place, and how made.

me. Amociates may be sued by name of association.

mt. court, when to decide controversy or to order other parties to
be brought in. »

SEC. 182. Every action must be prosecuted in the
name of the real (party in interest, except as otherwise
provided by this ode.

SEC. 183. In the case of an assignment of a thin in.
action, the action b the assignee 18 without preju icel
to any set-off, or ot er defense existing at the time of, or‘
before, notice of the assignment; but this section does
not apply to a negotiable romissory note or bill of exchange, transferred in g faith, and upon good consideration, before maturity.

SEC. 184. An executor or administrator, or trustee ;
of an express trust, or a person expressly authorized by
statute, may sue without joining with him the persons;
for whose benefit the action is prosecuted. A person:
with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the
benefit of another, is a trustee of an express trust, within
the meaning of this section.

Sec. 185. When a married woman is a party, her

Jmsband must be joined with her, except:

1. When the action concerns her separate property,
or her right or claim to the homestead property, she may
sue alone. '

2. When the action is between herself and her hushand, she may sue or be sued alone.

3. When she is livin_ separate and apart from her
husband, by reason of gis desertion of her, or by agreement in writing entered into between them, she may sue
or be sued alone.

Sec. 186. If a husband and wifebe sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right, and if the husband
neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.

SEC. 187. When an infant, or.an insane or incompetent person is a party, he must appear either by his general guardian or by a guardian ad litem appointed by
the Court in which the action is pending in each case, or
lvy a Judge thereof, or a Probate J ndge. A guardian ad
htem may be appointed in any case, when it is deemed
by the Court in which the action or proceeding is prosecuted, or by a J ndge thereof, expedient to represent the
infant, insane or incompetent person in the action or roceeding, notwithstandin he may have a general gua ian
and may have a pearediy him.

SEC. 188. When a uardian ad litem is appointed
by the Court, he must he appointed as follows:

1. When the infant is plaintiff: u n the application of the infant, if he be of the o fourteen years;
or if under that age, upon the app ication of a relative
or friend of the infant;

2. When the infant is defendant: upon the application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years

and apply within ten days after the service of the summons: if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so
to apply, then upon the application of any other party
to the action, or of a relative or friend of the -infant.

3. When an insane or incompetent person is party to
an action or roceeding, upon the application of a relative or frieii «ofsnch insane or incompetent person, or
of any other party to the action or proceeding.

SEC. 189. An unmarried female may prosecute, as

_plaintiff, an action for her own seduction, and may recover therein such damages, pecuniary or exemplary, as
are assessed in her favor.

SEC. 190. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother, may prosecute as laintifi
for the seduction of the dan hter, and the giia ian for
the seduction of the ward, t iough the daughter or ward
te not living with or in the service of the plaintiff at the
bme of the seduction oi; afterwards, and there be no loss
ti service.
ofSi«:o. 191. A father, or, in case of his death or desertion of his family, the mother, may maintain an action
for the in jury or death of a minor child, and a guardian
for the injury or death ofhis ward, when such injury or
death is caused by the wrongful act or ne lect of another.
Such action may be maintained inst t e person causing the injury or death, or if we person be employed
by another person who is responsible for his conduct,
also against such other person.

SEC. 192. When the death of a person, not being a

'minor, is caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another, his heirs or personal representatives may maintain an action for damages against the person causing
the death; or if such person be employed by another
person who is responsible for his conduct, then also
against such other person. In every action under this
and the preceding section, such damages may be given
as under all the circumstances of the case may be nst.

SEC. 193. All persons having an interest in the sub’ject of the action, and in obtaining the reliefdemanded,
may be joined as plaintiti's, except when otherwise provided in this Code.

SEC. 194. Any person may be made a defendant who
has or claims an interest in the controversy adverse to
the plaintiff,‘ or who is a necessary party to a complete
determination or settlement of the question involved
therein. And in an action to determine the title or
right of possession to real property which, at the time

l

of the commencement of the action, is in the possession
of a tenant, the landlord may be joined as a party defendant.

SEC. 195. In an action brought by a pexyon out of:
possession of real property, to determine an adversef
claim of an interest or estate therein, the person making‘
such adverse claim and persons in possession may be
joined as defendants; and if the judgment be for the
plaintiff, he may have a writ for the possession of the
premises, as against the defendants in the action, against
whom the judgment has passed.

Sec. 196. Any two or more persons claiming any es-tate or interest in lands under a common source ot' title,;
whether holding as tenants in common, joint tenants;
coparceners, or in severalty, may unite in an action
against any person claiming an adverse estate or interest
therein, for the purpose of determining such adverse
claim, or of establishing such common source of title, or
of declaring the same to be held in trust, or of removing
a cloud upon the same.

Sec. 197. Of the parties to the action, those who;
are united‘ in interest must be joined as plaintifs or,
slefemlants; but if the consent of any one who should
have hcen joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may
he made a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in
the complaint; and when the question is one of a com-4
man or general interest, of many persons, or when the.
parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring
them all before the Court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of all.

SEC. 198. Persons severally liable upon the same ob-v
ligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of 1
exchange and promissory notes, and sureties on the same;
or separate instruments, may all or any of them be in-:
cluded in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
SEC. 199. All persons holdingas tenants in common;
joint tenants, or coparceners, or any number less than?
all, may jointly or severally commence or defend any:
civil action or proceeding for the enforcement or protec«
tion of the rights of such party.

Sec. 200. An action or proceeding does not abate by
the death or any disability ot' a party, or by the transfer
of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or
continue. In case of the death or any disability of a
party, the Court, on motion, may allow the action or
proceeding to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other

transfer of interest, the action or proceeding may be
continued in the name of the original arty, or the
Court may allow the person to whom tlie transfer is
made to be substituted in the action or proceeding.

SEC. 201. A defendant against whom an action is
pending upon a contract, or for specific personal proper-'
ty, may, at any time before answer, upon aflidavit that a
person not a party to the action makes inst him, and
without any collusion with him, a deman upon the same
contract, or for the same property, upon notice to such
person and the adverse party, apply to the Court for an
order to substitute suc person in his place, and discharge him from liability to either party, on his depositing in Court the amount claimed on the contract, or delivering the property, or its value, to such person as the
Court may direct; and the Court may, in its discretion,
make the order.

SEC. 202. Any person may, before the trial, intervene in an action or proceeding, who has an interest in
the matter in litigation, in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both. An intervention
takes place when a third person is permitted to becomea
party to an action or proceeding between other persons.
either by joining the plaintiff in claimin what is sought
by the complaint-, or by uniting with t e defendant in
resisting the claims of the plaintih‘, or by demanding
anything adversely to both the plaintiff and the defendant, and is made by complaint, setting forth the grounds
upon which the intervention rests, filed by leave of the
Court, and served upon the parties to the action or proceeding who have not appeared, and upon the attorneys
of the parties who have appeared, who may answer or
demur to it as if it were an original complaint.

SEC. 203. When two or more persons, associated in
any business, transact such business under a common
name, whether it comprises the names of such persons
or not, the associates may be sued by such common
name, the summons in such cases being served on one
or more of the associates; and the 'udgment in the action
shall bind the joint property of al the associates, in the
same manner as it’ all had been named defendants and
had been sued upon their joint liability.

SEC. 204. The Court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rig H28; but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without presence of other parties

the Court must then order them to be brou ht in. And!
when, in an action for the recover of real.’ or personal
property, a person not a party to.t e action, but having
an interest in the subject thereof, makes application to
the Court, to be made a party, it may order him to be
brought in, by the proper amendment.

CHAPTER XII.

OF THE PLACE OF TRIAL OF CIVIL ACTIONS.

auction are. certain actions to be tried where the subject or some part thereoris situated.

206. Other actions. where the cause'or some part thereofarose.
377. Place of trial of actions against counties.
ans. Other actions according to the residence of the parties.

209. Action may be tried in any county, unleu the defendant domaud a trial in the proper county.

210. Place oftrial may be changed in certain cases.

211. When Judge is disqualified. cause to be transferred.
212. Papers to be transmitted. Costs, etc. Jurisdiction. etc.

118. Proceedings aner Judgment in certain cases transferred.

SEC. 205. Actions for the following causes must D6}
tried in the county in which the subject of the action, or
some part thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the?
Ccggrt to change the place of trial, as provided in this

e:

1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein, or for the determination, in any form,
of such right or interest, and for injuries to real property:

2. For the partition of real property. '

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

Where the real property is situated partly in one
county and partly in another, the plaintiff may select
either of the counties, and the county so selected is the
proper county for the trial of such action.

Sec. 206. Actions for the following causes must he
tried in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
arose, subject to the like power of the Court to change
the place of trial:

1. For the recove of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute; exec t. t rat when it is imposed for an offense
committedon a fake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought
in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream,

and opposite to the place where the offense was committed;

2. Against a public ollicer, or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in
virtue of his oflice; or against a person who, by his command or in his aid, does anything touching the duties of
such oiiicer.

Sec. 207. Actions against counties may be commenced and tried in any county in the Judicial District
in which such county is situated, unless such actions are
between counties, in which case they may be commenced
and tried in any count not a party thereto.

SEC. 208. In all ot er cases the action must be tried
in the county in which the defendants, or some of them.
reside at the commencement of the action; or, if none of
the defendants reside in the Territory, or, if residing in
this Territory, the count in which they reside is unknown to the plaintiff, t e same may be tried in any
county which the plaintiff may designate in his comlaint; and if the defendant is about to depart from the
erritory, such action ma be tried in any county where
either of the parties resi e or service is had; subject,
however, to the wer of the Court to change the place
of trial as provi ed in this Code.
Sec. 209. If the county in which the action is commenced is not the proper county for the trial thereof, the
,action may, notwithstanding, be tried therein, unless the
defendant. at the time he appears and answers or demurs, files an aflidavi t of merits, and demands, in writin , that the trial be had in the proper county.
SEC. 210. The Court may, on motion, change the
.place of trial in the following cases:

1. When the county designatedin the complaint is
not the roper county;

2. hen there is reason to believe that an impartial
trial cannot be had therein;

3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends
of justice would be promoted by the change;

4. When from any cause the Judge is disqualified
from acting.

Sec. 211. If an action or proceeding is commenced

' or nding in a Court, and the Judge 0? J nstice thereof

is isqualiiied from actingas such, or if for any cause
the Court orders the place of trial to be changed, it lIlll1~l’be transferred for trial to a Court the marfies may sign a
upon by stipulation in writing, or made in open Court
and entered in the minutes; or, if they do not so agree,
then to the nearest Court where the like objection or
cause for making the order does not exist, as follows:

1. If in the District Court, to another District Court;

2. If in the Probate Court, to the District Court of
the same county;

3. If in a J ustice’s Court, to another J ustice’s Court
in the same county.

SEC. 212. When an order is made transferring an:
action or proceeding for trial, the Clerk of the Court, or‘
Justice of the Peace, must transmit the leadings and
papers therein to the Clerk or Justice oi? the Court to
which it is transferred. The costs and fees thereof, and:
of filing the papers anew, must be aid by the party
at whose instance the order was m e. The Court to;
which an action or proceeding is transferred has and‘
exercises over the same the like jurisdiction as if it had
been originall commenced therein.

Sec. 213. hen an action or proceeding affecting:
the title to or possession of real estate has been brought}
in or transferred to any Court of a county other than‘
the county in which the real estate, or some portion of
it, is situated, the Clerk of such Court must, after final
judgment therein, certify, under his seal of oilice, and
transmit to the corres nding Court of the county in
which the real estate a ected by the action is situated, a
copy of the judgment. The Clerk receiving such copy
must file, docket, and record the udgment in the records
of the Court, briefly designating it as a judgment transferred from —— Court (naming the proper Court).

CHAPTER XIII.

OF THE MANNER OF COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS.

Scene): 214. Actions. how commenced. ,
Complaint. how indorsed. When summons may be issued, and
how waived.
Summons, how issued, directed, and whafto contain.
Alias summons.

Notice of the peudency of an action afecting the title to real
NOD01’!!Bummons, how served and returned.
Summons, how served.

Publication when defendant is absent from the 'l‘erritory—concealed, or a foreign corporation having no agent. etc.
Manner of publication and appointment of attorney.
Proceedings where there are several defendants and part only
are served.
Proof of service, how made.
When jurisdiction of action acquired.

W 55 SQ? 53.3 E

SEC. 214. Civil actions in the Courts of this
Territory are commenced by filing a complaint.

SEC. 215. The Clerk must indorse on the complaint
the day,‘ month and year that it is filed, and at any time
within one year thereafter, the plaintiff ma have a
summons issued; and if the action be broug t against
two or more defendants, who reside in different counties,
may have a'summons issued for each of such counties at
the same time. But at any time within the year after
the complaint is filed, the defendant may, in writing, or
by appearing and answering or demurring, waive the
issuing of summons; or, if the action be brought upon a
joint contract of two or more defendants, and one of
them has appeared within the year, the other or others
may be served or appear after the year, at any time before trial.

SEC. 216. The summons must be directed to the
'defendant, signed by the Clerk, and issued under the seal
of the Court, and must contain:

1. The names of the parties to the action, the Court
in which it is brought, and the county in which the
complaint is filed;

2. A statement of the nature of the action in general
terms;

3. A direction that the defendant appear and answer
the complaint within ten days, if the summons is served
within the county in which the action is brought;
within twenty days, if served out of the county, but in
the district. in which the action is brought, and within
forty days if served elsewhere;

4. In an action arising on contract, for the recovery
of money or damages only, a notice that unless the
defendant so appears and answers, the plaintiff will take
'udgment for the sum demanded_ in the complaint

sstatin it);

5. 11 other actions, a notice that unless defendant so
appears and answers the plaintiff will apply to the
Court for the relief demanded in the complaint.

The name of the p1aintii}"s attorney must be indorsed
on the summons.

SEC. 217. If the summons is returned without being
served on any or all of the defendants, the Clerk, upon
the demand of the plaintiff, may issue an alias summons
in the same form as the original.

SEC. 218. In an action affecting the title or the right
of possession of real property, the plaintiff, at the time
of filing the complaint, and the defendant, at the tiine

of filing his answer, when atlirmative relief is claimed
in such answer, or at any time afte.-wards, ma record
in the office of the Recorder of the county in w rich the
property is situated, a notice of the pendeney of the
action, containing the names of the parties, and the
object of the action or defense, and a descri tion of
the property in that county affected thereby. 1' mm the
time of filing such notice for record only, shall a purchaser or incumbrancer of the property affected thereby
be deemed to have constructive notice of the pendency
of the action, and onl of its pendency against parties
designated by their rea names.

SEC. 219. The summons may be served by the Sheriff
of the county where the defendant is found, or by any
other person, over the of eighteen, not a party to
the action. A copy of t e complaint must be served
with the summons, unless two or more defendants are
residents of the same county, in which case a copy of
the complaint need only be served upon one of such
defendants. When the summons is served by the Sheriff,
it must be returned, with his certificate of its service,
and of the service of any copy of the complaint where
such copy is served, to the ofiice of the Clerk from
which it issued. When it is served by any other person,
it must be returned to the same place, with an affidavit
of such rson of its service, and of the service of a
copy of t e complaint, where such copy is served.

Sec. 220. The summons must be served by deliver-€
ing a copy thereof, as follows: I
. 1. It the suit is against a corporation formed under
the laws of this Territory to the president or other head
of the corporation, secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof;

2. If the suit is against a foreign corporation, or a
non-resident °oint stock company or association, doing
business and avin amanaoing or business agent, cashier or secretary within this Territoryto such agent, cashier, or secretary;

3. If against a minor, under the age of fourteen years,
residing within this Territory; to such minor, personally, and also to his father, mother, or guardian; or if
there be none within this Territory, then to any person
having the care or control of such minor, or with whom
he resides, or in whose service he is employed;

4. If against a person residing within this Territor
who has been judicially declared to be of unsound min ,
or incapable of conducting his own affairs, and for whom

a guardian has been appointed: to such person and also
to his guardian;

5. If against a county, city, or town: to the chairman of the Board of Commissioners, resident of the
Council, or Trustees, or other head of t e legislative department thereof;

6. In all other cases to the defendant personally.

Sec. 221. Where the person on whom the service is
to be made resides out of the Territory, or has departed
from the Territor , or cannot, after due diligence, be
found within the erritory, or conceals himself to avoid
the service of summons, or is a foreign corporation having no managing or business agent, Cashier, or Secretary
within the Territory, and the fact ap ars by aflidavit to
the satisfaction of the Court, or a ghdge thereof, or a
Probate Judge, and it also appears by such aflidavit, or
by the verified complaint on file, that a cause of action
exists against the defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper
party to the action, such Court or Judge may make an orer that the service be made by the publication of the
summons,

SEC. 222. The order must direct the publication to he
made in a newspaper, to be designated, as most likely to
give notice to the person to be served, and for such length
of time as may be deemed reasonable, at least once a
week; but publication against a defendant residing out
of the Territory, or absent therefrom, must not be less
than one month. In case of uhlication, where the residence of a non-resident or a sent defendant is known,
the Court or Judge must direct a copy of the summons
and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office,
directed to the person to be served, at his place of residence. When publication is ordered, personal service of
a copy of the summons and complaint out of the Territory, is equivalent to publication and deposit in the post
oflice; and in either case the service of the summons is
complete at the expiration of the time prescribed by the
order for publication.

SEC. 223. When the action is against two or more
defendants jointly or severally liable on a contract, and
the summons is served on one or more, but not on all of
them, the plaintiif may proceed against the defendants
served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.

SEC. 224. Proof of the service of summons and complaint must be as follows:

1. If served by the Sheriif, his certiiicate thereof; 1

2. If by any other person, his aflidavit thereof; or,

3. In case of publication, the aiiidavit of the printer,
or his foreman, or principal clerk, showing the same; and
an aiiidavit of a deposit of a copy of the summons in the
Post Oiiice, if the same has been deposited; or

4. The written admission of the defendant.

In case of service otherwise than by publication, the
eartificatc or ailidavit must state the time and place of
service.

SEC. 225. From the time of the serviw of the sum-:'
mons and of a copy ofa complaint in a civil action, where.
service of a cop of the complaint is required, or of the
completion of tie publication when service by publication is ordered, the Court is deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction of the parties, and to have control of all the
subecauent proceedings. The voluntary appearance of a
defen ant is equivalent to personal service of the summons and copy of the complaint upon him.

CHAPTER XIV.

OF THE PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.

Blcrtox 225. Definition of pleadings.
227. This Code prescribes the form and rules of pleadings.
228. What pleadings are allowed.
229. Complaint, first pleading.
230. Complaint, what to contain.
231. What causes of action may be joined.
When defendant may demur.

Demurrer must specify, etc. May be taken to part. May answer
and demur at same time.

What proceedings are to be had when complaint is amended.
Objection not appearing on complaint. may be taken by answer.
Objections, when deemed waived.

Answer. what to contain.

when counter claim may be‘ set up.

When defendant omi s to set up counter claim.

Counter claim not barred by death or assignment.

Answer may contain several grounds of defense. Defendant

may answer part and demur to part of complaint.
Cross-complaint.

When plaintiff may demur to answer.
Grounds of demurrer.
Verification of pleadings.

Copy of written instrument contained in complaint admitted,
unless answer is verified.
217. When defense is founded on written instrument set out in anIwcr, its execution admitted, unlca denied by plaintiff under
oath.

§i%’§§’£ 5;§.§§§§5§ 55

248. Exceptionstorulespreaoribedbytwoprecedingsections.
249. Plesdinga to be liberally construed.

Sham and irrelevant answers. etc.. may be stricken out
How to state an account in pleadings.

Description of real property in a pleading.

Judgments. how pleaded.

Conditions precedent. how to he pleaded.

Statute of Limitations. how pleaded.

Private uatutes. how pleaded.

Libel and slander, how stated in complaint. Not uecenaryto

allege or prove special damages.

Answer in such cases.
Allegations not denied, when to bedeemed true. when to be
deemed controverted.

A material allegation dedned.

Supplemental complaint and answer.

Pleadings subsequent to complaint must he died and served.
llaterial variance. how provided for.

Immaterial variance. how provided for.

What not to be deemed a variance.

Amendments of course, and eifect of demurrer.

Amendments bythe court. Enlarging time to plead and relieving iromjudgmentmetc.
Buingapartybyaiictitionsname. whenallowed. .
$9. Noerror or defect to be regarded unleu itaifects auhstan

rlghtl.

SEC. 226. The pleadings are the formal allegations
by the parties of their respective claims and defenses,
for the udgment of the Court.

SEC. 227. The forms of pleading in civil actions, and
,the rules by which the suiliciency of the pleadings is to
be determined, are those prescribed in this Code.

SEC. 228. The only pleadings allowed on the part of
the plaintiff are:

1. The complaint ;

2. The demurrer to the answer ;

And on the part of the defendant:

1. The demurrer to the complaint;

2. The answer.

SEC. 229. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff is the complaint.

Sec. 230. The complaint must contain:

1. The title of the action, the name of the Court and
county in which the action is brought, and the names of
the parties to the action;

2. A statement of the facts constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise lan age ;

3. A demand of the relief which“ the plaintiff claims.
If the recovery of money or damages he demanded, the
amount thereof must be stated.

Sec. 231. The plaintiff ma unite several causes of
action in the same complaint,w ere they all arise out of :

3 §§.§§§§§§ .55 ?-W9‘-i3§3§§

1. Contracts, express or im lied; I

2. Claims to recover speci c real property, with or
without damages for the withholding thereof, or for waste
committed thereon, and the rents and profits of the
same;

3. Claims to recover speciiic personal roperty, with
or without damages for the withholding t xereof;

4. Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract,
or by oferation of law;

5. njuries to character;

6. Injuries to person;

7. Injuries to property.

The causes of action so united must all belong to one
only of these classes, and must aifect all the parties to
the action, and not require different places of trial, and
must be separately stated; but an action for malicious
arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be united
with an action for either an injury to character or to the
person.

SEC. 232. The defendant ma demnr to the complaint‘
within the time required in tie summons to answer,3
when it appears upon the face thereof, either:

1. That the Court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant or the subject of the action; or,

2. That the plaintid‘ has not legal capacity to sue; or,

3. That there is another action pending between the
same rties for the same cause; or,

4. hat there is a defect or misjoinder of parties plaintiff or defendant; or,

5. That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or, 6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action; or.

7. That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain.

SEC. 233. The demurrer must distinctly specify the:
grounds upon which any of the objections to the com-j

lsint are taken. Unless it do so it may be disregarded:

tmay be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the]
causes of action stated therein, or the defendant may de-3
tnur and answer at the same time.

Sec. 234. If the complaint is amended, acopy of the
amendments must be filed, or the Court may, in its discretion, require the complaint, as amended, to be filed;
and a copy of the amendments, or amended complaint,
must be served upon the defendants a3'ected thereby.
The defendant must answer the amendment or the complaint as amended, within ten days after service thereof.
or such other time as the Court may direct, and judgment by default may be entered upon failure to answer,
as in other cases.

SEC. 235. When any of the matters enumerated in Section 232 do not appear u n the face of the complaint,
the objection may.be taken y answer.

SEC. 236. If no objection be taken, either b demurrer or answer, the defendant must be deem to have
waived the same,'excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the Court, and the objection that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.

SEC. 237. The answer of the defendant shall contain:

1. A general or specilic denial of the material allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant.

2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter claim. If the complaint be verified,
the denial of each allegation controverted must be
specific, and be made positively, or according to the
information and belief of the defendant. If the defendant has no information or belief u n the subject
sutiicient to enable him to answer an al egation of the
complaint, he may so state in his answer, and place his
denial on that round. If the complaint be not verified,
a general denial is suflicient, but only puts in issue the
material allegations of the complaint.

SEC. 238. The counter claim mentioned in the last section must be one existing in favor of a defendant and
against a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment
might be had in the action, and arising out of one of
the following causes of action:

1. A cause of action arising out of the transaction
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the
plaintiff ’s claim, or connected with the subject of the
action;

2. In an action arising upon contract; any other
cause of action arising also upon contract and existing
at the commencement of the action.

SEC. 239. If the defendant omit to set up a counter
claim in the cases mentioned in the first subdivision
of the last section, neither he nor his assignee .can
afterwards maintain an action against the plaintiff
therefor.

SEC. 240. When cross-demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that, if one had
rought an action against the other, a counter claim

could have been set up, the two demands shall be
deemed compensated, so far as they equal each other,
and neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof by
the assignment or death of the other.

SEC. 241. The defendant may set forth by answer as.
many defenses and counter claims as he may have.}
They must be separately stated, and the several defenses}
must refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished. The defendant may also answer;
one or more of the several causes of action stated in the.
complaint and demnr to the residue. 

Sec. 242. Whenever the defendant seeks afiirmativef
relief against any party, relating to or depending upon
the contract or transaction upon which the action is
brought, or affecting the property to which the action relates, he may. in addition to his answer, file at the same
time, or by permission of the Court subsequently, a crosscomplaint. The cross-complaint must be served upon
the parties affected thereby, and such parties may demm or answer thereto as to the original complaint.

SEC. 243. The plaintiff may, within the same length
of time after service of the answer as the defendant is
allowed to answer after service of summons, demur
to the answer of the defendant, or to one or more of the
several defenses or counter claims set up in the answer.

e

SEC. 244. The demurrer may be ta 11 upon one or

more of the following grounds:

1. That several causes of counter claim have been
improperly joined:

2. That the answer does not state facts suiiicient to
constitute a defense or counter claim;

3. That the answer is ambiguous, unintelligible, or
uncertain. '
Sec. 245. Every pleading must be subscribed by the
party or his attorney; and when the complaint is
eri ed, or when the Territory, or any officer of the
Territory, in his official capacity, is plaintiff, the answer
must be verified, unless an admission of the truth of
the complaint might subject the party to a criminal
prosecution, or unless an oiiicer of the Territory, in his
oilicial ca acity,is defendant. In all cases of n verilication
of a pl i ng, the afiidavit of the party must state that the
same is true of his knowledcre, except as to the matters
which are therein stated on iis own information or belief,
and as to those matters, that he believes it to be true; and
where a pleading is verified, it must be by the aflidavit of a

party, unless the parties are absent from the county
where the attorney resides, or from some cause unable
to verify it, or the facts are within the knowledge of his
attorney, or other person verifying the same. When
the pleading is verilied by the attorney, or any other
person except one of the parties, he must set forth in
the aflidavit the reasons why it is not made by one of the
parties. When a corporation is a party, the verification
may be made by any oflicer thereof. '

Sec. 246. When an action is brought upon a written
‘instrument, and the complaint contains a copy of such

instrument, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness
-and due execution of such instrument are deemed admitted, unless the answer denying the same be veritied.

SEC. 247. When the defense to an action is founded
on written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained
in the answer, or is annexed thereto, the genuineness
and due execution of such instrument are deemed admitted, unless the plaintiff file with the clerk, within
ten days after receiving a copy of the answer, an afIidavit denying the same, and serve a copy thereof on the
defendant.

Sec. 248. But the execution of the instruments men,tioned in the two preceding sections, is not deemed admitted by a failure to deny the same under oath, if the
party desiring to controvert the same, is, upon demand,
refused an inspection of the original. Such demand
must be in writing, served by copy, upon the adverse
party or his attorney, and filed with the papers in the

case.
SEC. 249. In the construction of a pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be

iberally construed, Wlth a view to substantial justice
between the parties.

SEC. 250. Sham and irrelevant answers, and irrele»vant and redundant matter inserted in a pleading, may
"be stricken out, upon such terms as the Court may, in
its discretion, impose.

SEC. 251. It is not necessary for a party to set forth
in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged,
but he must deliver to the adverse party, within ten

days after a demand thereof in writing, a copy of the

account, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof.
The Court, or a Judge thereof, may order a further account, when the one delivered is too general, or is defective in any particular.

Sec. 252. In an action for the recovery of real prop.1
erty, it must be described in the complaint with such}
certainty as to enable an oflicer, upon execution, to identify it.

SEC. 253. In pleading a judgment or other determina-.'
tion of a Court, ofiicer, or Board, it is not necessary to]
state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment
or determination may be stated to have been duly given
or made. If such alle tion be controverted, the party
pleading must establisiaon the trial the facts conferring
jurisdiction.

SEC. 254. In pleading the performance of conditions:
precedent in a contract, it is not necessary to state the}
facts showing such performance, but it may be stated
generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part, and if such allegation be controverted,
the party pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts
showing such erformance.

Sec. 255. Ih pleading the Statute of Limitations it:
is not necessary to state the facts showing the defense,j
but it may be stated generally that the cause of action is
barred by the provisions of Section (giving the number of the section and subdivision thereof, if it is so divided, relied upon) of THE Conn or CIVIL Paocnnurmz
and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading.mu_st establish on the trial, the facts showing that the
cause of action is so barred.

SEC. 256. In pleading a private statute, or a right derived therefrom, it is suflicient to refer to such statute by
its title and the day of its pass oe.

Sec. 257. In an action for 1i 1 or slander it is not
necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for
the purpose of showing the ap lication to the plaintiff
of the defamatory matter out 0 which the cause of action arose; but it is sufiicieut to state, generally, that the
same was ublished or spoken concerning the plaintiff;
and if suc 1 allegation be controverted, the plaintiff must
establish on the trial that it was so published or spoken.

SEC. 258. In the actions mentioned in the last section
the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth
of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating
circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages; an
whether he prove the justification or not, he may give in
evidence the mitigating circumstances.

SEC. 259. Every material allegation of the complaint,
not controverted by the answer, must, for the purposes
of the action, be taken as true; the statement of any new

matter in the answer, in avoidance or constitutino a defense or counter claim, must , on the trial, be (feemed
controverted by the oppo ite party.

SEC. 260. A material allegation in a pleadin is one
essential to the claim or defense, and which coul not be
stricken from the pleading without leavingit insufficient.

SEC. 261. The plaintiff and defendant, respectively,
may be allowed, on motion, tomake a supplemental complaint or answer, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former complaint or answer.

SEC. 262. All pleadinos subsequent to the complaint
must be filed with the clerk, and copies thereof served
upon the adverse party or his attorney.

Sec. 263. No variance between the allegation in a
pleading and the proof is to be deemed material, unless
it has actually misled the adverse party to his prejudice
in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits.
Whenever it appears that a party has been so misled, the
Court may order the pleading to be amended, upon such
terms as may be just.

Sec. 264. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the Court may direct the fact
to be found accordino to the evidence or may order an
immediate amendmentlz, without costs. ,
SEC. 265. Where, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense to which the proof is directed, is unproved,
not in some particular or articulars onl , but in its
general scope and meaning, it is not to be eemed a case
of variance, within the last two sections, but a failure
of roof.

SEC. 266. Any pleading may be amended once by
the party of course, and without costs, at any time before answer or demurrer filed, or after demurrer and before the trial of the issue of law thereon by filino the
same as amended and serving a copy on tlie adverse? party who may have ten days thereafter in which to answer or_ demur to the amended -pleading. A demurrer
is not waived by filing an answer at the same time; and
when the demurrer to complaint is overruled and there
is no answer filed, the Court may, upon such terms as
may be just, allow an answer to be filed. If a demurrer
to the answer be overruled, the facts alleged in the answer must be considered as denied to the extent mentioned in Section 259. ,

SEC. 267. The Court may, in furtherance of justice
and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking

out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in
the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer
or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion,1
after notice to the adverse party, allow, u n such terms‘
as may be just, an amendment to any p eading or proceeding in other particulars; and may, upon like terms,
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by
this Code, and also relieve a party, or his legal representative, from a judgment, order, or other proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect; and when, for any reason
satisfactory to the Court, or the Judge thereof, the party

«grieved has failed to apply for the relief sought during
the term at which such judgment, order, or proceeding
complained of was taken. the Court, or the Judge thereof,
in vacation, may rant the relief upon application made
within a reasonab e time, not exceeding six months after
the adjournment of the term. When, from any cause,.
the summons in an action has not been personally served'
on the defendant, the Court may allow, on such terms as
may be just, such defendant, or his legal representative,
at any time within one year after the rendition of any
judgment in such action, to answer to the merits of the
original action. _

When, in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, the person making any affidavit did not truly
state the value of the property, and the officer taking the
property, or the sureties on any bond, is sued for taking
the same, the oiiicer or sureties may, in their answer, set
up the true value of the property, and that the person in
whose behalf said affidavit was made was entitled to the
possession of the same when said afiidavit was made, or
that the value in the aiiidavit stated was inserted by mistake, the Court shall disregard the value as stated in the
aflidavit, and ive judgment according to the right of possession ofsaid: roperty at the time the atiidavit was made.

SEC. 268. hen the plaintiff is ignorant of the name:
of a defendant, he must state that fact In the complaint, and 1
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or pro-'
ceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered,
the pleading or roceeding must be amended accordingly.

SEC. 269. The Court must, in every stage of an
action, disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or,
proceedings which does not aifect the substantial rights;
of the parties, and no 'udgment shall be reversed or‘
affected by reason of suc error or defect.

SEC. 270. No person to be arrested except as prescribed by this Code.
Cases in which defendant may be arrested.

CHAPTER 270.

271.

272.

. 273.

274.

275.

276.

.§§§§§;§:§§§§§-3 §§§?-’-‘:5?-35.53

293.
SECTION 270.

CHAPTER XV.

ARREST AND BAIL.


Order for arrest. by whom made. _

Affidavit to obtain order. what tocontain.

Security by plaintiff before order of arrest.

Order, when made. and its form. .

Atlidavit and order to be delivered to the Sherif. and°copy to

defendant. '

Arrest, how made.

Defendant to be discharged on ball or deposit.

Bail, how given.

Surrender of defendant.

Same. ~ ‘

Bail, how proceeded against.

Bail, how exonerated.

Delivery of undertaking to plaintiif. and its acceptance or rejection by him. .

Notice of justification. New undertaking. if other bail.
Qualiiication of bail.

J ustitication of baiL

Allowance of bail.

Deposit of money with Sheriii’

Payment of money into Court by Sherif.

Substituting bail for deposit.

Money deposited, how applied or disposed ct

Sherif, when liable as lrail, and his discharge irom liability.
Proceedings on judgment against Sheriii‘.

Motion ‘to vacate order of arrest, or reduce bail. Amdavits on

motion.
When the order vacated or bail reduced.

No person can be arrested in a civil

action, except as prescribed in this Code.

SEC. 271. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter rescribed, in the following cases:

1. u an action for the recovery of money or damages
on a cause of action arising upon contract, where the defendant is about to depart from the Territory with intent
to defraud his creditors, or when the action is for willful
injury to person, to character or to property, knowing
the property to belong to another; 2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise:
to marry, or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or converted to his own use, by a
public oflicer, or an ofiicer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, agent, or clerk, in the course of his
employment as such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity; or for misconduct or neglect in ohice, or
in a professional employment, or for a willful violation
of duty;

3. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property unjustly detained, when the property, or any
part thereof, has been concealed, remove , or disposed
of, to revent its being found or taken by the Sherilf;

4. hen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt or incurring the obligation for
which the action is bron ht; or in concealing or disposing of the property for the taking, detention, or conversion of which the action is brong it;

5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
pro rty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his

itors.

SEC. 272. An order for the arrest of the defendant.
must heobtained from a Judge of the Court in which}
the action is brought, or from a Probate Judge.

SEC. 273. The order may be made whenever it ap-.
pears to the Judge, by the aflidavit of the plaintiff, or‘:
some other person, that a suflicient cause ofaction exists,
and that the case is one of those mentioned in §271.
The atiidavit must be either positive or upon information
and belief; and when upon information and belief, it
must state the facts upon which the information and belief are founded. If an order of arrest be made, the
utlidavit must be-diled with the clerk of the Court.

SEC. 274. Before making the order, the Judge must‘
require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff,3
with sureties in an amount to be fixed by the Judge,
which must be at least five hundred dollars, to the effect
that the plaintiff will pay all costs which may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful,
or without suflicient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. The undertaking must be filed
with the clerk of the Court.

SEC. 275. The order may be made at the time of thef
issuing of the summons, or any time afterwards beforel
judgment. It must require the Sheriff of the county
where the defendant may be found, forthwith to arrest

him and hold him to bail in a specified sum, and to return the order at a time therein mentioned, to the Clerk
of the Court in which the action is pending.

SEC. 276. The order of arrest, with a copy of the ailidavit upon which it is made, must he delivered to the
Sheriff, who, upon arresting the. defendant, must deliver
to him a copy of the aflidavit, and also, if desired, a copy
of the order of arrest.

SEC. 277. The Sheriff must execute the order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody until
discharged by law.

SEC. 278. The defendant, at any time before execution, must be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving bail or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the
or er of arrest.

SEC. 279. The defendant may ive bail by causing a
written undertaking to be execnt by two or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in the
amount mentioned in the order of arrest; that the defendant will at all times render himself amenable to the process of the Court, durin the pendency of the action, and
to such as may be issue to enforce the 'ndgrnent therein, or that they will pay to the plaintiff the amount of
any judgment which may be recovered in the action.

SEC. 280. At any time before jud ment, or within
ten days thereafter, the bail may surren er the defendant
in their exoneration; or he may surrender himself to the
Sheriff of the county where he was arrested.

SEC. 281. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any time or place before they are
finally charged, may themselves arrest, or, by a written
authority indorsed on a certilied copy of the undertaking,
may empower the Sheriff to do so. Upon the arrest of
defendant 1) t.he Sheriff, or upon his delivery to the
Sheriff by t e bail or upon his own surrender, the bail
are exonerated, if such arrest, delivery, or surrender take
place before the expiration of ten days after judgment;

mt if such arrest, delivery, or surrender be not made
tvithin ten days after judgment, the bail are finally
charged on their undertaking, and bound to pay the
amount of the judgment within ten days thereafter.

SEC. 282. If the bail neglect or refuse to pay the

2 judgment within ten days after they are finally charged,

an action may be connnenced against such bail for the
amount of the original judgment.

SEC. 283. The hail are exonerated by the death of
the defendant or his imprisonment in the Territorial

Prison, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to
render himself amenable to the process.

SEC. 284. Within the time limited for that purpose,1
the Sheriff must file the order of arrest in the ofiice of ‘
the Clerk of the Court in which the action is nding,%
with his return indorsed thereon, together wit a copy:
of the undertaking of the bail. The ori inal undertaking
he must retain in his ossession until fi ed, as herein provided. The plainti , within ten days thereafter, may
serve upon the Sheriff a notice that he does not acce t
the bail, or he is deemed to have accepted them, and t 10
Sheriff is exonerated from liability. If no notice _be
served within ten days, the original undertaking must
be filed with the Clerk of the Court.

SEC. 285. Within five days after the receipt of notice,i
the Sheriff or defendant may give to the plaintiff, or his]
attorney, notice of the justification of the same, or other
bail (specifying the places of residence and occu ations
of the latter), before a Judge of the Court, or Igrobate
Judge, at a specified time and place; the time to be not
less than five nor more than ten days thereafter, except
by consent of parties. In case other bail be given, there
must be a new undertaking. a

SEC. 286. The qualifications of bailare as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident and householder,‘
or freeholder within the territory;

2. Each must be worth the amount specified in the
order of the arrest, or the amount to which the order is
reduced, as provided in this chapter, over and above
all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but the Judge, on justification,
may allow more than two sureties to justify severall in
amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the w ole
justification be equivalent to that of two sufiicient bail.

SEC. 287. For the purpose of justification, each of the,
bail must attend before the Judge at the time and place
mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on oath
on the part of the plaintiff, touching his sufficiency, in
such manner as the Judge, in his discretion, may think
proper. The examination must be reduced to writing,
and subscribed by the bail, if required by the plain' tiff.

SEC. 288. If the Judge find the bail suflicient, he.
must annex the examination to the undertaking, indorse‘
his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and
the Sheriff is thereupon exonerated from liability.

SEC. 289. The defendant may, at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with the Sheriff the
amount mentioned in the order. In case the amount of
the bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter, the defendant may de sit such amount instead of giving bail.
In either case til: Sheriff must give the defendant a certificate of the deposit made, and the defendant must be
discharged from custody.

SEC. 290. The Sheriff must, immediately after the,

deposit, pay the same into Court, and take from the Clerk
receiving the same two certificates of such payment, the
one of which he shall deliver to the plaintili’s attorney,
and the other to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same proceedings may be had on
the official bond of the Sheri if, to collect the sum deposited, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 291. If money is deposited, as provided in the
two last sections, bail may be given and ma justify upon
notice, at any time before judgment; an on the filing
of the undertaking and justification with the Clerk, the
money deposited must be refunded to the defendant.

SEC. 292. Where money has been deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of the recovery of a judgment in favor of the plaintiff, the Clerk must, under the
direction of the Court, apply the same in satisfaction
thereof; and after satisfying the 'udgment, refund the
surplus, if any, to the defendant. f the judgment is in
favor of the defendant, the Clerk must, under like direction of the Court, refund to him the whole sum deposited
and remainin unapplied.

SEC. 293. f, after being arrested, the defendant escape or is rescued, the Sheriff is liable as bail; but he
may discharge himself from such liability by the giving
bail at any time before judgment.

SEC. 294. If a judgment is recovered against the
Sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution thereon is returned unsatisfied in whole or in part, the same
proceedings may be had on his official bond, for the recovery of the whole or any deficiency, as in other cases
of delinquency.

SEC. 295. A defendant arrested may, at any time before the trial of the action, or if there be no trial, before
the entry ot' judgment, apply to the Judge of the Court
in which the action is pending, or to the Court, upon reasonable notice, to vacate the order of arrest or to reduce
the amount of bail. If the application be made upon
atlidavits on the part of the defendant, but not otherwise,

the plaintiff may oppose the same by ailidavits, or other<
proofs, in addition to those on which the order of arrest‘
was made.

SEC. 296. If, upon application, it a pears that there‘
was not suiiicient cause for the arrest, the order must hel
vacated; or if it a pears that the bail was fixed too high,
the amount must reduced.

CHAPTER XVI.

CLAIM AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

Bncnox 297. Delivery of personal pr lperty, when it may be claimed.
298. Amdavit and its requisites.
299. _Reqnisitlon to Sheriil’ to take and deliver the property.
aoo. Security on the part of plaintlii’, and proceedings in serving the
order.

801. Exception to sureties and proceedings thereon, or on {allure to
except.
802. Defendant. when entitled to redelivery.

303. J ustiiication of defendant's suretles.
304. Qualiiication oi’ sureties.

305. Property, how taken when concealed in building or lnclosnre.
303. Property. how kept.

807. Claim of property by third person.
aos. Notice and anldavit. when and where to be tiled.

SEC. 297. The plaintiff in an action to recover the;
possession of personal property may, at the time of?
issuing the summons, or at any time before answer,l
claim the delivery of such property to him as provided
in this chapter.

SEC. 298. Where a delivery is claimed, an aflidavit.
must be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his‘
behalf, showing:

1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
claimed (particularly describing it), or is entitled to the
possession thereof;

2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant;

3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof,
according to his best knowledge, information, and
belief ;

4-. That it has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized, under an execution
or an attachment against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such
seizure:

5. The actual value of the property.

SEC. 299. The plaintiff or his attorney may, thereupon, by an indorsetnent in writing upon the afiidavit,
require the Sheriff of the county where the property
claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant.
SEC. 300. Upon a receipt of the afhdavit and notice,
with a written undertakino, executed by two or more
suflicient sureties, approved by the Sheriff, to the effect
that they are bound to the defendant in double the value
of the roperty as stated in the affidavit for the prosecution ofp the action, for the return of the property to the
defendants, if return thereof be adjudged, and for the
payment to him of such sum as may from any cause he
recovered against the plaintiff, the Sheriff must forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be
in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He must, without delay, serve
on the defendant a copy of the affidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering the same to him personally, if
he can be found, or to his agent from whose possession
the property is taken; or, if neither can be found, by
leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with
some person of suitable age and discretion, or, if neither
have any known place of abode, by utting them in the
nearest Post Ofiice, directed to the efendant.

SEC. 301. The defendant may, within two days after
the service of a co {y of the affidavit and undertaking,
give notice to the herifl‘ that he excepts to the sufliciency
of the sureties. If he fails to do so he is deemed to have
waived all objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify on notice in like manner
as upon bail on arrest; and the Sheriff is responsible for
the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them
is either waived or until they justify. If the defendant
except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the property as
provided in the next section.

SEC. 302. At any time before the delivery of the
property to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not
except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return

thereof, upon giving to the S eriif a written undertaking,
executed by two or more sutlictent sureties, to the effect

that they are bound in double the value of the pro rty,
as stated in the afiidavit of the plaintiff, for the de ivery
thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and
for the payment to him of such sum as may, for any
cause, berecovered against the defendant. If a return
of the property be not so required within five days after
the taking and service of notice to the defendant, it must

be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in Section 307.

SEC. 303. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the‘
plaintiff of not less than two or more than five days, must}
justify before the Judge of the Court or Probate Judge,
in the same manner as upon bail on arrest; and upon
such justification the Sheriff must deliver the property
to the defendant. The Sheriff is responsible for the
defendant’s sureties until the justify, or until the justification is completed or waived, and may retain the property until that time. If they, or others in their place,
fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he must
deliver the pro erty to the plaintiff.

SEC. 304. The qualification of sureties must be such
as are prescribed by this Code, in respect to bail upon
an order of arrest.

Sec. 305. If the property, or any art thereof, be con‘cealed in a building or inclosnre, the S eriff must publicly
demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he must
cause the building or inclosure to be broken open, and
take the property into his possession; and, if necessary,
he may call to his aid the power of his county.

Sec. 306. When the Sheriff has taken property, asin
this Chapter provided, he must keep it in a secure place,
and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his fees for taking and his necessary expenses for
kee ing the same.

SEC. 307. If the property taken be claimed by an
other person than the defendant or his agent, and such
person make atlidavit of his title thereto, or right to the
possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or
right, and serve the same upon the Sheriff, the Sheriff is
not bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintiff unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent,
indemnify the Sheriff against such claim, by an undertaking by two sufficient sureties.

SEC. 308. The Sheriff must file the notice, undertaking, and affidavit, with his proceedings thereon, with the

Clerk of the Court in which the action is pending, with-‘

in twenty days after taking the property mentioned
therein.

CHAPTER XVII.

INJUNCTION.

BICHON 309. Injunction, what is, and who may grant it.
310. When it may be granted.

311. Atwhat time it maybe granted, and what isrequired toobtainit
812. Injunction after answer.

813. Security upon injunction.

314. Order to show cause why injunction should not be granted.

815. Injunction to suspend business of a corporation, how and by

whom granted. '

816. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.

817. When to be vacated or modified.

SEC. 309. An injunction is a writ or order requir,ing a person to refrain from a particular act. It may be
oranted by the Court in which the action is brought, or
by a Judge thereof, and when made by a Judge, it may
be enforced as the order of the Court.

SEC. 310. An injunction may be granted in the following cases:

1. When it ap cars by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to t 1e relief demanded, and such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restrainin the commission
or continuance of the act complain of, either for a
limited eriod or perpetually;

2. hen it appears by the complaint or aflidavit that
the commission or continuance of some act during the
litigation would produce waste, great or irreparable
injury to the plaintiff;

3. When it appears during the litigation that the
defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation
of the plaintiff’s rights, respecting the subject of the
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual.
SEC. 311. The injunction may be granted at the time
of issuing the summons, u on the complaint, and at any
time afterwards, before ju gment, u on affidavits. The
complaint in the one case, and the a davits in the other,
must show satisfactorily that suiiicient grounds exist
therefor. No injunction can be granted on the complaint
unless it is veriiied. When granted on the complaint, a
copy of the complaint and verification attached must be
served with the injunction; when granted upon aflidavit,
a copy of the amdavit mustbe served with the injunction.

SEC. 312. An injunction cannot be allowed after the
defendant has answered, unless upon notice, or upon an

order to show cause; but in such case the defendant may
be restrained until the decision of the Court or J ndge
granting or refusing the injunction.

SEC. 313. On granting an injunction, the Court or;
Judge must require, except when the Territory, a county,
or municipal corporation, or a married woman ina suit
against her husband, is a party plaintiff, a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff, with suflicient sureties,
to the effect that the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not exceedin an amount to be
specified, as such party may sustainiy reason of the injunction, if the Court finally decide that the plaintiff was
not entitled thereto. Within five days after the service
of the injunction, the defendant may except to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fails to do so he is deemed
to have waived all objections to them. When excepted;
to, the plaintiff’s sureties, upon notice to the defendant
of not less than two nor more than five days, must justify
before the Judge or a Probate Judge, in the same manneras upon ball on arrest, and upon failure to justify,
or ifothers in their place fail tojustify at the time and

lace appointed, the order granting an injunction shall
dissolved.

SEC. 314. If the Court or Judge deem it proper that<
the defendant, or any of several defendants, should be}
heard before granting the in°unction, an order may be:
made requiring cause to be e own, at a specified time
and place, why the injunction should not be granted;
and the defendant may, in the meantime, be restrained.

Sec. 315. An injunction to suspend the general and:
ordinary business of a cor )0I‘8.l’.lOI1 cannot be granted ex-‘
cept by the Court or a Judge thereof; nor can it be
granted without due notice of the application therefor to
the proper oflicers or aoent of the corporation, except
;l(1:1n the people of thisgferritory are a party to the proin .

SEC. 316. If an injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply to
the Judge who granted the injunction, or to the Court in
which the action is brought, to dissolve or modify the
same. The application may be made upon the complaint
and the atlidavit on which the injunction was granted,
or the answer, or upon afiidavit on the art of the defendant, with or without the answer. If t e application be
made upon aflidavits on the part of the defendant, it
must be upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, and in
that case, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the

same by aflidavits or other evidence, in addition to those

on which the in unction was granted.

SEC. 317. If upon such application it satisfactorily
appear that there is not sumcient ground for the injunction, it must be dissolved; or if it satisfactorily appear

that the extent of the injunction is too great, it must be
modihed.

 

CHAPTER XVIII.
ATTACHMENT.

Slcrtox 818. Attachment, when and in what cases may imue.
319. Ailidavit for attachment, what to contain.
320. Undertaking on attachment.
821. Writ, to whom directed and what to state.
822. Shares of stock and debts due defendant, how attached and dbposed of.
8%. How real and personal property shall be attached.
824. Attorney to give written instructions to Bheriif what to attach.
325. Garnishment, when garnishee liableto plaintim
826. Citation to garnishee to appear before a Court or Judge.
827. Inventory, how made. Party refusing to give memorandum
may be compelled to pay costs.
828. Perishable property, how sold. Accounm without suit to be collected.
Property attached may be sold as under execution, if the interests of the parties require.
When property claimed by a third party, how tried.

If piaintiif obtains judgment. how satisfied.

When there remains a balance due, how collected.

When suits may be commenced on the undertaking.

If defendant recover Judgment, what the Sheriil’ is to deliver.
Proceedings to release attachment. before whom taken.
Attachment,in what cases it may be released and upon what

terms.
When a motion to discharge attachment may be made, and up
on what grounds.

when motion made on ailldavit, it may be opposed by smdavit
when writ must be discharged.

When writ to be returned.

3

£95 5 §§§§§§§

SEC. 318. The plaintiff, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at any time afterward, may have the property of the defendant attached, as security for the satisfaction of any judgment that may be recovered, unless
the defendant give security to pay such judgment, as in
this chapter provided, in the following cases:

J. In an action upon a contract, for the direct payment of money, where the contract is not secured by any
mortgage or hen upon real or personal property, or fetid)’
pledge of personal propert '; or, if ori iualiy so secu ,
such security has, without any act of t ie plaintiff, or the

person to whom the security was given, become valueless;

2. In an action n on a contract, against a defendant
not residing in this 'Ferritory.

SEC. 319. The Clerk of the Court must issue the writ
of attachment,'u on receivinor an aliidavit by or on
behalf of .plainti , setting forth:

1. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness over and
above all legal set-offs or counter claims,) upon a contract,
for the direct payment of money, and that the payment
of the same has not been secured by any mortgage or
lieu upon real or personal property, or any pled of personal property, or, if originallv so secured, t at such
security has, without any act of the plaintiff, or the person to whom the security was given, become valueless; or,

2. That the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
(specifyin the amount of such indebtedness over and
above all egal set-offs or counter claims), and that the
defendant is a non-resident of the Territory, and

3. That the attachment is not sought, and the action
is not prosecuted to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor
of the defendant.

SEC. 320. Before issuing the writ, the Clerk must
requirea written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff,
in a sum not less than two hundred dollars, and not
exceeding the amount claimed by the plaintiff, with suHicient sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment, or if the attachment be wrongfully issued,
the laintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to
the efendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specified
in the undertaking.

SEC. 321. The writ must be directed to the Sheriff of
any county in which property of such defendant may be,
and must require him to attach and safely keep all the
property of such defendant within his county, not exempt from execution, or so much thereof as may be sufiicient to satisfy the plaintiff’s demand, the amount of
which must be stated in conformity with the complaint,
unless the defendant give him security by the undertaking of at least two suflicient sureties, in an amount
suliicient to satisfy such demand, besides costs, or in an
amount equal to the value of the property which has
been, or is about to be, attached; in which case, to take
such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the
same time to the Sheriff's of different counties; and the

plaintiff may have other writs of attachment as often as

e may require at any time before judgment.

SEC. 322. The riglits or shares which the defendant
may have in the stock of any corporation or company, toget er with the interest and proiit thereon, and all debt:
due such defendant, and all other property in this Terri.
tory of such defendant not exempt from execution, may
be attached, and if udgment be recovered, be sold to sat.
isfy the judgment and execution.

SEC. 323. The Sheriff to whom the writ is directed
and delivered, must execute the same without delay, and
it’ the undertaking mentioned in Section 321 be not
given, as follows:

1. Real property, standing u n the records of the
county in the name of the defen ant, must be attached,
by filing with the Recorder of the county a copy of the
writ, together with a descri tion of the property attached,
and a notice that it is attac ed; and by leavin a similar
copy of the writ, description, and notice wit an occupant of the property, if there is one, if not, then by posting the same in a conspicuous place, on the property
attached;

2. Real property, or an interest therein, belong-in to
the defendant, and held by any other person, or stan iug
on the records of the county in the name of any other
person, must be attached, by filing with the Recorder of
the county a copy of the writ, together with a description
of the property, and a notice that such real property, and
any interest of the defendant therein, held by or standing
in the name of such other person (naming him), are attached; and by leaving with the occu ant, if any, and
with such other person, or his agent, if nown and within the county, or at the residence of either, if within the
county, a copy of the writ, with a similar description
and notice. If there is no occupant of the property, a
copy of the writ, together with such description and notice, must be posted in a conspicuous place upon the
property. The Recorder must index such attachment
when filed, in the names, both of the defendant and of
the person by whom the property is held or in whose
name it stands on the records;

3. Personal property, capable of manuel delivery
must be attached by taking it into custody;

4. Stocks or shares, or interest in stocks or shares, of
any corporation or company, must be attached by leaving with the President, or other head of the same, or the
Secretary, Cashier, or other managing agent thereof, a

copy of the writ, and a notice stating that the stock or
interest of the defendant is attached, in pursuance of such
writ;

5. Debts and credits, and other personal property,
not capable of manual delivery, must be attached by
leaving with the person owing such debts, or having in
his possession, or under his control, such credits or other
personal property, or with his agent, a copy of the writ,
and a notice that the debts owing b him to the defendnut, or the credits or other pcrsonaly property in his possession, or under his control, belonging to the defendant,
are attached in pursuance of such writ.

Sec. 324. Upon receiving information in writing from
the plaintiff or is attorney, that any person has in his
possession, or under his control, any credits or other personal roperty belonging to the defendant, or is owing
any de tto the defendant, the Sheriff must serve upouv
such person a copy of the writ. and a notice that such
credits, or other property or debts, as the case may be,
are attached in pursuance of such writ.

Sec. 325. All persons having in their possession, or
under their control, any credits or other personal property belonging to the defendant, or owin any debts to
the defendant at the time of service upon t em ofa copy
of the writ and notice, as provided 1n the last two sections, shall be, unless such property be delivered up .or
transferred, or such debts be paid to the Sheriff, liable to
the plaintitf for the amount of such credits, property, or
debts, until the attachment be discharged, or any judgment recovered by him be satisfied.

Sec. 326. Any person owing debts to the defendant,
or having in his possession, or under his control, any
credits or other personal propert belonging to the‘
defendant, may be required to atten before the Court or
J udge. or a referee appointed by the Court or Judge, and
he examined on oath respecting the same. The defendant may also be required to attend for the purpose of
giving information respecting his roperty, and may be
examined on oath. The Court or fudge may, after such
examination, order personal property, capable of manual
deliver, to be delivered to the Sheriff on such terms as
may be just, having reference to any liens thereon or
claims against the same, and a memorandum to be given
of all other personal property, containing the amount and
description thereof.

SEC. 327. The Sheriff must make a full inventory of }
the property attached, and return the same with the writ.

To enable him to make such return as to the debts and .
credit: attached, he must request, at the time of service,
the party owing the debt or having the credit to give him
a memorandum, stating the amount and description of
each; and if such memorandum be refused, he must return
the fact of refusal with the writ. The party refusing to
give the memorandum may be required to pay the costs
of any proceedings taken for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the amounts and description of such
debt or credit. .

SEC. 328. If any of the property attached be perishable, the Sheriff must sell the same in the manner in
which such property is sold on execution. The proceeds,
and other property attached by him, must be retained by
him to answer any judgment that may be recovered in
the action, unless sooner subjected to execution upon
another judgment recovered previous to issuing of the

attachrnent. Debts and credits attached may be collected

by him, if the same can be done without suit. The
Sheriil"s receipt is a sutlicient discharge for the amount
paid.

SEC. 329. Whenever property has been taken by an
oflicer under a writ of attachment, and it is made to
appear satisfactory to the Court, oraJudge thereof, that
the interest of the parties to the action will be subserved
by a sale thereof, the Court or Judge may order such
pro(perty to be sold in the same manner as property is
sol under an execution, and the proceeds to be deposited
in the Court, to abide the judgment in the action. Such
order can be made only upon notice to the adverse party
or his attorney, in case such party has been personally
served with a summons in the action.

SEC. 330. Ifany personal property attached be claimed by a third person as his property, the Sheriff may
summon a jury of six men to try the validity ot' such
claim; and such proceedings shall be had thereon, with
the like effect, as in case of a claim after levy upon execution.

SEC. 331. If judgment be recovered b the plaintiff,
the Sheriff must satisfy the same out of t e roperty attached by him which has not been deliver to the»defendant, or a claimant as hereinbefore provided, or subjected to execution on another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if it be sullicient
for that purpose:

1. By paying to the plaintiff the proceeds of all sales
of perisha 'le property sold by him, or of any debts or

credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary!
to satisfy the 'udgment;

2. If any alance remain due, and an execution shall
have been issued on the °udgment, he must sell under
the execution so much of] the propert , real or personal,
as may be necessary to satisfy the ba ance, if enough for
that purpose remain in his hands. Notices of the sales
must be given, and the sales conducted as in other cases
ot' sales on execution.

SEC. 332. If, after selling all the property attached by‘
him remaining in his hands, and ap lying the proceeds, i
together with the proceeds of any ebts or credits col-‘
lected by him, deducting his fees, to the payment of the
judgment, any balance shall remain due, the Sheriff
must proceed to collect such balance, as upon an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment shall have
been paid, the Sheriff upon reasonable demand, must deliver over to the defendant the attached property remainino in his hands, and anv proceeds of the property
attache unap lied on the judgment.

Sec. 333. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, 
in whole or in part, the plaintiff may prosecute any un-1
«Iertaking given pursuant to Section 321 or Section 336,‘
or he may proceed, as in other cases, upon the return of
an execution.

SEC. 334. If the defendant recover udgment against‘;
the plaintiff, any undertaking received in the action, allj
the proceeds of sales and money collected by the Sheriff,‘
and all the property attached remaining in the Sheritf’s
hands, must be delivered to the defendant or his agent.
The order of attachment shall be discharged, and the
pro rty released therefrom.

SEC. 335. Whenever the defendant has ap eared in
the action, he may, upon reasonable notice to t e plaintiff, apply to the Court in which the action is pending, or
to the Judge thereof, for an order to discharge the
attachment, wholly or in part; and upon the execution
of the undertaking mentioned in the next section, an
order‘ may be made, releasing from the operation of the
attachment any or all of the property attached, and all
of the property so released, and all of the proceeds of the
sales thereof, must be delivered to the defendant, upon
the justification of the sureties on the undertaking, it’

iured by the plaintiff.

SEC. 336. Before makin such order, the Court or
Judge must require an un ertaking on behalf of the
det'endant,‘by at least two sureties, residents and freeholders, or householders, in the County, to the efect that
in case the plaintiff recover judgment in the action,
defendant will, on demand, redeliver the attached property so released to the proper oihcer, to be applied to the
payment of the udgment, or, in default thereof, that the
defendant and sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the full value of the roperty released. The Court
or Jud making such 0 er may fix the sum for which.
the un ertaking must be executed, and, if necessary in
iixing such sum to know the value of the property
released, the same may be appraised by one or more disinterested persons, to be appointed for that purpose. The
sureties may be required to justify before the Court or
Judge, and the property attached cannot be released from
the attachment without their justification, if the same be
required.

SEC. 337. The defendant may also at any time, either
before or after the release of the attached property, or
before any attachment shall have been actually levied,
apply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff,
to the Court in which the action is brought, or to the
J udoe thereof, that the writ of attachment be discharged,
on the ground that the same was improperly or irregularly issued.

SEC. 338. If the motion bemade upon afiidavits on

the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the laintiif
‘may oppose the same by aiiidavits or other evi ence, in

addition to those on which the attachment was made.

SEC. 339. If, upon such application, it satisfactorily
appears that the writ of attachment was improperly or
irregularly issued, it must be discharged.

SEC. 340. The Sheriff must return the writ of attachment with the summons, if issued at the same time; otherwise, within twenty days after its receipt, with a certificate of his roeeedings indorsed thereon or attached
thereto; and w enever an order has been made discharging or releasing an attachment in on real property,
acertified copy of such order ma be ii ed in the ofhee of
the county recorder in which t e notice of attachment
has been filed, and be indexed in like manner.

CHAPTER XIX.

RECEIVERS.

Bncnon 84]. Appointment of Receiver.

342. Appointment of Receivers upon dissolution of corporations.
818 Who shall not be appointed.

844. Oath and undertaking.

36. Powers of Receivers.

845. Investment of mnds.

SEC. 341. A receiver may be appointed by the
Court in which an action is pending, or has passed to
judgment, or by the Judge thereof:

1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent
purchase of pro erty, or by a creditor to subject any
property or un to his claim, or between partners or
others jointly owning or interested in any roperty or
fund, on the application of the plaintiff, or 0 any party
whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or the
proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that
the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed,
or materially injured;

2. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of
his mortgage and sale of the mortgaged property, where
it appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of
being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the
condition of the mortgage has not been performed, and
that the property is probably insufiicient to discharge the
mortgagfetglebt;

3. r judgment, to carry the judgment into effect;

4. After 'udgment, to dispose of the property according to t e judgment, or to preserve it during the
pendeucy of an appeal, or in proceedings in aid of execution, when an execution has been returned unsatisfied,
or when the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment;

5. In the cases when a corporation has been dissolved,
or is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or
has forfeited its corporate rights;

6. In all other cases where Receivers have heretofore
been appointed by the usages of Courts of equity.

SEC. 342. Upon the dissolution of any corporation,;
the District Court of the county in which the corpora}
tion carries on its business, or has its princi al place of:
business, on application of any creditor of t e corporation, or of any stockholder or member thereof, may

appoint one or more persons to be receivers or trustees
of the corporation, to take charge of the estate and
effects thereof, and to collect the debts and property
due and belonging to the corporation, and to pay the
outstanding debts thereof, and to divide the mone s
and other property that shall remain over, among e
stockholders or members.

SEC. 343. No party, or attorney or person interested
in an action, can be appointed receiver therein, without

‘the written consent of the parties, filed with the clerk.

If a receiver be appointed upon an ea: parte application,
the Court, before making the order, ma require from
the applicant an undertakin , with su 'cient sureties,
in an amount to be fixed by t e Court, to the effect that
the applicant will pay to the defendant all damages he
may sustain by reason of the appointment of such receiver and the entry byphim upon his duties, in case
the applicant shall have procured such appointment
wrongfull , maliciously, or without sufiicient cause;
and the Clburt may, in its discretion, at any time after
said appointment, require an additional undertaking.
SEC. 344. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and
with one or more sureties, approved by the Court or
Judge, execute an undertaking to such person, and in
such sum as the Court or Judge may direct, to the effect
that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver
in the action, and obey the orders of the Court therein.
SEC. 345. The receiver has, under the control of the
Court, power to bring and defend actions in his own
name, as receiver ; to take and keep possession of the
property, to receive rents, collect debts, to compound
for an com romise the same, to make transfers, and
generally to 0 such acts respecting the property as the

ourt may authorize.
SEC. 346. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be

invested upon interest, by order of the Court; but no
such order can be made, except upon the consent of all
the parties to the action.

CHAPTER XX.

DEPOSIT IN COURT.

Sncrrox 347. Deposit in Court.

848. Money paid to Clerk must be deposited with County Treasurer.
349. Manner of enforcing the order.

SEC. 347. When it is admitted by the pleading, or
shown upon the examination of aparty, that he has in his
possession or under his control any money or other thing
capable of delivery, which, being the subject of litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which
belongs or is due to another party, the Court may order
the same, upon motion, to be deposited in Court or
delivered to such party, upon such conditions as may be
just, subject to the further direction of the Court.

SEC. 348. If the money is deposited in Court it must‘
be paid to the Clerk, who must deposit it with the»
County Treasurer, by him to be held subject to the order}
of the Court. For the safe keeping of the money
ilxcipoisited with him the Treasurer is liable on his oiiicial

n .

Sec. 349. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority,
a Court has ordered the deposit or delivery of money, or.
other thin , and the order is disobeyed, the Court, beside punis ing the disobedience, may make an order
requiring the Sheriff to take the money, or thing, and

deposit or deliver it in conformity with the direction of
the Court.

CHAPTER XXI.

JUDGMEIiT IN GENERAL.

Batman 50. Judgment donned.
351. Judgment may be for or against one of the'par-ties.

852. Judgment may be against ,one party and action proceed at to
others.

858. The relief to be awarded to the plaintif.

854. Action may be dismissed or nonsuit entered.

355. Ali other judgments are on the merits. ,

56. In what cases Judgment may be had upon the failure to answer.

SEC. 350. A judgment is the iinal determination.
of the rights of the parties in an action or proceeding ‘

SEC. 351. Jud ment may be given for or against one
or more of several: plaintiffs, and for or against one or
more of several defendants; and it may, when the justice
of the case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of
the parties on each side, as between themselves.

SEC. 352. In an action against several defendants, the
Court may, in its descretion, render judgment against
one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against
the others, whenever a several judgment is pro -r. 

SEC. 353. The relief granted to the lainti , if there
be no answer, cannot exceed that which e shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case, the
Court may grant him any relief consistent with thecase
made by the complaint and embraced within the issue.

SEC. 354. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment
of nonsuit entered, in the following cases:

1. By the plaintiff himself, at any time before trial,
upon the payment of costs; provided, a counter-claim
has not been made or atlirmative relief sought by the
cross-complaint or answer of defendant. If a provisional
remedy has been allowed the undertaking must thereupon be delivered b the Clerk to the defendant, who
may have his action t ereon.

2. By either party, upon the written consent of the
other;

3. By the Court when the plaintiff fails to appear on
the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for the dismissal.

4. By the Court, when, upon the trial, and before the
final submission of the case, the plaintiff abandons it;

5. By the Court, upon motion of the defendant, when,
upon the trial, the plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient
case for the jury.

The dismissal mentioned in the first two subdivisions
is made by an entry in the Clerk’s register. Judgment
may thereupon be entered accordingly.

SEC. 355. In every case, other than those mentioned
in the last section, judgment must be rendered on the

merits.
SEC. 356. Judgment may be had, if the defendant

'fail to answer the complaint, as follows:

1. In an action arising upon contract for the recovery
of money or damages only, if no answer has been tiled
by the Clerk of the Court within the time s ilied in
the summons, or such further time as may me been
granted, the Clerk, upon application of the plaintiE, must
enter the default of the defendant, and immediately therealter enter [1
mons, inc uding the costs against the defendant, or
against one or more of several’ defendants, in the cases
provided for in Section 223;

2. In other actions, if no answer has been filed with
the Clerk of the Court within the time specified in the
summons, or such further time as may have been granted,
the Clerk must enter the default of the defendant; and
thereafter the plaintiff may apply at the first or any subsequent term of the Court for the relief demanded in the
wmplaint. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
any fact, is necessary to enable the Court to give judgment, or to carry the judgment into effect. the Court may
take the account or hear the proof; or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the
action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or lllx art,
the Court may order the damages to be assessed y a
jury; or if, to determine the amount of damages, the examination of a long account be involved, by a reference
as above provided;

3. In actions where the service of the summons was
by publication, the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the
time for answering, may, upon roof of the publication,
and that no answer has been ii ed, apply for judgment;
and the Court must thereupon require proof to be
made of the demand mentioned in the complaint;
and if the defendant be not a resident of the Territory,
must require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on
oath respecting any payments that have been made to
the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such
demand, and may render judgment for the amount which
he is entitled to recover.

CHAPTER XXII.

ISSUES—THE MODE OF TRIAL AND POSTPONEMENTS.

Section 857. Issue deiined. and the different kinds.
$8. Issue of lawfhow raised.
859. Issue of fact, how raised.
860. Issue of law, how tried.
861. Issue of ihct, how tried. When lanes both of law and met, the

former to be iiret disposed of.
$2. Clerk must enter causes on the calendar, to remain until dinpoeed oi’.
33. Parties may bring lane to trial.

as. Motion to postpone a trial for absence of testimony, requisites 0!’.
$5. In cases of adjournment a party may have thetealixnony of any
witnes taken.

udgment for the amount specified in the sum-!

SEC. 357. Issues arise upon the pleadings when
a fact or a conclusion of law is maintained by the one
party and is controverted by the other. They are of
two kinds:

1. Of law; and,

2. Of fact.

SEC. 358. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 359. An issue of fact arises:

1. U on a material allegation in the complaint controverted) by the answer; and

2. Upon new matters in the answer, except an issue
of law is joined thereon.

SEC. 360. An issue of law must be tried by the
Court, unless it is referred u on consent.

SEC. 361. In actions for the recovery of specific real or
personal property, with or without damages, or for
money claimed as due upon contract, or as amages for
breach of contract, or for injuries, an issue of fact must
be tried by a 'ury, unless a ‘my trial is waived, or a
reference is or ered, as provi ed in this Code. Where,
in these cases there are issues both of law and fact, the

issue of law must be first dis osed of. In other cases, .

issues of fact must be tri by the Court subject to
its power to order any such issue to be tried by a jury
or to be referred to a referee, as provided in this Code.

SEC. 362. The Clerk must enter causes upon the calendar of the Court accordin to the date of issue. Causes

once placed on the calen ar must remain upon the calendar from Court to Court, until finally disposed of; provided, that causes may be dropped from the calendar by
consent of parties, and may be again restored upon notice.

SEC. 363. Either party may bring an issue to tri$
or to a hearing, and in the absence ot the adverse party,
unless the Court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may
proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the action,
or a verdict, or judgment, as the case may require.

SEC. 364. A motion to postpone a trial on the ground
of the absence of evidence can only be made upon atiidavit, showing the materiality of the evidence ex ected to be
obtained, and th atdue diligence has been us toprocure
it. The Court may also re uire the moving party to
state, upon afiid vit, the evi ence which he expects to
obtain; and if the adverse party thereupon admit that
such evidence would be given, and that It be considered
as actually i ven on the trial, or offered and overruled as
improper, t 1e trial must not be postponed.

SEC. 365. The party obtaining a postponement of a

trial in any Court of record must, if required by the ad»

verse party, consent that the testimony of any witness of
such adverse party, who is in attendance, be then taken
by deposition before a Judge or Clerk of the Court in
which the case is pending, or before such Notary Public
as the Court may indicate, which must accordingly be
done; and the testimony so taken may be read on the
trial, with the same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if the witnesses were produced.

CHAPTER XXIII.
TRIAL BY JURY.

Bscnos $8. Jury, how drawn.

Challenges. Each party entitled to four peremptory challenges
Grounds of challenge.

Challenges. how tried.

Jury to be sworn.

Order of proceeding on trial.

Charge to the Jury. Court must furnish in writing. upon mquest,

the points oi law contained therein.

Special instructions.

4 View by Jury of the premises.

Admonition when jury permitted to separate.

Jury may take with them certain papers.

Deliberation ofjury. how conducted.

Hay come into Court for further instructions.

Proceedings in case a juror become sick.

When prevented from giving verdict, the cause may be again

tried.
While Jury are absent, Court may adjourn from time to time.
Sealed verdict. Final adjournment discharges the jury.

Verdict, how declared. Form of. Polling the jury.
Proceedings when verdict is informal.

General and special verdicts deiined.

When a general or special verdict may be rendered.

Verdict in actions_ for recovery of money or on establishing

counter claim.
Verdict in actions for the recovery of speciilc personal property.
Entry of verdict.

SEC. 366. When the action is called for trial by
°ury, the Clerk must draw from the trial nry box of the
Court the ballots containing the names of the urors, until the nry is completed or the ballots are exhausted.

SEC. 367. Either party may challenge the jurors, but
where there are several parties on either side, they must
jgin in a challenge before it can be made. The chalgea are to individual jurors, and are either peremptory
or for cause. Each party is entitled to four peremptory
challenges. If no eremptory challenges are taken until the panel is full, they mustbe taken by the parties
alternately, commencing with the plaintiff.

SEC. 368. Challenges for cause may be taken on one
or more of the following grounds:

1. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
this Code to render a person competent as a juror;

2. Consanguinity or afhnity, within the fourth degree,
to any party;

3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward.
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal and
agent, to either party, or being a member of the family
of either party, or a partner in business with either
party, or surety on any bond or obligation for either

arty.
P 4. Having served as a juror or been a witness on a
yr-_evious trial between the same parties for the same
cause of action ;

5. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the action, except his interest as a.member or citizen of a
munici ’al corporation ;

6. Igaving an unqualified opinion or belief as to the
merits of the action, founded upon knowledge of its
material facts, or of some of them ;

7. The existence of a state of mind in the juror
evincing enmity against or bias to or against either

arty.
SEC. 369. Challenges for cause must be tried by the
Court. The juror challenged and any other person may
be examined as a witness on the trial of the challenge.

SEC. 370. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath
must be administered to the 'urors, in substance, that
they and each of them will well and truly try the matter
in issue between , the plaintiff, and , defendant,
and a true verdict render according to the evidence.

SEC. 371. When the jury has been sworn, the trial
must proceed in the following order, unless the Judge,
for special reasons. otherwise directs :

1. The plaintiff, after stating the issue and his case,
must produce the evidence on his part ;

2. The defendant may then open his defense, and
offer his evidence in sup rt thereof ;

3. The parties may t en respectively offer rebutting
evidence only, unless the Court, for good reason, in furtherance of justice, permit them to offer evidence upon
their original case ;

4. When the evidence is concluded, unless the case:

is submitted to the jury on either side or on both sides
without argument, the plaintiff must commence and
may conclude the argument ;

5. If several delendants, having separate defenses,

a rb different counsel, the Court must determine
PP93 Y

their relative order in the evidence and argument;

6. The Court may then charge the jury.

SEC. 372. In charging the jury the Court may state
to them all matters of law which he thinks necessaryfor their information in giving their verdict ; and, if it
state the testimony of the case, it must inform the jury
that they are the exclusive udges of all questions of tact.
The Court must furnish to either party, at the time,
upon request, a statement in writing of the points of law
contained in the charge, or sign, at the time, a statement
of such points prepared and submitted by the counsel
of either party.

Sec. 373. Where either party asks special instructions to be given to the jury, the Court must either give
such instruction, as requested, or refuse to do so, or give
the instruction with a modification, in such manner that
it may distinctly appear what instructions were given in
whole or in part.
SEC. 374. When, in the opinion of the Court, it is
pro r for the jury to have a view of the property which
18 t e subject of litigation, or of the place in which any
material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted, in a body, under the charge of an ofiicer, to the
place, which shall be shown to them by some person
appointed by the Court for that purpose. While the ury
are thus absent, no person, other than the person so
appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected
with the trial.

SEC. 375. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
durin the trial or after the case is submitted to them,
they 519.11 be admonished by the Court that it is their
duty not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be
addressed by any other erson, on any subject of the
trial, and that it is their uty not to form or express an
opinion thereon until the case is finally submitted to
t em.

Sec. 376. Upon retiring for deliberation the jury may
take with them all papers which have been received as
evidence in the cause, except depositions, or copies of
such papers as ought not, in the o inion of the Court, to
betaken from the person having them in possession; and

they may also take with them notes of the testimony or
other proceedings on the trial, taken by themselves or
any of them, but none taken by any other person.

SEC. 377. When the case is finally submitted to the
‘my, they may decide in Court or retire for deliberation.
f they retire, they must be kept to other, in some con.

venient place, under charge of an o cer, until they agree
upon a verdict or are discharged by the Court. Unless
b order of the Court, the officer having them under his
c arge must not suffer any communication to be made to
them, or make any himself, except to ask them if they
are agreed upon their verdict; and he must not, before
their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the
state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.
SEC. 378. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there be a disagreement between them as to any part
of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any
point of law arising in the cause, they may require the
ofiicer to conduct them into Court. Upon their being
brought into Court, the information required must be
given in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties or
counsel. V
SEC. 379. If, after the impaneling of the jury, and
before verdict, a juror become sick, so as to be unable to
perform his duty, the Court may order him to be discharged. In that case the trial may proceed with the
other jurors, or another juror may be sworn and the trial begin anew; or the 'ury may be discharged, and a new
jury then or afterwar s im aneled.

SEC. 380. In all cases w ere the jury are discharged,
or prevented from givin a verdict, by reason of acci ent
or other cause, durum the progress of the trial, or after
the cause is submitte to them, the action may be again
tried immediately, or at a future time, as the Court may
direct.

SEC. 381. While the jury are absent the Court may
adjourn from time to time, in respect to other business;

but it is nevertheless open for every purpose connected.

with the cause submitted to the jury, until a verdict is
rendered or the jury discharged. The Court may direct
the jury to bring in a sealed verdict, at the opening of
the Court, in case of an agreement during a recess or
adjournment for the day. A final adjournment of the
Court for the term discharges the jury.

SEC. 382. When the ‘my have agreed upon their
verdict, they must be con ucted into Court, their names
called by the Clerk, and the verdict rendered by their

foreman. The verdict must be in writing, signed by
the foreman, and must be read by the Clerk to the jury,
and the in uiry made whether it is their verdict. If
any juror isagrees, they must be sent out again; but if
no disagreementbe expressed, and neither party re uires
the ‘my to be polled, the verdict is complete and t ie jury ischarged rom the case. Either arty may require
te jury to bepolled, which is done y the Court or
Clerk asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one‘
answer in the ne tive, the jury must again be sent out.

Sec. 383. W en the verdict is announced, if it is informal or insutlicient, in not covering the issue submitted, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of
the Court, or the jury may be again sent out.

SEC. 384. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that b which they pronounce generally upon all or any of t e issues, either in
favor of the plaintiif or defendant; a special verdict is
that by which the ‘my find the facts only, leaving the
judgment to the ourt. The special verdict must present the conclusions of fact as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and those
conclusions of fact must be so presented as that nothing
shall remain to the Court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 385. In an action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion, may render a general or s ecial verdict. In all
other cases the Court may direct tlle jury to find a special
verdict in writing upon all or any of the issues, and in
all cases may instruct them, if they rendera general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated
in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon.
The special verdict or finding must be filed with the
Clerk and entered upon the minutes. Where a special
finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict,
the former controls the latter, and the Court must give
judgment accordingly.

Sec. 386. Whenaverdict is found for the plaintiff
in an action for the recovery of money, or for the defend-v.
ant, when a counter claim for the recovery of money is?
established, exceeding the amount of the plaintiti"s claim?
as established, the jury must also find the amount of the
recovery.

Sec. 387. In an action for the recovery of specific‘
personal property, if the property has not been delivered}
to the plaintiff, or the defen ant, by his answer, claim a1

return thereof, the ‘my, if their verdict be in favor of
the plaintiff, or, if ing in favor of the defendant, they
also iind that he is entitled to a return thereof, must find
the value of the property, and if so instructed, the value
of speciiic portions thereof, and may at the same time,
assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint
or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by
reason of the taking or detention of such property.

Sec. 388. U on receiving a verdict, an entry must
be made by the ‘lerk in the minutes of the Court, specifying the time of trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, and setting out the verdict at length; and where
s ecial verdict is found, either the judgment rendered
t ereon, or if the case be reserved for argument or further
consideration, the order thus reserving it.

CHAPTER XXIV.

TRIAL BY THE COURT.

Bncnort 389. When and bow trial by jury may be waived. .

390. Upon trial by Court decision to be in writing and tiled within
twenty days.

891. Facts tound and conclusions of law must be separately stated.
Judgment on.

80?. Finding may be waived. how.

393. Proceedings after determination of issue of law.

SEC. 389. Trial by jury may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact in actions arising on contract, or, for the recovery of specific real or personal
property, with or without damages, and with the assent
of the Court, in other actions, in manner following:

]. By failing to appear at the trial; '

2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed
with the Clerk;

3. By oral consent, in open Court, entered in the
minutes;

SEC. 390. Upon a trial of a question of fact by the
Court, its decision must be given in writing and filed
with the Clerk within twenty days after the cause is
submitted for decision.

SEC. 391. In giving the decision, the facts found and
the conclusions of law must be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision 1nust be entered accordingly.

SEC. 392. Findings of fact may be waived by the several parties to an issue of fact:

1. By failing to appear at the trial;

7

2. By consent in writing, filed with the Clerk;

3. By oral consent in open Court, entered in- the
minutes.

Sec. 393. On a judgment for the plaintiff upon an
issue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed
by the first two subdivisions of Section 356 upon the
failure of the defendant to answer. If judgment be for
the defendant upon an issue of law, and the taking of an
account, or the proof of any fact, be necessary to enable the Court to com lets the judgment, a reference
may be ordered, as in t at section provided.

CHAPTER XXV.

OF REFERENCES AND TRIALS BY REFEREES.

Scene: 394. Reference ordered upon agreement of parties, in whatcuei.
Reference ordered on motion, in what cases.

Number of referees, qualifications. etc.

Either party may object. Grounds ofobjectlon.

Objections. how disposed oi

Referees to report within twenty

400. Effect of referee's Ending.

401. How excepted to, etc.

sass;

SEC. 394. A reference may be ordered upon the
agreement of the parties filed with the Clerk, or entered
in the minutes:

1. To try any or all of the issues in an action or roceedin , whether of fact or of law, and to report 9. uding an judgment thereon; ~

2. To ascertain a fact necessary to enable the Court
to determine an action or proceeding.

Sec. 395. When the parties do not consent, the
Court may, upon the application of either, or of its own
motion, direct a reference in the following cases:

1. When the trial of an issue of fact requires the exmination of a long account on either side; in which case
the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole
1£$Ie,_ or report upon any specific question of fact involved

rem;

2. When the taking of an account is necessary for the
information of the Court before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into effect;

3. When a question of fact, other than upon the

pleadings, arises upon motion or otherwise, in any stage
of the action;

4. When it is necessary for tne information of the

’ Court in a special proceeding.

SEC. 396. A reference may be ordered to any person
or persons, not exceeding three, agreed u on by the parties. If the parties do not agree, the urt or Judge
must ap oint one or more referees, not exceeding three,
who resi e in the county in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against whom there is no legal objection.

SEC. 397. Either party may object to the appointment of any person as referee, on one or more of the
following grounds:

. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by
statute to render a person competent as a nror;

2. Consanguinity or afiinity, within the third degree.
to either party;

3. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward.
master and servant, employer and clerk, or principal
and agent, to either party, or being a member of the
family of either party; or a partner in business with
either party; or being security on any bond or obligation for either party;

4. Having served as a juror or'been a witness on any
trial between the same parties for the same cause of action.

5. Interest on the part of such person in the event of
the action, or in the main question involved in the action;

6. Having formed or expressed an unqualified opinion
or belief as to the merits of the action;

7. The existence of a state of mind in such person
evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

SEC. 398. The objections taken to the appointment
of any person as referee must be heard and disposed of
by the Court. Aflidavits may be read and witnesses examined as to such objections.

SEC. 399. The referees must report their findings in
Writing to the Court within twenty days after the testimony is closed’. and the facts found and conclusions of
law must be separately stated therein.

SEC. 400. The finding of the referee upon the whole
issue must stand as the finding of the Court, and upon
filing of the finding with the Clerk of the Court, judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if
the action had been tried by the Court.

SEC. 401. The findings of the referee may be excepted
to and reviewed in like manner as if made by the Court,
When the reference is to report. the facts, the finding
reported has the effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER XXVL
EXCEPTIONS.

Bncnox 402. Exceptions may be taken. Time when taken. etc.

what deemed excepted to.

Exception, form of.

Exceptions signed by Judge and filed with Clerk.

Exceptions not presented at time of ruling. Notice to 8d\'( no
party. hoiv settled upon, etc.

Exceptions atter judgment. etc.

When exception is refused. application to Supreme Court to
prove the name. etc.

Proceedings where Judge ceases to hold oilice.

.5 55 .§.§§§

SEC. 402. An exception is an objection upon a:
matter of law to a decision made either before or after‘

judgment, by a Court, tribunal, J udge, or other udicial

officer, in an action or proceeding. he exception must
be taken at the time the decision is made, except as provided in the next section.

SEC. 403. The verdict of the jury, the final decision‘
in an action or proceeding, an lnterlocutory order or‘
decision, finally deteriniuin the rights of the parties, or(
some of them; an order or cfecision from which an appeal
may be taken; an order sustaining or overruling a
demurrer, allowing or refusing to allow an amendment
to a pleading, striking out a pleading or a portion
thereof, refusing a continuance; an order made upon ex
parte application, and an order or decision made in the
absence of a party, are deemed to have been excepted to.

SEC. 404. No particular form ofexcc tion is required. 1
But when the exception is to the ver ict or decision,’
upon the grounds of the insufliciency of the evidence to
sustain it, the objection must specify the articulars in
which such evidence is alleged to be iusu cicnt. The
objection must be stated, with so much ofthe evidence or
other matter as is necessary to explain it, and no more.
Only the substance of the reporter’s notes of the evidence
shall be stated. Documents on file in the action or proceeding may be copied, or the substance thereofstated, or a
reference thereto, suiiicient to identify them may be made.

Sec. 405. A bill containing the exce tion to any decision may be presented to the Court or «fudge for settle-A
ment at the time the decision is made, and after having
been settled, shall be signed by the Judge and filed with
the Clerk. When the decision excepted to is made by

a tribunal other than a Court, or by a judicial otlicer, the
bill of exceptions shall be presented to, and settled and
signed by such tribunal or omcer.

SEC. 406. When a party desires to have exceptions
taken at a trial settled in a bill of exceptions, he may.
within ten days after the entry of judgment, if the action
were tried with a jury, or after receiving notice of the
entry of jud ment, if the action were tried without a
jury, or sue 1 further time as the Court in which the action is peuding, or a Judge thereof, may allow, prepare
the draft of a bill, and serve the same, or a copy thereof,
upon the adverse party. Such draft must contain all the
exceptions taken upon which the party relies. Within
ten days after such service, the adverse party may propose amendments thereto, and serve the same, or a copy
thereof, upon the other party. The roposed bill and
amendments must, within ten days t ereatter, be resented by the party seeking the settlement of the hi1 , to
the Judge who tried or heard the case, n n live days
notice to the adverse party, or be deliver to the clerk
of the Court for the Judge. When received by the clerk,
he must immediately deliver them to the Judge, if he be
in the county; if he be absent from the county, and either
party desire the papers to be forwarded to the Judge,
the clerk must, upon notice in writing of such party. immediately forward them by mail, or other safe channel;

if not thus forwarded, the clerk must deliver them to theJudge immediately after his return to the county. When
received from the clerk, the Judge must desi nate the
time at which he will settle the bill, and the c erk must
immediately notify the parties of such designation. At
the time designated, the Judge must settle the bill. If
the action was tried before a referee, the proposed bill,
with the amendments, if any, must be presented to such
referee for settlement within ten days after service of the
amendments, upon notice of five days to the adverse
party, and thereupon the referee shall settle the bill. If
no amendments are served, or if served are allowed, the
proposed bill may be presented, with the amendments.
if any, to the Judge or referee, for settlement without notice to the adverse party. It is the duty of the Judge or
referee, in settling the bill, to strike out of it all redundant and useless matter, so that the exceptions may be
presented as briefly as ssible. When settled, the bill
must be signed by the udge or referee, with his certificate to the effect that the same is allowed, and shall then
be filed with the clerk.

Sec. 407. Exceptions to any decision made after jud ment may be presented to the Judge at the time of sudli
decision,and be settled or noted, as provided in Section 405,
and a bill thereof may be presented and settled afterwards, as provided in Section 406, and within like periods
after entry of the order, upon appeal, from which such
decision is reviewable.

SEC. 408. If the Judge in any case refuse to allow}
an exception in accordance with the facts, the party de-1
siring t e bill settled may apply by petition to the Sn-i

reme Court to prove the same. The ap lication may‘
made in the mode and manner, and un er such regulations as that Court may rescribe; and the bill, when
roven, must be certified y a Justice as correct, and
led with the Clerk of the Court in which the action
was tried, and when so filed it has the same force and
eEect as if settled by the Judge who tried the cause.

SEC. 409. When the decision exce ted to was made
by any judicial officer other than a Judge, the bill of
exceptions shall be presented to such judicial oiiicer and

be settled and signed by him, in the same manner as it

‘is required to be presented to, settled, and signed by a

Court or Judge. A Judge or judicial otlicer may settle
and sign a bill of exceptions after as well as before he
ceases to be such Judge or °udicial oflicer. If such Judge 3
or judicial otlicer, before t ie bill of exceptions is settled, «
dies, is removed from oilicc, becomes disqualified, is ab-‘
sent from the Territory, or refuses to settle the bill of exceptions, or if no mode is rovided by law for the settlement of the same, it shall settled and certified in such
manner as the Supreme Court may, by its order or rules,
direct. Judges, judicial officers, and the Supreme Court
shall respectively possess the same power, in settling and
certifying statements, as is by this section conterred
upon them in settling and certifying bills of exceptions.

CHAPTER XXVII.

NEW TRIALS.

8101103 410. New trial detined.
411. When a new trial may be granted.
412. On what papers moved for.

413. Notice of motion, upon whom served and what to contain.
414. Motion to be heard.

415. Record on appeal.
(16. New trial ordered by Court.
417. Motion, when heard.

!
4

SEC. 410. A new trial is a re-examination of an
issue of fact in the same Court after a trial and decision
by a jury or Court, or by referees.

SEC. 411. The former verdict or other decision may
be vacated and.a new trial granted, on the application of
the party grieved, for any of the following causes,
materially agecting the substantial rights of such party :

1. Irregnlarity in the proceedings of the Court, jury,
or adverse art , or any order of the Court or abuse of
discretion lly which either party was prevented from
having a fair trial;

2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one
or more of the urors have been induced to assent to any
general. or special verdict, or to a finding on any question
submitted to them by the Court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by
the aiiidavit of any one of the urors;

3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against;

4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
makin, the ap lication, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, ave discovered and produced at the trial;

5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the iniluence of passion or prejudice;

6. Insufliciency of the evidence to {ustify the verdict
or other decision, or that it is against aw;

7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted
to by the party making the application.

SEC. 412. When the application is made for a cause
mentioned in the first, second, third, and fourth subdivisions of the last section, it must be made upon at‘&davits; for any other cause it may be made, at the option of
the moving party, either upon the minutes of the Court,
or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case, prepared as hereinatter provided.

SEC. 413. The party intendin to move for a new
trial must, within ten days after t e verdict of the ury,
if the action were tried by a jury, or after notice of the
decision of the Court or referee, if the action were tried
without a jury, tile with the Clerk and serve upon the
adverse party a notice of his intention, designating the
grounds upon which the motion will be made, and
whether the same will be made upon atlidavits or the
minutes of the Court, or a bill of exceptions, or a statement of the case;

1. It‘ the motion is to be made upon aiiidavits, the

moving party must, within ten days after serving the

notice, or such further time as the Court in which the action is pendin , or a Judge thereof may allow, file such
affidavit with t e Clerk, and serve a copy upon the adverse party, .who shall have ten days to file counter ailidavits, a copy of which must be served upon the moving

rt .
pa2.yIf the motion is to be made upon abill of excep-4
tions, and no bill has already been settled as hereinbcfore‘
provided, the moving party shall have the same time after service of the notice to prepare and obtain a settlement of a bill of exce tions, as is provided after the entry of judgment, or a ter receiving notice of such entry
by Section 406, and the hill shall be prepared and settled
in a similar manner. If a bill of exceptions has been
already settled and tiled, when the notice of motion is
given, such bill shall be used on the motion;

3. If the motion is to be made on a statement of the‘
case, the moving party must, within ten days after
service of the notice, or such further time as the Court
in which the action is pending, or the Judge thereof,
may allow, prepare a draft of the statement, and serve
the same, or a copy thereof, upon the adverse )arty. If
such proposed statement be not agreed to by t ie adverse
party, he must, within ten days thereafter, prepare
amendments thereto, and serve the same, or a copy thereof, upon the moving party. If the amendments be
adopted, the statement shall be amended accordingly, and
then presented to the Jud who tried or heard the
cause, for settlement, or he elivered to the Clerk of the
Court for the J udge, If not adopted, the proposed
statement and amendments, shall, within ten days thereafter, be presented by the moving party to the Judge,
upon tive days notice to the adverse party, or delivered
to the Clerk of the Court for the Judge; and thereupon
the same proceedings for the settlement of the statement
shall be taken by the parties, and (‘lerk, and Judge, as
are required for the settlement of bills of exception by Section 406. If the action was heard by areferee, the
same proceedings shall be had for the settlement of the
statement by him as are required by that section for the
settlement of bills of exception by a referee. If no
amendments are served within the time designated, or, if
served, are allowed, the proposed statement and amendments, if any, may be presented to the Judge or referee,
for settlement, without notice to the adverse party.
When the notice of the motion designates as the ground
of the motion, the insutiiciency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, the statement shall
specify the articulars in which such evidence is alleged
to be insuflibient. When the notice designates as the
ground of the motion, errors in law occurring at the
trial and exce ted to by the moving party, the statement
shall s cif t e particular errors upon which the party
will re y. f no such specifications be made, the statement shall be disregarded on the hearing of the motion.
It is the duty of the Judge or referee, in settling the
statement, to strike out of it all redundant and useless
matter, and to make the statement truly represent the
the case, notwithstanding the assent of the parties to
such redundant or useless matter, or to any inaeurate
statement. When settled, the statement shall be signed
by the Judge or referee, with his certificate to the effect
that ghe same is allowed, and shall then be filed with the
Cler .

4. When the motion is to be made upon the minutes
of the Court, and the ground of the motion is the insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, the notice of motion must specify the particulars in which the evidence is alleged to be insufficient;
and, if the ground of the motion be errors in law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the moving party,
the notice must specifv the particular errors upon which
the party will re y. If the notice do not contain the
s xfications here indicated, when the motion is made on
t 1e minutes of the Court, the motion must be denied.

SEC. 414. The application for a new trial shall be
heard at the earliest practicable period after notice of the
motion, if the motion is to be heard upon the minutes of
the Court, and in other cases, after the aflidavits, bill of
exceptions, or statement, as the case may be, are filed,
and may be brought to a bearing upon motion of either
party. On such hearincr reference may be had in all
cases to the pleadings and orders of the Court on file, and
when the motion is made on the minutes, reference may
also be had to any depositions, documentary evidence,
and phonogra hie report of the testimony on file.

SEC. 415. ll.‘he judgment roll and the afiidavits, or
bill of exceptions, or statement, as the case may be, used
on the hearing, with a copy of the order made, shall constitute the reeord to be used on appeal from the order
granting or refusing a new trial, unless the motion be
made on the minutes of the Court, and in that case the
judgment roll and a statement to be subsequently prepared, with a copy of the order, shall constitute the

record on appeal. Such subsequent statement shall be
pro sed by the party appealing, or intending to appeal,
wit iiu ten days after the entry of the order, or such
further time as the Court in which the action is pending,
or a Judge thereof, may allow, and the same or a copy
thereof be served upon the adverse party, who shall have
ten days thereafter to prepare amendments thereto, and
serve the same, or a copy thereof’, upon the party appealin , or intending to appeal; and thereafter proceedlugs s iall be had, and within like periods, for the
settlement of the statement, as provided by See. 413, but
the statement shall only contain’ the grounds argued
before the Court for a new trial, and so much ot the
evidence or other matter as may be necessary to explain
them; and it shall be the duty of the Judge to exclude
all other evidence or matter from the statement.

Sec. 416. The verdict of a jury may also be vacated,
and a new trial granted by the Court, in which the action
is pending, on its own motion, without the application
of either of the parties, when there has been suci a plain
disregard by the jury of the instructions of the Court,
or the evidence in the case, as to satisfy the Court that
the verdict was rendered under a misapprehension of such
instructions, or under the influence of passion or prejudice. The order of the Court may be reviewed on
appeal in the same manner as orders made on motions
for a new trial, and a statement to be used on such
appeal may be prepared in the same manner as statements after a motion is heard upon the minutes of the
Court, as provided in Section 415. 
SEC. 417. When the action is tried y a District
J ndge in his district, out of the county of his residence,
the motion for a new trial ma , upon the consent of
parties, be brought to hearing fore such Judge at
chambers, or in open Court, in the county of his
residence, or in any other county.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

MANNER OF GIVING AND ENTERING JUDGMENT.

Section 418. Judgment to be entered in twenty-four hours, etc.

419. Case may bebrought before the Court for argument.

420 When counter claim established exceeds rlaintiffs demand.
421. In replevlmjudgment t be in the alternative. and with dame

ages. Gold coin or currency judgment.
422. Judgment book to be kept by the Clerk.

423. If a party die after verdict judgment may be entered, but notto
he a lien.

424. Judgment roll, what to constitute.

423. Judgment lien, when it begins and when it expires.

426 Docket. how kept, and what to contain.

427. Dockettobe open to inspection without charge.

428. Transcript to be filed in any county, and judgment to become a
lien there.

429. Satisfaction of a judgment, how made

SEC. 418. When trial by 'ury has been had, judgment must be entered by the lerk, in conformity to
the verdict, within twenty-four hours after the rendition
of the verdict, unless the Court order the case to be reserved for argument or further consideration, or grant a
stay of proceedings.

SEC. 419. When the case is reserved for argument

’or further consideration, as mentioned in the last section,
it may be brought by either party before the Court for
argument.

SEC. 420. If a counter claim, established at the trial,
exceed the plaintii}"s demand, udginent for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it appear that the
defendant is entitled to any other atiirmative relief, judgment must be iven accordingly.

SEC. 421. u an action to recover the possession of
'personal property, udgment for the plaintitf may be for
the possession or the value thereof, in case adelivery can
not be had, and dam es for the detention. If the property has been deliver to the plaintiff, and the defendant
claim a return thereof, udgment for the defendant may
be for a return of the property or the value thereof, in
case a return cannot be had, and damages for taking and
withholding the same. In an action on a contract or
obligation in writing, for the direct payment of money,
made payable in a specified kind of money or currency,
judgment for the plaintiff, whether it be by default or
after verdict, may follow the contract or obligation, and
be made payable in the kind of money or currency
specified therein; and in all actions for the recovery of
money, if the plaintiff allege in his complaint that the
same was understood and agreed by the respective parties
to be payable in a specified kind of money or currency,
and this fact is admitted by the default of the defendant
or established by evidence, the udgment for the plaintiff
must be made ayable in the kind of money or currency
so alleged in tlle complaint; and in an action against
any person for the recovery of money received by such
person in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another,

judgment for the plaintiff must be made payable in the
in of money or currency so received b such a person.

Sec. 422. The Clerk must keep, wit the records of:
the Court, a book to be called the “judgment book,” in
which judgments must be entered. '

Sec. 423. If a party die after a verdict or decision}
upon any issue of fact, and before judgment, the Court]
may nevertheless render jud ment thereon. Such judg-j
ment is not a lien on the real property of the deceased
party, but is payable in the course of administration on

is estate.

Sec. 424. Immediately after enterin the °udgment,;
the Clerk must attach together and file tie following pa-;
pers, which constitute the judgment roll:

1. In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons, with the afiidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with a memorandum iudorsed
thereon that the default of the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the judgment;

2. In all other cases, the pleadings,a copy of the verdict of the jury, or finding of the Court, or referee, all
bills of exceptions taken and filed, and a copy of any order made on demurrer, or relating to a change of parties,
and a copy of the judgment. If there are two or more
defendants in the action. and any one of them has allowed judgment topass against him by default, the summons, with proof of its service upon such defendant, must
also be added to the other papers mentioned in this subdivision.

Sec. 425. Immediately after filing a judgment roll,
the Clerk must make the proper entries of the udgment,i
under appropriate heads, in the docket ke it by him; and
from the time the judgment is dockete it becomes a
lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtor,
not exempt from execution, in the county, owned by him
at the time or which he may afterwards acquire, until the
lien expires. The lien continues for two years unless the
judgment be previously satisfied.

Sec. 426. The docket mentioned in the last section is
a book which the Clerk keeps in his oflice, with each

we divided into eight columns, and headed as follows:

udgment debtors; Judgment creditors; j udg1nent—time
of entry; where entered in judgment book; appealswhen taken; judgment of appellate Court; satisfaction
of judgment; when entered. If judgment be for the
recovery of money or damages, the amount must be
stated in the docket under the head of judgment; if the

judgment be for any other relief, a memorandum of the
eneral character of the relief granted must be stated.
he names of the defendants must be entered in alphabetical order.

SEC. 427. The docket kept by the Clerkis open at all
times, during oflice hours, for the inspection of the public, without charge. The Clerk must arrange the several dockets kept by him in such a manner as to facilitate their inspection.

SEC. 428. A transcript of the original docket, certified by the Clerk, may be filed with the Recorder of any
other county, and from the time of the filing the judgment becomes alien upon all the real property of the
judgment debtor, not exem t from execution, in such
county, owned b him at t e time, or which he may
afterwards, and fore the lien ex ires, acquire. The
lien continues for two years, unless e judgment be previously satisfied.

Sec. 429. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered
in the clerk’s docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or u u an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed with
the Cler made in the manner of an acknowled ment a
conveyance of real property, by the jud mentc itor, or
by his indorsement on the face, or, on t e margin of the
record of the judgment, or by the attorney, unless a revocation of his authority is filed. Whenever a judgment
is satisiied in fact, otherwise than upon an execution,
the party or attorney must give such acknowledgment,
or make such indorsement, and, upon motion, the Court
may compel it, or may order the entry of satisfaction
to be made without it.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE EXECUTION.

Blcnoit 430. Within what time execution may isuet

431. Who may issue the execution, its form, towhom directed, and
what it shall require.

432. When made new rnable.

433. Money judgments and others, how enforced.

434. Execution after ave years.

433. When execution mayissue against the property of a party aiier
his death.

436. Execution. how and to whom issued.

487. What shall be liable to be seized in execution. Not to be saboted till a levy is made.

488 When property is claimed by a third party. how the right of

property is tried.

489. Harried woman. \

440. What exempt from execution.

441. Writ, how executed.

Notice of sale under execution how given.

Selling without notice. what penalty attached.

Sales, how conducted.

1? purchaser refuses to pay purchase money, what proceedings.

Oilicer may refuse bid.

These two sections not to make omcer liable beyond a certain
amount.

Personal property capable of manual delivery. how delivered to
purchaser.

Personal property not capable of manual delivery, how sold and
delivered

Real property. when absolute sale or not. In the latter case,
what the certiiicate must contain.

Real property so sold. by whom it may be redeemed.

When it may be redeemed, and redemption money.

When judgment debtor or other redemptioner may redeem.

In cases of redemption. to whom the payments are to be made.

What a redemptioner must do in order to redeem.

Until the expiration oi‘ redemption time Court may restrain
waste on the property. What considered waste.

Rents and pronts.

If purchaser of real property be evicted for irregularities in sale,
what he may recover. and from whom.

459. Party who pays more than his share may compel contribution.

5.5 §.5§§E5 S .5 E $§.E£E's5

SEC. 430. The party in whose favor jud ment is:
given, may, at any time within five years after t re entry}
thereof, have a writ of execution issued for its enforce-I
ment.

Sec. 431. The writ of execution must be issued in‘
the name of the people, sealed with the seal of the Court,j
and subscribed by the Clerk, and be directed to the!
Sheriff, and it must intelligibly refer to the judgment,i
stating the Court, the county where the udgment roll is}
filed, and if it be for money, the amount thereof, and the‘
amount actually due thereon, and if made payable in a
specified kind of money or currency, as provided in Section 421, the execution must also state the kind of money
or currency in which the jud ment is ayable, and must
require the Sheriff substantia ly as folibws:

1. If it be against the property of the judgment
debtor, it must require the bheriif to satisfy the jud ment, with interest, out of the personal property of suc
debtor, and if snfiicient personal property cannot be
found, then out of his real property; or if the judgment
be alien upon real property, then out of the real property belonging to him on the day when the judgment
was docketed, or at any time thereafter ; or if the execution be issued to a county other than the one in which
the judgment was recovered, on the day when the transcript of the docket was tiled in the ofiice of the Recorder
of such county, stating such day, or any time thereafter.

2. If it be against real or personal property in the
hands of the personal representatives, heirs, devisees,
legatees, tenants, or trustees. it must require the Sheriff
to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of such propert ;

3’: If it be against the person of the jud ment debtor,
it must require the Sheriff to arrest suc debtor and
commit him to the jail of the county until he pay the
ljudgment, with interest, or be discharged according to
aw;

4. If it be issued on a judgment made payable in a
specified kind of money or currency, as provided in Section 421, it must also require the Sheriff to satisfy the
same in the kind of money or currency in which the
judgment is made payable, and the Sheriff must refuse
payment in any otherkind of money or currency; and
In case of levy and sale of the property of the judgment
debtor, he must refuse payment from any purchaser at
such sale in any other kind of money or currency than
that specined in the execution. The Sheriff collecting
money or currency in the manner required by this Chapter, must pay to the plaintiff or party entitled to recover
the same, the same kind of money or currency received
by him, and in case of neglect or refusal so to do, he shall
be liable on his ofiicial bond to the judgment creditor in
three times the amount of the money so collected;

5. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real
or personal property, it must require the Sheriff to
deliver the possession of the same, describing it, to the
part entitled thereto, and may at the same time require
the heriff to satisfy any costs, damages, rents, or profits
recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal
property of the person against whom it was rendered, and
the value of the property for which the jud ment was
rendered to be specified therein if a delivery t ereof cannot be had; and if suflicient personal property cannot. be
found, then out of the real property, as provided in the
nrst subdivision of this section.

SEC. 432. The execution may be made returnable, at
any time not less than ten nor more than sixty days after its receipt by the Sheriff, to the Clerk with whom the
judgment roll is filed. When the execution is returned,
the Clerk must attach it to the judgment roll. If any
real estate be levied upon, the Clerk must record the execution and the return thereto at large, and certify the

same under his hand as true copies, in a book to be!
called the “execution book,” which book must be indexed,
with the names of the plaintiffs and defendants in execution alphabetically arranged, and kept open at all times
during otiice hours for the inspection of the public, without charge. It is evidence of the contents of the originals whenever they, or any part thereof, may be destroyed
or mutilated. ‘

Sec. 433. When the judgment is for money, or the;‘

ion of real or personal property, the same may be.
enforced by a writ of execution; and if the judgment;
direct that the defendant be arrested, the execution may
issue against the person of the judgment debtor, after
the return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in whole or part; when the judgment requires the
sale of property, the same may be enforced b a writ reciting such judgment, or the material arts t erect‘, and
directing the proper otiicer to execute t e judgment, by
making the sale and applying the proceeds in conformity
therewith; when the judgment re uires the performance
of any other act than as ‘above designated, a certified
copy of the judgment may be served upon the party
against whom the same is rendered, or upon the person
or otiicer required thereby or by law to obey the same,
and obedience thereto may be enforced by the Court.

Sec. 434. In all cases other than for the recovery of 2
money, the judgment may be enforced or carried into ex-§
ecution after the lapse of five years from the date of its
entry, by leave of the Court, upon motion, or by jud ment for that purpose, founded upon supplemental ple ings.

Sec. 435. Notwithstanding the death of a party after‘
the judgment, execution thereon may be issued, or it}
may be enforced, as follows: 1

1. In the case of the death of the judgment creditor,f
upon the application of his executor or administrator, or
successor in interest;

2. In case of the death of the judgment debtor, if the
judgment be for the recovery of real or personal propert , or the enforcement of alien thereon.

SEC. 436. Where the execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it may he issued to the
Sheriff of any county in the Territory. Where it requires the delivery) of real or personal property, it must
be issued to the S eriff of the county where the property,
or some part thereof, is situated. Executions may be
issued, at the same time, to different counties.

SEC. 437. All goods, chattels, moneys. and other
property, both real and personal, or any interest therein
ot' the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and all
property and rights of property, seized and held under
attachment in the action, are liable to execution. Shares
and interests in any corporation or com any, and debts
and credits, and all other property, bot real and personal, or any interest in either real or personal property,
and all other property not capable of manual delivery,
may he attached on execution, in like manner as upon
writs of attachments. Gold dust must be returned by
the ofiicer as so much money collected, at its current
value, without ex osing the same to sale. Until a levy,
property is not a ected by the execution.

SEC. 438. If the property levied on be claimed by a

third person ashis property, the Sheriff may snmm on from
his county six persons qualified as jurors, between the
parties, to try the validity of the claim. He must also
give notice of the claim and ot' the time of trial to the
plaintiff, who may appear and contest the claim before i
thejury. The jury and the witnesses must Le sworn ‘
by the Sheriff, and if their verdict be in favor of the
claimant the Sherilf may relinquish the levy, unless the
judgment creditor give him a sufiieient indemnity for
proceeding thereon. The fees of the jury, the Sheriff,
and the witnesses must be paid by the claimant, if the
verdict be a ainst him; otherwise by the plaintiff. Each
party must eposit with the Sheriff, before the trial. the
amount of his fees, and the fees of the jury, and the
Sheriff must pay the same to the prevailing party.

SEC. 439. All real and personal estate belonging to

any married woman at the time of her marria_-,re, or to

which she subsequently becomes entitled in her own
right. and all the rents, issues and profits thereof, and
all compensation due or owing for her personal services,
is exempt from execution against her husband. _
SEC. 440. The following property is exempt from
execution, except as herein otherwise specially provided;
1. Chairs, tables, desks, and books, to the value of
two hundred dollars, belonging to the judgment debtor;
2. Necessary household, table, and kitchen furniture
belonging to the judgment debtor, including one sewing machine, in actual use in a family, or belonging to a
woman; stoves, stovepipe, and stove furniture, wearing
apparel, beds, bedding and bedsteads, hanging pictures,
oil paintings and drawings, drawn or painted by any
member of the family, and family portraits and their

necessary frames, provisions, actually rovided for individual or family use, suflicieut for t ree months; two
cows, with their sucking calves, and two hogs, with their
sucking pigs; A

3. The farming utensils or im lements of husbandry
of a farmer, not exceeding in va us the sum of three
hundred dollars; also, two oxen or two horses, or two
mules and their harness, one cart or wagon, and food for
such oxen, horses, or mules, for one month; also, all seed

rain or vegetables actually provided, reserved, or on

land for the purpose of planting or sowing at any time
within the ensuing six months, not exceeding in value
the sum of two hundred dollars;

4. Tools or implements of a mechanic or artisan
necessary to carry on his trade, not exceeding in value
the sum of five hundred dollars; the notarial seal and
records of a Notary Public; the instruments and chest
of a surgeon, physician, surveyor and dentist, necessary
to the exercise of their profession, with their scientific
and professional libraries; the law professional libraries
and oilice furniture of attorneys, counselors, and Judges,
and the libraries of ministers of the gospel;

5. The cabin or dwelling of a miner, not exceeding
in value the sum of five hundred dollars; also, his sluices,
pipes, hose, windlass, derrick, cars, umps, and tools not
exceeding in value two hundred dol ars.

6. Two oxen, two horses, or two mules, and theirharness; and one cart or wagon, one dray or truck, by the
use of which a cartman, drayman, truckman, huckster,
peddler, hackman, teamster, or other laborer habitually
mrns his living; and one horse, with vehicle and harness,
or other equipments, used by a hysician, surgeon, or
minister of the gospel, in making his rofessional visits,
with food for such oxen, horses, or mules for one month;

7. The earnings of the judgment debtor for his rsonal services, rendered at any time within thirty d):ys
next preceding the levy of execution, or levy of attachment, when it appears, by the debtor’s aflidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are necessary for the use of his

family, residing in this Territory, supported wholly or in
part by his labor; 8. The shares held by a member of a homestead
association dulyincorporated, not exceeding in value one
thousand dollars—if the person holdinor the share is not
the owner of a homestead under the laws of this
Territory; .

9. All moneys, benefits, privileges, or immunities

accruing, or in any manner growing out of any life ,
insurance on the life of the debtor, to an amount re re- A
sented by an annual premium not exceeding two hun red
and fifty dollars;

10. All fire engines, hooks and ladders, with the carts,
trucks, and carriages, hose, buckets, implements, and
apparatus thereto appertaining, and all furniture and
uniforms of any fire company or department organized a
under any law of this Territory; “

11. All arms, uniforms, and accouterments required
by law to be kept by any person; also one gun;

12. All Court Houses, Jails, public offices and buildings, lots, grounds and personal property, the fixtures,
furniture, books, papers, and a purtenances belonging
and pertaining to the Court Hlbuse, Jail, and public
oflices belonging to any county of this Territory, and all
cemeteries, public squares, parks, and places, public
buildings, town halls, markets, buildings for the use ot'
fire departments and military organizations, and the lots
and grounds thereto belonging and appertaining, owned
or held by any town or incorporated city, or dedicated by
such town or city to health, ornament, or public use, or
for the use of any fire or military company organized under the laws of this Territory; but no article or species
ot' property mentioned in this section is exempt from
execution issued upon a judgment recovered for its price,
or upon a mortgage thereon.

SEC. 441. The Sheriff must execute the writ against
the property of the judgment debtor, by levying on a
sufiicient amount of property, if there be suflicient; collecting or selling the t ings in action, and selling the
other property, and paying to the laintiff or his attorney
so much of the proceeds as wilfsatisfy the judgment.
Any excess in the proceeds over the judgment and accruing costs, must be returned to the judgment debtor.
unless otherwise directed by the judgment or order of
the Court. When there is more property of the judgment debtor than is suflicient to satisfy the udszment and
accruin costs within the view of the Sheriff, he must
levy on y on such part of the property as the udgment
debtor may indicate, if the property indicated be amply
sufficient to satisfy the jud ment and costs.

SEC. 442. Before the sa e of the pro erty on execution, notice thereof must be given, as fol ows:

1. In case of perishable roperty, by posting written
notice of the time and p ace of sale in three public. ‘
places of the precinct or cityuwhere the sale is to take

place, for such time as may be reasonable, considering:
the character and condition of the property;

2. In case of other personal property, by postinga
similar notice in three public places in the precinct or
city where the sale is to take place, for not less than five
nor more than ten da s;

3. In case of res property, by posting a similar notice, particularly describing the property, for twenty
days, in three public places of the precinct or city where
the property is situated, and also where the property is
to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof once a week for
the same ppriod, in some newspaper published in the
county, if t ere be one;

4. When the judgment under which the (property is
to be sold is made payable in a specific kind of
money or currency, the several notices required by this section must state the kind of money or currency in
which bids may be-made at such sale, which must be the
same as that specified in the judgment.

Sec. 443. An otiicer selling without the notice pre-:
scribed hy the last section forfeits tive hundred dollars toi
the aggrieved party, in addition to his actual damages;
and a person willfully taking down or defacing the notice posted, if done before the sale or the satisfaction of
the judgment (if the judgment be satisfied before sale),
lorteits five hundred dollars.

SEC. 444. All sales of property under execution must:
be made at auction, to the highest bidder, between the‘
hours of nine in the mornin and five in the afternoon.
After suiiicient property has en sold to satisfy the execution, no more can be sold. Neither the oflicer holding:
the execution nor his deputy can become a purchaser, orj
be interested in any purchasq at such sale. When the}
sale is ot' personal property, capable of manual delivery,
it must be within view of those who attend the sale, and}
be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring thel
highest price; and when the sale is of real property, consisting of several known lots or parcels, they must be
sold se rate] y, or when a portion ofsnch real property is
claim by a third person, and he nires it to be
sold separately, such portion -must be t us sold. Thejndgment debtor. if present at the sale, may also directl
the order in which property, real or personal, shall bef
sold, when such property consists of several known lots
or parcels, or of articles which can be sold to advantige
separately, and the sheriffmust follow such directions.

SEC. 445. If a purchaser refuse to pay the amount

bid by him for property struck off to him at asale under

execution. the officer may again sell the property at any
time to the highest bidder, and if any loss be occasioned
thereby, the officer may recover the amount of such loss,
with costs, from the bidder so refusing, in any court of
competent jurisdiction.

SEC. 446. When a purchaser refuses to pay, the
ofiicer may, in his discretion, thereafter reject any subsequent bid of such person.

SEC. 447. The two receding sections must not be

construed to make the o cer liable for any more than the

amount bid by the second or subsequent purchaser, and
the amount collected from the purchaser refusing to

ay.
SEC. 448. When the purchaser of any personal property capable of manual delivery pays the purchase money,
the otiicer making the sale must deliver to the purchaser
the property, and, if desired, execute and deliver to him
a certificate of the sale. Such certificate conveys to the
purchaser all the right which the debtor had in such

roperty on the day the execution or attachment was

evied.

SEC. 449. When the purchaser of any personal prop-'

ierty not capable of manual delivery pays the purchase

’is substituted to, and acquires all the rig

money, the oflicer making the sale must execute and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale. Such certificate conveys to the purchaser all the right ‘which the
debtor had in such property on the day the execution or
attachment was levied.
SEC. 450. Upon a sale of real property, the purchaser
It, title, interest
and claim of the judgment debtor thereto; and when the
estate is_1ess than a leasehold of two years’ unexpired term,
the sale is absolute. In all other cases the property is

gsnhject to redemption, as provided in this Chapter. The

otiicer must give to the purchaser a certificate of sale,
containing:

1. A particular description of the real property sold;

2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel;

3. The whole price paid;

4. When subject to redemption, it must be so stated.

And when the judgment, under which the sale has been
made, is made payable in a specified kind of money or
currency, the certificate must also show the kind of
money or currency in which such redemption may be
made, which must be the same as that specified in the

jmlgment. A duplicate of such certificate must be
tiled by the otiicer in the otlice of the Recorder of the
county.

SEC. 451. Property sold subject to redemption, as}
provided in the last section, or any part sold separate1y,i
may be redeemed in the manner hereinafter provided,‘
by the following persons, or their successors in interest:

1. The 'udgment debtor, or his successor in interest,
in the whoile or any part of the property;

2. A creditor having alien by judgment or mortgage
on the property sold, or on some share or part thereof,
subsequent to that on which the propeirty was sold. The
persons mentioned in the second su ivision of this section are, in this Chapter, termed redemptioners.

Sec. 452. The judgment debtor or redem tioneri
may redeem the property from the purchaser wit in six}
months after the sale, on paying the purchaser the‘
amount of his purchase, with twelve per cent. thereon
in addition, together with the amount of any assessment
or taxes which the purchaser may have paid thereon after
the purchase, and interest on such amount; and if the
purchaser he also a creditor having a prior lien to that
of the redemptioner, other than the judgment- under
which such purchase was made, the amount of such lien,
with interest. ’

Sec. 453. If property be so redeemed by a redemp-;
tioner, another redemptioncr nmy, within sixty days af-.
ter the last redemption, and within six months after the}
sale, again redeem it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum paid on such last retlemption, with four per
cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessment or taxes which the last redemptioner may have paid
thereon after the redem )tion by him, with interest on
tiI'('il amount, and in ad itinn the amount of any liens
held by said last redemptioner prior to his own, with interest; but the judgment under which the property was
sold need not be so paid as alien. The property may be
again, and asoften as a redemptioner is so disposed, redeemed from any previous redemptioner, within sixty
days atter the last redem tion, and within six months
after the sale, on paying t e sum paid on the last previous redemption, with four per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assessments or taxes which
the last previous redemptioner paid after the redemption
by him, with interest thereon, and the amount of any
liens, other than the udgment under which the property
was sold, held by the last redemptioner previous to his

own, with interest. \Vritten notice of redemption must
be iven to the Sheriff, and a duplicate tiled with the Recor er of the county; and if any taxes or assessments are
paid by the redemptioner, or if he has or acquires any
ien other than that upon which the redemption was
made, notice thereof must in like manner be given to
the Sheriff, and tiled with the Recorder; and if such notice be not filed, the property may be redeemed without
paying such tax, assessment, or lien. If no redemption
made within six months after the sale, the purchaser,
or his assi nee, is entitled to a conveyance; or, if so redeemed, wienever sixty days have elapsed, and no other
redemption has been made, and notice thereon given, the
time for redemption by a redemptioner, has expired, and
the last redemptioner, or his assignee, is entitled to a
Sheriif’s deed at the expiration of six months after the
sale; but in all cases the °udgment debtor shall have the
entire period of six mont s from the date of the sale to
redeem the property. If the judgment debtor redeem, he
must make the same payments as are required to effect a
redem tiou b a redemptioner. If the debtor redeem,
the eiigct of t e sale is terminated, and he is restored to
his estate. Upon a redemption by the debtor, the rson
to whom the payment is made must execute and eliver
to him a certificate of redemption, acknowledged and
proved before an oflicer authorized to take acknowledgments of conveyances of real roperty. Such certificate
must be filed and recorded int e oilice of the Recorder of
the county in which the property is situated, and the Recorder must note the record thereof in the margin of the
record of the certificate of sale.

SEC. 454. The payments mentioned in the last two
Tsections may be made to the purchaser or redem tioner,
’or for him, to the ofiicer who made the sale. W en the
judgment under which the sale has been made is payable
in a specified kind of money or currency, payments
must be made in the same kind of money or currency,
and a tender of the money is equivalent to payment.

SEC. 455. A redem tioner must produce to the
oilicer or person from w om he seeks to redeem and
serve with his notice to the Sheriff:

1. A copy of the docket of the judgment under
which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the
Clerk of the Court, or I{ecu;.,der of the county where the
judgment is docketed or tiled; or, if he redeem upon a

mortgage or other lien, a note of the record thereof, ctrtified by the Recorder;

2. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish
his claim, verified by the atiidavit of himself or of a subscribing witness thereto’

3. An afiidavit bydliimself or his agent, showing the
amount then actually ue on the lien.

Sec. 456. Until the expiration of the time allowed
for redemption, the Court may restrain the commission;
of waste on the property, by order granted with or with-§
out notice, on the agplication of the purchaser or the:
judgment creditor. ut it is not waste for the person‘
in tppesgestsion of the prot rty rait this time tplf salencpg
cut 0 possession a erwa s nrmo e per: ‘
allowed for redemption, to continue to uselit in the same
manner in which it was previously used; or to use in
the ordinary course of husbandry; or to make the necessary repairs of buildings thereon; or to use wood or
timber on the property therefor’ or for the repair of
fences; or for fuel in his famil , ,while he occu’ ies the

.7’ P

prupertv.

Sec. 457. The purchaser, from the time of the sale}
until a redemption, and a redemptioner, from the time

of his redemption until another redemption, is
entitled to receive, from the tenant in possession, the
rents of the property sold, or the value of the use and
occupation thereof. But when any rents or profits
have been received by the judgment creditor or purchaser, or his or their assigns, from the property thus
sold preceding such redemption, the amounts of such
rents and prohts shall be" a credit u n the redemption
money to be paid; and if the re emptioner or udgment debtor, before the expiration of the time alllowed
for such redemption, demands in writing of such purchaser, or creditor, or his assigns, a written and verified
statement of the amounts of such rents and profits thus
received, the period for redemption is extended five
days after such sworn statement is given by such purchaser or his assigns, to such redemptioner or debtor.
If such purchaser or his assigns shall, for a period of one
month from and after such demand, fail or refuse to
give such statement, such redemptioner or debtor may,
within sixty days after said demand, bring an action in
any Court of competent jurisdiction, to compel an accounting and disclosure of such rents and profits, and until tifteen days from and after the final determination of
such action, the right of redemption is extended to such
redemptioner or debtor.

Sec. 458. If the purchaser of real pgoperty sold on
execution, or his successor in interest, evicted therefrom in consequence of irregularities in the roceedings

concerning the sale, or of the reversal or disc large of the

judgment, he may recover the price paid, with interest.
from the judgment creditor. If the purchaser of property at Sheriii"s sale, or his successor in interest, fail to
recover possession in consequence of irregularity in the
proceedings concerning the sale, or because the pro rty
sold was not subject to execution and sale, the urt
having jurisdiction thereof must, after notice and on motion of such party in interest, or his attorney. revive the

original judgment in the name of the petitioner, for the
amount paid by such .purchaser at the sale, with interest
thereon from the time of payment at the same rate that
the original judgment bore; and the judgment so revived has the same force and effect as would, an original
judgment of the date of the revival, and no more.

SEC. 459. When upon an execution against several
persons more than a due proportion of the judgment is
satisfied out of the proceeds of the sale of the property
of one of them, or one of them pays, without a sale,
more than his proportion, he may compel contribution
from the others; and when a judgment is against several,
and is upon an obligation of one of them, as security for
another, and the surety pays the amount, or any part
thereof, either by sale of his property or before sale, he
may compel repayment from the principal. In such
case, the person so paying or contributing is entitled to
the beneiit of the °udgment, to enforce contribution or
repayment, if, witllin ten days after his payment, he file
with the Clerk of the Court where the judgment was
rendered, notice of his payment and claim to contribution
or repayment. Upon a filing of such notice, the Clerk
must make an entry thereof in the margin of the (locker.

 

CHAPTER XXX.

PROCEEDINGS SUPPLEMENTARY TO THE EXECUTION.

Bncnon 460. Debtor required to answer concerning his property, when.
461. Proceedings to compel debtor to appear. In what cases he may
be arr.-sied. What bail may be given.

462. Any debtor or the judgment debtor may pay the latter’: creditor.
463. Examination of debtors ofjudgment debtor. or of those having
property belonging to him.
461. Witness required to testify.

Sscrlox «:65. Judge may order property to be applied on execution
466. Proceedings upon claim of another party to property, or on denial of indebtedness to judgment debtor.
467. Disobedience oforders. how punished.

SEC. 460. When an execution against property
of the judgment debtor, or of any one of several defendants

in the same judgment, issued to the Sheriff of the coun-?
ty where he resides, or, if he do not reside in this Terri-A

tory, to the Sheriff of the count where the judgment
roll is filed, is returned unsatislied: in whole or in part,
the 'udgment creditor, at any time after such return is
made, is entitled to an order from the Judge of the
Court, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and
answer concernin his property, before such Judge, or a
referee appointed y him, at a time and place speciiied
in the order; but no judgment debtor must be required
to attend before a Judge or referee out of the county in
which he resides.

Sec. 461. After the issuing of an execution against
property, and upon proof by afhdavit of a party or oth-,‘
erwise, to the satisfaction of the Court, or of,a Jud
thereof, that any judgment debtor has property which E:
unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the
judgment, such Court or Judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear at a specified time
and place betore such J udge, or a referee appointed by
him to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the
pro erty of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction
of t e judgment as are provided upon the return of an
execution. Instead of the order r uiring the attend-g
ance of the judgment debtor, the J u ge may, upon aiii-1
davit of the judgment creditor, his agent or attorney, if I
it appear to him that there is danger of the debtor abscon ing, order the Sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring
him before such Jud e. Upon being brought before the
Judge he may be ordered to enter into an nndertaking,,
with sutiicient surety, that he will attend from time to
time before the Judge or referee, as may be directed,
during the pendency of proceedings and until the final
termination thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of an portion of his property not exempt from execution. n default of entering into such undertaking
he may be committed to prison.

SEC. 462. After the issuing of an execution against,
property, and before its return, any person indebted to.
the judgment debtor may pay to the Sheriff the amount}

of his debt, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy the execution; and the Sheriff’s receipt is a sutiicient discharge for the amount so paid.

SEC. 463. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of the judgment debtor, or of any one
of several debtors in the same judgment, or upon roof
'by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the udge,
that any person or corporation has property of such
judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount
exceeding fifty dollars, the Judge may, by an order,
require such person or corporation, or any omcer or
member thereof, to appear at a specified time and place
before him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer
concerning the same.

SEC. 464. Witnesses may be required to appear and
testify before the Judge or referee, upon any proceeding
under this chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial
of an issue.

SEC. 465. The Jud or referee may order any prop’erty of a judgment de tor, not exempt from execution,
in the hands of such debtor or any other person, or due
to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the 'udgment.

SEC. 466. f it appears that a person or corporation,
alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or to
,be indebted to him, claims an interest in the pro rty
adverse to him, or denies the debt, the Court or udge
may authorize, by an order made to that effect, the udgment creditor to institute an action a ainst such person
or corporation, for the recovery of suc interest or debt;
and the Court or Judge‘ ma , by order, forbid a transfer
or other disposition of suc interest or debt, until an
action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment.
Such order may be modified or vacated by the Judge

ranting the same, or the Court in which the action is
rought, at an time, upon such terms as may be ust.

SEC. 467. f any person, party, or witness disobey an
order of the referee, pro erly made, in the proceedings
before him under this Chapter, he may be punished by
the Court or Judge ordermg the reference, for a contempt.

CHAPTER XXXI.

ACTIONS FOR THE FORECLOSURE OF MOBTG AGES.

sscnox 463. Proceedings in foreclosurezsults.
4&9. Surplus money to be deposited in Court.
470. Proceedings when debt secured mm due at dlferent times.

SEC. 468. There can be but one action for the recovery of any debt, or the enforcement of any right secured by mortgage upon real estate or personal property,
which action must be in accordance with the provisions
of this Cha ter. In such action, the Court may, by its
judgment, d)irect a sale of the incumbered property (or
so much thereof as may be necessary), and the application
of the proceeds of the sale to the payment of the costs
of the Court and the expenses of the sale, and the amount
due to the plaintiff; and sales of real estate under judgments of foreclosure of mortgages and liens are subject
to redemption as in case of sales under execution; and
if it appear from the Sheriii"s return that the proceeds
are insuflicient, and a balance still remains due, jud ment
can then be docketed for such balance against t re defendant or defendants ersonally liable for the debt, and
it becomes a lien on the real estate of such judgment
debtor, as in other cases on which execution may heissued. No person holding a conveyance from or under
the mortgagor of the- property mortgaged, or having a
lien thereon, which conveyance or lien does not appear
of record in the proper ollice at the time of the commencement of the action, need be made a party to such
action; and the jud ment therein rendered, and the proceedings therein hag, are as conclusive against the party
holding such unrecorded conveyance or lien as if he had
been made a part to the action.

SEC. 469. If ere be surplus money remaining, after
payment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien or incumbrance, with costs, the Court may cause the same to
paid to the person entitled to it, and in the meantime
may direct it to be deposited in Court.

SEC. 470. If the debt for which the mortgage, lien, or
incumbrance is held is not all due, so soon as sullicient;
of the property has been sold to ay the amount due,:
with costs, the sale must-cease; an afterwards, as often‘
as more. becomes due. for principal or interest, the Court
may, on motion, order more to be sold. But if the

property cannot be sold in portions, without injury to
the parties, the whole may be ordered to be sold in the
iirst instance, and the entire debt and costs paid, there
being a rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER. xxxn.

ACTIONS FOR NUISANCE, WASTE, AND WILLFUL 'l‘RESPASS, IN CERTAIN CASES, ON REAL PROPERTY.

Blcrtox 471. Nuisance defined, and actions for.
472. Waste, actions for.
473. Trespass for cutting or carrying away trees, etc., actions for.

474. Measure of damages in certain cases under the last section.
475. Damages in actions for forcible entry, etc., may be trebled.

sEC. 471. Anything which is injurious to health,
or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction
to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, is a nuisance,
and the subject of an action. Such action may be brought
by any person whose property is injuriouslv affected, or
whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance;
and b the judgment the nuisance may be enjoined or
abate , as well as damages recovered.

SEC. 472. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant, or tenant in common of real pro rty, comm?t
waste thereon, any person aggrieved by t 1e waste may
bring an action against him therefor, in which action
there may be judgment for treble damages.

Sec. 473. Any person who cuts down or carries off
any word or underwood, tree, or timber, or girdles or
otherwise injures any tree or timber on the land of another
person, or on the street or highway in front of any person’s house, village, or city lot, or cultivated grounds; or
on the commons or public grounds of any city or town,
or on the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority, is liable to the owner of such land, or to
such city or town, for treble the amount of damages
which may be assessed therefor, in a civil action, in any
Court having 'urisdiction.

SEC. 474. othing in the last section authorizes the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken
from uncultivated woodland for the repair of a public

highway or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it.

SEC. 475. If a person recover damages for a forcible:
or unlawful entry in or upon, or detention of any bnild-’
ing or any cultivated real property, ndgment may be en-‘
tered for three times the amount at which the actual
damages are assessed.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

\
ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAIMS TO REAL

PROPERTY, AND OTHER PROVISIONS RELATING 
ACTIONS CONCERNING REAL ESTATE.

sscnox 476. Parties to an action to quiet title.
477. When plaintiff cannot recover costs.
478. It‘ plaintiffs title terminates pending the suit. what he may recover, and how verdict and judgment to be.
479. When value of improvements can be allowed as a set-oil‘.
1. 43). An order may be made to allow a party to survey and measure
the land in dispute.

481. Order, what to contain. and how served. Ii‘ unnecessary injury

done, the party surveying to be liable therefor.
482. A mortgage must not be deemed a conveyance, whatever its
term.

483. When Court may grant injunction ; during foreclosure; after sale
on execution. before conveyance.

484. Damages may be recovered forinjury to the mica atler sale
and before delivery of possession.

486. Action not tobe prejudiced by alienation, pending suit.
486. Mining claims, actions concerning to be governed by local rules.

SEC. 476. An action may be brought by any person against another who claims an estate or interest in
real property adverse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim.

SEC. 477. If the defendant in such action disclaim
in his answer any interest or estate in the property, or
suffer judgment to be taken against him without answer,
the plaintiif cannot recover costs.

SEC. 478. In an action for the recovery of real pro erty, where the plaintiif shows a right to recover at the
time the action was commenced, but it appears that his
right has terminated during the pendency of the action,
the verdict and 'udgment must be according to the fact,
and the plaiuti may recover damages for withholding
the property.

SEC. 479. When damages are claimed for withholding the property recovered, upon which permanent
improvements have been made by a defendant, or those
under whom he claims, holding under color of’ title
adversely to the claim of the plaintiff, in good faith, the

value of such improvements must be allowed as a set-off
against such dam es.

SEC. 480. The court in which an action is pending
for the recovery of real pro rty, or for damages for an
injury thereto, or a Judge t xereof, may, on motion, upon

.notice by either party, for good cause shown, grant an

order allowing to such party the right to enter upon
the property and make survey and measurement thereof,
and of any tunnels, shafts, or drifts thereon, for the purse of the action, even though entry for such purpose
as to be made through other lands belonging to parties
to the action.
SEC. 481. The order must describe the property, and
a copy thereof must be served on the owner or occupant;

'and thereupon such party may enter upon the property,

with necessary surveyors and assistants, and make such

.survey and measurement; but if any unnecessary injury

be done to the property, he is liable therefor.
SEC. 482. A mortgage of real property shall not be
deemed a convevance, whatever its terms, so as to enable

'the owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the

real property without a foreclosure and sale.

SEC. 483. The Court may, by injunction, on good
cause shown, restrain the party in possession from doing
any act to the injury of real property during the foreclosure of a mortgage thereon; or, after a sale on execution, before a conveyance.

SEC. 484. When real property has been sold on
execution, the urchaser thereof, or any person who may
have succeed to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute, recover damages for inju to the property by the tenant in possession after sale, and before
possession is delivered under the conveyance.

Sec. 485. An action for the recovery of real property
against a person in possession cannot be rejudiced by
any alienation made by such person, eit er before or
after the com men cement of the action.

SEC. 486. In actions respecting mining claims, proof
must be admitted of the customs, usages, or regulations
established and in force at the bar or diggings embracing
such claim; and such customs, usages, or regulations,
when not in conflict with the laws of this Territory,
must govern the decision of the action.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

ACTIONS FOR .THE PARTITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

Bncnox 487.

2 §a:éss§”§: 55 a rag sé 5 é s 322:: east

518.
519.
j 5%.
621.
am.

5%.

Who may bring actions for partition.

Interests of all parties must be set fortirin the complaint.

Lienholders not of record need not be made parties.

Plaintif must file notice of Its pcndcns.

Summons must be directed to all persons interested in the property.

Unknown parties may be served by publication.

Answer of defendants, what to contain.

The rights of all parties may be ascertained in the action.

Partial partition.

Lienholders must be made parties, or a referee be appointed to
ascertain their rights.

Lienholders must be notitied to appear before the referee appointed.

The Court may order a sale or partition and appoint referees
therefor.

Partition must be made according to the rights of the parties. as
determined by the Court.

Referees must make a report of their proceedings.

The Court may set aside or aillrm report. and enter Judgment
thereon. Upon whom judgment to be conclusive.

Judgment not to affect tenants for years to the whole property.

Expenses of partition must be apportioned among the parties.

A lien on an undivided interest of any party is a charge only on
the share assigned to such party.

Estate for life or years may be set oifin a part of the property
not sold, when not all sold.

Application of proceeds of sale of incumbered property.

Party holding other securities may be required tlrst to exhaust
them.

Proceeds of sale, disposition of.

When paid into Court the cause may be continued for the determination of the claims of the parties.

Sales by referees must be at public auction.

The Court must direct the terms of sale or credit.

Referees may take securities for purchase money.

Tenants whose estate has been sold shall receive compensation.

The Court may iix such compensation.

The Court must protect tenants unknown.

The Court must ascertain and secure the value of future contingent or vested interests.

Terms of sale must be made known at the time. Lots must be
sold separately.

Who may not be purchasers.

Referees must make a report of the sale to the Court.

Ifconiirmed, conveyances may be executed.

Proceeding if a lienholder become a purchaser.

Conveyana must be recorded and will be a bar against parb
ties.

Proceeds of sale belonging to parties unknown must be invested
ibr their benetlt.

Bzcnozc 52!. Investment must be made in the nameo! the Becorderof the
county.
55. When the interests ofthe parties are asce:-taine<l,securlties must
be taken in their names.

523. Duties of making investments.
5&7. When unequal partition is ordered, compensation may be ad.
Judged in certain cases. _
528. Thesharesofaninfantmaybepaidtohisguardiau. .
53. The guardian of an insane person may receive the proceeds of
such party's interest.
53). A guardian may consent to partition without action, and execute
releases.
531. Costs of partition alien upon the shares of the parcenets.
532. The Court, by consent, may appoint asingle referee.
533. Abstract of title.

SEC. 487. When several co- tenants hold and are in
possession of real property as parceners, joint tenants, or
tenants in common, in which one or more of them have
an estate of inheritance, or for life or lives, or for years,
an action may be brought by one or more of such persons
for a petition thereof. according to the respective
rights of the persons interested therein, and for a sale of
such property, or a part thereof, if it appear that a
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the
owners.

SEC. 488. The interests of all persons in the property,
whether such persons be known or unknown, must be set
forth in the complaint specilically and particularly, as
far as known to the plaintitf; and if one or more of the
parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties, be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or
contingent, or the ownership of the inheritance depend
upon an executory devise, or the remainder be a contigcnt remainder. so that such parties cannot be named,
that fact must be set forth in the complaint.

Sec. 489. No person having a conveyance of or
claiming a lien on the property, or some part of it, need
be made a party to the action, unless such conveyance or
lien appear of record.

SEC. 490. Immediately after filing the complaint in
the District Court, the plaintiff must file with the
Recorder of the county, or of the several counties in
which the property is situated, either a copy of such complaint or a notice of the pendency of the action, containing the names of the parties so far as known, the object
of the action, and a description of the property to be
affected thereby. From the time of the filing it shall
be deemed notice to all persons.

SEC. 491. The summons must be directed to all the;
‘joint tenants and tenants in common, and all persons;
raving any interest in, or any liens of record by mort-T
gage, Judgment, or otherwise upon the property, or upon
any particular portion thereof; and generally, to all
persons unknown who have or claim any interest in
the property.

SEC. 492. If a party having a share or interest is unknown, or any one of the known parties reside out of,
the Territory, or cannot be found therein, and such fact
is made to appear by aiiidavit, the summons may be
served on such absent or unknown party by publication,
as in other cases. When ublication is made, the summons, as published. must )e accompanied by a brief description of the property which is t re subject of the acnon.

SEC. 493. The defendants who have been personally
served with the summons and a cop of the complaint,
or who have appeared without suci service, must set
forth in their answers, fully and particnlarl y, the origin,
nature, and extent of their respective interests in the
property; and if such defendants claim a lien on the
property by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, they
must state the original amount and date of the same,
and the sum remaining due thereon; also, whether the
same has been secured in any other way or not; and if
secured, the nature and extent of such security, or they
are deemed to have waived their right to such lien.

SEC. 494. The rights of the several parties, plaintiff
as well as defendant, may be put in issue, tried, and determined in such action; and when a sale of the premises
is necessary, the title must be ascertained b proof to
the satisfaction of the Court, betore the judygment of
sale can be made; and where service of the complaint
has been made by publication, like proof must be required of the right of the absent or unknown parties
before such jud ment is rendered; except that where
there are severa unknown persons having an interest in
the property, their rights may be considered together in
the action, and not as between themselves.

SEC. 495. Whenever from any cause it is, in the
opinion of the Court, impracticable or highly inconvenient to make a complete partition, in the first instance,
among all the parties in interest, the Court may iirst ascertain and determine the shares or interest respectively
held by the original co-tenants, and thereupon adjudge
and cause a partition to be made, as if such original cotenants were the parties, and sole parties, in interest,
and the only parties to the action, and thereafter may
proceed in like manner to adjudge and make partition
se rately of each share or portion so ascertained and
al otted as between those claiming under the original
tenant to whom the same shall have been so set apart, or
may allow them to remain tenants in common thereof,
as they may desire.

SEC. 496. If it appears to the Court, by the certificate
of the County Recorder or Clerk, or by the sworn or verified statement of any rson who may have examined or
searched the records, t at there are outstanding liens or
incumbrances of record u n such real property, or any
part or portion thereof, w ich existed and were of record
at the time of the commencement of the action, and the
persons holding such liens are not made parties to the
action, the Court must either order such persons to be
made arties to the action, by an amendment or supplementa complaint, or appoint a referee to ascertain
whether or not such liens or incumbrances have been
paid, or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon,
and their order among the liens or incumbrances severally held by such persons and the parties to the action,
and whether the amount remaining due thereon has been
secured in any manner, and if secured, the nature and
extent of the securitv.

Sec. 497. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be
served, a reasonable time previous to the day for appearance before the referee appointed as provided in the last section, on each person having outstanding liens of
record, who is not a party to the action, to appear before
the referee at a specified time and place, to make proof,
by his own afiidavit or otherwise, of the amount due or
to become due, contingently or absolutely thereon. In
case such person be absent, or his residence be unknown,
service may be made by publication or notice to his
agents, un er the direction of the Court, in such manner as may be proper. The report of the referee thereon must be made to the Court, and must be confirmed,
modified, or set aside, and a new reference ordered, as
the justice of the case may re uire.

SEC. 498. Ifit be alleged 1n the complaint and established by evidence, or if it appear by the evidence
without such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfaction of the Court, that the property, or any part of it, is
so situated that partition cannot be made without great
prejudice to the owners, the Court may order a sale

thereof. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being:
made, it must order a partition, according to the respective rights of the parties, as ascertained by the Court, and
appoint three reterees therefor; and must designate the
portion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests remain unknown, or are not ascertained.

Sec. 499. In making the partition the referees must
divide the property and allot the several portions thereof
to the respective arties, uality and quantity relatively
considered, acco ing to t e respective rights of the parties as determined by the Court, pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, designating the several portions by
proper landmarks, and may employ asurveyor, with the
necessary assistants, to aid them.

SEC. 500. The referees must make a report of their
proceedings, specifying therein the manner in which
they executed their trust, and describing the property
divided, and the shares allotted to each party, with a
particular description of each share.

Sec. 501. The Court may confirm, change, modify or
set aside the report, and, if necessary, a point new referees. Upon the report being coniirme , judgment must
he rendered that such partition be effectual forever, which
judgment is binding and conclusive.

1. On all persons named as arties to the action, _and
their legal representatives, who have at the time any in-‘
terest in the property divided, or any part thereof. as
owners in fee or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of
such property, or of any part thereof, after the determination of a particular estate therein, and who by any contingency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the
property, or who have an interest in any undivided share
thereof, as tenants for years or for life;

2. On all persons interested in the property, who may
be unknown, to whom notice has been given of the action

for partition by publication;

3. On all other persons claiming from such parties or
persons or either of them.

And no judgment is invalidated by reason of the death
of any party before final judgment or decree; but such
'nd ment or decree is as conclusive against the heirs,
ega representatives, or assigns of such decedent, as if it
had been entered before his death.

SEC. 502. The judgment does not affect tenants for

years less than ten to the whole of the property which
is the subject of the partition.

SEC. 503. The expenses ot' the referees, including
those of a surveyor and his assistants, when employed,
‘must be ascertained and allowed by the Court, and the
amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by the
Court, in its discretion, to the referees, must be ap rtioned among the different parties to the action, equitably.

SEC. 504. When alien is on an undivided interest or
estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be

made, shall thenceforth be a charge only on the share
assigned to such party; but such share must first be
charged with its just proportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to such lieu.

SEC. 505. When a part of the property only is orfdered to be sold, if there be an estate for life or years, in
{an undivided share of the whole property, such estate

ttgay llée set off in any part of the property not ordered to

so .

SEC. 506. The proceeds of the sale of incumbered
property must be applied under the direction of the
ourt, as follows:

1. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of
the action.

2. To pay the costs of the reference;

3. To satisfy and cancel of record the several liens in
their order of priority, by payment of the sums due and
to become due; the amount due to be verified by atlidavit at the time of payment.

4. The residue among the owners of the property sold,
according to their respectiveshares therein.

SEC. 507. Whenever any party to an action, who
holds alien upon the property, or any part thereof, has
other securities for the payment of the amount of such
lien, the Court ma , in its discretion, order such securities to be exhaustex before a distribution of the proceeds
of sale, or may order a just reduction to be made from
the amount of the lien on the property, on account thereof.

SEC. 508. The proceeds of sale and the securities
taken by the referees, or any part thereof, must be distributed by them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever
the Court so directs. But in case no direction be iven,
all of such proceeds and securities must be paig into
Court, or deposited therein, or as directed by the Court.

SEC. 509. When the proceeds of the sale of any
share or parcel belonging to persons who are arties to

the action, and who are known. are paid into ourt, the
action may be continued as between such parties, for the
determination of their respective claims thereto, which

must be ascertained and adjud _-red by the Court.»
Further testimony may be taken in Court, or by a referee, at the discretion of the Court, and the Court may,
if necessary, require such parties to present the facts
or law in controversy, by pleadings as in an original
action.

SEC. 510. All sales of real property, made by referees,
under this Chapter, must be made at public auction to
the highest bidder, upon notice published in the manner
required for the sale of real property on execution. The
notice must state the terms of sale. and if the property
or any part of it is to he sold subject to a prior estate,
charge, or lien. that must be stated in the notice.

Sec. 511. The Court must, in the order for sale.
direct the terms of credit which may be allowed for the
purchase money of any portion of the premises of which
it may direct a sale on credit, and for that portion of
which the purchase money is required, by the provisions
hereinafter contained, to be invested for the benefit of
unknown owners, infants, or parties out of the Territory. '

SEC. 512. The referees may take separate mortgages
and other securities for the whole, or convenient portions
of the purchase money, of such parts of the property as
are directed by the Court to be sold on credit, for the
shares of any known owner of full age, in the name of
such owner; and for the shares of an infant, in the name
of the guardian of such infant; and for other shares, in
tlfig name of the Clerk of the Court and his successors in
o ce.

Sec. 513. The person entitled toa tenancy for life, or
years, whose estate has been sold, is entitled to receive
such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled may consent
to accept instead thereof. by an instrument in writing,
tiled with the Clerk of the Court. Upon the filing of
such consent, the Clerk must enter the same in the
minutes of the Con rt.

SEC. 514. If such consent be not given, filed, and
entered as provided in the last section, at or before a
judgment ot sale is rendered, the Court must ascertain
and determine what proportion of the proceeds of the
sale, after deducting expenses, will be a Just and reasonable sum to be allowed on account of such estate, and
must order the same to be paid to such party, or deposited
in Court for him, as the case may require.

SEC. 515. If the person entitled to such estate for
life or years be unknown, the Court must provide for the
protection of their rights in the same manner, as far as
may be, as if they were known and had appeared.

SEC. 516. In all cases of sales, when it appears that
any person has a vested or contingent future right or
estate in any of the property sold, t e Court must ascertain and settle the proportional value of such contingent
or vested right or estate, and must direct such proportion
of the proceeds of the sale to be invested, secured, or
paid over, in such manner as to protect the rights and
interests of the parties.

SEC. 517. In all cases of sales of property the terms
must be made known at the time; and if the premises
consist of distinct farms or lots, they must be sold
separately.

SEC. 518. Neither of the referees, nor any person for
the benefit of either of them, can be interested in any
purchase; nor can a guardian of an infant party be interested in the purchase of any real property, being the
subject of the action, except for the benefit of the infant.
All sales contrary to the provisions of this section are
void.

SEC. 519. After completing a sale of the property, or
any part thereof ordered to be sold, the referees must
report the same to the Court, with a description of the
different arcels of land sold to each purchaser; the
name of tlie purchaser; the price paid or secured; the
terms and conditions of the sale, and the. securities, if
s(s3riy,ktaken. The report must be filed in the ofiice of the

er .

Sec. 520. If the sale be confirmed by the Court an
order must be entered, directing the referees to execute
conveyances and take securities pursuant to such sale,
which they are hereby authorized to do. Such order
may also give directions to them respecting the disposition of the proceeds of the sale.

SEC. 521. When a party entitled to a share of the
property, or an incumbrancer entitled to have his lien
pai out of the sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees
may take his recei t for so much of the proceeds of the
sale as belongs to iim.

SEC. 522. The conveyances must he recorded in the
county where the premises are situated, and shall be a

bar against all persons interested in the prupertv in any

way, who shall have been named as parties in the action,
and against all such parties and persons as were unknown,

if the summons was served by publication, and against
all persons claiming under them, or either of them, and
against all persons having unrecorded deeds or liens at»
the commencement of the action.

SEC. 523. When there are proceeds of a sale belong-'
ing to an unknown owner, or to a person without the
Territory, who has no legal representative within it, the.
same must be invested in securities at interest for the3
benefit of the rsons entitled thereto.

SEC. 524. hen the security of the proceeds of sale:
is taken, or when an investment of any such proceeds
is made, it must done, exce t as herein otherwise rovided, in the name of the rder of the county w iere
the papers are filed, and his successors in ofiice, who
must hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties
interested, subject to the order of the Court.

SEC. 525. When security is taken by the referees on
a sale, and the parties interested in such security, by an
instrument in writing, under their hands, delivered to
the referees, agree upon the shares and proportions to
which they are respectively entitled, or when shares and
proportions have been previously adjudged by the Court,
such securities must be taken in the names of and payable
to the parties res tively entitled thereto, and must be
delivered to sue parties upon their receipt therefor.
Such agreement and receipt must be returned and filed
with the Clerk.

Sec. 526. The Recorder in whose name a security is
taken, or by whom an investment is made, and his suecessors in office, must receive the interest and principal
as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the
Court may direct; and must deposit with the County
Treasurer all securities taken, and keep an account in a
book provided and kept for that purpose, in the Recorder’s otiice, free for inspection by all persons, of investments and moneys received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.

SEC. 527. When it appears that partition cannot be
made equal between the parties, according to their respeetive rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of them, and a partition be ordered, the
Court may adjudge compensation to be made by one
party to another, on account of the inequality; but such
compensation shall not be required to be made to others
by owners unknown, nor by an infant, unless it appears
that such infant has personal property snflicient for that
purpose, and that his interest will be promoted thereby.

And in all cases the (lmrt has power to make compensatory adjustment between the respective parties, according to the ordinary principles of equity.

SEC. 528. When the share of an infant is sold, the
proceeds of the sale may be paid by the referee making
the sale to his general guardian, or the special guardian
appointed for him in the action, upon giving the security
recgiired by law or directed by order of the Court.

SEC. 529. The guardian who may be entitled to the
custody and management of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting
his own affairs, whose interest in real property has been
sold, may receive, in behalf of such person, his share of
the proceeds of such real property from the referees, on
executing, with snliicient snreties, an undertaking approved by a Judge of the Court, that he will faithfully
discharge the trust reposed in him, and will render a
true and just account to the person entitled, or to his
legal representative.

SEC. 530. The general guardian of an infant, and the
T guardian entitled to the custody and management of the
*estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested
in real estate held in joint tenancy, or in common, or in
any other manner so as to authorize his being made a
party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent
to a partition without action, and agree upon the share
to be set 0?!’ to such infant or other person entitled, and
may execute a release in his behalf to the owners of the
shares of the parts to which they may be respectively
entitled. upon an order of the Court.

Sec. 531. The costs of partition, including reasonable
lcounsel fees, expended by the plaintitf or either of the
defendants, for the common benefit, fees of referees, and
other disbursements, must be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands divided, in pro.
portion to their respective interests therein. and may be
included and specified in the judgment. In that case
they shall be a lien on the several shares, and the judgment may be enforced by execution against such shares.
and against other property held by the respective parties. When, however, litigation arises between some
of the parties only, the Court may require the expense
ofsueh litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, or
any of them.

SEC. 532. The Court, with the consent of the parties,
may appoint a single referee, instead of three referees, in

the proceedings under the provisions of this Cha ter;:
and the single referee, when tlms appointed, has al the:
powers and may perform all the duties required of the‘
three referees.

SEC. 533. If it appears to the Court that it was necessary to have made an abstract of the title to the property to be partitioned, and such abstract shall have been
procured by the plaintitf, or if the plaintiff shall have
failed to have the same made before the commencement
of the action, and any one of the defendants shall have
had such abstract afterwards made, the cost of the abstract, with interest thereon from the time the same is
subject to the inspection of the respective parties to the
action, must be allowed and taxed.

CHAPTER XX XV.

ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION OF AN OFFICE OR FRANCHISE.

Stcrxox 534. Certain writ abolished.

535. Action maybebrought against any party usurping, ctc.. any
omce or franchise.

5%. Name of person entitled to office may be set forth in the complaint. If fees have been received by the usurper. he may be
arrested.

537. Judgment may determine the rights of both incumbent and
claimant.

538. When rendered in favor of applicant.

{£539. Damages may be recovered by successful applicant.

540. When several persons claim the same omce their rights may be

determined by a single action.

541. If defendant found guilty. what judgment to be rendered
against him.
642. Undertaking.

SEC. 534. The writ of scire facias is abolished.

Sec. 535. An action may be brought by the District
Attorne in the name of the pee le ot the United States
of the Tyerritory of Idaho upon his own information. or
upon the complaint of a private party, against any person who usurps, intrudes into, or unlawfully holds or exercises any public oflice, civil or military, or any franchise within this Territory. And the District Attorney
must bring the action whenever he has reason to believe
that any such otiice or franchise has been usurped, in.ruded into, or unla\vfull_v held or exercised by any peron, or when he is directed to do so by the Governor.

SEC. 536. Whenever such action is brought, the
District Attorney, in addition to the statement of the
cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint the
name of the erson rightly entitled to the oflice, with a
statement of liis right thereto; and in such case, upon
proof by aflidavit that the defendant has received fees or
emoluments belonging to the oiiice, and by means of his
usurpation thereof, an order may be ranted by a Justice
of the Supreme Court, or a District udge, for the arrest
of such defendant and holdin him to bail;and thereupon
he may be arrested and hel to bail, in the same manner and with the same eifect, and subject to the same
rights and liabilities, as in other civil actions where the
defendant is subject to arrest.

SEC. 537. In every such action judgment may be
rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon
the ri ht of the party so alleged to be entitled, or only
upon t ie right of the defendant, as justice may require.

SEC. 538. If the jud ment be rendered upon the
right of the person so a leged to be entitled, and the
same be in favor of such person, he will be entitled, after
taking the oath of oilice and executing such official bond
as may be r uired by law, to take upon himself the
execution of t e oilice.

SEC. 539. If judgment be rendered upon the rioht of
the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of such
person, he may recover, by action, the damages which he
may have sustained by reason of the usurpation of the
oilice by the defendant.

SEC. 540. When several persons claim to be entitled
to the same ofiice or franchise, one action may bebrouglit
against all such fpersons. in order to try their respective
rights to such 0 ‘cc or franchise.

Sec. 541. When a defendant, against whom such
action has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping
or intruding into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise, or privilege, judgment must be rendered that such
defendant be excluded from the ofiice, franchise, or privilege, and that he pay the costs of the action. The
Court may also, in its discretion, impose upon the
defendant a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars,
which fine, when collected, must be paid into the Treasury of the Territory.

SEC. 542. When the action is brought upon the information or application of a private party, the District
Attorney may require such party to enter into an undertaking, with sureties to be approved by the District

Attorney, conditioned that such party, or the sureties,
will pay any judgment for costs or damages recovered
against the plaintiff, and all the costs and expenses
incurred in the prosecution of thelaction.

CHAPTER XXXVI.
OF PROCEEDINGS IN PROBATE AND JUSTICES‘ COUR'l‘§.

Bncnorr 543. Action when commenced.
Place of trial may be changed in certain cases.
Limitation on the right to change.
To what Court transferred.
Proceedings after order changing place of trial.
Edbct of an order changing place of trial.
Transfer of cases to the District Court.
Actions, how commenced.
Summons may issue within a year.
Defendant may waive summons.
Parties may appear in person or by attorney.
When guardian necessary, how appointed.
Summons. how issued, directed, and what to contain.
Time for appearance of defendant.
Alias summons.
Same.
Summons, limitation upon time of service.
by whom and how served and returned.
Hour for appearance.
Form of pleadings.
Pleadings. .
Complaint defined.
When demurrer to complaint may be put in.
Answer.
' 667. If the defendant omits to set up counter-claim.

568. When plaintiff may demur to anwser.

569. Proceedings on demurrer.

670. Amendment of pleadings.

671. Answer or demurrer to amended pleadings.

§§§§§§§§§§»"§§§§§§§§§§§§§
3

SEC. 543. Actions in Justices’ Courts must be
commenced, and, subject to the right to change the place
of trial (as in this Chapter provided), must be tried:

1. If there is no Justices’ Court for the precinct or
city in which the defendant resides: in any city or precinct of the county in which he resides;

2. When two or more persons are jointly, or jointly
and severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise jointly liable in the same action, and reside in different precincts or diiferent cities of the same county,
or in different counties: in the prxcinct or city in
which any of the persons liable may reside; ~

3. In cases of injury to the person or property: in
the precinct or city where the injury was committed, or
where the defendant resides;

4. If for the recovery of personal pro rty, or the
value thereof, or damages for taking or etaining the
same; in the precinct orcity in which the property may
be found, or in which the property was taken, or in
which the defendant resides;

5. When the defendant is a non-resident of the county: in any precinct or city wherein he may be found;

6. When the defendant is a non-resident of the Territory in any precinct or city in the Territory;

7. When a person has contracted to perform an obligation at a particular place, and resides in" another
county, precinct, or city: in the precinct or city in
which such obligation is to be performed, or in which he
resides;

8. When the parties voluntarily appear and plead wi thout summons: in any precinct or city in the Territory;

9. In all other cases: in the precinct or city in which
the defendant resides.

SEC. 544. The Court may, at any time before the

.trial, on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases:

1. When it appears to the satisfaction of the Probate
Judge or Justice before whom the action is pending, by
affidavit of either party, that such Judge or Justice is a
material witness for either party;

2. When either party makes and files an affidavit that
he believes that he cannot have a fair and impartial trial
before such Judge or Justice, by reason of the interest,
prejudice, or bias of the Judge or Justice;

3. When, from any cause, the Judge or Justice is disqualified from acting.

SEC. 545. The place of trial cannot be changed in
J ustice’s Court, on motion of the same party, more than
once, upon any or all the grounds specified in the first
and second subdivisions of the preceding section.

SEC. 546. When the Probate Court orders the place
of trial to be changed, the action must be transferred
for trial to the District Court of the county; when a
J llSllC0:8 Court orders the place of trial to he changed,
the action must be transferred for trial to a Court the
P31‘ "99 may agree upon; and if they do not agree, then

to the Probate Court or to another J ustice’s Court in the
same county.

SEC. 547. After an order has been made transferrin;._»;,7
the action for trial to another Court, the following pro-i
ceedings must be had: ‘

1. When so transferred from the Probate Court, the
Clerk must immediately transmit to the Clerk of the
District Court, on payment of his costs by the party applying, all the papers in the action, together with a certified transcript from the docket of the Probate Court of
the proceedings therein.

2. When so transferred from aJustice’s Court, the
Justice ordering the transfer must immediatel_v transmit
to the Clerk of the Probate Court, or to the Justice to
whom it is transferred, on payment of his costs by the
party applyin , all the papers in the action, together
with a certifie transcript from his docket ot' the proceedings therein; and when so transferred to aJ ustiec’s
Court, the Justice of that Court must issue a notice
stating when and where the trial will take place, which

. inst be served upon the parties at least one day before
the time fixed for trial.

SEC. 548. From the time the order changing the place
of trial is made, the Court to which the action is thereby
:ransfcrred has the same urisdictiou over it as though it
had been commenced in such Court.

SEC. 549. The partiesto an action in a Probate or
J nstice’s Court cannot give evidence upon any question‘
which involves the title or possession of real property,
nor can any issue presenting such question be tried by
such Court; and ifit appear from the answer of the defendant, verified by his oath, or that of his agent or attorney, that the determination of the action will necessarily involve the question of title or possession to real
property, the Probate Court or Justice must suspend all
further proceedings in the action and certify the pleadings, and, if any of the ileadings are oral, a transcript of
the same, from his doc et to the Clerk of the District
Court of the county; and from the time of filing such
pleadings or transcript with the Clerk, the District

‘onrt has over the action the same jurisdiction as if it
had been commenced therein.

SEC. 550. An action in a Probate or J ustice’s Court
is commenced by filing a complaint.

SEC. 551. The Court must indorse on the complaint
the date upon which it was filed, and at any time within
one year thereatter the plaintiff may have summons
issued.

SEC. 552. At any time after the complaint is filed the
defendant may‘, in upriting, or by appearing and pleading,
waive me issuing o summons..

SEC. 553. Parties in a Probate or J ustice’s Court
may appear and act in person or by attorney; and _any
person, except tlgei ofiicer by whottpo the summons or Jury
process was serv may ac as a rney.

Sec. 554. Wheh a guardian is necessary, he must be
appointed by the Judge or Justice, as follows:

1. If the infant is plaintiff, the appointment must
be made before the summons is issued, upon the application of the infant, if he is of the age of fourteen years
or upwards° if under that ave, upon the application of
some relatiire or friend. Tlib consent in writing of the
guardian to be appointed to act as such, and to be responsible for costs if he fail in the action, must be first
filed with the Judge or J ustice,;

2. If the infant is defendant, the guardian must be
appointed at the time the summons is returned, or before
the pleadings. It is the right of the infant to nominate
his own guardian, if the infant is over fourteen years of
age. and the proposed guardian is present and consent in
writing to be appointed. Otherwise the Judge or Justice
may appoint an suitable person who gives such consent.

SEC. 555. he summons must be directed to the defendant, and, if served from the _Probate. Court, signed by
its Clerk and under its seal; if issued from the J ustlce s
Court sioned by the Justice and must contain:

1. The title of the Court, and, if from the Probate
'Court the name of the County, and, if from a J ustice's
Court, the name of the precinct or city, and county, in
which thlp action is commenced, and the names of the
parties t ereto°

2. A sufhcient statement of the cause of action, in

nexial terms, to lapprise the defendant of the nature of
t e c aim against linr

3. A direction that’ the defendant appear and answer
at a time specified in the summons;

4. In an action arising on a contract, for the recovery
of money or damaoes only a notice that unless the defendant so appeattas and ahswers the plaintiff will take

judgment for the sum claimed by him (stating it):

5. In other actions, a notice that unless defendant so
appears and answers the plaintiff will apply to the Court
for the relief demanded.

If the plaintiff has appeared by attorney, the name
of the attorney must be mdorsed on the summons.

SEC. 556. The time specified in the summons for the
appearance of the defendant must be as follows:

1. If an order of arrest is indorsed upon the summons, forthwith;

2. In all other cases, not less than three nor more
than ten days from its date.

SEC. 557. If the summons is returned without being
served upon any or all of the defendants, the Clerk of
the Probate Court or the Justice, as the case may be,
upon the demand of the plaintiff, may issue an alias
summons, in the same form as the original, except that
he may fix the time for the appearance of the defendant
at a period not to exceed ninety days from its date.

SEC. 558. The Clerk or Justice may, within a year:

from the date of the filing of the complaint, issue as
many alias summons as may be demanded by the plaintiif.

Sec. 559. The summons cannot be served out of the
county in which the action is brought, exce t where the
action is brought upon a joint contract or obligation of
two or more persons who reside in dilferent counties, and
the summons has been served upon the defendant
resident of the county, in which case the summons may
be served upon the other defendants out of the county;
and, except also, when an action is brought against a
party who has contracted in writing to perform an obligation at a particular place, and resides in a different
county, in which case summons may be served in the
county where he resides. When the defendant resides
in the county, the summons cannot be served within
two days of the time iixed for the appearance of the
defendant: when he resides out of the county, and the
summons is served out of the county, the summons cannot be served within twenty days of such time.

SEC. 56O. The summons in the cases mentioned in
the receding section may be served by a Sheriff or constab eof any of the counties of this Territory; ovided,
that when a summons, issued by a Justice of t e Peace,
is to be served out of the county in which it was issued,
the summons shall have attached to it a certificate under
seal by the District Clerk of such county, to the effect
that the person issuing the same was an acting Justice
of the Peace at the date of the summons; or the summons may be served by any male resident, over the age
of twenty-one years, not a arty to the suit, within the
county where the action is rought, and must be served
and returned, as provided in actions commenced in the

District Court; or it may be served by publication, and
the sections of this Code providing for the publication
ot' summons issued out of the District Court are applicalile to the Probate and Justices’ Courts, the necessary
changes and substitutions being made therein.

SEC. 561. The parties are entitled to one hour in
which to a pear after the time fixed in the summons,
but are not und to remain lon r than that time unless
both parties have appeared, an the Judge or Justice
being present,°is engaged in the trial of another cause.

SEC. 562. Pleadings in Probate and Justices’ Courts:

1. Are not required to be in any particular form, but
must be such as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is intended;
' 2. May, exce t the complaint, be oral or in writing;

3. Must not verified, unless otherwise provided in
this Code;

4. If in writing, must be filed with the Court or J ustice; 5. If oral, an entry of their substance must be made
in the docket.

Sec. 563. The pleadings are:

1. The complaint by the plaintiff;

2. The demurrer to the complaint;

3. The answer by the defendant;

4. The demurrer to the answer.

SEC. 564. The complaint in these Courts is a concise
statement, in writing, of the facts constituting the plaintitf’s cause of action; or a copy of the account, note, bill,
bond, or instrument upon which the action is based.

SEC. 565. The defendant may, at any time before answering, demur to the complaint.

SEC. 566. The answer may contain a denial of an y or all
of the material facts stated in the complaint, which the defendant believes to be untrue; alsoa statement in aplain
and direct manner, ofany other facts constituting a detense
or counter claim, upon which an action might lie brought
by the defendant a ainst the plaintiff in that Court.

SEC. 567. If the defendant omit to set up a counter
claim in the cases mentioned in the last section, neither
he nor his assignee can afterwards maintain an action
against the plaintiff therefor.

SEC. 568. When the answer contains new matter in
’avoidance, or constituting a defense or a count.er claim,
the plaintiff may, at any time before the trial, demur to
the same for insufficiency, stating therein the grounds of
such demurrer.

SEC. 569. The proceedings on demurrer are as folows:

1. If the demurrer to the complaint is sustained,Qthe
plaintiff may, within such time, not exceeding two days,
as the Court allows, amend his complaint;

2. If the demurrer to a complaint is overruled, the
defendant may answer forthwith;

3. If the demurrer to an answer is sustained, the defendant may amend his answer within such time, not
exceeding two days, as the Court may allow;

4. If the demurmr to an answer is overruled, the
actigp must proceed as if no demurrer had been interD6 .

SEC. 570. Either arty may, at any time before the
conclusion of the tria , amend any pleading; but if the
amendment is made after the issue, and it appears to the
satisfaction of the Court, by oath. that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment must be granted. The
Court may also, in its discretion, when an adjournment
will, by the amendment, be rendered necessary, require,
as a condition to the allowance of such amendment, made
after issue joined, the payment of costs to the adverse
party, to be fixed a by the Court, not exceeding twenty
dollars. The Court may also, on such terms as may be
just, and on ‘payment of costs, relieve a party from a
judoment by eiault taken against him by his mistake,
inadlrertence, surprise, or excusable neglect; but the application for such relief must be made within ten days
after the entry of the judgment, and upon an aiiidavit
showing good cause therefor.

Sec. 571. When apleading is amended, the adverse
party may answer or demur to it within such time, not
exceeding two days, as the Court may allow.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

PROVISIONAL REMEDIES IN PROBATE AND J US'I‘ICES'
COURTS.

Bmcnox 672. Order of arrest, and arrest or defendant.
678. Order executed in any part or Territory.
1574. Amdavit an! undertaking for ord.-r of arrest.
676. A defendant arrested must be taken before the Justice or Judge

immediately.

576. The ofncer must give notice to the plainiiif of air est.
577. The oiliccr must detain the defendant.

578. Writ of attachment shall issue upon amdavit.

579. Undertaking « n attachment must be required.

680. Writ of attachment. substance of. Oiiieer may take an undertaking instead of levying.

.681. Certain provisions apply to all attachments in Probate and
Justices‘ Courts.

682. How claim and delivery enforced.

SEC. 572. An order to arrest the defendant may
be indorsed on a summons issued out of a Probate or
Justices’ Court, and the defendant may be arrested
thereon by the Sheriff or Constable, at the time of serving
the summons, and brought before the Court or Justice.
and there detained until duly discharged, in the following cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of money or damaores
on a cause of action arising upon contract when t 1e
defendant is about to depart from the Territory, with
intent to defraud his creditors;

2. In an action for a fine on; penalty, or for money or
property embezzled or fraudulenty misapplied, or converted to his own use by one who received it in a
fiduciar capacity; .

3. hen the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in
contracting the debt or incurring the obligation for
which the action is brought;

4. When the defendant has removed, concealed, or
disposed of his ropertg, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud 1is cre itors.

But no female can be arrested in any action.

SEC. 573. In cases under the first subdivision of the
last Section, or when the defendant is about to depart
from the Territory, the order of arrest may be executed,
and the defendant arrested in any part of the Territory.

SEC. 574. Before an order for an arrest can be made,
the party a plying must prove to the satisfaction of the
Judge or ustice by the aiiidavit of himself, or some
other person, the facts upon which the application is
founded. The plaintiff must also execute and tile a
written undertaking in the sum of three hundred dollars, with sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be adjudged to the
defendant, and all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the arrest, if the same be wrongful, or without
sufficient cause, not exceeding the sum specified in the
undertaking.

SEC. 575. The defendant immediately upon bein arrested, must be taken to the oiiice of the Judge or ustice who made the order. 

SEC. 576. The ofiicer making the arrest must imme-'
diately give notice thereof to the plaintiff, or his attorney}
or agent, and indorse on the summons, and subscribe a}
eertihcate, stating the time of serving the same, the
tige of the arrest, and of his giving notice to the plain
ti

SEC. 577. The oflicer making the arrest must keep
the defendant in custody until he is discharged by order;
of the Court.

Sec. 578. A writ to attach the roperty of the do-‘
fendant must be issued by the J u or Justice at the
time of, or after issuing summons an before answer, on ‘
receiving an affidavit by or on behalf of the plaintiff,
showing the same facts as are required to be shown
by the affidavit for attachment out of the District
Court.

SEC. 579. Before issuing the writ, the Judge or Justice must require a written undertaking on the part of f
the plaintiff, with two or more suflicient sureties. in a
sum not less than fifty nor more than three hundred dollars, to the effect that if the defendant recover jud ment
the laintiff will ay all costs that may be awar ed to
the efendant, an all damages which he may sustain by
reason of the attachment, not exceeding the sum specitied in the undertaking.

SEC. 580. The writ may be directed to the Sheriff or
any Constable of the county, or the Sheriff of any other
county, and must r uire him to attach and safely keep
all the property ofetlie defendant within his county, not
exempt from execution, or so much thereofas may be
snflicient to satisfy the plaintiff's demand, the amount of
which must be stated in conformity with the com laint,
unless the defendant give him security, by the un ertaking of two sullicient sureties, in an amount snilicient to
satisfy such demand besides costs; in which case, to take]
such undertaking.

SEC. 581. The sections of this Code providing for attachments out of the District Court, except as in this Chapter expressly provided, are applicable to attachments issued out of the Probate and Justices’ Courts,
the necessary changes and substitutions being made
therein. '

SEC. 582. In an action to recover possession of personal property, the plaintiff may, at the time of issuing
summons or at any time thereafter before answer, claim
the delivery of such property to him; and the sections
of this Code providing the prac.ice in proc;edings for

claim and delivery of personal property in the District
Court are applicable to like proceedings in Probate and
Justices’ Courts, the necessary changes and substitutions
being made therein.

CHAPTER XXXVII I.

DEFAULTS, POSTPONEMENTS, TRIALS, AND JUDGMENTS
IN PROBATE AND JUSTICE8’ COURTS.

Judgment when defendant hills to appear
Judgment against defendant on demurrer.
Time when trial must be commenced.

when Court may, of its own motion, postpone trial.
Postponement by consent.

Postponement upon application of a party,

No con.1nuance for more than ten days to be granted, unlel

upon filing of undertaking.

Issue deilned and the diderent kinds.

Issue of law, how raised.

Issue of fact, how raised.

lame of law, how tried.

Issue of fact. how tried.

Jury. how waived.

Either party failing to appear, trial may proceed at requesto!

other party.

Challenges to jurors. Manner of pleading a written instrument.

It‘ a copy or an instrument be tiled, the signatures will be

deemed admitted, unless denied under oath.
Judgment by confession.

Judgment of dismissal entered in certain cases without prejudice.

Judgment upon verdict.

Judgment aiter trial by the Court.

Judgment when the defendant is subject to arrest.

lfthe sum found due exceeds the jurisdiction, the excess may

be remitted.

Oifer to compromise before trial.

Costs must be included in the judgment.

Abstract of Judgment.

Abstract may be tiled and docketed in District Clerk's oilice.
E6‘ect of docketing.

Judgaient not a lien unless abstract is recorded inthe Recorder‘:
o ce.

5
esssss sees as gas sssssss §§s§§§§

SEC. 583. When the defendant fails to appear
and answer or demur, at the time specified in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, the Court must hear
the evidence offered by the plaintiff, and must render
judgment in his favor tor such a sum (not exceeding the
amount stated in the summons) as appears by such evidence to be just.

Sec. 584. In the following cases the same proceedings must be had, and judgment must be rendered in
like manner, as if the defendant had failed to appear and
answer or demnr:

1. If the complaint has been amended, and the defendant fails to answer it as amended, within the time
allowed by the Court;

2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled, and
the defendant fails to answer at once;

3. It‘ the demurrer to the answer is sustained, and
the defendant tails to amend the answer within the tinie
allowed by the Court.

SEC. 585. Un7ess postponed as provided in this Chapter, or unless transferred to another Court, the trial of
the action must commence at the expiration of one hour
from the time specified in the summons for the appearance of defendant, and the trial must be continued, with-'

out adjournment for more than twenty-four hours at any
one time, until all the issues therein are disposed of.

SEC. 586. The Court may, of its own motion, postpone the trial:

1. For not exceeding one day, if, at the time fixed by
law or by an order of the Court for the trial, the Court
is engaged in the trial of another action:

2 For not exceeding two days, if, by an amendment
of the pleadings, or the allowance of time to make such
amendment or to plead, a postponement is rendered necessary;

3. For not exceeding three days, if the trial is upon
issues of fact. and a jury has been demanded.

Sec. 557. The Court may, hy consent of the parties,
given in writing or in o wen Court, postpone the trial to
a time agreed upon by t ie parties.

Sec. 588. The trial may be post ned upon the application of either party, for a peri not exceeding four
months:

1. The party making the application must prove, by
his own oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of
material testimony, which he expects to procure, safely
proceed to trial, and must show in what respect the testimony expected is material, and that he has used
due diligence to procure it, and has been unable to
do so;

2. If the ap lication is on the part of the plaintiff,
and the defen ant is under arrest. a post ionemcnt for
more than three hours discharges the defen ant from custody, but the action may proceed notwithstanding, and

the defendant is subject to arrest on execution, in the
same manner as if he had not been dischar ed;

3. If the ap mlication is on the rt 0 a defendant
under arrest, beiore it can be granted )8 must execute an
undertaking, with two or more sufiicient sureties, to be
approved by, and in a sum to be fixed by, the Court, to
t e effect that he will render himself amenable to the
process of the Court during the pendency of the action,
and to such as may be issued to enforce the judgment
therein; or that the sureties will pay to the plaintiff the
amou_nt of any judgment which he may recover in the
action, not exceeding the amount specified in the undertaking. On filing t ie undertaking specified in this subdivision, the Court must order the defendant to be discharged from custody;

4. The party making the ap lication must, if required
by the adverse party, consent t rat the testimony of any
witness of such adverse party, who is in attendance, may
be then taken by de osition before the Court, and that
the testimony so ta en may be read on the trial, with
the same effect, and subject to the same objections, as if
the witness was produced ;—but the Court may require
the part making the application to state, upon aliidavit,
the evi ence which he expects to obtain; and if the
ad verse party thereupon admits that such evidence would
be given, and that it be considered as actually given on
the trial or offered and overruled as improper, the trial
must not be postponed.

SEC. 589. No adjournment must, unless consent, be
granted for a period longer than ten days, upon the
application of either party, except upon condition that
such party file an undertaking, in an amount fixed by the
Court, with two sureties, to be approved by the Court, to
the effect that they will pay to the opposite party the
amount of any judgment which may be recovered
against the party applying, not exceeding the sum
specified in the undertaking.

SEC. 590. Issues arise upon the leadings when a

'fact or conclusion of law is maintain by the one party

and is controverted by the other. They are of two kinds:

1. Of law; and

2. Of fact.

SEC. 591. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the complaint or answer, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 592. An issue of fact arises:

1. U on a material allegation in the complaint controverted, by the answer; and,

2. Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of
law is joined thereon.

Sec. 593. An issue of law must be tried by the
Court.

SEC. 594 An issue of fact must he tried bya jury,
unless a jury is waived, in which case it must be tried by
the Court.

SEC. 595. A jury may be waived:

1. By consent of parties, entered in the (locket;

2. By a failure of either party to demand a jury
before the commencement of the trial of an issue of
fact; ~

3. By the failure of either party to appear at the
time fixed for the trial of an issue of fact.

SEC. 596. If either part fails to appear at the time
fixed for trial, the trial may proceed at the request of the
adverse party.

SEC. 597. The challenges are either peremptory or
for cause. Each party is entitled to three peremptory
challenges. Either party may challenge for cause on
any grounds set forth as rounds of such challenge in
the District Court. Challenges for cause must he tried
I-y the Court.

Sec. 598. When the cause of action or counter
claim arises upon an account or instrument for the payment of money only, the Court, at any time before the
trial, may, by an order under his hand, require the original to be exhibited to the inspection of, and a copy to be
tnrnished to, the adverse party, at such time as may be
iixed in the order; or, if such order is not obeyed, the
account or instrument cannot be given in evidence.

SEC. 599. If the plaintiff annex to his complaint, or
tile with the Court at the time of issuing the summons,
the original or a copy of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written obligation for the payment of
money, u n which the action is broughi, the defendant
is deem to admit the genuineness of the signatures of
the makers, indorsers, or assignors thereof, unless he
specilically deny the same in his answer, and verify the
answer by his oath.

Sec. 600. Judgments upon confession may be entered
up in any Probate or J ustice’s Court specified in the confession, in any amount of which the Court has jurisdiction.

Sec. 601. Judgment that the action be dismissed,
without prejudice to a new action, may he entered with
costs, in the following cases:

1. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action
before it is iiiially submitted;

2. When he fails to appear at the time specified in
the summons, or at the time to which the action has
been postponed, or within one hour thereafter;

3. When, after a demurrer to the complaint has been
sustained, the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time
allowed by the Court;

4. When it is objected at the trial. and appears by
the evidence, that the action is brought in the wrong
county, or recinct, or city; but if the objection is taken
and overrii ed, it is cause only of reversal on appeal, and
does not otherwise invalidate the judgment; if not taken
at the trial, it is waived.

SEC. 602. When a trial li jury has been liad,jndgmciit must be entered by t e Court at once, in cuniorinity with the verdict.

r Sicc. 603. When the trial is by the Court, judgment
must be entered at the close of the trial.

Sec. 604. The judgment must be entered substan_tially in the form required by this Code. When the
judgment is rendered in a case where the defendant is
subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon, the fact
that the defendant is so subject must be stated in the
judgiueiit.

SEC. 605. When the amount found due to either
Iparty exceeds the sum for which the Court is authorized
_to enter judgment, such arty may remit the excess,
'aud judgment ma be ren ered for the residue.

SEC. 606. If tie defendant, at any time before the
trial, offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken
against him for a speciiied sum, the plaintiff may immediately liave judgment therefor, with the costs then
accrued; but it’ he do not accept such offer before the
trial. and fail to.recover in the action a sum in excess of
the offer, he cannot recover costs; but costs must be
adjud ,_ against him. and if he recover, be deducted
lroin us recovery. The offer and failure to accept cannot be given in evidence, nor aifect the recovery otherwise than as to costs.

Sec. 607. The Court must tax and include in the
Jlldtglnellt the costs allowed by law to the prevailing
par y.

SEC. 608. The Court, on the demand of a party in
vi iosc tavor- judgment is rendered, must give him an

I certiiy that- the fore oing is a correct abstract of a
judgment rendered iusai action in my Court, or as the
case may be in the Court of , Justice of the eace,
as appears y his docket, now in my possession, as his
successor in oflice, signed by the Clerk of the Probate
Court and attested by its seal, or signed by the Justice,
as the case may be.

Sec. 609. The abstract may be filed and docketed ini
the ofiice of the District Clerk of the county in which.
the judgment was rendered, and must be docketed in the‘
judgment docket of the District Court. The time of the
receipt of the abstract by the Clerk must be noted by him
thereon, and entered in the docket.

SEC. 610. From the time of docketiu in the Districti
Clerk’s ofiice, execution may be issu thereon b the‘
District Clerk to the Sheriff of any county in the ’Izerriiory, in the same manner and with like effect as if issued
on judgments of the District Courts.

Sec. 611. A judgment rendered in a Probate or J us-.
tice’s Court creates no lieu upon any lands of the de-1
fendant, unless such an abstract is filed and docketed in‘
the oiiice of the Clerk of the District Court of the county
in which the lands are situated. When so tiled and
docketed, such a judgment is a lien upon the lands of the
judgment debtor situated in that county, for the period
of two years from the date of the judgment.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

EXECUTIONS FROM PROBATE AND J USTICES’ COURTS.

Bncrzox 1512. Execution may inue at any time within tive_years.
613. Execution. contents of.
614. Renewal of execution.
615. Duty of otiicer receiving execution.
616. Proceedings supplementary to execution.

SEC. 612. Execution for the enforcement of a

judgment may be issued by the Clerk of the.Prohate
Court under the seal of the Court, or by the Justice who

entered the judgment, or his successor in oflice, on the
application of the party entitled thereto, at any time
within five years from the en try of judgment.

SEC. 613. The execution must be directed to the
Sheriff or to a Constable of the county, and must be subscribed by the Clerk or Justice and bear date the day of
its delivery to the officer. It must intelligibly refer to
the judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and
the name of the Court or Justice before whom, and of
the county where, and the time when it was rendered;
the amount ofjndgment, if it be for money; and, if less
than the whole is due, the true amount due thereon. It
must contain, in like cases, similar directions to the
Sheriff or Constable, as are required in executions issued
from the District Court.

SEC. 614. An execution may, at the request of the
judgment creditor, be renewed before the expiration of
the time fixed for its return, by the word "renewed”
written thereon, with the date thereof‘, and subscribed by
the Clerk or Justice. Such renewal has the effect of an
original issue, and may be repeated as often as necessary.
If an execution is returned unsatisfied, another may be
afterwards issued.

SEC. 615. The Sheriff or Constable to whom the execution is directed must execute the same in the same
manner as the Sheriff is re uired to proceed upon executions directed to him; and t e Constable, when the execution is directed to him, is vested for that purpose with
all the powers of the Sheriff.

SEC. 616. The provisions of this Code as to Proceedings Snpplementary to Execution in the District Court,
are applicable to Probate and Justices’ Courts, the necessary changes and substitutions being made therein.

CHAPTER XL. .

GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO PROBATE AND JUSTICES’ COURTS.

SECTION 617. Contempts.

618. Proceedings forcontempts.

619. Same.

Gm. Punishments for contemptn.

621. The conviction must be entered in the docket.
622. Docket. what to contain.

623. Entries therein primary evidence of the fact.
62!. An index to the docket must be kept.

625. Dockets must be delivered by Judge or Justice to his succmsor.

Proceedings when omce becomes vacant and before a successor
is appointed.

Hay inue execution or other process upon the docket of his prodecemor.

Successor 01' a J ustice, who shall be deemed.

Ii’ two Justices might be deemed successors. the Probate Judge
shall designate one.

Probate Judge or Justices may isue subpanas and ilnal procei
to any part oi’ the ‘county.

Blanks must be tilled in all papers issued by a Probate Judge or
Justice. except subpmuas.

Judge or Justice to receive all moneys collected and pay same
to parties.

In case of disability of Justice. another Justice may attend on his
behalf.

May require security for costs.

Who entitled to costs.

What provisions of Code applicable.

637. Deposit. §s2'2 s 2 2 as 3 s

SEC. 617. A Probate Judge or Justice may pun-«
ish as for contempt, persons guilty of the following acts,?
and no other:

1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior
towards the Judge or Justice while holding the Court,
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other
judicial roceeding; . °

2. A reach of the peace, boisterous conduct, or vio-"
lent disturbance in the presence of the J udoe or Justice,
or in the immediate vicinit of the Court held by him,
tending to interrupt the ue course of a trial or other
judicial proceeding;

3. Disobedience or resistance to the execution of a
lawful order or process, made or issued by him;

4. Disobedience to a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or to answer as a witness:

5. Rescuing any person or property in the custody
of an oflicer by virtue of an order or process of the Court
held by him.

SEC. 618. When a contem t is committed in the im-;
mediate view and presence 0 the Judge or Justice, it‘
may be punished summarily; to that end an order must
be made, reciting the facts as they occurred, and adjudging that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty
of contempt, and that he be punished as therein prescribed.

Sec. 619. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the Judge or Justice,
a warrant of arrest may be issued by such Judge or
Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested
and brought before the Judge or Justice immediately,

when an opportunity to be heard in his defense or excuse
must be given. The Judge or Justice may. thereupon,
discharge him, or may convict him of the offense.

SEC. 620. The Judge or Justice may punish for contempts, by fine or imprisonment, or both; such fine not
to exceed, in any case, one hundred dollars, and such
im risonment one day.

SEC. 621. The conviction, specifying particularly the

ioflense and the judgment thereon, must be entered in

the docket.
SEC. 622. Every Probate Court and Justice must
keep a book, denominated a “ Docket,” in which must
beentcred:

1. The title of every action or proceeding;

2. The object of the action or proceeding; and if a
sum of money be claimed, the amount thereof;

3. The date of the summons, and the time of its
return; and if an order to arrest the defendant be made,
era writ of attachment be issued, astatement of the fact;

4. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their uon-appearance, if default be made: a
minute of the pleadings and motions; if in writing. referring to them; if not in writing, a concise statement of
the material parts of the pleading;

5. Every adjournment, stating on whose application
and to what time;

6. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is
made, and by whom made, the order for the jury, and
the time appointed for the return of the jury and for the
trial.

7. The names of the jurors who appear and are sworn,
and the names of all witnesses sworn, and at whose
request;

8. The verdict of the jury, and when received; if the
jury disagree and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge;

9. The jud ment of the Court, specifying the costs
included and t 1e time when rendered;

10. The issuing: of the execution, when issued and to
whom; the renewals thereof, it’ any, and when made, and
a statement of any money paid to the Court, when and
by whom.

11. The receipt of a notice of appeal, if any be given,
and of the appeal bond, if any be filed.

SEC. 623. The several particulars of the last scctiun
spectied must be entered under the title of the action to
_which they relate, and (unless otherwise in this Code

provided) at the time when they occur. Such en tries in
a Probate or Justices’ docket, or a transcript thereof,
certified by the Clerk or Justice, or his successor in
otiice, are primary evidence of the facts so stated.

Sec. 624. The Clerk of the Probate Court and every;
Justice ot' the Peace must keep an alphabetical index to:
his docket, in which must be entered t.he names of the
parties to each judgment, with a reference to the page
of entry. The names of the plaintiffs must be entered
in the index, in the alphabetical order of the iirst letter
of the family name.

Sec. 625. Every Probate Judge and every Justice of §
the Peace, upon the expiration of his term of otlice, must.
deposit with his successor his oflieial dockets and all
papers filed in his otllce, as well his own as those of his
predecessors, or any other which may be in his custody
to be kept as ublic records.

Sec. 626. If the office of a Justice become vacant by,
..is death or removal from the recinct or c.t.y. or other-‘
wise, before his successor is eected and qualified, the:
locket and pa ers in possession of such Justice must be}
deposited in the ofllce of some other Justice in the prezinct, to be bv him delivered to the successor of such
Justice. If there is no other Justice in the precinct,
then the docket and papers of such Justice must be
deposited in the ofiice of the County Recorder of the
county, to be by him delivered to the successor in oflice
of the Justice.

Sec. 627. Any Probate Judge having the docket of :
his predecessor, and any Justice with whom the docket}
of his iredecessor, or of any other Justice, is deposited,}
has and may exercise over all actions and proceedings
entered in such docket, the same ‘nu-isdiction as if originally commenced before him. n ease of the creation
of a new county, or the change of the boundary between
two counties, any Justice into whose hands the docket
of a Justice formerly acting as such within the same
territory may come, 18, for the purposes of this section,
considered the successor of such former Justice.

SEC. 628. The justice elected to fill a vacancy is the snc-=
ccssor of the Justice whose otiice became vacant before}
the expiration of a full term. When a full term expires,‘
the same or another person elected to take otlice in the
same precinct or city, from that time is the successor.

SEC. 629. When two or more Justices are equally1
entitled, under the last section, to be deemed the suec-es-3
:-_t)'a in ctlicc of the Justice, the Probate J udge, must by‘

a certificate subscribed by him and tiled in the otiice of
the County Recorder, designate which Justice is the successor of a Justice going out of oflice, or whose oiiiee
has become vacant.

SEC. 630. Subpaanas out of any Probate or J ustice’s
Court, and iinal process on any judgment recovered
therein, may be issued to any part of the county.

SEC. 631. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a Probate Court or Justice, except a subpoena, must be issued without ablank left to
be filled by another, otherwise it is void.

SEC. 632. Probate Judges and Justices of the Peace
must receive from the Sheriffs or Constables of their
county, all moneys collected on any process or order
issued from their Courts respectively, and all moneys
paid to them, in their official cgpacity, and must pay the
same over to the arties entitl or authorized to receive
them, without de ay.

SEC. 633. In case of the sickness or other disability,
or necessary absence of a Justice, on a return of a summons or at the time appointed for a trial, another Justice
of the same recinct or city may, at his request, attend
in his behalf? and thereupon is vested with the power,
for the time bein , of the Justice before whom the summons was returna le. In that case, the pro er ent of

roceedings before the attending Justice subscrib by
liim, must be made in the docket of the Justice before
whom the summons was returnable. It’ the case is adjourned, the Justice before whom the summons was returnable may resume jurisdiction. '

SEC. 634. Probate and Justices’ Courts may in all

cases require a deposit of money or an undertaking, as M

security for costs of Court, before issuing a summons.

SEC. 635. The prevailing party in Probate and Justices’ Courts is entitled to costs of the action and also of
any proceedings taken by him in aid of an execution,
issued upon an judgment recovered therein.

SEC. 636. The Probate Courts in the exercise of their
civil °urisdiction, and J usticcs’ Courts, being Courts of
pecu iar and limited jurisdiction, only those provisions
of this Code which are, in their nature, applicable to the
organization, powers, and course of proceedings in these
Courts, or which have been made a licable by special
provisions in this Code, are applica lb to these Courts
and the proceedings therein.

SEC. 637. In all civil cases arising in Probate and
Justices’ Courts, where an undertaking is required by

this Code. a deposit with the Court of a sum of money
equal to the amount of the required undertaking, may be‘
received and held by the Court in place of said undertaking.

Sec. 638. The practice of Probate Courts in criminal 1
and in Probate matters, and the practice of J ustices’}
Courts in criminal matters, is regulated by other statutes‘

of this Territory.

 

CHAPTER XLI.
APPEALS IN GENERAL.

Sitcrrox 639. Judgment and orders may be reviewed.

640. Orders made out of Court, without notice, may be reviewed by
the Judge.

641. Party aggrieved may appeal. Names of parties.

642. Within what time appeal may be taken.

643. Appeal. how taken.

614. Undertaking or deposit on appeal.

6-i5. Undertaking on appeal from a money Judgment.

646. Appeal from a judgment for a delivery of documents.

647. Appeal born a judgment directing the execution of a convoy
anee, etc.

648. Undertaking on appeal concerning real property.

649. Stay of proceedings. The Security on appeal may be limited in
the case of an execution. etc.

650. Undertaking may be in one instrument or several.

651. Justification of snreties on undertaking on appeal

6%. Undertakings in cases not specified.

653. What papers to be used on an appeal from the judgment

W. What papers used on appeals from orders. except orders granting
or refusing new trials.

055. What papers to be used on an appeal from an order granting or
remsing a new trial.

666. Copies and undertakings, how certified.

657. When an appeal may be dismissed. when not.

658. Efect of dismissal.

659. What may be reviewed on an appeal from judgment.

660. Remedial powers of an appellate Court.

661. On Judgment on appeal, remi.titnr must be certified to the Clerk
of the Court below.

SEC. 639. A judgment or order, in a civil action,.
except when expressly made final, may be reviewed as?
prescribed in this Code, and not otherwise.

SEC. 640. An order made out of Court, Wltll0llti
notice to the adverse party, may be vacated or modiiied.f
without notice, by the Judge who made it; or may be}
vacated or modified on notice, in the manner in which.
other motions are made.

SEC. 641. Any party aggrieved may appeal in the

cases prescribed in this Code. The party appealing is

‘known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the

respondent.

SEC. 642. An appeal may be taken to the Supreme
Court from a District Court:

1. From a final udgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in the Court in which the same is
rendered, within one year after the entry of judgment.
But an exception to the decision or verdict, on the ground
that it is not supported by the evidence, cannot be reviewed on an ap eal from the judgment, unless the appeal is taken wit ‘u sixty days after the rendition of the
Judgment;

2. From a jud ment rendered on an appeal from an
inferior Court, within ninety days after the entry of such
judgment.

3. From an order granting or refusing a new trial;
from an order granting or dissolving an injunction; from
an order refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction; from
an order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an attachment;
from an order granting or refusin to grant a change of
the place of trial; from any speciafl order made after tinal
judgment, and from an interlocutory judgment in actions for partition of real property, within sixty days
after the order or interlocutory judgment is made and
entered on the minutes of the Court or filed with the
Clerk.

SEC. 643. An appeal is taken by filing with the
Clerk of the Court in which the judgment or order appealed from is entered, a notice stating the appeal from
the same, or some specific part thereof, and serving a
similar notice on the adverse party, or his attorney. The
order or service is immaterial, but the appeal is ineffectual for any purpose, unless within five days after
service of the notice of appeal, an undertaking be filed,
or a deposit of money be made with the Clerk, as hereinafter provided, or the undertaking be waived by the
adverse party in writing.

SEC. 644. The undextakino on appeal must be in
writing, and must be executed on the part of the appellant, by at least two surcties, to the effect that the appellant will pay all damages and costs which may be awarded
against him on the appeal, or on a dismissal thereof,
not exceeding three hundred dollars; or that sum must
be deposited with the Clerk with whom the judgment or
order was entered, to abide the event of the appeal.

SEC. 645. If the appeal be from a judgment or order

directing the payment of money, it does not stay the
execution of the judgment or order, unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant, by
two or more sureties, to the effect that they are bound
in double the amount named in the judgment or order;

~ that if the judgment or order appealed from, or any part

thereof, be affirmed, or the appeal be dismissed, the appellant will pay the amount directed to be paid by the
judgment or order, or the part of such amount as to
which the judgment or order is affirmed, if aliirmed only
in part, and all damages and costs which may be awarded against the appellant upon the appeal, and that if the
appellant does not make such payment within thirty days
after the filing of the remittitur from the Supreme Court
in the Court from which the a peal is taken, judgment
may be entered on motion of tlle respondent, in his favor
against the sureties, for such amount, together with the
interest that may be due thereon, and the damages and
costs which may be awarded against the appellant ‘upon
the appeal. If the judgment or order ap ealed from, be
for a greater amount than two thousand ollars, and the
sureties do not state in their aflidavits of justification
accompanying the undertaking, that they are each worth
the sum specified in the undertaking, the stipulation
may be that the judgment to be entered against the
sureties shall be for such amounts only as in their allidavits, they may state that they are severally worth, and
judgment may be entered against the sureties by the
Court, from which the appeal is taken, pursuant to
the stipulations herein designated. ' When the udgment
or order appealed from, is made payable in a specified
kind of money or currency, the judgment entered against
the surties u u the undertaking, must be made payable
in the same ind of money or currency.

SEC. 646. If the judgment or order appealed from,
direct the assignment or delivery of documents or per-'.
sonal property, the execution of the judgment or order‘
cannot bestayed b appeal, unless the things required
to be assigned or elivered be placed in the custody of
such ofiicer or receiver as the Court or Judge thereof
may appoint; or unless an undertaking be entered into
on the part of the appellant, with at least two sureties,
and in such amount as the Court, or the Judge thereof,
may direct, to the effect that the appellant will obey the
order of the appellate Court upon the appeal.

SEC. 647. If the judgment or order appealed from,
direct the execution of a conveyance or other instrument,

the execution of the judgment or order cannot be stayed
by the appeal until the instrument is executed and deposited with the Clerk with whom the judgment or order
18 entered, to abide thejudgment of the appellate Court.
SEC. 648. If the judgment or order appealed from,
direct the sale or delivery of possession of real property,
the execution of the same cannot be stayed, unless a written undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant,
with two or more sureties, to the effect that during the
possession of sufph property by the appellant, he vtlrill not
commit, or sn er to be committed, any waste txereon,
and that if the 'ud meut be aflirmed, or the a 1 dismissed, he will iiaygthe value of the use and ogcpifgatiori
of the property from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the {udgment or
order, not exceeding a sum to be fixed by t 1e Judge of
the Court by which the Judgmentdwas rtilndereg or lcirder
made, and which must be s ecitie in t e un erta incr.
When the judgment is fort 1e sale of mortgaged premtises, and the payment of a deficiency arising upon the
sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment
of such deticiency.

SEC. 649. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided in the preceding sections of this chapter, it stays
,all further proceedings izd the Court below,l upon the
’ 'udgment or order a eal from, or u on tie matters
-elmbraced therein, an i°)eleases from levypproperty which
has been levied upon under execution issued upon such
judgment; but the Court below may proceed upon any
other matter embraced in the action, and not affected by
the order appealed from. And the Court below may, in
its discretion, dispense with or limit the security required
by this chapter, when the} appellant is an executor}, administrator, trustee, or ot ner person acting in anot 181's
ri ht. An a eal does not continue in force an attachlnint, unless  undertaking be executed and filed on the
part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, in double
the amount of the debt claimed by him; that the appellant will pay all costs and damages which the respon ent
may sustain by reason of the attachment, in case the order of the Court below he sustained; and unless, within
twenty day1sbafter tfhe eéitry of the order appealed from,
such a ea e er ecte .

SEC. 650. The undertakings prescribed by Sections
644, 645, 646 and 648, may be in one instrument or several. at the o )tl0l1 of the appellant.

SEC. 651. I The adverse party may except to the suf.

iiciency of the sureties to the undertakings mentioned in Sections 644, 645, 646 and 648, at any time within thirty
days after the tiling of such undertaking; and, unless
thew or other sureties, within twenty days after the appellant has been served with notice of such exception,
‘justify before a Judge of the Court below, the Probate

udge, upon five days notice to the respondent, of the
time and place of justification, execution of the judgment, order, or decree appealed from is no longer stayed;
and in all cases where an undertaking is re uired on appeal by the provisions of this Chapter, a eposit in the
Court below of the amount of the judgment appealed
from, and three hundred dollars in addition, is equivalent to filing the undertaking; and in all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived by the written consent of t ie res ondent.

Sec. 652. In cases not provided for in sections 645,
646, 647 and 648, the perfecting of an appeal by giving
the undertaking, or making the deposit mentioned in Section 644, stays proceedings in the Court below, upon
the judgment or the order appealed from, except where
it directs the sale of perishable property; in which case
the Court below may order the property to be sold and
the proceeds thereof to be ‘deposited, to abide the judgment of the appellate Court. And except also, where it
adjudges the defendant guilty of usurping or intruding
into, or unlawful] holding a public office, civil or military, within this erritory. And except, also, where the
order rants, or refuses to grant, a change of the place
of tria of an action.

SEC. 653. On an ap lfrom a final judgment, the
appellant must furnish t e Court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the judgment roll, and of any bill ot'exceptions or statement in the case, upon which the appellantrelies. Any statement used on motion for a new
trial, or settled after decision of such motion, when the
motion is made upon the minutes of the Court, as rovided in Section 415, or any bill of exce tions settl , as
provided in Sections 405 or 406, or usetf on motion for a

'new trial, may be used on appeal from a final judgment

equally as upon appeal from the order granting or refusing the new trial. 

SEC. 654. On appeal from a judgment rendered on
an appeal, or from an order, except an order granting ori
refusing a new trial, the appellant must furnish thei
Court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the judg-'

ment or order a vpealed from, and of papers used on the
hearing in the ourt below.
SEC. 655. On an appeal from an order granting or
“refusing a new trial, the appellant must furnish the
Court with a copy of the notice of appeal, of the order
appealed from. and of the papers designated in section
415 of this Code. ~

SEC. 656. The copies provided for in the last three Sections must be certified to be correct by the Clerk or
the attorneys, and must be accompanied with a certificate
of the Clerk or attorneys, that an undertaking on appeal,
in due form, has been properly filed, or a stipulation of
the parties waivin an undertaking.

Sec. 657. If t xe appellant fails to furnish the requi,site jgaépens, the eappeal may be dismissed; but no appeal
can dismiss for insuiiiciency of the undertaking
thereon, if a good and suflicient nndertakin , approved
by a Justice of the Supreme Court, be led in the
Supreme Court before the hearing upon motion to dismiss the appeal.

SEC. 658. The dismissal of an appeal is in effect an
adirmauce of the judgment or order ap ealed from, unless
the dismissal is expressly made without prejudice to
another appeal.

SEC. 659. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the Court
may review the verdict or decision, or any intermediate
order, if excepted to, which involves the merits or
necessarily affects the 'udgment, except a decision or order
from which an appea might have been taken.

SEC. 660. When the judgment or order is reversed or
modified, the appellate Court may make complete restitution of all property and rights lost by the erroneous
judgment ororder, so far as the restitution is consistent
with rotection of a purchaser of property at a sale orderedlliy the judgment, or had under process issued upon
the judgment, on the appeal from winch the proceedings
were not stayed; and for relief in such cases, the appellant may have his action against the respondent enforcing
the judgment for the proceeds of the sale°of the property, after deducting therefrom the expenses of the sale.
When it appears to the appellate Court that the appeal
was made for delay, it may add to the cost such damages
as may be ust.

SEC. 661. When judgment is rendered a n the appeal. it must be certified by the Clerk of t e Supreme
Court to the Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed,
or the order appealed from is entered. In cases of appeal from the judcrment, the Clerk with whom the roll
18 filed must attach the certificate to the judgment roll,
and enter a minute of the judgment of the Supreme
Court on the docket, against the ori inal entry. In
cases of appeal from an order, the Cler must enter at
length in the records of the Court the certificate received,
and minute against the entry of the order appealed from,
a. reference to the certificate, with a brief statement that
such order has been ailirmed, reversed, or modified, by
the Supreme Court on appeal.

CHAPTER XLII.
APPEALS FROM PROBATE COURTS TO DISTRICT COURT.

Bncnos 662. When my betaken. ‘
063. Executor: and administrators not required to give undertaking

on appeal. .
664. Acts of acting administrator, etc., not invalidated by reversal of

order appointing him.

SEC. 662. An appeal may be taken to the District;
Court of the county from a judgment or order of the

rebate Court:

1. Granting or revokino letters testamentary, or of
administration or of guardianship;

2. Admitting, or refusing to admit, a will to prohate;

3. Against or in favor of the validity of a will, or
revoking the probate thereof;

4. Against or in favor of setting apart property, or
making an allowance for a widow or child;

5. Against or in favor of directing the partition, sale,
or conveyance of real property;

6. Settling an account of an executor or administrator, or iardian;

7. fusing, allowing, or directing the distribution
or partition of an estate, or any part thereof, or the payment of a debt, claim, legacy, or distributive share;

8. Overruling motion for a new trial;

9. Confirming report of appraiser setting apart the
homestead.

Sec. 663. When an executor or administrator who I
has given an official undertaking appeals from a j udgmentti
or order of the Probate Court made in the proceedingsg
had upon the estate of which he is administrator or ex- 0
ecutor, his oflicial undertaking stands in the place of an

undertaking on appeal, and the sureties therein are liable

as on such nndertakin .
SEC. 664. When tie order or decree appointin an

I, executor, or administrator, or guardian, 18 revers 'on
appeal for error, and not for want of Jurisdiction of the

’ Court, all lawful acts in administration upon the estate,

erformed b such executor or administrator or nar0 0 0 o , 9 o o ’ g
dian, it he have qualiiied, are as valid as 11 such order or

decree had been ailirmed.

CHAPTER XLIII.

APPEALS FROM PROBATE AND J USTICES’ COURTS TO
DISTRICT COURTS.

Samoa 665. Appeal from judgment.
666. Party appealing on questions of law alone must prepare a surement. Stttlement of statement.
667. If the appeal be upon questions of fact, or of law and fact, no

statement need be made.
668. Upon the appeal, must transmit the case.

669. Undertaking on appeal. Justification of suretles.
670. On tiling undertaking. execution must be stayed.
671. Miscellaneous provisions on trials.

SEC. 665. Any party dissatislied with a judgment
rendered in a civil action in a Probate or J ustice’_s Court,
may appeal therefrom to the District Court of the
county, at any time within thirty days after the rendition of the judgment. The appeal is taken by filing a
notice of appeal with the Justice or Judge, and serving
a copy on the adverse arty. The notice must state
whether the appeal is ta ‘en from the whole or a part of
the judgment, and if from a part, what part, and whether
the appeal is taken on questions of law or fact, or both.

Sec. 666. When a arty appeals to the District
Court on questions of aw alone, he must, within ten
days from ie rendition ofudgment, prepare a statement
of the case, and tile the same with the Justice or Judge.

The statement must contain the grounds upon which
the party intends to rely on the appeal, and so much of
the evidence as may be necessary to ex lain the grounds.
and no more. Within ten days after is receives notice
that the statement is filed, the adverse party, if dissatisfied with the same, may tile amendments. The proposed

statement and amendments must be settled by the
Justice or Judge, and if no amendments be filed, the

original statement stands as adopted. The statement

thus adopted, or as settled by the Justice or Judge, with
a copy of the docket of the Justice or Judge, and all
motions filed with him by the arties during the trial,
and the notice of ap eal, may lhe used on the hearing
of the appeal before t e District Court.

SEC. 667. When a party appeals to the District Court
on questions of fact, or on questions of both law and fact,
no statement need be made, but the action must be tried
anew in he District Court.

Sec. 668. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and
on payment of the fees of the Court or Justice and filing?
an undertaking as required in the next section, and after
settlement or adoption of statement, if any, the Clerk or
Justice must, within five days, transmit to the Clerk of
the District Court: if the appeal he on questions of law
alone, a certilied copy of his docket, the statement as admitted or as settled, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed; or, if the appeal be on questions of fact, or
both law and fact, a certified co y of his docket, the
pleadings, all notices, motions, an other papers tiled in
the cause, the notice of appeal and the undertaking filed;
and the Justice or Judge may be compelled by the District Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such papers, and may be iiued for neglect or refusal
to transmit the same. A certified copy of such order
may be served on the Justice or Judge by the party or
his attorney. In the District Court, either party may
have the benefit of all legal objections made in Probate
or Justices’ Court. And when the aipeal is on questions of fact, or both law and fact, the District Court has
the same power to grant relief by amendment and otherwise, as in actions commenced in the District Court.

Sec. 669. An appeal from a J ustice’s or Probate;
Court is not effectual for any purpose, unless an undertaking be filed, with two or more sureties, in the sum of
one hundred dollars, for the payment of the costs on the
appeal; or, if a stay of proceedings be claimed, in a sum
equal to twice the amount of the judgment, including
costs, when the judgment is for the payment of money;
or twice the value of the property, including costs, when
the judgment is for the recovery of specific personal
property, and must be conditioned, when the act.ion is
tor the recovery of money, that the appellant will pay
the amount of the judgment appealed from and all costs,
if the appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount
uf any udgment, and all costs that may be recovered
against him in the action in the District Court. When

the action is for the recovery of specific personal property, the undertaking must be conditioned that the appellant will pay the judgment and costs a pealed from,
and obey the order of the Court made tierein, if the
appeal be withdrawn or dismissed, or any judgment
and costs that may be recovered against him in said
action in the District Court, and will obey any order made by the Court therein. When the judgment
appealed from directs the delivery of possession of real
roperty, the execution of the same cannot be stayed uness a written undertaking be executed on the part of
the a pellant, with two or more sureties, to the effect
that d)uriug the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit or suffer to be committed.
any waste thereon, and that if the appeal be dismissed
or withdrawn, or the judgment aflirmed, or judgment he
recovered against him in the action in the District Court,
he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the
property from the time of the appeal until the delivery
of ossession thereof; or that he will pay any judgment
and) costs that may be recovered against him in said
action in the District Court, not exceeding the sum to be
iixed by the Judge or Justice of the Court from which
the appeal is taken, and which sum must be specitied
in the undertaking. A deposit of the amount of the
judgment, includin gall costs appealed from, or of the
value of the property, including all costs in actions for
the recovery of specific personal property, with the
Justice or Judge, )8 equivalent to the filing of the undertaking; and in such cases the Justice or J ndge
must transmit the money to the Clerk of the District
Court, to be by him paid out on the order of the Court.
rThe adverse party may except to the sufiiciency of the
sureties within live days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless they or other sureties justify before
the Justice orJud before whom the appeal is taken,
within five days tfigreafter, upon notice to the adverse
party, to the amounts stated in their aflidavits, the appzal must be regarded as if no such undertaking had
en given.

SEC. 670. If an execution be issued, on the iilingof
the undertaking stayino proceedings, the Justice or
Judge must, by order, irect the ofhcer to stay all proceedings on the same. Such officers must, upon payment
of his fees for services rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all property levied upon and deliver the
same to the judgment debtor, together with all moneys

collected from sales or otherwise. If his fees be not paid,
the ofiicer may retain so much of the property or proceeds thereof as may be necessary to pay the same.

SEC. 671. Upon an appeal heard upon a statement,
of the case, the istrict bourt may review all orders af-is
fectiug the judgment appealed from, and may set aside
or confirm, or modify, any or all of the proceedings subsequent to and dependent upon such judgment, and may,
if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the action is tried anew, on appeal, the trial must be conducted
in all respects as trials in the District Court. The provisions of this Code as to changing the place of trial, and
all the provisions as to trials in the District Court, are
applicable to trials on appeal in the District Court. F or
a failure to prosecute an appgd, or unnecessary delay in
bringing it to a hearing, the istrict Court, after notice,
may order the appeal to be dismissed, with costs; and if
it a pear to such Court that this appeal was made solely
for delay, it may add to the costs such damages as may
be just, not exceeding twenty-five per cent. of the judgment appealed from. Jud ments rendered in the District Court on a peal have t 1e same force and effect, and
maybe enforc in the same manner, as judgments in
actions commenced in the District Court.

 

CHAPTER XLIV.

OF MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.Proceedings against joint debtors.

Ofer of the defendant to compromise.
Inspection of writings.

Jlotions and orders.

Notices, and jiling and service of papers.

Qf costs.
General provisions.

Simon 672. Parties not summoned in action on Joint contract may be summoned aiter judgment

673, Summons in that case. what to contain and how served.

674. Amdavit to accompany summons.

675. Answer. when died and what it may contain.

676. What constitute the pleadings in the case.

677. Issues, how tried. Verdict, what to be.

678. Proceedings on offer of the defendant to compromise.

679. A party may demand inspection and copy on writing.

680. Order and motion denned.

681.
682.
683.
684.
685.

Motion and orders, where made.

Notice of motion, at what time to be given.
Transfer of motions and orders to show cause.
Order for payment of money, how enforced.
Notices and papers, when and how served.

686. Service by mail, when.

687.

Si?’ Si .§§§§§.§;§§ .§;§;§ §;§§;§ .§ 5%

709.
710.
711.

712.
713.
714.
715.
716.
717.
718.
719.
720.
721.
722.
723.

Sncrxos

Service by mail. how.

Appearance. Notices after appearance.

Service on non-residents. Where a party has an attorney, service shall be on such attorney.

Preceding provisions not to apply to proceeding to bring party
into contempt.

Service by telegraph.

Compensation of attorneys. Cost to parties.

When allowed of course to plaintiff.

Several actions brought on a single cause of action can carry
costs in but one.

Defendant's costs must be allowed of course. in certain cases.

Costs. when in the discretion of the Court.

When the several defendants are not united in interest. cost:
may be severed

Costs of appeal discretionary with the Court, in certain cases.
Referee’s fees.

Continuance. costs may be imposed as condition of.

Costs when a tender is made before suit brought.

Costs in action by or against an administrator, etc.

Filing of an affidavit to bill of costs.

Costs on appeal. how claimed and recovered.

Interest and costs must be included by the Clerk in the judg.

ment.
Wnen piaintitfis a non-resident or foreign corporation, defendant may require security for costs.

If such security be not given. the action may be dismissed.
Costs when Territory is a party.

Costs when county is a party.

Lost papers, how supplied.

Papers without the title of the action. or with defective title
_ may be valid. ‘

Successive actions on the same contract, etc.

Consolidationof several actions into one.

Actions, when deemed pending.

Actions to determine adverse claims and by suretcles.
Testimony, when to be taken by the C erk.

The Clerk must keep a register ofactions.

Two of three referees. etc., may do any act.

The time within which an act is to be done may be extended.
Actions against a Sheriff for oilicial acts.

Undertakings mentioned in this Code, requisites of.

People not required to give bonds when Territory in party.
Sureties, when substituted.

SEC. 672. When a judgment is recovered against

one orpmore of several persons, jointly indebted upon an
obligation, by proceeding as provided in section 223,

‘those who were not originally served with the summons. '
and did not appear to the action, may be summoned to '

show cause why they should not be bound by the ndgment, in the same manner as though they had been originally served with the summons.

SEC. 673. The summons, as provided in the last section, must describe the judgment, and r uire the person summoned to show cause why he shoueld not be bound
by it, and must be served in the same manner, and returnable within the same time, as the original summons.
It it is not necessary to file a new complaint.

Sec. 674. The summons must be accompanied by an
afiidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney, that the udgment, or some part thereof, remains
unsatisfied, and must specify the amount due thereon.

Sec. 675. Upon such summons, the defendant may
answer within t e time specified therein, denying the
judgment, or setting up any defense which may have
arisen subsequently, except a discharge from such liability
by the Statute of Limitations; or he may deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
recovered.

Sec. 676. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the

- judgment, or-set up any defense which may have arisen

subsequently, the summons, with the aliidavits annexed,
and the answer, constitute the written allegations in the
case; if he deny his liability on the obligation upon
which the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original
complaint and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer, constitute such written
allegations.

Sec. 677. The issues formed may be tried as in other
cases; but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it must he
for not exceeding the amount remaining unsatisfied on
such original 'udgment, with interest thereon.

SEC. 678. he defendant in any action may, at any
time before the trial or 'udgment, serve upon the plaintiff an offer to allow judgment to be taken against him
for the sum or property, or to the effect therein specified.
If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof
within live days, he may file the offer, with proof of notice of acceptance, and the Clerk must thereupon enter
judgment accordingly. If the notice of acceptance be
not given, the offer is to be deemed withdrawn, and cannot be given -in evidence upon the trial; and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable jud ment, he cannot
recover costs, but must pay the det'en ant’s costs from
the time of the offer.

SEC. 679. Any Court in which an action is pending,

or a Judge thereof, or a Probate Judge, may, upon notine, order either party to give to the other, within a
specified time, an inspection and copy, or permission to

'take a copy, of entries of account in any book, or of any

document, or paper in his possession. or under his control, containing evidence relhting to the merits of the
action, or the defense therein. If compliance with the
order be refused, the Court may exclude the book, document, or paper from being given in evidence; or, if
wanted as evidence by the arty applying, may direct
the jury to resume them to such as he alleges them
to be; and the Court may also punish the party refusing,
for a contempt. This section is not to be construed to

revent a party from compelling another to produce
)O()k8, papers, or documents when he is examined as a
witness.

SEC. 680. Every direction of a Court or Judge, made
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is
denominated an order. An application for an order is a
motion.

Sec. 681. Motions must be made in the county in
which the action is pending, or in any county in the
same judicial district. Orders made out of Court may
be made by the Judge of the Court in any part of the
Territory. 

SEC. 682. When a written notice of a motion is re(Bured by this Code, or by a rule of the Supreme or

istrict Court, it must be given, unless a different time
is prescribed, it’ the hearing is had in the same district
in which the action is pending or the proceeding had,
five days before the time appointed for the hearing;
otherwise, ten days. When the notice is served by mail,
the number of days before the hearing must be increased
one day for every twenty-five miles of distance between
the place of deposit and the place of service; such increase, however, not to exceed in all thirty days; but
the Court or Judge may prescribe a shorter time.

SEC. 683. When a notice of motion is iven, or an

order to show cause is made returnable be ore a J udge

out of Court, and at the time iixed for the motion, or on
the return day of the order, the Judge is unable to hear
the parties, the matter may be continued or transferred
by his order to some other Judge.

SEC. 684. Wlienever an order for the payment of a

sum of money is made bg a Court or Judge pursuant

to the provisions of this ode, it may be enforced by
execution in the same manner as if it were a judgment.
SEC. 685. The service may be personal, by delivery

to the party or attorne on whom the service is required;
to be made, or it may as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his
absence from his odice, by leaving the notice or other
papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or when there is no person in the office,
by leaving them, between the hours of eight in the
morning and six in the afternoon, in a conspicuous
place in the office: or if it be not open so as to admit
of such service, then by leaving them at the attorney’s
residence, with some person of suitable age and discretion; and if his residence be not known, then by
putting the same, enclosed in an envelope, into the Post
Ofiice, directed to such attorney;

2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the
notice or other paper at his residence, between the
hours of eight in the morning and six in the evening,
with some person of suitable age and discretion; and
f his residence be not known, by putting the same,
-nclosed in an envelope, into the Post Otiice, directed to

uch party. ‘

SEC. 686. Service by mail may be made, where the
person making the service, and the person on whom it is
to be made, reside or have their offices in different
places, between which there is a regular communication

y mail.

SEC. 687. In case of service by mail the notice or:
other aper must be deposited in the post ofiice, add to the person onwhom it is to be served, at his
ofiice or place of residence, and the postage paid. The
serviw is complete at the time of the deposit, but if
within a given number of days after such service a right
may be exercised, or an act is to be done by the adverse
party, the time within which such right may be exercised or act be done, is extended one day for every twenty-five miles distance between the place of deposit and
the place of address; such extension, however, not to exceed thirty days in all.

Sec. 688. A defendant appears in an action when he
answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written notice of
his appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of appearance for him. After appearance, a defendant or his
attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedin of which notice is required to be given. But where
a efendant has not appeared, service of notice or paneed not be made upon him unless he is imprisoned
or want of bail.

SEC. 689. Wllell a plaintiff or a defendant, who has
appeared, resides out of the Territory, and has no attorney in the action or proceeding, the service may be
made onthe Clerk for him. But in all cases where a
party has an attorney in the action or proceeding, the
service of papers, when required, must be u n the attorney instead of the party, except of su poenas, of
writs, and other process issued in the suit, and ot papers to bring him into contempt. If there be no Attorney of record service may be made upon the party.

SEC. 690. The foregoing provisions of this Chapter
do not apply to the service of a summons or other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.

SEC. 691. Any summons, writ, or order in any civil
suit or proceeding, and all other papers requiring service,
ma be transmitted by telegraph for service in any place,
an the telegraphic copy of such writ, or order, or paper
so transmitted, may be served or executed by the otiicer
or person to whom it is sent for that purpose, and returned by him, if any return he requisite, in the same
manner, and with the same force and effect in all respects,
as the original thereof might be if delivered to him, and
the otlicer or person serving or executing the same has the
same authority, and is subject to the same liabilities, as it’
the copy were the ori inal. The original, when a writ or
order, must also be fi ed in -the Court from which it was
issued, and a certified copy thereof must be preserved in
the telegraph ofliee from which it was sent. In sendin
it, either the original or the certified copy may be used
by the o erator for that pur se. Whenever any document to e sent by telegrap bears a seal, either private
or oflicial, it is not necessary for the operator, in sending
the same, to telegraph a description of the seal, or any
words or device thereon, but the same may be expressed
in the telegraphic copy by the letters “ L. S.,” or by the
Word “ seal.”

SEC. 692. The measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the arties; but artics to actions
or proceedings are entitl to costs an disbursements,
as iereinafter provided.

SEC. 693. Costs are allowed of course to_ the plaintiff, upon a udgment in his favor, in the following
cases:

1. In an action for the recovery of real property;

2. In an action to recover the possession of personal
property, where the value of the property amounts to

one hundred dollars or over; such value shall be determined by the jury, Court, or referee by whom the action
is tried;

3. In an action for the recovery of money or damages, when plaintiff recovers one hundred dollars or
UVBTZ

4. In a special proceeding;

5. In an action which involves the title or possession
of real estate, or the legality of any tax, impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine.

SEC. 694. When several actions are brought on one
bond, undertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or
other instrument in writing, or in any other case for the
same cause of action, against several parties who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, no
costs can be allowed to the plaintilf in more than one of
such actions, which may be at his election, if the party
proceeded against in the other actions were at the commencement of the previous action, openly within this
Territory, but the disbursements of the plaintiii‘ must be
allowed to him in each action.

SEC. 695. Costs must be allowed of course to the defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions
mentioned in Section 693, and in special proceedings.

Sec. 696. In other actions than those mentioned in Section 693, costs may be allowed or not, and, if allowed,
may be apportioned between the parties, on the same or
adverse 8] es, in the discretion of the Court; but no costs
can be allowed in an action for the recovery of money or
damages, when the plaintiif recovers less than one hundred dollars, nor in an action to recover the possession
of personal property, when the value of the property is
less than one hundred dollars.

SEC. 697. When there are several defendants in the
actions mentioned in Section _693, not united, in interest
and making separate defenses by separate answers, and
plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the Court
must award costs to such of the defendants as have udgment in their favor.

Sec. 698. In the following cases the costs of appeal
are in the discretion of the Court;

1.’ When a new trial is ordered;

2. When a 'udgment is modified.

Sec. 699. he fees of referees are five dollars to each
for every day spent in the business of the reference; but
the parties may agree, in writing, upon any other rate of
compensation, and thereupon such rate shall be allowed.

SEC. 700. When an ap lication is made to a Court or
referee to postpone a tria , the ayment of costs occasioned by the postponement maylbe imposed, in the discretion of the Court or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

SEC. 701. When in an action for the recovery of money

’only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the
commencement of the action he tendered to the plaintiff
the full amount to which he was entitled, and thereupon
de osits in Court, for plaintiff, the amount so tendered,
ang the allegation, be found to be true, the plaintiff cannot recover costs, but must pay costs to the defendant.
SEC. 702. In an action prosecuted or defended by
_an executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovered as in action by and against a person prosecuting
or defending in his own right; but such costs must, by
the 'udgment, be made chargeable only upon the estate,
fun , or party re resented, unless the Court directs the
same to be paid y the plaintiff or defendant, personally,
for mismanagement or bad faith in the action or defense..

SEC. 703. The party in whose favor the judgment is
rendered, and who claims his costs, must deliver to the
Clerk within three days after tye verdict or notice of the
decision of the Court or referee——a memorandum of the
items of his costs and necessary disbursements in the action or proceeding, which memorandum must be veriiied
by the oath of the party, or his attorney or a nt, or by
the clerk of his attorney, stating that to the est of his
knowledge and belief the items are correct, and that the
disbursements have been necessarily incurred in the action or proceeding. A party dissatisfied with the costs
claimed, may, within two days after notice of filing of
the bill of costs, file-a motion to have the same taxed by
the Court in which the 'udgment was rendered, or by the
Judge thereof at Cham ers.

SEC. 704. Whenever costs are awarded to a party by
an appellate Court, if he claims such costs, he must Wltlllll
thirty days after the remittitur is filed with the Clerk below, deliver to such Clerk a memorandum of his costs,
verified as prescribed by the preceding section, and thereafter he may have an execution therefor as upon a judgment.

SEC. 705. The Clerk must include in the judgment
entered up by him, any interest on the verdict cr decision of the Court, from the time it was rendered or made»
and the costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained;

and he must, within two days after the same are
taxed or ascertained, if not included in the judgment,
insert the same in a blank left in the judgment for that
pu se, and must make a similar insertion ot' the costs
in t e copies and docket of the iudgment.

SEC. 706. When the plaintiff in an action resides out
of the Territory, or is a foreign corporation, security for
the costs and charges, which may be awarded inst
such plaintiff, may be required by the defendant. hen
required, all proceedings in the action must he stayed
until an undertaking. executed by two or more persons,
is filed with the Clerk, to the effect that they will pay
such costs and charges as may be awarded against the
plaintiff by 'ndgment. or in the progress of the action, not
exuzedin t esum ofthreehundred dollars. Aneworan
additiona undertaking may be ordered by the Court or
Judge, upon proof that the original undertaking is instillicient security, and proceedings in the action stayed until
such new or additional undertaking is executed and filed.

SEC. 707. After the lapse of thirty days from the
service of notice that security is required, or of an order
for new or additional security, upon proof thereof, and
that no undertaking as required has been filed, the Court
or Judge may order the action to be dismissed.

Sec. 708. When the Territory is a party, and costs
are awarded against it, they must be paid out of the
Territorial Treasury, and the Territorial Controller shall
draw his warrant therefor on the general fund.

SEC. 709. When a county is a party, and costs are
awarded against it, they must be paid out of the County
Treasury.

SEC. 710. If an original pleading or paper he lost,
the Court may authorize a copy thereof to be filed and
used instead of the original.

SEC. 711. An aflidavit, notice, or other paper, without the title of the action or proceedino in which it is
made, or with a defective title, is as valid and effectual
for an purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer
to sue action or proceeding.

SEC. 712. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the same contract or transaction, whenever, after the
former action, a new cause of action arises therefrom.

SEC. 713. Whenever two or more actions are pending at one time between the same parties and in the
same Court, u n causes of action which might have
been ioined, t 0 Court may order the actions to be

consolidated.

SEC. 714. An action is deemed to be pending from
the time of its commence-ment until its final determination upon appeal, or until the time for appeal has passed,
unless the Jud ment is sooner satisiied.

SEC. 715. in action may be brought by one person
against another for the purpose of determining an
adverse claim, which the latter makes a ainst the former
for money or property upon an allegef obligation; and
also against two or more persons, for the pur ose of
compelling one to satisfy a debt due to the ot er, for
which plaintiff is bound as a surety.

SEC. 716. On the trial of an action in a Court of
record, if there is no short-hand reporter of the Court
in attendance, the Court may require the Clerk to take
down the testimony in writing.

SEC. 717. The Clerk must kee among the records
of the Court a register of actions. e must enter therein
the title of the action, with brief notes under it, from
time to time, of all papers filed and proceedings had
therein.

SEC. 718. When there are three referees, or three arbitrators, all must meet, but two of them may do any
act which might be done by all.

SEC. 719. When an act to be done, as provided in
this Code, relates to the pleadings in the action, or the
undertakings to be filed, or the Justification of sureties,
or the preparation of statements, or of bills of exceptions,
or of amendments thereto, or to the service of notices,
other than of appeal, the time allowed by this Code may
be extended, upon good cause shown, by the Court in
which the action is pending, or the Judge thereof.

SEC. 720. If an action is brought a ainst a Sheriff
for an act done by virtue of his oflice, an he gives written notice thereof to the sureties on any bond of indemnity received by him, the judgment recovered therein is
conclusive evidence of his right to recover against such
sureties; and the Court, or Judge in vacation, may, on
motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to he
entered up against them for the amount so recovered, including costs.

SEC. 721. In all cases where an undertaking, with
sureties, is required by the provisions of this Code, the
oflicer taking the same must require the sureties to aceom any it with an affidavit that they are each residents
and ouseholders or freeholders within the Territory, and
are each worth the sum specified in the undertakinrz,
over and above all t‘.:eir just debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution; but when the
amount speciiied in the undertaking exceeds two thousand
dollars, and there are more than two sureties thereon,
they may state in their aiiidavits that they are severally
worth amounts less than that expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equivalent to that of two
suiiicient sureties.

Sec. 722. In any civil action or roceeding wherein
the Territory or the pee le of the erritory is a party
plaintiff, or any Territoria ofhcer, in his oiiicial capacity, or on behalf of the Territory, or any county, or city,
is a party plaintiff or defendant, no bond, written undertaking, or security can be required of the '1‘erritory, or
the people thereof, or any oiiieer thereof, or of any county,
or city; but on complying with the other provisions of this
Code, the Territory, or the people thereof, or any Territorial oiiicer acting in his official capacity, or any county
or city, have the same rights, remedies, and benefits as
if the bond, undertaking, or security were given and approved as required by this Code.

SEC. 723. Whenever any surety on an undertaking
on appeal, executed to stay proceedings upon a money

judgment, pays the judgment, either with or without action, after its affirmation by the appellate Court, he is
substituted to the rights of the judgment creditor, and
is entitled to control, enforce, and satisfy such judgments
in all respects as if he had recovered the same.

CHAPTER XLV.

SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS OF A CIVIL NATURE.

stories 724. Parties, how designated.

Judgment and order same meaning as in civil actions.
Writ of review defined.

When and by what Courts granted.

Application for. how made.

The writ to be directed to the inferior tribunal, etc.
Contents oi‘ the writ.

Proceedings in inferior Court may he stayed, or not.
Service of the writ.

The review under the writ, extent oi‘.

A defective return of the writ may be perfected. Hearing and

judgment.

Copy of judgment must be sent to the inferior tribunal.
Judgment rolls.

Mandate deiined.
When and by what Court issued.
789. Writ, when and upon what to issue.

$3??? §5fe‘§§.§§.5s’§§

740 Must be either alternative or peremptory. Substance.

741. It the application be without notice, the alternative writ may

issue; otherwise. the peremptory. Notice and default
742. The adverse party may answer under oath.

743. If an essential question of tact is raised, the Court may order a

jury trial.

744.',The applicant may demur to the answer, or conntervail it by

proof.
745. Motion for new trial. where made.

746. The Clerk must transmit the verdict to the Court where the motion is pending, after which the hearing shall be had on

motion.

747. If no answer be made. or if the answer raise no material issue

of fact. the hearing must be before the Court.

748. If the applicant succeed, he may have damages, costs, and a pa»

emptory mandate.
749. Service of the writ.
750. Penalty for disobedience to the writ.
751. Prohibition defined.
752. Where and when issued.

758. Writ may be alternative or peremptory. Form of.
754. Certain provisions of the preceding Chapter applicable.

' 755. Writs of review. mandate and prohibition may imie and be

heard at chambers.

SEC. 724. The party prosecuting a s ial proceeding may be known as the plaintiff, and e adverse
party as the defendant.
SEC. 725. A judgment in a special proceeding is the
final determination of the rights of the parties therein.
The deiinitions of a motion and an order in a civil
action are applicable to similar acts in a special proceedin .

SEC. 726. The writ of certiorari may be denominated
the writ of review.

SEC. 727. A writ of review may be granted by any
Court, except a Probate or J ustice’s Court, when an
,inferior tribunal, Board or officer, exercising judicial
functions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal,
Board or odicer, and there is no appeal, nor, in the judgment of the Court, any plain, speedy, and adequate
remedy.

SEC. 728. The application must be made on aflidavit
by the party beneficially interested, and the Court may
require a notice of the application to be given to the
adverse arty, or may grant an order to show cause why
it should) not be allowed, or may grant the writ without
notice.

SEC. 729. The writ may be directed to the inferior.

’tribunal, Board. or officer, or to any other person having
the custody of the record or proceedin s to be certified.
When directed to a tribunal, the Cler if there be one,
must return the writ with the transcript required.

SEC. 730. The writ of review must command the
party to whom it is directed to certify fully to the Court
issuing the writ, at a specified time and lace, a transcript of the record and proceedings ( eseribing or
referring to them with convenient certainty), that the
same may be reviewed by the Court; and requiring the
party, in the meantime to desist from further proceedings in the matter to be reviewed.

SEC. 731. If a sta of proceedings be not intended,
the words requiring t e stay must be omitted trom the
writ; these words may be inserted or omitted, in the
sound discretion of the Court, but if omitted, the power
30 the inferior Court or otiicer is not suspended or the
proceedings stayed.

SEC. 732. The writ must be served in the same
manner as a summons in civil action, except when other—
wise expressly directed by the Court.

SEC. 733. The review upon this writ cannot be ex-«
tended further than to determine whether the inferiorj
tribunal, Board, or officer has regularly pursued the
authorityof such tribunal, Board, or otlicer.

SEC. 734. If the return of the writ be defective, the
Court may order a further return to be made. When a}
full return has been made, the Court must hear the1
parties, or such of them as may attend for that purpose,‘
and may thereupon give 'udgment, either atiirmingj
or annulling, or modifying the proceedings below.

SEC. 735. A copy of the judgment, signed by the<
Clerk, must be transmitted to the inferior tribunal,i
Board, or otiicer having the custody of the record or pro-j
ceeding certitied up.

SEC. 736. A copy of the judgment, signed by the;
Clerk, entered upon or attached to the writ and return,
constitute the 'udgment rofl.

SEC. 737. The writ of mandamus may be denomiated a writ of mandate.

SEC. 738. It may be issued by any Court, except a,
J ustice’s or Probate Court, to any inferior tribunal, cor-1
poration, Board, or person, to compel the performance
ofan act which the law especially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an ofiice, trust, or station; or to compel the
admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a right
or ofiice to which he is entitled, and from which he is
unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, Board, or rson. ,

SEC. 739. T e writ must be issued in all cases where:
there is not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy, in the

4 1&4

ordinary course of law. It must be issued upon aiiidavit, on the application of the arty beneficially interested.
SEC. 740. The writ may e either alternative or peremptory. The alternative writ must state generally the
allegation against the party to whom it is directed, and
command such party, immediately after the receipt of
the writ, or at some other specified time, to do the act
required to be performed, or to show cause before the
lourt, at a specified time and place, why he has not done
so. The peremptory writ must be in a similar forrn,
except that the wor s requiring the party to show cause
why he has not done as commanded must be omitted,
and a return day inserted.
SEC. 741. When the application to the Court is made
‘without notice to the adverse party, and the writ he allowed, the alternative must be first issued; but if the application be upon due notice, and the writ be allowed,
the perem tory may be issued in the iirst instance. The
notice of t ie application, when given, must be at least
ten days. The writ cannot be granted by default. The
case must he heard by the Court, whether the adverse

partv appear or not.

II

SEC. 742. On the return of the alternative, or the
day on which the application for the writ is noticed, the
party on whom the writ or notice has been served may
show cause by answer, under oath, made in the same
manner as an answer to a complaint in a civil action.

SEC. 743. If an answer be made, which raises a ques*tiou as to a matter of fact essential to the determination
of the motion, and aifecting the substantial rights of the
parties, and upon the supposed truth of the allegation of
which the a plication for the writ is based, the Court
may. in its iscretion, order the question to be tried before a jury, and postpone the argument until such trial
can be had, and the verdict certified to the Court. The
guestion to be tried must be distinctly stated in the orer for trial, and the county must be designated in which
the same shall be had. The order may also direct the
jury to assess any damages which the applicant may
have sustained. in case they find for him.

SEC. 744. On the trial, the applicant is not precluded by the answer from any valid objection to its stifliciency, and may countervail it by proof either in direct
denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 745. The motion for new trial must be made in
the Court in which the issue of fact is tried.

SEC. 746. If no notice of a motion for a new trial be
given, or if given, the motion be denied, the Clerk,
within five days after rendition of the verdict or denial of
the motion, must transmit to the Court in which the a plication for the writ is pending, a certified cop of t 1e
verdict attached to the order of trial; after whic either
party may bring on the argument of the application,
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party;

SEC. 747. If no answer be made, the case must be
heard on the papers of the applicant. If the answer
raises only questions of law, or puts in issue immaterial
statements, not affecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court must proceeed to hear or fix a day for
hearing the argument of the case.

Sec. 748. If judgment be given for the applicant, he
may recover the damages which he has sustained, as:
found by the jury, or as may be determined by the Court
or referee, upon a reference to be ordered, together with
costs; and for such damages and costs an execution may
issue; and a peremptory mandate must also be awarded
without delay.

SEC. 749. The writ must be served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly directed by order of the Court. Service
upon a majority of the members of any Board or body,
is service upon the Board or body, whether at the time,
of the service the Board or body was in session or not.

SEC. 750. When a peremptory mandate has been

issued and directed to any inferior tribunal, corporation,:
Board or person, if it appear to the Court that any
member of such tribunal, corporation or Board, or such
person upon whom the writ has been personally served,
nas, without just excuse, refused or neglected to obey
the same, the Court may, u n motion, impose a fine
not exceeding one thousand ollars. In case of ersistence in a refusal of obedience, the Court may or er the
party to be imprisoned until the writ is obeyed, and may
make any orders necessary and proper for the complete
enforcement of the writ.

SEC. 751. The writ of robibition is the counterpart}
of the writ of mandate. t arrests the proceedings of any
tribunal, corporation, Board, or person, when such proceedings are without or in excess of the jurisdiction of
such tribunal, corporation, Board, or person.

SEC. 752. It may be issued by any Court except Pro-‘
hate or Justices’ Courts. to an inferior tribunal, or to a‘
corporation, Board, or person, in all cases where there is

not a plain, speedy, and adequate remedy in the ordinary
course of law. It is issued u on atiidavit, on the application of the person beneficia ly interested.

SEC. 753. The writ must be either alternative or
peremptory. The alternative writ must state generally
the allegation against the party to whom it is directed,
and command such party to desist or refrain from further
proceedings in the action or matter specitied therein, until the further order of the Court from which it is issued,
and to show cause before such Court, at a speciiied time
and place, why such party should not be absolutel y
restrained from any further proceedings in such action
or matter. The peremptory writ must be in a similar
form, except that the words r uiring the party to show
cause why he should not be a solutely restrained, etc.,
must be omitted and a return day inserted.

SEC. 754. The provisions of the preceding sections
from 741 to 7 50, both inclusive, apply to the proceedings

for writ of prohibition.

SEC. 755. Writs of review, mandate, and prohibition
may be issued by any of the Justices of the Supreme
Court, or by any District Judge, in vacation, and may,
in the discretion of the Justice or Jud e issuing the
writ, be made returnable and a hearing t ereon be had
in vacation.

SEC. 756. Exceptasotherwise rovided in this Chapter, the rovisions of this Code re ative to Civil Actions
in the Ilistrict Court, are applicable to and constitute
the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in
this Chapter.

SEC. 757. The provisions of this Code relative to
new trials in and appeals from the District Court,
except in and so far as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Chapter, apply to the proceedings
mentioned in this Chapter.

CHAPTER XLVI.

OF CONTESTIN G CERTAIN ELECTIONS.

8lc'rIoN 758. Who may contwt. and grounds 0! contest.
759. Irregularity and improper conduct of Judge;
760. when not to.
761. Illegal votes, when not to vltiate election.
762. Proceedings on contest.
763. Statement of cause of contest.
764. Statement of cause or contest. '

Probate J udgc to hold special term for trial of contest.
Clerk to Imus citation to respondent.

Wttneaes. attendance or. how enforced.

Power of Court. Adjournment of Court.

Rules to govern Court in trial or contest.

Court may declare who was elected.

Fees of omcers and witnesses.
Costl. '

APPBSL:
a When election void and omce vacant.
District otnces.

§'».1'33%‘E‘.§§.§§.§3

SEC. 758. Any elector of a county, ' precinct,
or city, may contest the right of any person declared
elected to an oflice to be exercised therein, for any of
the following rouuds:’ 1. For ma conduct on the part of the Board of
J edges, or an member thereof;

2. When t e person whose right to the oflice is con- 
tested was not, at the time of the election, eligible to,
such ollice; ‘

3. When the person whose right is contested has

'ven to any elector or Inspector, Judge, or Clerk of
glhe election, any bribe or reward, or has offered any
such bribe or reward for the purpose of procuring his
election, or has committed any other oifense against the
elective franchise defined b law.

4. On account of illegalvotes.

SEC. 759. No irregularity or improper conduct in:
the proceedings of the Judges, or any of them, is such}
malconduct as avoids an election, unless the irregularity;
or improper conduct is such as to procure the personw
whose ri ht to the office is contested to be declared
elected w en he had not received the highest number
of legal votes.

SEC. 760. When any election held for an office exer-r
cised in and for a county is contested on account of any
malconduct on the part of the Board of Judges of any
precinct election, or any member thereof, the election
cannot be annulled and set aside upon any proof thereof,
unless the re'ection of the vote of such precinct, or precincts, wonl chan the result as to such oflice in the
remaining vote of t 9 county.

Sec. 761. Nothing in the fourth ground of contest
is to be so construed as to authorize an election to he set
aside on account of illegal votes, unless it appear that a
number of illegal votes has been given to the person
whose right to the oilice is contested, which, if taken
from him, would reduce the number of his legal votes
below the number of votes given to some other person

for the same oflice, after deducting therefrom the illezral
votes which may be shown to have been given to such
other person.

SEC. 762. When an elector contests the right of any
person declared elected to such otlice, he must, within
forty day's after the return day of the election, tile with
the Probate Court a written statement, setting forth
specifically:

1. The name of the party contesting such election, and
that he is an elector of the district, county, or precinct,
as the case may be, in which such election was held:

2. The name of the person whose right to the oiiice is

contested: 3. The oliice;
4. The particular grounds of such contest;

——Which statement must be verified by the aflidavit of
the contleésting party that the matters and things therein
contain are true.

SEC. 763. When the reception of illegal votes is alleged as a cause of contest, it is suliicient to state generally, that in one or more specified precincts illegal votes
were given to the person whose election is contested,
which, if taken from him, will reduce the number of his
legal votes below the number of legal votes given to some
other person for the same oflice; but no testimony can

,be received of any illegal votes, unless the party contest'ing such election deliver to the opposite party, at least
three da s before such trial, a written list of the number
;of illega votes, and by whom given, which he intends to
prove on such trial; and no testimony can be received of
any illegal voteil except such as fare} specitieddin such list.

SEC. 764. No statement o t 1e roun s of contest
will be rejected, nor the proceedingsgdismissed by any
Court for want of form, if the grounds of contest are
allerred with such certainty as will advise the defendant
of the particular plroceeding or cause for which such
election is conteste .

SEC. 765. Upon the statement being filed, the Probate
Judge must give notice and fix some day to be named by
him, not less than ten nor more than twenty days from
the téldate of such notice, to hear and determine such con.
tes e ection.

SEC. 766. The Clerk must also, at the same time,
issue a citation for the person whose right to the ofiice is
contested, to appear at the time and place specified in
the notice, which citation must be delivered to the Sheriff
and be served upon the party in person, or, if he cannot

be found, by leaving a copy thereof at the house where
he last resided, not less than eight days before the
hearing.

Sec. 767. The Clerk must issue subpoenas for wit-‘
nesses at the request of either part , which must bel
served as other subpoenas; and the ‘l’robate Court has
full power to issue attachments to com el the attendance
of witnesses who have been subpcnna to attend.

SEC. 768. The Court must meet at the time and placel
designated, to determine such contested election, and
shall have all the powers necessary to the determination
thereof. It may adjourn from day to day until such trial}
is ended, and may also continue the trial, before its commencement, for any time not exceeding twenty days. for
good cause shown by either party upon affidavit, at the
costs of the party a plying for such continuance.

Sec. 769. The Court must be governed, in the trial;
and determination of such contested election, by the
rules of law and evidence governing the determination
of (‘uestions of law and fact, so far as the same may he
app icable; and may dismiss the proceedings if the
statement of the cause or causes of the contest is insntlicient, or for want of prosecution. After hearing the
proofs and allegations of the parties, the Court must pronounce judgment in the premises, either confirming or
annulling and setting aside such election.

SEC. 770. If in any such case it a )pears that another

rson than the one returned has the highest number of

egal votes, the Court must declare such person elected.

SEC. 771. The Clerk, Sheriff, and witnesses shall receive, res tively, the same fees, from the party against
whom judtment is given, as are allowed for similar services in the Probate Court.

SEC. 772. If the proceedings are dismissed for insufficiency, or want of rosecution, or the election is by the

Court confirmed, ju gment must be rendered against the
party contesting such election, for costs, in favor of the
party whose election was contested; but if the election
is annulled and set aside, judgment for costs must be
rendered against the party whose election was contested,
in favor of the party contesting the same. Primarily,
each party is liable for the costs created by himself, to
the otlicers and witnesses entitled thereto, which may be
collected in the same manner as similar costs are collected in other cases.

SEC. 773. Either party, aggrieved by the judgment
of the Court, may appeal therefrom as in other cases.

SEC. 774. Whenever an election is annulled or set

{aside by the judgment of the Probate Court, and ten

days have elapse and no appeal has been taken, the
commission, if any has issued, is void.

SEC. 775. Any elector of a District may in like manner contest the right of any person declared elected to a
District office, for like causes. Such contest shall be
made and heard before any District Court or Judge of
the District in any county of the District.

 

CHAPTER XLVII.
SUMMARY PROCEEDINGS.

Bacrxon 776. Judgment may he confessed.

777. Statement in writing and form thereof.

778. Filing statement and entering judgment.

779. How, in Probate and Justices’ Courts.

7&9. Controversy, how submitted without action.
781. Judgment on, as in other cases.

782. Judgment may be enforced or appealed horn.

783. Persons confined may be discharged
784. Notice of application.

785. Service of notice.
786. Examination before Judge.

interrogatories may be in writing.
Oath to be adminstcred.

Order of discharge.

If not discharged, prisoner may again apply. when.
Discharge final.

J udgmcnt remains in force.

Plaintiff may order discharge of prisoner.
Plaintiff to advance funds for support of prisoner.
Forcible entry defined.

Forcible detainer defined.

Unlawful detainer defined.

Service of notice. _ 799. Courts have Jurisdiction.

800 Jr 801. Same.

802. Parties defendant.

K13. Parties generally.

80¢. Complaint, and Summons.

805. Arrest.

806. Judgment by default.

317. Defendant may appear, etc.

808. Trial by jury.

809. Showing required.

810. Complaint must be amended in certain cases.
811. Verdict and judgment.

812. Verification of complaint and anwer.

813. Effect of appeal upon the judgment.

814. Rules of practice. Appeals. how taken, eta.

§;“3;§§3°l§§§:‘=-"S:§§.§

SEC. 776. A judgment by confession niay bej
entered without action, either for money due or to be-1
come due, or to secure any person against contingent}
liability on behalf of the defendant, or both. in the
manner prescribed by this Chapter. Such judgment
may be entered in any Court having jurisdiction for like
amounts. 

SEC. 777. A statement in writing must be made,!
si iied by the defendant, and verihcd by his oath, to the]
following effect:

1. It must authorize the entry of judgment for ‘a
specified sum;

2. If it be for money due, or to become due, it must
state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and show
that the sum confessed therefor is justly due or to become due;

3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff
against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the
facts constituting the liability, and show that the sum
confessed therefor does not exceed the same.

SEC. 778. The statement must beiiled with the Clerk;
of the Court in which the jud ment is to be entered,}
who must indorse upon it, an enter in the judginenti
book, a judgment of such Court for the amount confessed, with ten dollars costs. The statement and ailidavit, with the judgment indorsed, thereupon becomes
the jndoment roll.

Sec. 779. In a Probate or J ustice’s Court, where the:
Court has the authorit to enter the judgment, the state-‘;
ment may be filed wit the Court or Justice, who uiust
thereupon enter in his docket a 'udgment of his Court
for the amount confessed, with tlliree dollars costs. If a
transcript of such judgment be filed with the District
Clerk, a copy of the statement must be filed with it.

SEC. 780. Parties to a question in difference, which.
might be the subject of a civil action, may, without
action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon
which the controversy depends, and present a submission
of the same to an Court which would have jurisdiction
if an action had 11 brought; but it must appear, by
atlidavit, that the controversy is real and the proceedings
in good faith, to determine the ri hts of the parties.
The Court must thereupon hear an determine the case,
and render judgment thereon, as if an action were deendin .

SEC.  781. Judgment must be entered in the judgment book as in other cases, but without costs for any

proceeding prior to the trial. The case, the submission’
and a copy of the jud ment constitute the judgment roll‘

SEC. 782. The ‘n gment may be enforced in the same
manner as if it h been rendered in an action, and is in’
the same manner subject to appeal.

SEC. 783. Any person confined in jail, on an execution issued on a udgment rendered in a civil action, must
be discharged therefrom upon the conditions in this Chapter specified.

SEC. 784. Such person must cause a notice, in writipg, to be given to the plaicptiff, his] agenlt, or pttornely,
tiat at a certain time an ace 1e wi a to t 1e
Judge of the District Court ol? the county in I\)vIln%11 such
 may be confli]ne.<Ji;dor,irf1 gas; og hisoabsenc-:2 lor
lna iity toact, tot e u oeo t e ro ate unrto’t ne
county in which such peifson may be imprisoned, for
the purpose of obtaining a discharge from his imprisonment.

SEC. 785. Such notice must be served upon the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, one day at least before the hearing ot the application.

SEC. 786. At the time and place specified in the notice, such person must be taken before such Judge, who
must examine him under oath concerning his estate and
property and effects, and the dis osal thereof, and his
ability to ay the judgment for w ich he is committed;
and such Jpudge may also hear any other legal and pertinent evidence that may be produced by the debtor or
the creditor.

SEC. 787. The plaintiff in the action may, upon such

‘examination, propose to the prisoner any interrogatories
ertinent to the inquiry, and they must, if required by
iim, be proposed and answered in writing, and the answer must be signed and sworn to by the prisoner.

SEC. 788. If, upon the examination, the Judge is satisfied that the prisoner is entitled to his discharge, he
must administer to him the following oath, to wit: “ I,

do solemnly swear that I have not any estate,
real or personal, to the amount of fifty dollars, except
such as is by law exempted from being taken in execution; and that I have not any other estate now conveyed
or concealed, or in any way disposed of, with design to
secure the same to my use. or to hinder, delay or defraud
my creditors, so help me God.”

SEC. 789. After administering the oath, the Judge

must. issue an order that the prisoner be discharged from

custody, and the otiicer, upon the service of such order,

   

must discharge the prisoner forthwith, if he be imprisoned for no other cause. ,

SEC. 790. If such Judge does not discharge the pris-'
oner, he may apply for his discharge at the end of every:
succeeding thirty days, in the same manner as above‘
prplvided, and the same proceedings must thereupon be

a .

Sec. 791. The prisoner, after being so discharged, is
forever exempted from arrest or imprisonment for the
same debt, unless he be convicted of having willfully
sworn falsely upon his examination before the Judge, or
in taking the oath before prescribed.

SEC. 792. The judgment against any prisoner who.
is discharged remains in full force agalnst any estate
which may then or at an time afterward belong to him,
and the plaintiff may ta e’ out a new execution against
the goods and estate of the prisoner, in like manner as if
he had never been committed.

SEC. 793. The plaintiff in the action may at any
time order the prisoner to be discharged, and he is not.
thereafter liable to imprisonment for the same cause of?
action. "

SEC. 794. Whenever a person is committed to jail,
on an execution issued on a judgment recovered in a civil
action, the creditor, his agent, or attorney must advance
to the jailer on such commitment, sufiicient money for
the board of the prisoner at the rate provided by law, for
one week, and must make the like advance for every successive week of his imprisonment; and in case of failure
to do so, the jailer must forthwith discharge such prisoner
from custody, and such discharge has the same effect as
if made by order of the creditor.

Sec. 795. Every person is guilty of a forcible entry‘

who either;

1. By breaking open doors, windows, or other parts
of a house, or by any kind of violence or circumstance
of terror enters upon or into any real propert ; or,

2. Who, after entering peaceably upon rea roperty,
turns out by force, threats, or menacing conduct, the
party in possession.

SEC. 796. Every person is guilty of a forcible detainer who either: .

1. By force, or by menaces and threats of violence,
unlawfully holds and keeps possession of any real property, whether the same was acquired peaceably or
otherwise; or,

2. Who, in the night time, or during the absence of

the occupant of any lands, unlawfully enters upon real
property, and who after demand made for the surrender
thereof, for the period of five days, refuses to surrender
the same to such former occupant.

The occupant of real property, within the meaning of
this subdivision, is one who, within five ‘,days prece ing
such unlawful entry was in the peaceable and undisturbed possession of ’such lands.

SEC. 797. A tenant of real property, for a term less

l‘ than life, is guilty of an unlawful detainer:

1. Where he continues in possession in person, or by
sub-tenants, of the roperty or of any part thereof after
the expiration of tie term, for which it is let to, him,
without permission ofhis landlord or his successors; but
in a case of a tenancy at will, it must first be terminated
by notice of five days°

2. Where he continues in possession in person, or by
sub-tenants, vvithout the permission of ‘his landlord, or
the successor .111 estate of his landlord, it any there be,
after default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the
lease or ao'reemen_t u.nder.vvhich the property is held,
and three; ays notice iln V;'1‘ltllla<{, requiring its payipeilit,
stating tie amount wiici is iie or possession 0 tie

'property, shall have been served upon him, and if there
e a sub-tenant in actual occupation of the premises, also
upon such sub-teiiant. Such notice may be served at
any time within one year after the rent becomes due;

3. Where he continues in possession in person, or by
sub-tenants, after a neglect or failure to perform other
conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under
which the property is held, than the one for payment of
rent, and three days notice, in writing, requiring the
performance of such conditions or covenants, or the possession otthe property, shall have been served. upon
him, and it there be a siib-tenant in actual occupation of
the preuiises, also upon such siib-teiiant.

Within three days atter the service of the notice, the
tenant, or any sub-tenant in actual occupation of the

reinises, or any mortgagee of the term or other rson
lP!1t8l'e8t8d in its continuance, may perform the con itions
or covenants of the lease, or pay the stipulated rent, as
the case may be, and thereby save the lease from forfeiture; provided, if the covenants and conditions of the
lease, violated by the lessee, cannot. afterward be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed herein, need be
given to said lessee or his sub-tenant deinaiiding the

performance of the violated covenant or conditions of:
the lease. ,

A tenant may take proceedings similar to those prescribed in this Chapter, to obtain possession of remises
let to an. nndertenant, in case of his unlawful etention
of the premises nnderlet to him.

4-. A tenant or sub-tenant, assigning or sub-letting,
or committing waste upon the demised remises, contrary to the covenants of his lease, there y terminates
the lease, and the landlord, or his successor in estate,
shall, upon service of three days’ notice toquit, upon the
person or persons in possession, be entitled to restitution
of possession of such demised premises under the provisions of this Chapter.

SEC. 798. The notices required by the preceding section may be served, either:

1. By delivering a copy to the tenant personally; or,

2. . If he be absent from his lace of residence, and
from his usual place of business, by leaving a copy with
some person of suitable age and discretion at either
place, and sending a copy through the mail addressed to
the tenant, at his place of residence; or,

3. If such place of residence and business cannot be
ascertained, or a person of suitable age or discretion
there cannot be found, then by aflixing a co y in a conspicuous place on the property, and also elivering a
copy to a person there residing, if such person can be
found; and also sending a copy through the mail addressed to the tenant at the place where the property is
situated. Service upon a sub-tenant may be made in
the same manner.

Sec. 799. The District Court of the county in which
the property, or some part of it, is situated, has juris-'
diction of proceedings under this Chapter.

Sec. 800. The Probate Court of the county in which
the property, or some part ot' it, is situated, has jurisdiction of proceedings under this Chapter when the whole
amount of rent and damages claimed does not exceed
iive hundred dollars.

Sec. 801. Justices’ Courts have jurisdiction of pro-,
ceedings under this Chapter where the whole amount;
of rent and damages claimed does not exceed one hnn-<
drcd dollars.

SEC. 802. No person other than the tenant of the?
premises, and sub-tenant, if there be one, in the actual‘
occupation of the premises, need be made parties defendant in the proceeding, nor shall any proceeding abate,

nor the plaintiff be nousuited for the nonjoinder of any
persons who might have been made parties defendant;
ut when it appears that any of the parties served with
process or appearing in the proceeding are guilty of the
offense charged, judgment must be rendered against him.
In case a married woman he a tenant or a sub-tenant,
her coverture shall constitute no defense; but in case her
husband be not joined, or unless she be doing business
as a sole trader, an execution issued upon a personal
judgment against her, can only be enforced against propert on the premises at the commencement of the action.
SEC. 803. Except as provided in the preceding section, the provisions of this Code, relating to parties to
civil actions, are applicable to this proceeding.

SEC. 804. The plaintiff, in his complaint, which shall
be in writing, must set forth the facts on which he seeks
to recover, and describe the remises with reasonable
certainty, and may set forth t erein any circumstances
of fraud, force, or violence which may have accom anied
the alleged forcible entry, or forcible or unlawful etainer, and claim damages therefor. In case the unlawful
detainer charged be after default in the payment of rent,
the complaint must state the amount of such rent. Upon
filing the complaint, a summons must be issued thereon
returnable as in other cases.

SEC. 805. Ifthe complaint resented establishes,tothe
satisfaction of the Jud or ustice, fraud, force, or violence in the entry or etainer, and that the possession
held is unlawful, he may make an order for the arrest of
the defendant.

Sec. 806. If, at the time appointed, the defendant do
not appear and defend, the Court must enter his default
and render judgment in favor of the plaintiff as prayed
for in the complaint.

SEC. 807. On or before the.day fixed for his appearance, the defendant may appear and answer or demur.

SEC. 808. Whenever an issue of fact is presented by
the pleadings, it must be tried by a 'ury, unless such
jury be waived as in other cases. he jury shall he
formed in the same manner as other trial juries in the
Court in which the action is pending.

SEC. 809. On the trial of any proceeding for any
forcible entry or forcible detainer, the plaintiff shall only

.be required to show, in addition to the forcible entry

or forcible detainer complained of, that he was ceably
in the actual possession at the time of the forci le entry.
or was entitled to the possession at the time of the

forcible detaiuer. The defendant may show in his
defense that he or his ancestors, or those whose interest
in such premises he. claims, have been in the quiet
possession thereof for the space of one whole year together next before the commencement of the proceedings,
and that his interest therein is not then ended or
determined; and such showing is a bar to the proceedrugs.

SEC. 810. When upon the trial of any proceeding

under this Chapter, it appears from the evidence that

the defendant has been guilty of either a forcible entry
or a forcible detainer, and other than the offense charged
in the complaint, the J udoe must order that such comElaint be forthwith amended to conform to such proofs.

uch amendment must be without any imposition of
terms. N o continuance must be permitted u on account
of such amendment, unless the defendant, y atiidavit
tiled shows to the satisfaction of the Court good cause
therefor.

SEC. 811. If, upon the trial, the verdict of the jury,
or, if the case be tried without a jury, the dnding of the‘

Court, be in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant, judgment shall be entered for the restitution of
the premises; and if the proceeding be for an unlawful
detainer after neglect or failure to perform the conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under
which the property is held, or after deiault in the payment of rent, the judgment shall also declare the

forfeiture of such lease or agreement. The jury or the

Court, if the proceeding be tried without a ‘my, shall
also assess the damages occasioned to the plaintiff by
any forcible entry, or by any forcible or unlawful
detainer, alleged in the complaint, and proved on the
trial and find the amount of any rent due, if the alleged
unlawful detainer be after default in the payment of
rent, and the judgment shall be rendered against the
defendant guilty of the forcible entry, or forcible or
unlawful detainer, for three times the amount of the
damages thus assessed, and of the rent found due.
When the proceeding is for an unlawful detainer after
default in the payment of rent, and the lease or agreement under which the rent is payable has not by its
terms expired, execution upon the judgment shall not
be issued until the expiration of live days after the entry
of the judgment, within which time the tenant, or any
sub-tenant, or any mortgagee of the term, or other party
interested in its continuance, may pay into Court,

for the landlord, the amount found due as rent, with
interest thereon, and the amount of the damages found
by the jury or the Court for the unlawful detainer, and
the costs of the roceeding, and thereupon the 'udgment
shall be satisiie and the tenant be restored to is estate:
but, if payment, as here provided, he not made within
the five days, the judgment may be enforced for its full
amount, and for the possession of the premises. In all
other cases the 'udg1nent may be enforced immediately.

SEC. 812. The complaint and answer must be verified.

SEC. 813. An appeal taken by the defendant does not
stay proceedings upon the judgment unless the Court so
directs.

SEC. 814. The revisions of this Code, relative to
civil actions, appea s, and new trials, so far as they are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter,
apply to the proceedings mentioned in this Chapter.

CHAPTER XLVIII.
ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS.

Bncnon 815. Liens of mechanics and others.
Sub-contractors and others.

Liens for grading and filling loin.

Interest in the land.

Effect of liens.

Claim of lien.

Liens upon two or more pieces of proper”. each to be designated.
Claim to be recorded.

Time of continuance.

Bub-contractors.

Recovery by contractor.

Court to declaré rank of liens.

Actions for separate liens.

Lien does not impair right.

Rules of practice. New trials and appeals.

f§§j§f§i§§f3§?§§§§%%j§f§

SEC. 815. Every person performing labor upon, or
furnishing materials to be used in the construction_.alteration, or re air of any mining claim, building, wharf,
bridge, ditc 1, flume, tunnel, fence, machinery, railroad,
wagon road, aqueduct, toereate hydraulic power, or any
other structure, or who erforms labor in any mining
claim, has alien upon the same for the work or labor
done or materials furnished by each respectively, whether
done or furnished at the instance of the owner of the
building or other improvement, or his agent. but the
aggregate amount of such liens must not exceed the

amount which the owner would be otherwise liable to
SEC. 816. Any sub-contractor, material man,laborer,:
or other person, performing labor or furnishing materials}
for a contractor who is entitled to a lien under the pro-;
visions of the last Section, may, at any time, serve upon
the owner, or his agent, or the person employing the
contractor, written notice of the amount due him for
such labor or materials, and such sub-contractor, material man, laborer, or other person, may havealien for
such amount, but not exceeding the amount then or
thereafter due such contractor from such owner, or person employing him, under the contract. And any person
furnishing materials, or performing labor for a subcontractor, may, by like notice to the contractor, be subrooatcd to the rights of such sub-contractor.

SEC. 817 . Any person who, at the request of the own-‘
er of any lot in any incorporated city or town, grades,;’
fills in, or otherwise improves the satne, or the street in
front of or adjoining the same. has a lien upon such lot
for his work done and materials furnished.

SEC. 818. The land upon which any building, improvement, or structure is constructed, together with a
convenient space about the same, or so much as may be
required for the convenient use and occupation thereof,
is also subject to the liens, if, at the time the work was
commenced or the materials for the same had commenced
to be furnished, the land belonged to the person who
caused said building, improvement, or structure to be
constructed, altered, or repaired; but if such person owned
less than a fee simple estate in such land, then only his
interest therein is subject to such lien.

SEC. 819. The liens provided for in this Chapter are
preferred to any lien, mortgage, or other incumbrance
which may have attached subsequent to the time when
the building, improvement, or structure was coutmeuced, work done, or materials were commenced to be
furnished: also. toany lien, mortgage, or other incumbrancc of which the lienholder had no notice, and which
was unrecorded at the time the building, improvement,

or structure was commenced, work done, or the materials
were commenced to be furnished.

SEC. 820. Every original contractor, within sixty
days after the completion of his contract, and every person, save the original contractor, claiming the benelit of
this chapter, must, within thirty days after the completion of any building, improvement, or structure, or atter

the completion of the alteration or repair thereof, or the
performance of any labor in a mining claim, file for record with the County Recorder of the county in which
such property, or some part thereof, is situated, a claim
containing a statement of his demand, after deducting
all just credits and offsets, with the name of the owner
or reputed owner, if known, and also the name of the
person by whom he was employed or to whom he furnished the material, with a statement of the terms, time
given, and conditions of his contract, and also a descri tion of the property to be charged with the lien, sui§cient for identification, which claim must be verihed by
the oath of himself or some other person.

SEC. 821. In every case in’ which one claim is iiled
against two or more buildings, mining claims, or other
improvements owned by the same person, the person filing such claim must at the ' same time designate the
amount due to him on each of such buildings, mining
_claims or other improvements; otherwise, the lien of
such claim is postponed to other liens. The lieu of such
claimant does not extend beyond the amount designated,
as against other creditors having liens, by judgment,
mortgage, or otherwise, upon either of such buildings or
other improvements, or upon the land upon which the
same are situated.

Sec. 822. The Recorder must record the claim in a
hook kept by him for that purpose, which record must be
indexed as deeds and other conveyances are required by
law to be indexed, and for which he may receive the same
‘fees as are allowed by law for recording deeds and other
instruments.

SEC. 823. No lien provided for in this Chapter binds
any building, mining claim, improvement, or structure
for a longer period than ninety days after the same has
been filed, un ess proceedings be commenced in a proper
Court within that time to enforce the same; or, if acredit
be given, then ninety days after the expiration of such
credit; but no lie'n continues in force for a longer time
than two years from the time the work is completed, by
any agreement to give credit.

SEC. 824. All persons entitled to liens on the strnctlure or improvement, except those who contracted with
sthe owner thereof, are sub-contractors. and the Con rt, in
the judgment, must direct the amount due sub-contract
ors to be paid out of the proceeds of sales before any
part of such proceeds are paid to the contractor.

SEC. 825. The contractor shall be entitled to recover
upon a lien filed by him, only such amount as may be
due to him according to the terms of his contract, after
deducting all claims of other parties for work done and
materials furnished, as aforesaid; and in all cases where a
lien shall be filed, under this chapter, for work done or
materials furnished to any contractor, he shall defend
any action brought theren on at his own expense; and
during the ndency of such action, the owner may withhold from t 1e contractor the amount of money for which
lien is filed; and in case of jud ment against the owner or
his property, upon the lien, tge said owner shall be entitled to deduct from any amount due or to become due
by him to the contractor the amount ot' such judgment
and costs.

Sec. 826. In every case in which different liens are
aszerted aoainst any property, the Court in the jud;_rrnent
must dec are the rank of each lien, or class of liens,
which shall be in the followiuo order, viz: First. All
persons other‘ than the ori inel contractors and sub-contractors. Second. The su -contractors. Third. The
original contractors. And the proceeds of the sale of
the property must be applied to each lien, or class of
liens, in the order of its rank, and whenever, on the sale
of the property subject to the lien, there is a deficiency
of roceeds, judgment ma be docketed for the deficiency
in like manner, and with ike effect as in actions for the
foreclosure of mortgages.

Sec. 827. Any number of persons claimingliens may
join or intervene in the same action, and when separate
aztions are commenced, the Court may consolidate them.
The Court may also allow, as part of the costs, the moneys
paid for filing and recording the lien.

Sec. 828. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed to impair or affect the right of any person to
whom any debt may be due t'or work done, or materials
furnished to maintain a personal action to recover such
debt against the person liable therefor.

SEC. 829. Except as otherwise rovided in this Chapter, the revisions of this Code re ating to civil actions,
new trials and appeals, are applicable to, and constitute

the rules of practice in, the proceedings mentioned in
this Chapter. '

CHAPTER XLIX.
or CONTEMPTS.

Blcrxott 830. What act or commissions are contempts.

831. Re-entry on property after eviction. when a contempt.

A contempt committed, in the presence of the Court may be
punished summarily. when not so committed an atiidavit or
statement shall be made.

A warrant of attachment may tune or a notice to show cause.

Bail may be given by a person arrested under such warrant.

Sheriff must. upon executing the warrant. arrest and detain the
person until discharged.

Ball bond. form and conditions of.

Omccr must return warrant and undertaking, if any.

Hearing.

Judgment and penalty. if guilty.

If the cont.-mpt is the emission to perform any act. the pers )1!
may be imprisoned until performance.

811. Ifa party fail toappear. proceedings.

812. Illness sufficient cause for non-appearance of party arrested

Confinement under arrests for contempt. - —

813. Judgment and orders in such cases iinal.

§

53333 $33

SEC. 830. The following acts or omissions, in respec: tota (t).()tl1l'l‘l1 ot'tj]t1stice,lprt£eeeditngs therein, are
con m so eau nonyo e ‘our:

1. isorderly, contem tuous, or insolent behavior
toward the Judge while ioldiug the Court, tending to
intelrrupt the due course of a trial or other udicial procee mg;

2. A breach of the peace. boisterous conduct. or violent disturbance, tending to interrupt the due course of
a trial or other judicial proceedimr;

3. Misbehavior in otlice, or ortlher willful neglect or
violation ofduty by an attorney, counsel, Clerk. Sheriff,
Coroner, or other person appointed or elected to perform
a judicial or ministerial service;

4. Deceit or abuse of the process or proceedings of
the Court by a party to an action or special pl'UCBCtllllg;

5. Disettlxedioencet of any lawful judgment, order, or
process 0 we our ; ‘ '

6. Assuming to be an ofhcer, attorney, counsel of a
Court. and actinrv as such without anthority°

7. lltescuing "any person or property, in‘,the custody
of an olhcer by virtue ot an order or process of such
Court;

8. Unlawfnlly detaining a witness or party to an
action while going to, remaining at, or returning from
the Court where the action is on the calendar for trial.;

9. An other unlawful interference with the process
or procee ings of a Court;

10. Disobedience of a subpcnna duly served, or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness;

11. When summ(.n9d as a juror in a Court, neglecting to attend or serve as such, or improperly conversing
with a party to an action to be tried at such Court, or
with any other person, in relation to the merits of such
action, or receiving a connuunication from a party or
other person in respect to it, without immediately disclosing the same to the Court;

12. Disobedience, by an inferior tribunal, magistrate,
or otiicer, of the lawful judgment, order, or process of a
superior Court, or proceeding in an action or special proceeding contrary to law, after such action or special proceeding is removed from the jurisdiction of such inferior
tribunal, magistrate, or otiicer. Disobedience of the
lawful orders or process ofa 'udicial otlicer is also a contempt of the authority of suc otiicer.

SEC. 831. Every person dispossessed or ejected from‘
or out of, any real property, by the judgment or process;
of any Court of competent jurisdiction, and who, not:

having right so to do, re-enters into or upon, or takes
possession of, any such real property, or induces or procures any person not having right so to do, or aicls
or abets him therein, is guilty of a contempt of the
Court by which such judgment was rendered, or from
which such process issued. Upon a conviction for such
contempt, the Court or Justice of’ the Peace must innuediately issue an alias process, directed to the proper otlicer, and requiring him to restore the arty entitled to
the possession of such property, undert e original lulgmcnt or process, to sue) possession.

Sec. 832. When a contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence ot the Court, or Judge at}
chambers, it may be punished summarily; for which an '1
order must be made, reciting the facts as occurring in:
such immediate View and presence, adjudging that th'
person proceeded against is thereby guilty ofa contempt.
and that he be punished as therein prescribed. When the
contempt is not committed in the immediate view and;
presence of the Court, or Judge at chambers, an affidavit:
shall be-presented to the Court, or Judge, ot' the facts

' constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts
by the referees or arbitrators, or other judicial otlicer.

SEC. 833. When the contempt is not committed in
the immediate view and presence of the Court or Judge,

a warrant of attachment may be issued to bring the per.son charged to answer, or, without a previous arrest, a
warrant of commitment may, upon notice, or upon an
order to show cause, be granted; and no warrant of commitment can be issued without such previous attachment
to answer, or such notice or order to show cause.

SEC. 834. Whenever a warrant of attachment is

'issued, pursuant to this Chapter, the Court or Judge
must direct, by an indorsement on such warrant, that the
person charged may be let to bail for his appearance, in
an amount to be specified in such indorsement.

SEC. 835. Upon executing the warrant ot' attachment,
,the Sheriff must keep the person in custody, bring him
[before the Court or Judge, and detain him until an order

be made in the premises, unless the person arrested eutitle himself to be discharged, as provided in the next section.

SEC. 836. When a direction to let the person arrested
to bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or indorsed thereon, he must be discharged from the arrest,
upon executing and delivering to the oflicer, at any time
before the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with two sumcient sureties, to the effect that the
person arrested will appear on the return of the warrant
and abide the order of the Court or Judge thereupon;
or they will pay as may be directed, the sum specified in
the warrant.

SEC. 837. The omcer must return the warrant of arrest and nndcrtakin , if any, received by him from the
person arrested, by t e return day specifled therein.

SEC. 838. When the person arrested has been brought
up or appeared, the Court or Judge must proceed to investigate the charge,- and must hear any answer which
the person arrested may make to the same, and may examine witnesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 839. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the
Court or Judge must determine whether the person proceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged, and
if it be adjudged that he is guilty of the contem it, a line
may be imposed on him not exceeding five hun red dollars, or he may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or
both.

SEC. 840. When the contempt consists in the omis- sion to perform an act which is yet in the power of the
,person to perform, he may be imprisoned until he have

performed it, and in that case the act must be specified
in the warrant of commitment.

SEC. 841. When the warrant of arrest has been re
turned served if the person arrested do not appear on
the return day, the Court or Judge may issue another
warrant of arrest, or may order the undertaking to be
plposecuted, orflaoth. If thehundprtaking be pl'0S0cl;‘lZ(°id,
t e measure 0 amages in t e ac ion is t me extent 0 t 16
loss or injury sustained by the aggrieved party by reason
of the misconduct for which the warrant was issued, and
the costs of the proceeding.

Sec. 842. Wlieuever, by the provisions of thisdChapter an oiiicer is required to keep a person arreste on a
warrant of attachment in custody, and to bring him
before a Court or Judge, the inability, from illness or
otherwise of the person to attend, is a sufficient excuse
for not bringing him up; and the officer must-“not confine
a person arrested 11 on the warrant in a prison or otherwise restrain him otppersonal liberty, exce t so iiar as may
be necessary to secure his personal atten ance.

SEC. 843. The judgment and orders of the Court or

Judge, made in cases of contempt, are final and conclusive.

CHAPTER L.

VOLUNTARY DISSOLUTION OF CORPORATIONS.

Btcnox 844. How dissolved.

845. Application. what to contain.

846. Application, how signed and vermed.

847. Filing application and publication of notice.
88. Objections may be filed.

849. Hearing of application.

850. Judgment roll and appeals.

SEC. 844. A corporation may be dissolved by the
District Court of the county where its oiiice or principal
place of business is situated, upon its voluntary application for that purpose.

SEC. 845. The application must be in writing, and
must set forth:

1. That at a meeting of the stockholders or members
called for that purpose, the dissolution of the corporation
was resolved upon by a two-third vote of all the stockholders or members;

_ 2. That all claims and demands against the corporation have been satisiied and discharged.

SEC. 846. The ap lication must be signed by a maljority of the Board of Errustees, Directors, or other oflicers
iaving the management of the affairs of the corporation,
and must be verified in the same manner as a complaint
in a civil action.

SEC. 847. If the J ud__,n‘e is satisfied that the application is in conformity with this Chapter, he must order itto be filed with the Clerk, and that the Clerk give not
less than thirty days notice of the a plication, by publication in some newspaper published) in the county, and
if there are none such, then by advertisements, posted up
in three of the principal public places in the county.

SEC. 848. At any time before the expiration of the
time of publication any person maytile his objections to
the application.

SEC. 849. After the time of publication has expired,
the Court may, upon five days notice to the persons who
have filed objections, or without further notice, if no objections have been iiled, proceed to hear and determine
the application; and if all the statements herein made are
shown to be true, he must declare the corporation dissolved.

SEC. 850. The application, notices, and proof of publication. objections (if any), and declaration of dissolution. constitute the judgment roll, and from the judgment an appeal may be taken as from judgments of the
County Courts.

CHAPTER LI.

OF EMINENT DOMAIN.

Szcrton 851. Purposes for which it may be exercised.

852. What estates in land may be acquired by condemnation.

853. Private property defined. Classes enumerated.

854. Facts necessary to be found by Court. before condemnation.
855. Parties may make location. May enter to make surveys.

856. Jurisdiction in District Court.

857. The complaint and its contents.

 Summons. what to contain. How issued and served.

859. Who may defend. What the answer may show.

860. (‘ourt shall have jurisdiction to regulate the mode of making

crossings or of enjoying a common use.
861. Court or jury to assess damages.
$2. The date with respect to which compensation shall be assessed.
and the measure thereof.

863. New proceedings to cure defective title.

864. Payment of damages, or deposit of bond therefor.

865. Damages, to whom paid.

title vest.
Putting plaintilf in poneuion.
868. Coca may be allowed, distribution thereof.
869. Rules of practice. New trials and appeals.

36. Final order of condemnation. what tocontsin. When med,
857.

SEC. 851. Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the right of eminent domain may be exercised ll]
behalf of the following public uses:

1. Public buildings and rounds for the use of the
Territory, and all other pubic uses authorized by the
Legislature;

2. Public buildings and grounds for the use of any
county, incorporated city, village, town or school districts, canals, aqueducts, ilnmes, ditches, or pipes for
conducting water for the use of the inhabitants of any
county. incorporated city, village, or town; or for draining any county, incorporated city, village, or town;
raising the banks of streams, removing obstructions
theretrom, and widening, deepening or straightening
their channels; roads, streets, and alleys, and all other
public uses for the beneiit of any county, incorporated
city, village or town, or the inhabitants thereof;

3. Wharves, docks, piers, chutes, booms, ferries,
bridges, toll-roads, by-roads, plank and turnpike roads,
steam and horse railroads; canals, ditches, flumes, aqueducts and pipes, for public transportation, su plying

mines and farming neighborhoods with water, and draining aud reclaiming lands, and for floating logs and lumber on streams not navigable;

4. Roads, tunnels, ditches,flumes, pipes and dumping
places for working mines; also, outlets. natural or otherwise, for the flow, deposit, or conduct of tailings or refuse
matter from mines; also, an occupancy in common by
the owners or possessors of diiferent mines of any place
for the flow, deposit or conduct of tailings or refuse matter from their several mines;

5. By-roads leading from highways to residences and
farms;

6. Telegraph lines;

7. Sewera e of any incorporated city.

Sec. 852. gfhe following 18 a classification of the es-;
tates and rights in lands subject to be taken for public use: ;

1. A fee simple, when taken for public buildings or:
grounds, or for permanent buildings, for reservoirs and
dams, and permanent flooding occasioned thereby, or for
an outlet for a flow, or a place for the deposit of debris
or tailings ofa mine;

2. An easement, when taken for any other use;

3. The right of entry upon and occupation of lands,
and the right to take therefrom such earth, gravel,
stapes, trees, and timber as may be necessary for some

1 lie use.
SEC. 853. The private property which may be taken
under this Chapter, includes: '

1.- All real roperty belonging to any person;

2. Lands be onging to this Territory, or to any county, incorporated city, or city and county, village or town,
not appropriated to some public use;

3. re erty ap ropriated to public use; but such
property s all not e taken unless for a more necessary
publigad use than that to which it has been already approriat .
P 4. Franchises for toll roads, toll bridges, and ferries.
and all other franchises; but such franchises shall not be
taken unless for free highways, railroads, or other more
necessary public use;

5. All ri bts of way for any and all the purposes mentioned in ection 851, and any and all structures and
improvements thereon, and the lands held or used in
connection therewith, shall be subject to be connected
with, crossed, or intersected by any other right of way or
improvements or structures thereon. They shall also be
subject to a limited use, in common with the owner thereof, when necessary; but such uses, crossings, intersections and connections shall be made in manner most
compatible with the greatest public benefit and least private in'ury;

6. 11 classes of private roperty not enumerated
may be taken for public use, w ien such taking is authorized by law.

SEC. 854. Before property can be taken it must apear:
P 1. That the use to which it is to be applied is a use
authorized by law;

2. That the taking is necessary to such use;

3. If already appropriated to some public use, that
the public use to which it is to be applied is a more
necessary public use.

SEC. 855. In all cases where land is required for pub-lic use, the Territory or its agents in charge of such use,
may survey and locate the same; but it must be located
in the manner which will be most compatible with the
greatest public good and the least private in'nry, and sub.

ject to the provisions of this Chapter. _The erritory or its

agents in charge of such public use, may enter upon the
land and make examinations, surveys, and maps thereof,
and such entry shall constitute no cause of action in favor
of the owners of the land, except for injuries resulting
trum negligence, wantonness, or malice. ,

SEC. 856. All proceedin s under this Chapter must.
be hrunght in the District ‘ourt for the county in which
the property is situated. They must be commenced by
nling a complaint and issuing a summons thereon.

SEC. 857. The complaint must contain:

1. The name of the corporation, association, commission, or person in charge of the public use for
which the property is sought, who must be styled
plaintitfs; ,

2. The names of all owners and claimants of the
property, if known, or a statement that they are unknown,
who must be styled defendants;

3. A statement of the right of the plaintiff;

4. If a right of way be sought, the complaint must
show the location, general route, and termini, and must
be accom anied with maps thereof;

5. A escription of each piece of land sought to be
taken, and whether the same includes the whole or only
a part of an en tire parcel or tract.

All parcels lying in the county, and required for the
same public use, may be included in the same or separate
proceedings, at the option of the plaintiff, but the Court

may consolidate or separate them, to suit the convenience
of parties.

SEC. 858. The Clerk must issue a summons, which.
must contain the names of the parties, a general descrip-)

tion of the whole property, a statement ot' the public use
for which .it is sought, and a reference to the complaint
for descriptions of the respective parcels, and a notice to
the defendants to a ear and show cause why the property described shou not be condemned as prayed for

in the complaint. In all other particulars it must be in‘

the form of a‘ summons in civil actions, and must be
served in like manner.

SEC. 859. All persons in occupation of, or having or
claiming an interest in any of the pro ierty described in
the complaint, or in the damages for the taking thereof,
though not named, may appear, plead, and defend, each
in respect to his own property or interest, or that claimed
by him, in like manner as if named in the complaint.

Sec. 860. The Court shall have power:

1. To regulate and determine the place and manner

of making connections and crossin s, or of enjoying
athe common use mentioned in the fth subdivision of Section 853;

2. To hear and determine all adverse or conflicting
claims to. the property sought to be condemned, and to
the damages therefor;

3. To determine the respective rights of different
parties seeking condemnation ot' the same property.

SEC. 861. The Court, ury, or referee must hear such
_legal-testimony as may be offered by any of the parties to
the proceedings, and thereupon must ascertain and
assess:

1. The value of the property soughtto be condemned,
and all improvements thereon pertaining to the realty,
and of each and every separate estate or interest therein;
if it consists of different parcels, the value of each parcel
and each estate or interest therein shall be separately assessed;

2. If the property sought to be condemned constitutes only a part of a larger parcel, the damages which
will accrue to the portion not sought to be condemned,
by reason of its severance from the portion sought to be
condemned, and the construction of the improvement in
the manner proposed by the plaintiff‘;

3. Separately, how much the portion not sought to
be condemned. and each estate or interest therein, will be
benefited, if at all, by the construction of the improvement proposed by the plaintiff; and if the benefit shall
be equal to the damages assessed, under Subdivision 2,
the owner of the parcel shall be allowed no compensation
except the value of the portion taken; but if the benefit
shall be less than the damages so assessed, the former
shall be deducted from the latter, and the remainder shall
be the only damages allowed in addition to the value;

4. If the property sought to be condemned be for a
railroad, the cost of good and sutlicient fences along the
line of such railroad, and the cost ot' cattle guards where
fences may cross the line of such railroad; .

5. As far as practicable, compensation must be
assessed for each source of damage separately.

Sec. 862. For the purpose of assessing compensation
and damages, the right thereto shall be deemed to

lhavc accrued at the date of the summons, and its actual
value, at that date shall he the measure of compensation
for all property to be actually taken, and the basis of
alamages to wroperty not actually taken, but infuriously
affected, in all cases where such damages are al owed, as

provided in the last section. No improvements put
upon the property, subsequent to the date of the service
of summons, shall be included in the assessment of compensaticn or damages. ‘

Sec. 863. If the title attempted to be acquired is
found to be defective from any cause, the plaintiff may
again institute proceedings to acquire the same, as in
this Chapter-prescribed.

SEC. 864. The plaintiff must, within thirty days after
tinal judgment, pay the sum of money assessed; but may,
at the time of or before payment, elect_to huild the fences
and cattle guards; and Il he so elect, shall execute to the
defendant a bond. with sureties to be approved by the
Court in double the assessed cost of the same, to build
such fences and cattle guards within eighteen months
from the time the railroad is built on the land taken, and
if such bond be given, need not pay the cost of such
fences and cattle guard. In an action on such bond the
plaintiff may recover reasonable attorney’s fees.

Sec. 865. Payment may he made to the defendants
entitled thereto, or the money may bedeposited in Court
for the defendants, and he distributed to those entitled
thereto. If the money be not so paid or deposited, the
defendants may have execution as in civil cases; and if
the money cannot be made on execution,the Court, upon
a showing to that effect, must set aside and annul the
entire proceedings, and restore possession of the property
to the defendant, if possession has been taken by the
plaintiff.

SEC. 866. When payments have been made and the
bond given, if the plaintiff elects to give one, as required
by the last two sections, the Court must make a final
order of condemnation, which must describe the property condemned and the purposes of such condemnation.
A copy of the order must be tiled in the otlice of the
Recorder of the county, and thereupon the property
described therein shall vest in the plaintiff for the
purposes therein specified.

SEC. 867. At any time after trial and judgment entered, or pending an appeal from the judgment to the
Supreme Court, whenever the plaintiff shall have paid
into Court for the defendant, the l'ull amount of the judgment, and such further sum as may be required by the
Court as a fund to pay any further damages and costs
that may he recovered in said proceedings, as well as
all damages that may besustained by the defendant if
for any cause, the property shall not be iinally taken for

public use, the District Court in which the proceeding
was tried may, upon notice of not less than ten days.
authorize the plaiutilf, if already in possession, to continue therein, and if not, then to take possession of and
use the property during the pendency of and until the
final conclusion of the litigation, and may, if necessary,
stay all actions and proceeding against the plaintiff on
account thereof. The defendant, who is entitled to the
money paid into Court for him upon any judgment,
shall be entitled to demand and receive the same at any
time thereafter upon obtaining an order therefor from
the Court. It shall be the duty of the Court, or aJudge
thereof, upon application being made by such defendant,
to order and direct that the money so aid into Court
for him be delivered to him u n his filing a satisfaction of the judgment, or upon iis filing a receipt therefor, and an abandonment of all defenses to the action or
proceeding, except as to the amount of damages that he
may be entitled to in the event that a new trial shall be

ranted. A payment to a defendant, as aforesaid, shall
gs held to be an abandonment by such defendant of all
defenses interposed by him, excepting his claim for
greater compensation. The Court may order the money
to be deposited in the county treasury, and in such case
it shall bethe duty of the treasurer to receive all such
moneys, duly receipt for and safely keep the same, and
to pay out such moneys in such manner and at such
times as the Court or the Judge thereof may direct; and
for such duty he shall be liable to the plaintiff upon his
oilticial bond.

SEC. 868. Costs may be allowed or not, and if allowed,

may be apportioned between the parties on the same or

adverse 8] es, in the discretion of the Court.

SEC. 869. Except as otherwise provided in this Chap-.
Lter, the provisions of this Code relative to civil actions

and new trials and appeals, are a plicable to and constitute the rules of practice in t e proceedings in this Chapter. ’

SEC. 870. Nothing in this Code must be construed
to abrogate or repeal any statute providing for the taking of property in any city or town for street purposes,

CHAPTER LII.
or CHANGE or NAMES.

Szcrioiz 871. Jurisdiction.
872. Application for change of name, how made.

873. Publication of petition for.
874. Hearing of application and renionstrance.

SEC. 871. Applications for change of names must
be heard and determined by the District Courts.

SEC. 872. All applications for change of names must
be made to the District Court of the county where the
person .whose name is proposed to be changed resides, by
petition, signed by such erson; and if such person is
under twenty-one years 0 age, if a male, and under the

of eighteen years, if a female, by one of the parents,
i living; or if both be dead. then by the guardian; and
if there he no guardian, then by some near relative or
friend. The petition must specify the place of birth and
residence of such erson, his or her resent name, the
name proposed, an the reason for suc change of name,
and must, if the father of such person be not living,
name, as far as known to the petitioner, the near relatives

of such person, and their place of residence. Any reli-~
gious, benevolent, literary, ar scientific corporation, or‘

any corporation bearing or having for its name, or using
or bein known by the name of any benevolent or
charitable order, or society, may by petition, apply to the
District Court of the county in which the property of
said corporation is situated, for a change of its corporate
name. Such petition must be signed by the trustees of
the corporation, or by a majority of them, and must
specify the date of the formation of the corporation, its
present name, the name proposed, and the reason for such
change of name. Upon filing such petition on behalf of
such corporation, the same proceedings must be had as
upon applications for changes of names of natural persons.

Sec. 873. A copy of such petition must be published;
for four succcessive weeks, in some newspaper printed in

the county, if a newspaper be printed therein, but if no
newspaper be printed in the county, a copy of such tition must be posted at three of the most public p aces
in the county for a like period, and proofs mu'st be

made of such publication before the petition can be
considered.

SEC. 874. Such application must be heard at such time
during term as the Court may appoint, and objections
may be tiled by any person who can, in such objections.
show to the Court good reason against such change of
name. On the hearing the Court may examine, upon
oath, any of the petitioners. remonstrants, or other persons, touching the application, and may make an order
changing the name or dismissing the application, as to
the Court may seem right and proper.

CHAPTER LIII.

OF ARBITRATIONS.

8301101! 875. What may be submitted to arbitration. and when.
876. Submission to arbitration to be in writing.

877. Submission may be entered as an order of the Court. Revocation.

878. Powers of arbitrators.
879. Majority of arbitrators may determine any question.

8&). Award to be in writing. when judgment to be entered.
881. Award may I e vacated in certain cases.

882. Court may. on motion, modify or correct the award.

883. Decision. on motion. subject to appeal. but not the judgment
entered before motion.
884. It‘ submision be revoked and an action brought, what to be

recovered.

SEC. 875. Persons capable of contracting may
submit to arbitration any controversy which might be
the subject of a civil action between them, except a nestion of title to real property in fee or for life. his
qualiiication does not include questions relating merely
to the partition or boundaries of real property.

SEC. 876. The submission to arbitration must be in
writing, and may be to one or more persons.

SEC. 877. It may be stipulated in the submission.
‘that it be entered as an order of the Probate Court, or
of the District Court, for which purpose it must be filed
with the Clerk of a county where the parties, or one of
them, resides. The Clerk must thereupon enter in his
register of actions a note of the submission, with the
names of the arties, the names of the arbitrators, the
date of the su mission, when filed, and the time limited
by the submission, if any, within which the award must
be made. When so entered, the submission cannot be

revoked without the consent of both parties. The arbitrators
manneras a jludginent. If the submission is not made
an order of t e ourt, it may be revoked at any time betore the award is made.

Sec. 878. Arbitrators have power to appoint a time
and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to
administer oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and
evidence of the parties, and to make an award thereon.

SEC. 879. All the arbitrators must meet and act to:
gether during the investigatioii; but when met. a majority may determine any question. Before acting, they
must beosworn before an ofhcer authorized to administer
oaths, iaithtully and fairly to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties in relation to the
inatterslin cont(il°oversy(,]and to make a list award according to t ieir uu erstan ing.

Sec. 880. The award must he in writiiiw. sinned by
the arbitrators ora ' i't of tie d  1'6 d t

' majo-i y i in, an e were 0
tpe rties.h 'V,Vheud the Sll{)lI)lSSl&)D is made an order of
tie ‘ourt, t e awar must )9 file with the Clerk and a
note thereof made in his register. After the expiration
of five days from the, filing of the award, upon the ap lication of aipartyl, and OYIdl'llll|=*.'i' an aiiidavit, showing t at‘
notice of 11' inc t ie awar has ieen served on the adverse
party or his attorney, at least four days prior to such application, and that no order staying the entry of judgment has been served, the award must be entered by the
Clerk in the judgment book, and thereupon has the effect
of a udgnient.

SEC. 881. The Court, on motion, may vacate the;
award upon either of the following grounds, and inayi
ord: arnewthearing before the sauie arbitrators, or not,
in I iscre ion:

1. That it was procured by corruption or fraud;

A 2. _That the arbitrators were guilty of misconduct, or
.winmittedlgr§ss error in. refnfsirig, on czliluse show_n, to
postpone tie earinor or in re usingr to ear pertinent
evidence, or otherwise acted inipropgrly, in a manner by
wlgcli 'lfi}lB tl‘lt%]llt8 (li)t'ttlie party we'redpti]°ejudiced; _ k

. ia ear 1 rators exceei e ieir powers in ma ing their award; or that they refused, or improperly
omitted, to consider a part of the matters submitted to
them; or that the award is indefinite, or cannot be performed

SEC. 882. The Court may, on motion, modify or corlirect the award, where it appears:

1. That there was a miscalculation in figures upon
which it was made, or that there is a mistake in the description of some person or pro rty therein;

2. When a part of the awar is u on matters not submitted, which art can be separa from other arts,
apél does not a ect the decision on the matters submitt ;

3. When the award, though imperfect in form, could
have been amended if it had been a verdict, or the imperfection disregarded.

SEC. 883. The decision upon either motion is subject

fto appeal in the same manner as an order which is subject to appeal in a civil action; but the judgment, if enL. tered before a motion made, cannot be subject to appeal.
SEC. 884. If a submission to arbitration be revoked,
‘and an action be brou ht therefor, the amount to be re[ covered can only be t we costs and damages sustained in
‘preparing for and attending the arbitration.

CHAPTER LIV.
or some TRADERS.

SECTION 885. Who may become sole traders.
886. N tice. how given and what to contain.
887.‘ Petition, what to contain and when med.
888. May have live hundred dollars of community or husband’:

D|’0P9l'Wwho may oppose it, and how.

Trial or hearing.

Decree, what it must be.

Oath, copy of order to be recorded.

Rights and liabilities of sole traders.

Sole trader must maintain her children.

Husband of sole trader not liable for debts.

f§;§:§§§§§E§

SEC. 885. A married woman may becomes sole
trader by the judgment of the District Court of the
county in which she has resided for six months next preceding the application.

SEC. 886. A person intending to make application to
»-become a sole trader, must publish notice of such intention in a newspaper published in the county, or if none,
then in a newspaper published in an adjoining county.
for four successive weeks. The notice must specify the

erm, and the day upon which application will be made,

the nature and place of the business proposed to be con
ducted by her, and the name of her husband.

SEC. 887. Ten days prior to the day named in the no-:
tice,h the applicant must file a verified petition, setting!
fort 2

1. That the application is made in good faith, to enable the applicant to support herself, or herself and
others dependent upon her, giving their names and relation;

2. The fact of insnmcient support from her husband,
and the causes thereof, if known;

3. Any other grounds of application which are good
causes for a divorce, with the reason why a divorce is
not sought; and,

4. The nature of the business proposed to be conducted, and the capital to be invested therein, if any, and
the sources from which it is derived.

Sec. 888. The a plicant may invest in the businessi
proposed to be con ucted, a sum derived from the com-I
mnnity property or of the separate property of the hus-3
band, not exceeding five hundred dollars.

SEC. 889. Any creditor of the husband may oppose‘
the application, by filing in the Court (prior to the day
named in the notice) a written opposition veriiied, containing either:

1. A specific denial of the truth of any material allegation of the etition; or setting forth,

2. That t is application is made for the purpose of
defrauding the opponent; or,

3. That the application is made to prevent, or will
prevent, him from collecting ‘his debt.

SEC. 890. On the da ' named in the notice, or on such
other day to which the earing may be postponed by the
Court, the applicant must make proof of publication of
the notice bereinbefore required, and the issues of fact
joined, if any, must be tried as in other cases; if no issues are joined, the Court must hear the proofs of the
applicant, and find the facts in accordance therewith.

SEC. 891. If the facts found sustain the petition, the
Court must render judgment, authorizing the applicant
to carry on, in her own name and on her own account,
the business specified in the notice and petition.

Sec. 892. The sole trader must make and file with
the Clerk of the Court an aliidavit, in the following
urm:

“I, A. B., - do, in the presence of Almighty God.
solemnly swear that this application was made in good

faith, for the purpose of enablin me to support invself
(and any dependent, such as husband, parent sister,
child, or the like, naming them, if any), and not with
any view to defraud, delay or hinder any creditor, or
creditors of my husband; and that of the moneys so to
be used by me in business, not more than live hundred
dollars have come, either directly or indirectly, from my

husband. So help me. God.”
A certified copy of the decree, with this oath indorsed

thereon, must be recorded in the otlice of the Recorder of
the conn‘_v where the business is to be carried on, in a
book to he kept for su_ch purpose.

SEC. 893. When the judgment is made and entered, and
a copy thereof, with the aflidavit provided for in the last section dulv recorded, the person therein named is entitled to carry on the business specified, in her own name.
and the property, revenues. ll|()lIU_\'8, and credits so by
her invested, and the rolits thereof, belong exclusively
to her, and are not lia le for any debts of her husband;
and she thereafter has all the privileges of and is liable
to all legal processes provided for debtors and creditors,
and may sue and be sued alone, without being joined with
her husband; I’rovz°ded, however, that she shall not be
at liberty to carr on said business in any other county
than that nam in the published notice, until she has
recorded in such other county a copy of said judgment
and aflidavit.

Sec. 894. A married woman who is adjudged a sole
trader is res aonsible and liable for the maintenance of
her minor c iildren.

SEC. 895. The husband of a sole trader is not liable
for any debts contracted by her in the course of her sole
trader’s business, unless contracted upon his written

consent.

CHAPTER LV.
EVIDENCE—JUDIClAL KNOWLEDGE.

SEC. 896. Courts take judicial notice of the following facts:

1. The true signilication of all English Words and
phrases, and of all legal expressions;

2. Whatever is established by law;

3. Public and private ollicial acts of the legislative,

executive, and 'udicial departments of this Territory and
of the United tates;

4. The seals of all the Courts of this Territory and of
the United States;

5. _The accession to oiiice and the oflicial signatures
and seals of oiiice of the principal officers of Government in the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of this Territory and of the United States;

6. The existence. title, national iia,-_:, and seal of every
State or sovereign recognized by the executive power of
the United States;

7. The seals of Courts of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, and of Notaries Public;

8. The laws of nature, the measure of time, and the
geographical divisions and political history of the world.

In all these cases the Court may resort for its aid to
appnpriate books or documents of reference.

CHAPTER LVI.
WITNESSES.

Bncrtoit 897. A11 pemons capable of perception and communication may be
witnesees

%. Persons who cannot testify.

899. Persons in certain relations to parties prohibited.
900. Judge or a juror may be witness.

901. When an interpreter to be sworn.

SEC. 897. All persons, without exception, otherwise than is specified in the next two sections, who, having or us ot' sense, can perceive, and, perceivingz, can
make uown their perceptions to others, may be witnesses. Therefore, neither parties nor other persons who
have an interest in the event of an action or pi‘OcL'e(illlg
are excluded; nor those who have been convicted of
crime; nor persons on account of their opinions on matters of religious belief; although, in every case the
credibility ot' the witness may be drawn in qrestion,
by the manner in which he testifies, by the character of
his testimony, or by evidence affecting his character for
truth, honesty, or integrity, or his motives, or by contradictory evidence; and the jury are the exclusive
judges of his credibility.

SEC. 898. The following persons cannot be witHBSSBSS '

1. Those who are of unsound mind at the time of
their production for examination;

2. Children under ten years of age, who appear incapable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they are examined, or of relating them
truly;

3. Parties to an action or proceeding, or in whose behalf an action or proceeding is prosecuted, against an
executor or an administrator, upon a claim or demand
against the estate of a deceased erson, as to any matter
of fact occurring before the deat of such deceased person.

SEC. 899. There are particular relations in which it
is the policy of the law to encourage confidence and to
preserve it inviolate; therefore, a person cannot be examined as a witness in the following 039883

1. A husband cannot be examined for or against his
wife, without her consent, nor a wife for or against her
husband, without his consent; nor can either, during the
marriage or afterwards, be, without the consent of the
other, examined as to any communication made by one
to the other during the marriage; but this exception
does not apply to a civil action or proceeding by one
against the other, nor to a criminal action or proceeding
for a crime committed by one against the other;

2. An attorney cannot, without the consent of his
client, be examined as to an communication made by
the client to him, or his vice given thereon in the
course of professional employment;

3. A clergyman or priest cannot, without the consent
of the person making the confession, be examined as to
any confession made to him in his professional character
in the course of discipline enjoined by the Church to
which he belongs;

4. A physician or surgeon cannot, without the consent of his patient, be examined in a civil action as to
any information acquired in attending the patient which
was necessary to enable him to prescribe or act for the
patient;

5. A public oilicer cannot be examined as to communications made to him in oilicial confidence, when the
public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

SEC. 900. The Judge himself, or any juror, may be
called as a witness by either party; but in such case it is
in the discretion of the Court or Judge to order the trial
to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before
another Judge or jury.

SEC. 901. When a witness does not understand and
speak the English languge, an interpreter must be sworn
to interpret for him. Any person, a resident of the
proper county, may be summoned by any Court or Judge
to appear before such Court or J udge to act _as interpgeter in any action or roceeding. The summons must

served and return in like manner as a subpaana.
Any persin so summoned who fails to attend at the
time and place named in the summons, is guilty of a
contempt.

CHAPTER LVII.

PUBLIC WRITINGS.

83611018 902. Every citizen entitled to inspect and copy public writings.

Public oincers bound to give copies.

. Public and private statutes.

. Pour kinds of public writings.

. Books containing laws presumed to be correct.
Public seal authenticates a law or document.

903.
904
905
906
907.
908. Other evidence of laws of other States and Territories.
coo. Recitals in statutes, how far evidence.

910. Judicial record defined.

91]. Record, how authenticated as evidence.

912. Record of a foreign country, how authenticated.

918. Oral evidence of a foreign record.

914. Manner of proving other oiiicial documents.

915. Public record of private writing evidence.

916. Entries in ofiicial books primary evidence.

917. Justice's Judgment in other States, how proved.

918. Same.

919. Contents of other omcial certiiicates.

920. Certificates of purchase primary evidence of ownership.
921. Entries made by omcers or Boards primary evidence.

SEC. 902. Every citizen has a right to inspect and
take a copy of any public writino of this Territory, ex-§
cept as otherwise expressly provided by statute. 2

SEC. 903. Every public oiiicer having the custody of3
a public writing, which a citizen has a ri ht to inspect,]
is bound to give him, on demand, a certi ‘ed copy of it,
on payment of the legal fees therefor.

SEC. 904. Statutes are public or private. A private;
statute is one which concerns only certain designated in-:
dividuals, and affects only their private rights. All
other statutes are public, in which are included statutes

creating or affecting corporations.

SEC. 905. Public writings are divided into four
classes:

1. Laws;

2. Judicial records:

3. Other otlicial documents;

4. Public records kept in this territory, of private
writings.

Sec. 906. Books printed or published under the authority of a State, Territory. or foreign country, and purrting to contain the statutes, code, or other written
aw of such State, Territory, or country, or proved to be
commonly admitted in the tribunals of such State, Territory, or country as evidence of the written law thereof,
are admissible in this Territory as evidence of such law.

SEC. 907. A copy of the written law or other public
writing of any State, Territory, or country, attested hy
the certilicate of the officer having charge of the original,
under the public seal of the State, Territory, or country,
is admissible as evidence of such law or writing.

SEC. 908. The oral testimony of witnesses skilled

'.therein is admissible as evidence of the unwritten law of
a State, other Territory, or foreign country, as are also
printed and published books of reports of decisions of
the Courts of such State, Territory, or country, commonly admitted in such Courts. ,

SEC. 909. The recitals in a public statute are conclusire evidence of the facts recited for the iurpose of carrying it into effect, but no further. T e recitals in a
private statute are conclusive evidence between parties
who claim under its provisions, but no further.

SEC. 910. A judicial record is the record or ofiicial
entrv of the proceedings in a Court of Justice, or of the
oflicial act of a judicial officer, in an action or special
proceeding.

SEC. 911. A judicial record of this Territory, or of
the United States, may be roved by the production of
the original, or by a copy tiiereof, certified by the Clerk
or other person having the legal custody thereof. That
of a State or Territory may be roved by the attestation of
the Clerk and the seal of the ‘ourt annexed, if there be a
Clerk and seal, together with a certificate of the Chief
J ndge or presiding magistrate, that the attestation is in
due form.

SEC. 912. A judicial record of a foreign country
may be proved by the attestation of the Clerk,_ with the
seal of the Court annexed, if there be a Clerk and seal,
or of the legal keeper of the record, with the seal of his

ofiice annexed, if there be a seal, to ether with a certiti-5.
cate of the Chief Judge, or presi ing magistrate, that
the person makino the attestation is the Clerk of the
Court or the legaf. keeper of the record. and, in either
case, that the signature of such person is genuine, and
that the attestation is in due form. The signature of the
Chief Judge or presiding magistrate must be authenticated by the certiticate of the Minister or Embassador,
or a Consul, Vice-Consul, or Consular Agent of the.
United States in such foreign country.

SEC. 913. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
country is also admissible in evidence, upon proof:

1. That the copy offered has been compared by the
witness with the original, and is an exact transcript of
the whole of it;

2. That such original was in the custody of the
Clerk of the Court or other legal keeper of the same;
and,

3. That the copy is duly attested by a seal which is
proved to be the seal of the Court where the record remains, it' it be the record of a Court; or it‘ there be no
such seal, or if it be not a record of a Court, by the signature of the legal keeper of the original.

Sec. 914. Other otlicial documents may be proved,i
as follows: . ' 3

1. Acts of the Executive of this Territory, by the:
records; and of the United States, by the records of the
Departments of the United States, certified by the heads of
those departments respectively. They may also be
pgoved by public documents, printed by the order of the

gislatnre or Congress, or either house thereof;

2. The iroceedings of the Legislature of this Territory or of ongress, by the journals of those bodies respectively, or either house thereof, or by published statutes or resolutions,.or by copies certiiied by the clerk, or
printed by their order;

3. The acts of the Executive or the proceedings of
the Legislature’ of a sister State or Territory in the same
manner;

4. The acts of the Executive, or the proceedings of
the Legislature of a foreign country, by journals published by their authority, or commonly received in that
country as such, or by a copy certified under the seal of
the country or sovereign, or by a recoonition thereof in
some public act of the Executive of the United States:

5. Acts of a municipal corporation of this Territory
or of a Board or department thereof, by a copy, ccrtitied

_4¢¢

by the legal keeper thereof, or by a printed book published by the authority of such corporation; ~

6. Documents of any other class in this Territory, by
the orioinal, or by a copy, certified by the legal keeper
thereo ;

7. Documents of any other class in a sister State, or
Territory, by the original, or by a copy, certified by the
legal keeper thereof, together with the certificate of the
Secretary of State, Judge of the Supreme, Superior, or
Count Court, or Mayor of a city of such State or Territory, that the copy is duly certified by the oilieer having
the legal custody of the ori inal;

8. Documents of any ot er class in a foreign country,
by the orginal, or by a copy certified by the legal keeper
thereof, with a certificate under seal, of the country or
sovereign, that the document is a valid and subsisting
‘document of such country, and that the copy is duly
certified by the oflicer having the legal custody of the
original;

9. Documents in the departments of the United
States Government, by the certificate of the legal custodian thereof.

SEC. 915. A public record of a private writing may

“be proved by the original record, or by a copy thereof,
certified by the legal keeper of the record.

SEC. 916. Entries in public or other official books or
records, made in the performance of his duty bya public
oflicer of this Territory, or by another rson in the performance of a duty specially enjoined ii; law, are pm-ma
facie evidence of the facts stated therein.

SEC. 917. A transcript from ‘the record or docket of
a Justice of the Peace of? a sister State or Territory, of a
judgment rendered by him, of the proceedings in the
action before the 'udgment, of the execution and return,
if any, subscri by the Justice and verified in the manner prescribed in the next section, is admissible evidence
of the facts stated therein.

SEC. 918. There must be attached to the transcript a
certificate of the Justice that the transcript is in all respects correct, and that he had jurisdiction of the action,
and also a further certificate of the Clerk or prothonotary
of the county in which the Justice resided at the time of
rendering the judgment, under the seal of the county.
or the seal of the Court of Common Pleas or County
Court or Court of general nrisdiction thereof, certifying
that the person subscribing the transcript was, at the
date of the judgment, a Justice of the Peace in the

county, anal that the signature is genuine. Such j=Idg—s
ment, proceedings, and jurisdiction may also be Moved
by the J nstice himself, on the production of his ocket,
or by a copy of the ndgment, and his oral examination
as a witness.

Sec. 919. Whenever a copy of a writing is certiiiedt
for the purpose of evidence, the certiiicate must state in‘,’
substance that the copy is a correct copy of the original,
or ofa speciiied part thereof, as the‘ case may be. The
certiiieate must be under the official seal of the certifying otlicer, if there be any, or if he be the clerk of a
Court having a seal, under the seal of such Court.

SEC. 920. A certificate of purchase, or of location, of 4
any lands in this Territory, issued or made in pursuance}
of any law of the United States, is primary evidence that‘
the holder or assignee of such certificate is the owner of
the land described therein; but this evidence may be
overcome by proof that, at the time of the location, or
time of filling a pre-emption claim on which the certificate may have been issued, the land was in the adverse
po~session of the adverse party, or those under whom he
claims, or that the adverse party is holding the land for
mining purposes.

SEC. 921. An entry made by an omcer, or board of ;
oiiicers, or under the direction and in the presence of ;
either, in the course of oiiicial duty, is prima facie evi-1
deuce of the facts stated in such entry.

CHAPTER LVIII.
PRIVATE WRITINGS.

Slcnon 922. Manner of making seal.

923. Books, maps. etc.. how far evidence.

924. When in posseseion of adverse party. notice to be given.
925. Writings called for and inspected may be withheld.
926. Where there is a subscribing witness. the proof.

927. Other witnesses may also testify.

928. When evidence of execution not necessary. 929. Entries of decedents evidence in specified case;

930. Private writings acknowledged and certified.

931. Instrument acknowledged.

932. Contents of writing, how proved.

SEC. 922. A public seal in this Territory is a
stamp or impression made by a public oiiicer with an
instrument provided by law, to attest the execution of an
oiiicial or public document, upon the paper, or upon any

substance attached to the paper, which is capable of receiving a visible impression. A private seal may be
made in the same manner by any instrument, or it may
be made by the scroll of a pen, or by writing the word
“seal” against the signature of the writer. A scroll or
other sign, made in a sister State or Territory or foreign
country, and there recognized as a seal, must be so regarded in this Territory.

SEC. 923. Historical works, books of science or art,
and published maps or charts, when made by persons indifferent between the parties, are prima facw evidence
of facts of general notoriety and interest.

SEC. 924. If the writing be in the custody of the adverse part , he must first have reasonable notice to produce it. f he then fail to do so, the contents of the
writing may be proved as in case of its loss. But the
notice to produce it is not necessary where the writing is
itself a notice, or where it has been wrongfully obtained
or withheld by the adverse party. ‘

SEC. 925. Though awriting called for by one party
is produced by the other, and is thereupon inspected by
the party calling for it, he is not obliged to produce it as
evidence in the case.

SEC. 926. Any writing may be proved either:

1. By any one who saw the writing executed; or,

2. By evidence of the genuineness of the handwriting
of the maker; or,

3. By a subscribing witness.

SEC. 927. If the subscribing witness denies or does
not recollect the execution of the writing, its execution
may still be proved by other evidence.

SEC. 928. Where, however, evidence is given that the
party against whom the writing is offered has at any time
admitted its execution, no other evidence of the execution need be given, when the instrument is one produced
from the custody of the adverse party, and has been acted
upon by him as genuine.

SEC. 929. The entries and other writings of a decedent, made at or near the time of the transaction, and in
a position to know the facts stated therein, may be read
as imafacie evidence of the facts stated therein, in the
fol owing cases:

1. When the entry was made against the interest of
the person making it;

2. When it was made in a professional capacity, and
in the ordinary course of professional conduct;

3. When it was made in the performance of a duty
specially enjoined by law.

SEC. 930. Every private writing, except last wills and
testaments, may be acknowledged or proved and certified‘
in the manner provided for the acknowledgment or proof ‘
of conveyances of real property, and the certificate of
such acknowledgment or proof is  facie evidence
of the execution of the writing, in the same manner as
if it were a conveyance of real ro rty.

SEC. 931. Every instrumelrlt gdnveying or affecting
real prgcperty, acknowledged, or proved, and certified, as‘
pl‘0Vld by law, may, together with the certificate of 1
acknowledgment or proof, lie read in evidence, in ‘an action or proceedipf, without further proof; and a certified
copy of the reco of such conveyance or instrument thus
ac nowled or proved, may also be read in evidence,
with the li 'e effect as the original, on proof, by aliidavit,
or otherwise, that the original is not in the possession or
under the control of the party producing the certified
copy.

SEC. 932. There can be no evidence of the contents
ofna writing, other than the writing itself, except in the
fa owin cases:

1. Wghen the original has been lost or destro ed; in
wlgph case proof of the loss or destruction must rst be
In e;

2. When the original is in the ssession of the arty
agziinst whet}; the evidence is o ‘cred, and he fai s to
p uce it a or reasona i e notice;

3. When the original is a record or other document in
the custody of a public oilicer;

4. When the original has been recorded, and a certiiield copy of the record is made evidence by this Code or
ot er statute;

5. When the original consists of numerous accounts
or other documents, which cannot be examined in Court
without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from
them is only the general result of the whole.

In the cases mentioned in subdivisions three and four, a
cop ° of the original, or of the record, must be produced;
in ose mentioned in subdivisions one and two, eithera
copy or oral evidence of the contents.

CHAPTER LIX.
INDISPENSABLE EVIDENCE.

Smcnorz 933. To prove perjury and treason.
934. Will to be in writing.

1185. Transfer of real property to be in writing.
936. Last section not to extend to certain cases.

937. Agreement not in writing. when invalid.
938. Whenyalid.
939. Representation of credit by writing.

SEC. 933. Perjury and treason mustbe proved by
testimony of more than one witness. Treason by the
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act; and
perjury by the testimony of two witnesses, or one witness and corroborating circumstances. .

Sec. 934. A last will and testament, except a nuncupative will, is iuvaliul, unle s it be in writino and executed with such formalities as are required by faw. When,
therefore such a will is to be shown, the instrument itself must be produced, or secondary evidence of its contents be given.

SEC. 935. N o estate or interest in real property, other
than for leases for a term not exceeding one year, nor any
trust or power over or concerning it, or in any manner
relating thereto, can be created, granted, assigned, surrendered, or declared, otherwise than by operation of law,
or a conveyance or other instrument in writing, subscribed by the party creating, grantin ,assigning, surrendering, or declaring the same, or by%1is lawful agent
thereunto authorized by writing.

SEC. 936. The preceding section must not be construed to affect the power of a testator in the disposition
of his real property by a last will and testament, nor to
prevent any trust from arising or being extinguished by
implication or operation of law, nor to abridge the power
of any Court to compel the specific performance of an
agreement, in case of part performance thereof.

SEC. 937. In the following cases the agreement is invalid, unless the same or some note or memorandum
thereof be in writing and subscribed by the arty charged,
or by his agent. Evidence, therefore, of t ie agreement
cannot be received without the writing or secondary evidence of its contents:

_ 1. An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within a year from the making thereof;

2. A special promise to answer for the debt, det'ault,I
or miscarriage of another, except in the cases provided
for in the next section; 3. An agreement made upon consideration of marriage, other than a mutual romise to marry;

4. An agreement for e sale of goods, chattels, or
things in action, at a price not less than two hundred
dollars. unless the buyer accept and receive part of such
goods and chattels, or the evidences, or some of them, of
such things in action, or pay at the time some part of the
purchase money; but when a sale is made by auction,an
entry by the auctioneer in his sale book, at the time of
the sale, of the kind of property sold, the terms of sale,
the price and the names of the purchaser and person on
Rzhose account the sale is made, is a suiiicient memoranum; _

5. An agreement for the leasing for a longer period
than one year, or for the saleof real property or of an interest therein; and such agreement, if made by an agent
of the party sought’ to be charged, is invalid, unless the
authority of the agent be in writing, subscribed by the
party sought to be charged.

Sec. 938. A promise to answer for the obligation of 1
another, in any of the following cases, is deemed an?
original obligation of the promisor, and need not be inj
writiu .

1. §Vhere the promise is made by one who has received

‘property of another upon an undertaking to apply it
I

pursuant to such promise; or by one who as received a
discharge from an obligation in whole or in part, in
consideration of such promise;

2. Where the creditor parts with value, or enters into
an obligation, in consideration of the obligation in respect
to which the promise is made, in terms or under circumstances such as to render the party xnakin the promise
the principal debtor, and the person in whose behalf it
is made, his surety;

3. Where the promise, being for an antecedent obli ation of another, is made upon the consideration that t e
party receiving it cancels the antecedent obligation,
accepting the new promise as a substitute therefor; or
upon the consideration that the party receiving it releases the property of another from a levy, or his person
from im rxsoninent under an execution on a judgment
obtain upon the antecedent obligation; or upon a
consideration beneficial to the promisor, whether moving

from either party to the antecedent obligation, or from
another rson;

4. here a factor undertakes, for a commission, to '

sell merchandise and uarantee the sale;

5. Where the holder of an instrument for the 'payment of mone , upon which athird person is or may become liable to im, transfers it in payment of a precedent
debt of his own, or for a new consideration, and in connection with such transfer enters into a promise respecting such instrument.

SEC. 939. No evidence is admissible to charge a person
upon a representation as to the credit of a third person,
unless such representation, or some memorandum thereof, be in writing, and either subscribed by or in the handwriting of the party to be charged.

 

CHAPTER LX.

PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE.

Writing altered. who to explain.

Subpmna for witness deilned.

Bubpmna, how issued.

Subpmna, how served. _

How, it‘ witnem be concealed.

When a witna is compelled to attend.
Person present compelled to teatliy.
Disobedience, how punished.

Forfeiture therefor.

Warrant may issue to bring witness, when.
Contents of warrant.

If witnem be a prisoner, how brought.

On whose motion.

How examined.

Ailidavits and depositions. how taken.
Evidence of publication. what.

Where tiled.

Amdavits to beTused in this Territory.

if made in another State or Territory of the United Btaiut

If made in a foreign country, before whom taken.
Certiiioate oi‘ the Clerk.

Testimony of a witnea out of the ‘lie:-rltory.
In the Territory, when taken.

Testimony of witna out of Territory.
Proper interrogatories may be prepared.
Authorities and duties of Oommimionet.
Trial, when postponed.

967. Deposition, by whom used.

968. Depoaitions may be taken before a Judge. etc.
969. Manner of taking deposition.

970. When deposition excluded.
971. A deposition once taken may be read at any time.’

5
garasagsazrgrasszsssssssssé

OV2. Deposition in this Territory to be used in other States or Territories. '

911 How to procure witneu upon eommiuion.

UK. How, it no eornminton.

976. Deposition, how taken.

U76. Witness: not under examination may be excluded.
#17. witnesses bound to attend when subponsed.

978. Witnesses bound to answer questions.

979. Wineaes protected from arrest.

1!). Arrest to be made void.

981. To make amdavit if arrested.

$2. Court to discharge witneues from arrut.

ass. An offer equivalent to tender.

3!. Whoever pays entitled to receipt.

SEC. 940. The party producing a writing as genu-*
ine which has been altered, or appears to have been altered,}
after its execution, in a part material to the question in
dispute, must account for the appearance or alteration.
He may show that the alteration was made hy another,
without his concurrence, or was made with the consent
of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made, or that the alteration did not change the
meaning or language of the instrument. If he do that,
he may give the writing in evidence, but not otherwise.

SEC. 941. The process by which the attendance of a;
witness is required is a subpoena. It is a writ or order f
directedto a person and requiring his attendance at at
particular time and place to testify as a witness. It
may also require him to bring with him any books, documents, or other things under his control which he is
bound by law to produce in evidence.

SEC. 942. The subpoena is issued as follows:

1. To require attendance before a Court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, it is issued in the name of the
Court before which the attendance is required, or in
which the issue is pending;

2. To require attendance out of the Court, before a
Judge, Justice, or other oilicer authorized to administer
oaths or take testimony in any matter under the laws of
this Territory, it is issued by the Judge, Justice, or any
other oiiicer before whom the attendance is required;

3. To require attendance before a Commissioner appointed to take testimony by a Court of a foreign country, or of the United States, or of any other State or
Territory in the United States, or of any other district
or county within this Territory, or before any ofiicer or
oilicers empowered by the laws of the United States to
take testimony, it may be issued by any Judge or Justice of the Peace in places within their respective jurisdiction, with like power to enforce attendance; and, upon
certificate ofcontumacy to said Court, to punish contempt
of their )l‘00€88, as such Judge or Justice could exercise
if the su rposna directed the attendance of the witness
before their Courts in a matter pending therein.

SEC. 943. The service of a subpcena is made by showing the original and delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to the witness personally, or by
leaving a copy with some,suitable person at the place of
his abode, giving or offering to him at the same time, if
demanded by him, the fees to which he is entitled for
travel to and from the place designated, and one day‘s
attendance there. The service must be made so as to
allow the witness a reasonable time for preparation and
travel to the place of attendance. Such service may be
made by any erson.

SEC. 944. If a witness is concealed in a building or
vessel, so as to prevent the service of a subpoena upon
him, any Court or Judge, or any officer issuing the subpcena, may, upon proof by aflidavit of the concealment,
and of the materiality ot the witness, make an order
that the Sheriff of the county serve the subpoena; and
the Sheriff must serve it accordingly, and for that purpose may break into the building or vessel where the
witness is concealed.

SEC. 945. A witness is not obliged to attend as a witness before any Court, Judge, Justice, or any other oilicer, out of the county in which he resides, unless the distance be less than thirty miles from his place of residence
to the place of trial.

SEC. 946. A person present in Court, or before a judicial officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon a subpcena issued
by such Court or officer.

SEC. 947. Disobedience to a subpcena, or a refusal to
be sworn, or .to answer as a witness, or to subscribe an
atlidavit or deposition when required, may be punished
as a contempt by the Court or oflicer issuing the subpaena or requiring the witness to be sworn; and if the
witness be a party, his complaint or answer may be
stricken out.

SEC. 948. A witness disobeying a subpoena also forfeits to the party aggrieved the sum of one hundred dollars, and all damages which he may sustain by the failure of the witness to attend, which forfeiture and damages may be recovered in a civil action. .

SEC. 949. In case of failure of a witness to attend,

the Court or officer issuing the subpcsna, upon proof of ‘
the service thereof, and of the failure of the witness,3
may issue a warrant to the Sheriff of the county to arrest the witness and bring him before the Court or otheer where his attendance was required.

SEC. 950. Every warrant of commitment, issued qy<
a Court or officer pursuant to this Chapter, must speci y‘
therein, particularly, the cause of the commitment, and
if it be for refusing to answer a question, such question
must be stated in the w:=rrrant. And every warrant to
arrest or commit a witness, nrsuant to this Chapter.
must be directed to the Sheri of the county where the
witness may be, and must be executed by him in the
same manner as process issued by the District Court.

SEC. 951. If the witness be a prisoner, confined in a

' jail or prison within this Territory, an order f «r his examination in the prison upon deposition, or for his temporary removal and production before a Court or ofiicer
for the purpose of being orally examined, may be made
as follows: 1. By the Court itself in which the action or specaal proceeding is pending, unless it be a J ustice’s

urt.

2.‘ By aJustice of the Supreme Court, Judge of the
District Court or Probate Judge of the county where
the action or proceeding is pending, if ending before a
.(I)i(1)stice’s Court or before a Judge or ot ier person out of

uric.

SEC. 952. Such order can only be made on the motion
of a party, upon affidavit showing the nature of the action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness, and its materiality.

SEC. 953. If the witness be imprisoned in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, his production may be required. In all other cases his examination, when allowed, must be taken upon deposition.

Sec. 954. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading or a paper in a special proceeding, to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other paper in an action or
special proceeding, to obtain a provisional remedy, the
examination of a witness, or a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any other case expressly permitted
by some other rovision of this Code.

Sec. 955. vidence of the publication of a document
or notice required by law, or by an order of a Court or
Judge, to be published in a newspaper, may be given by
the atlidavit of the printer of the newspaper, or his foreman or principal clerk. annexed to a copy of the document or notice, specifying the times when, and the paper
in which, the ublication was made.

Sec. 956. f such amdavit be made in an action or
special proceeding pendin in a Court, it may be filed
with the Court or a Cler thereof. If not so made, it
may be filed with the Recorder of the county where the
newspaper is printed. In eithercase the original aliidavit,
or a co y thereof, certified by the Judge of the Court or
ofiiccr iaving it in custody, is   evidence of
the facts stated therein.

SEC. 957. An afiidavit to be used before any Court,

‘Judge, or officer of this Territory, may be taken before

any Jud e or Clerk of any Court, or any Justice of the
Peace or otary Publicin this Territory.

SEC. 958. An afiidavit taken in another State or Territory of the United States, to be used in this Territory,
may be taken before a Commissioner appointed by the
Governor of this Territory to take affidavits and depositions in such other State or Territory or before any N otary Public in another State or Territory, or before any
Judge or Clerk of a Court of record having a seal.

SEC. 959. An aflidavit taken in a foreign country to
be used in this Territory, may be taken before an Embassador, Minister, Consul, Vice Consul, or Consular
Agent of the United States, or before any Judge of a
Court of record having a seal, in such foreign country.

Sec. 960. When an affidavit is taken before a Judge
or aCourt in another State or Territory, or in a foreign
country, the genuineness of the signature of the J ndge,

.the existence bf the Court, and the fact that such Judge

is a member thereof, must be certified by’ the Clerk of
the Court, under the seal thereof.
SEC. 961. The testimony of a witness out of the Teriritory may be taken by deposition, in an action, at any

time after the service of the summons or the appearance
of the defendant; and, in a special proceeding, at any
time after a question of fact has arisen therein.

SEC. 962. The testimony of awitness in this Territory may be taken by deposition, in an action, at any
time after the service of the summons or the appearance
of the defendant; and, in a special proceeding, after a
question of fact has arisen therein, in the following cases:

1. When the witness is a party to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose immediate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended;

2. When the witness resides out of the county in:
which his testimony is to be used;

3. When the witness is about to leave the county
where the action is to be tried, and will probably continue
absent when the testimony is required;

4. When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the
trial, is nevertheless too iniirm to attend;

5. When the testimony is required upon a motion,
or in any other case where the oral examination of the
witness is not required.

Sec. 963. The deposition of a witness out of this.
Territory may be taken upon commission issued from the;
Court, under the seal of the Court, upon an order of the;
Judge or Court, or Probate J udge. on the application of §
either party, upon five days previous notice to the other.‘
If issued to any place within the United States, it may
be directed to a person agreed upon by the parties. or if
they do not agree, to any Judge or Justice of the Peace,
or person named as commissioner by the oilicer issuing
it. If issued to any country out of the United States, it.
may be directed to a Minister, Emhassador, Consul, Vice‘
Consul, or Consular Agent of the United States in such
country, or to any person agreed upon by the arties.

SEC. 964. Such proper interrogatories, irect and:
cross, as the respective parties may prepare to be settled,i
if the parties disagree as to their form, by the Judge or}
otlicer grantiu the order for the commission, at a day
fixed in the or er, may be annexed to the Commission;
or, when the parties agree to that mode, the examination
may be without written interrogatories.

SEC. 965. The Commission must authorize the Com-.
missioner. to administer an oath to the witness, and to}
take his deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or,
when the examination is to be without interrogatories, in
respect. to the question in dispute, and to certify the
deposition to the Court, in a sealed envelop, directed to
the Clerk or other person designated or agreed u on, and
forwarded to him by mail or other usual channe of conveyauce.

Sec. 966. A trial or other proceeding must not be.
postponed by reason of a commission not returned, except}
upon evidence, satisfactory to the Court, that the testi-I
mony of the witness is necessary, and that proper dili-'
genes has been used to obtain it. '

SEC. 967. The deposition mentioned in this Chapter:
may he used by either party on the trial or other pro-‘

ceeding, against any other party giving or receiving the
notice, subject to.all just exceptions.

SEC. 968. Either arty may have the dc sition taken
of a witness in this erritory, in either of t e cases mentioned in Section 962, before a Judge or officer authorized
to administer oaths, on serving upon the adverse party
previous notice of the time and place of examination,
together with a copytof an aflidavit, showing that the
case is within that section. Such notice must be at least
five days, adding also one day for every twenty-five miles
of the distance ot' the place of examination from the
residence of the person to whom the notice is given,
unless, for a cause shown, a Judge, by order, prescribe a
shorter time. When a shorter time is prescribed, a copy
of the order must be served with the notice.

SEC. 969. Either party may attend the examination
and put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The deposition, when com leted, must be carefully
read to the witness and correct by him in any particular, if desired; it must then be subscribed by the witness,
certified by the J udoe~or ofiicer taking the deposition,
inclosed in an envelope or wrapper. sealed, and directed
to the Clerk of the Court in which the action is pending,
or to'snch person as the parties in writing may agree
upon, and either delivered by the Judge or ofiicer to the
Clerk or such person, or transmitted through the mail or
by some safe private opportunity; and thereupon such
deposition may be used y either party upon the trial or
other proceeding against any party giving or receiving
the notice, subject to all legal exceptions; but if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form
of an interrogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the
same was stated at the time of the examination. If the
deposition be taken under Subdivisions 2, 3 and 4, of Section 962, proof must be made at the trial that the
witness continues absent or intirm, or is dead. The deposition thus taken may be also read in case of the death
of the witness.

SEC. 970. Notwithstanding the taking of a deposition. it may be excluded from the case upon proof that
suflicient notice was not given to the party against. whom
it is offered to enable him to attend the taking thereof,
or that the taking was not in all respects fair.

Sec. 971. When a deposition has been once taken, it
may be read by either party in any stage of the same
action or proceeding, or in any other action between the

same parties, upon the same subject, and is then deemed
the evidence of the party reading it. '

Sec. 972. Any party to an action or special proceeding in a Court or before a Judge of a sister State or Ter-1
ritory. may obtain the testimony of a witness residing in*
this Territory to be used in such action or proceeding,
in the cases mentioned in the next two sections. '

SEC. 973. If a commission to take such testimony
has been issued from the Court or Judge before whom.
such action or proceeding is pending, on producing the
commission to a District or a Probate Judge. with an
allidavit satisfactory to him of the materiality of the testimony, he may issue a subptena to the witness, requiring him to appear and testify before the commissioner
named in the commission, at a speciiied time and ilace.

SEC. 974. If a commission has not been issued, and‘.
it appears to a District or Probate Judge, or Justice of '
the Peace, by ailidavit satisfactory to him:

1. That the testimony of the witness is material to
either arty;

2. T at a commission to take the testimony of such
witness has not been issued;

3. That, according to the law of the State or Territory
where the action or special proceeding is pending, the
deposition of a witness taken under such circumstances,
and before such Judge or Justice, will be received in the
action or proceeding;

—I1e must issue his subpcena, requiring the witness to
appear and testify before him at a specified time and
p ace.

SEC. 975. Upon the appearance of the witness, the
Judge or J trstice must cause his testimony to be taken
in writing, and must certify and transmit the same to
the Court or Judge before whom the action or proceeding is pending, in such manner as the law of that State
or Territory requires.

SEC. 976. If either party requires it, the Judge may
exclude from the Court room any witness of the adverse’
party, not at the time under examination, so that he may?
not hear the testimony of other witnesses.

SEC. 977. A witness, served with a subpoena, must;
attend at the time ap inted. with any papers under his.
control required by t 1e subpoena, and answer all perti-i
neat and legal questions; and, unless sooner discharged,
must remain until the testimony is closed.

SEC. 978. Awitness must answer questions legal and
pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may

establish a claim against himself; but he need not give
an answer which will have a tendency to subject him to
punishment for a felony; nor need he give an answer
which will have a direct tendency to degrade his character, unless it be to the very fact in issue, or to a fact from
which the fact in issue would be presumed. But a
witness must answer as to the fact of his previous eonviction for felony.
SEC. 979. Every person who has been, in good faith,

'served with a snbpmna to attend as a witness before a

Court, Jud Commissioner, referee, or other person,
in a case w ere the disobedience of the witness may be
punished as a contempt, is exonerated from arrest in a
civil action while ing to the place of attendance, necessarily remaining t ere, and returning therefrom.

SEC. 980. The arrest of a witness, contrary to the

.preceding section, is void, and, when willfully made, is

a contempt of the Court; and the person making it is
responsib e to the witness. arrested for double the amount
of the damages which may be assessed against him, and
is also liable to an action at the suit of the party servin
the witness with the subpoena, for the damages sustain
by him in consequence of the arrest.

SEC. 981. An otlicer is not liable to the party for
making the arrest in ignorance of the facts creating the
exoneration, but is liable for any subsequent detention
of the party, if such party claim the exemption, and

make an aflidavit stating:
I. That he has been served with a subpaana to attend

as a witness before a Court, oliicer, or other person, specifying the same, the lace of attendance, and the action
or proceeding in whic the subpmna was issued; and,
2. That he has not thus been served by his own procurement, with the intention of avoiding an arrest;
3. That he is at the time going to the place of attendance, or returning therefrom, or remaining there in obedience to the subpoena.
The aflidavit may be taken by the otlicer, and exonerates him from liability for discharging the witness when

arrested.

SEC. 982. The Court or oflicer issuing the subpoena,
and the Court or ofiicer before whom the attendance is
required, may discharge the witness from an arrest made
in violation of Section 979. If the Court have adjourned
before the arrest, or before application for the dischar
a Judge of the Court or a Probate Judge may grant t e
discharge.

SEC. 983. An oifer in writing to pay a particular sum
of money, or to deliver a written instrument or specific
personal property, is, if not accepted, equivalent to the
actual production and tender of t is money, instrument,
or sproperty.

SEC. 984. Whoever pays money, or delivers an instrument or property, is entitled to a receipt therefor from
he person to whom the payment or delivery is made, and
may demand a proper signature to such receipt as a condition of the payment or delivery.

 

CHAPTER LXI.

PROCEEDINGS TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY.

Burner: 36. Evidence may be perpetuated.

Q. Manner of application for order.

$7. Notice of time and place to be given.
988. Manner of taking the deposition.

Q9. Deposition to be iiled.

990. When the evidence may be produced.
991. Effect of the deposition.

SEC. 985. The testimon of a witness may be

taken and perpetuated as provi ed in this Chapter 5

SEC. 986. The applicant must produce to a District‘
Judge, or to a Probate J iidge, a petition, verified by the;
oath of the applicant, stating:

1. That the a licant ex .ts to be a art to an

. . PP . P°" . P 3'
action in a Court in this Territory, and, in such case, the
names of the persons whom he expects will be adverse
parties; or,

2. That the proof of some fact is necessary ‘to perfect
the title to property in which he is interested, or to
establish marriage, descent, heirsliip, or any other matter
which it may hereafter become material to establish,
though no suit may at the time be anticipated, or, if
antlicipated, he may not know the parties to such suit;
C11 1

3. The name of the witness to be examined, his
place of residence, and a general outline of the facts
e ted to be proved.

he J ndge, to whom such petition is presented, must
make an order allowin the examination, and designating the omcer beforew om the same must betaken, and
prescribing the notice to be given, which notice, it’ the
parties expectant are known and reside in this Territory,

must be personally served» ‘ind if unknown, such l'.0il(‘8
must be served on the Recorder of the county where the
protperty to be affected by the evidence is situated, or the
u ge making the order resides, as may be directed by
him, and by publication thereof in some newspaper, to
be designated by the Judge, for the same period required
for the publication of summons. The J ndge must also
designate in his order the Recorder of the county to
whom the depositions must be returned when taken.
SEC. 987. The person ap inted by the Judge to take
the depositions is authorize , if a resident of this Territory, on receivinga copy of the order of the Judge, and
of the notice prescribed in the last section, with proof of
its personal service or publication; or, if a resident
without the Territory, on receiving the commission mentioned iu the next section, with proof of like service of
publication ot' the notice; to take the deposition of the
witness named in the order of the Judge, or in the commission, or, if more than one witness is thus named, of
such of them as appear before him, at the time designated, and the taking of the same may be continued
from time to time.
SEC. 988. The examination must be by question and

‘answer, and if the testimony is to be taken in another

State or Territory, it must be taken upon a commission
to be issued by the Judge allowin the examination,
under the seal of the Court_ of whiei he is Judge, and
upon interrogatories, to be settled in the same manner
as in cases of depositons taken under commission in
pending actions, unless the parties expectant, if known,
otherwise agree. If such parties are unknown, notice of
the settlement of the interrogatories shall be published
in some newspaper for such time as the Jud may designate. The deposition, when com le , must be
carefully read to and subscribed by t e witness, then
certified by the officer or erson taking the same, and
shall then be sealed up an delivered or transmitted to
the Recorder of the county designated in the order of
the Judge allowing the examination, who shall file the
same when receivet . The Judge allowing the examination shall file with the Recorder the order for the
examination, the petition on which the same was granted,
with proof ot' service of the order and notice.

SEC. 989. The petition and order. and papers tiled by
the Judge, as provided in the last section, or a certified

copy thereof, are primafacie evidence of the facts stated

therein to show compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

Sec. 990. If a trial behad between the parties named}
in the petition as parties expectant, or their successors;
in interest, or between any parties wherein it may be
material to establish the facts which such depositions
prove, or tend to prove, upon proof of the death, or insanity of the witness, or that the cannot be found, or
are unable, by reason of age or ot er iniirmity, to give
their testimony, the depositions or copies thereof may
be used by either party, subject to all legal objections;
but if the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory can be made at the
trial, unless the same was stated at the examination.

SEC. 991. The deposition so taken and read in evi-1
dence has the same effect as the oral testimony of the‘
witness, and no other, and every objection to the witness, or to the relevancy of any question put to him,
or of any answer given by him, may be made in the
same manner as if he were examined orally at the trial.

CHAPTER LXII.

ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS AND AFFIRMATIONS.

Blcnorl 992. Judicial and certain oincets authorized to administer oaths.
993. Form of ordinary oath to a witness.
991. Form may be varied to suit witness’ belief.
995. Same.
996. Any person who prefers it may declare oramrm.

SEC. 992. Every Court, every Judge, or Clerk of ;
any Court, every J ustnce, and every Notary Public, and}
every oilicer or person authorized to take testimony in:
any action or proceeding, or to dec1de_upon evidence, has
power to administer oaths or aiiirxnattons.

SEC. 993. An oath, or aflirmation, in an action or pro»,
ceeding, ma be administered as follows, the person who
swears, or a 'rms, expressing his assent when addressed
in the following form : “ You do solemnly swear (or
aflirm, as the case may be), that the evidence you shall
give in this issue (or matter), pending between and
, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth, so help you God.”

SEC. 994. Wlnenever the Court before which a person
is offered as a witness is satisfied that he has a peculiar
mode of swearing, connected with or in addition to the

 

