SEC. 1. This act shall be known as the code of civil
procedure of the state of Kansas. 
SEc. 2. The rule of the common law, that statutes in
derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no 
application to this code. Its provisions, and all proceed-
ings under it, shall be liberally construed, with a. view
to promote its object, and assist the parties in obtaining 
justice. 
SEC. 8. Remedies in the courts of justice are divided
into: First, Actions. Second, Special proceedings. 
SEC. 4. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court
of justice by which a party prosecutes another party for 
the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or
prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public 
offense. 
SEC. 5. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.
SEC. 6. Actions are of two kinds: First, Civil. Second, 
Criminal. 
SEC. 7. A criminal action is one prosecuted by the state
as a party, against a person charged with a public offense,
for the punishment thereof. 
SEC. 8. Every other is a civil action. 
SEC. 9. Where the violation of a right admits of both
a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one 
is not merged in the other. 
Form of eivil 4dionl. 
f 10. Dtatinctlon between sulta at law and In I f 11. Partle~ how detlgnated.
equity abollshed; one form or action. I a. No feigned iunea; snbetltute. 
SEc. 10. The distinction between actions at law and
suits in equity, and the forms of all such actions and suits,
heretofore existing, are abolished; and in their place there
shall be, hereafter, but one form of action, which shall be 
called a civil action. 
ARTICLE II. 
SEc. 11. In such action, the party complaining shall be
known as the plain tiff, and the ad verse party as the de.
fendant. 
SEc. 12. There can be no feigned issues; but a question
of fact, not put in issue by the plea.dings, may be tried by
a jury upon· an order for the trial, stating distinctly and
plainly the question of fact to be tried; and such order 
is the only authority necessary for a trial. 
ARTICLE III. 
13. Thie article not applicable, to what i 20. Action ahall be deemed commenced~
actions. when; attempt equivalent to com- 
14. Right or acUon not revived, when.
15. Chil aetlone to be co'lnmenced within 
what time.
l&. Limitation or aetlons for recovery or 
real property.
17. Person nnderlegaldleabllliymaybrlng 
action ror recovery or real property
two yellrt! after disability removed. 
18. Limitation or actions other than for the
recovery or real property. 
19. Person under legal disability may bring
action other than for recovery or real
property, one year after disability 
removed. 

Time of commencing cit,il actiom. 
SEC. 13. This article shall not apply to actions already
commenced, but the statutes now in force shall be appli- 
. , 
cable to such cases, according to the subject of the action 
to the form. 
SEC. 14. Any right of action, which shall have been
barred by any statute heretofore in force, shall not be 
deemed to be revived by the provisions of this article. 
SEC. 15. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
periods prescribed in this article, after the cause of act.ion 
shall have accrued ; but where, in special cases, a differ-
ent. limitation is proscribed by statute, the action shall be 
governed by such limitation. 
mencement. 
SEC. 16. Actions for the recovery of real propertv or 
for the . determination of any adverse right or interest
therein, can only be brought within the periods hereinafter 
prescribed, after the cause of action shall have accrued
and at no time thereafter : ' 
First, An action for the recovery of real property sold
on execution, brought by the execution debtor, his heirs 
or any pl'rson claiming und1:>~· h~m, by title acquired, after 
the date of the judgment, within five years after the date
of the recording of the deed made in pursuance of the 
sale.
Second, An acti~n _for the recovery ~f real property sold 
>by exPcutors, a~lnnmstrato_rs o~ guardians, upon an order
or judgment of a court directing such sale, brought by 
the h_eirs or d~visees of the deceased. p~rson, or the ward
or Ins guardian, or any person cla1mmg under any 
either of them, by title acquired after the date of the jud;~ 
, 
mentor order, within five years after the date of the record­ 
ing of the deed made in pursuance of the sale. 
Third, An action for the recovery of real property sold
for taxes, within two years after the date of the recording 
of the tax deed.
Fourth, An action for the recovery of real property not 
hereinbefore provided for, within fifteen years. l,'-/6"9 
Fifth, An action for the forcible entry and detlntiofi, or
forcible detention only, of real property, within two years. 
SEc. 17. Any person entitled to bring an action for the
recovery of real property• who may be un er any e?a
disability When the CaUS0 Of action aCCrUeS, may bring 
his action within two years after the disability is removed.
SEC. 18. Civil actions, other than for the recovery of real 
property, can only be brought within the following periods,
after the cause of action shall have accrued, and not after- 
wards :
li'lrst, Within five years: An action upon any agree- 
ment, contract or promise in writing. · 
Second, Within three years : An action upon contract,
not in writing, express or implied; an action upon a/.:
liability created by statute, other than a forfeiture or pen- 
alty. 
Third, Within two years: An action for trespass upon 
real property ; an action for taking, detaining or injuring 
personal property, including actions for the specific re-
c?very of personal property ; an action for injury to the 
nghts of another, not arising on contract, and not herein-.
after enumerated ; an action for relief on the ground of
fraud-the cause of action in such case shall not be deemed
to have accrued until the discovery of the fraud. 
Fourth, Within one year: An action for libel, slander,
_assaul~ battery, malicious prosecution, or false imprison­ 
ment; an action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture,
e_xc~pt where the statute imposing it prescribes a different 
linntation.
Fifth, An action upon the official bond or undertaking 
of an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, or any
other officer, or upon the bond or undertaking given in at­ 
tac_hment, injunction, arrest, or in any case whatever re­
quired by statute, can only be brought within five years
after the cause of action shall have accrued. 
Bkth, An action for relief, not herein before provided 
for, can only be brought within five years after the cause
of action shall have accrued. 
SEc. 19. If a person entitled to bring an action other
than for the recovery of real property, except for a penalty 
or a forfeiture, be, at the time the cause of action accrued,
under any legal disability, every such person shall be entitled to bring such action within one year after such dis­ 
ability shall be removed. · 
SEc. 20. An action shall be deemed commenced, within
the meaning of this article, as to each defendant, at the 
date of the summons which is served on him, or on a co­
defendant, who is a joint contractor or otherwise united in
interest with him. Where service by publication is proper,
the action shall be deemed commenced at the date of the
first publication. An attempt to commence an action shall
be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, with­
in the meaning of this article, when the party faithfully,
properly and diligently endeavors to procure a service ;
but such attempt must be followed by the first publication
or service of the summons within sixty days. 
SEc. 21. If, when a cause of action accrues against a
person, he be out of the state, or has absconded or con­
cealed himself, the period limited for the commencement
of the action shall not begin to run until he comes into the
state, or while he is so absconded or concealed; and if,
after the cause of action accrues, he depart from the state,
or abscond or conceal himself, the time of his absence or
concealment shaJl not be computed as any part of the
period within which the action must be brought. 
SEC. 22. Where the cause of action has arisen in another
state or country, between non-residents of this state, and, 
by the laws of the state or country where the cause of
action arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon, by
reason of lapse of time, no action can be maintained there­ 
on in this state. 
SEC. 23. If any action be commenced within due time,
and a judgment thereon for the plaintiff' be reversed, or if 
the plaintiff' fail in such action otherwise than upon the
merits, and the time limited for the same shall have ex­ 
pired, the plaintiff, or, if he die, and the cause of action
survive, his representatives, may commence a new action
within one year after the reversal or failure. 
SEC. 24. In any case founded on contract, when any part
of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an 
action may be brought in such
scribed for the same, after such 
or promise ; but such ackno 1 m
be in writing, signed by the 1 arty t 
SEc. 25. When a right of a ti n i arr by th provi-
sions of any statute, it shall unavailabl ith r a a 
cause of action or ground of f n 
SEC. 26. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in section twenty-eight; but this section shall nto be deemed to authorize the assignment of a thing in action, not arising out of contract.

SEC. 27. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action, the action of the assignee shall be without prejudice to any set-off or other defense now allowed; but this section shall not apply to negotiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills of exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 28. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of an express trust, a person with whom, or in whose name, a contract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly authorized by statute, may bring an action without joining with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted. Officers may sue and be sued in
such name as is authorized by law, and official bonds may
be sued upon in the same way. 
SEC. 29. A married woman may sue and be sued in the
same manner as if she were unmarried . 
SEC. 30. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right'; and if her husband
neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also. 
SEc. 31. The action of an infant must be brought by his 
guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by
his next friend, the court has power to dismiss it, if it is
not for the benefit of the infant, or substitute the guardian
of the infant, or any person, as to the next friend. 
SEC. 32. The guardian, or next friend, is liable for the
costs of the action brought by him, and when he is insol­
vent, the court may require security for them. Either
may be a witness in an action brought by him. 
SEC. 33. The defense of an infant must be byaguardian
for the suit, who may be appointed by the court in which
the action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a
probate judge. The appointment cannot be made until 
after the service of the summons in the action, as directed
in this code. 
SEc. 84. The appointment maybe made upon the appli­
cation of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
and apply within twenty days after the return of the sum­
mons. If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so
to apply, the appointment may be made upon the appli­
cation of any friend of the infant, or on that of the plain-
tiff in [the] action. . 
SEC. 35. All persons having an interest in the subject of
the action, and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be 
joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this article. 
SEC. 36. Any person may be made a defendant who has,
or claims, an interest in the controversy adverse to the
plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete deter­
mination or settlement of the question involved therein. 
SEc. 37. Of the parties to the action, those who are
united in interest must be joined, as plaintiffs or defend­
ants; but if the consent of' one who should have been
joined as plaintiff cannot be obtained, he may be made a 
defendant, the reason being stated in the petition. 
SEC. 38. When the question is one of common or general
interest of many persons, or when the parties are very 
numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all
before the court, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of all. 
SEC. 89. Persons severally liable upon the same obli-
gation or instrument, including the parties to bills of 
exchange and promissory notes, and indorsers and guar/S
antors, may all or any of them be included in the same 
action, at the option of the plaintiff. 
SEC. 40. An action does not abate by the death or other
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action survive
or continue. In case of the death or other disability of a
party, the court may allow the action to continue by or
against his representative or successor in interest. In case
of any other transfer of interest, the action may be con-
tinued in the name of the original party, or the court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made, to be sub-
stituted in the action. 
SEc: 41. The court may determine any controversy
between parties before it, when it can be done without 
prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights;
but when a determination of the controversy cannot be
had without the presence of other parties, the court must
order them to be brought in. 
SEC. 42. When, in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property, any person having an interest in the 
property applies to be made a party, the court may order
it to be done. 
SEC. 43. Upon affidavit of a defendant, before answer,
in any action upon contract, or for the recovery of per- 
sonal property, that some third party, without collusion
with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the action, 
and that he is ready to pay or dispose of the same, as the
court may direct, the court may make an order for the
safe-keeping, or for the payment, or deposit in court, or
delivery of the subject of the action, to such person as it may
direct, and an order requiring such third party to appear,
in a reasonable time, and maintain or relinquish bis claim
against the defendant. If such third party, being served
with a copy of the order, by the sheriff, or such other
person as the court may direct, fail to appear, the court
may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the
subject of the action, against the defendant therein. If 
such third party appear, he shall be allowed to make 
himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original
defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to 
either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the
action, upon his compliance with the order of the court
for the payment, deposit or delivery thereof. 
SEc. 44. The provisions of the last section shall be
applicable to an action brought against a sheriff or other 
officer, for the recovery of personal property, taken by
him under execution, or for the proceeds of such property 
so taken and sold by him ; and the defendant in any such
action shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions 
against the party in whose favor the execution issued,
upon exhibiting to the court the process under which he
acted, with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery
of which, or its proceeds, the action is brought, was taken
under such process. 
SEc. 45. In an action against a sheriff or other officer, 
~1ort e recovery o property ta en un eran execution an 
replevied by the plaintiff in such action, the court may,
upon application of the defendant and of the party in 
whose favor the execution issued, permit the latter to be
substituted as the defendant, security for the cost being 
given.
ARTICLE V. 
The cou.nty in 1Dhich action, are to be br(fUght. 
I 46. WbatacUona relating to property, local. t 151. Agalnat turnpike company.
47. ExcepUonB. 52. ExcepUon.
48. Other local actions. 158. Against non-resident,
49. Where to be brought against a eorpo- 114. For divorce. 
ration generally. M. Other actions.
50. Against railroad company, etc. 66, Venue changed, when. 
SEC. 46. Actions for the following causes must be 
brought in the county in which the subject of the action
is situated, except as provided in section forty-seven: 
First, For the recovery of real property, or of any estate
or interest therein, or for the determination in any form 
of any such right or interest. Second, For the partition
of real property. Third, For the sale of real property
under a mortgage, lien or other incum brance or charge. 
SEC. 47. If the real property, the subject of the action, 
be an entire tract, and situated in two or more counties, or 
if it consists of separate tr
counties, the action may
which any tract or part ther 
action to recover possession th r
be an entire tract, situated in tw r r 
action to recover the posse i n th r f m 
in either of such counties; ut if it c n i t
tracts in different counties, th po i n f
must be recovered by separate r uzht in th
counties where they are sitnat d. ·ti n t 1
the specific performance of a ontra ·t f al fr al ta
may be brought in the county wh re th f ndant 
any of them, reside. 
SEC. 48. .Actions for th
brought in the county wher the au r om part th r -
of, arose: First, .A.n action f r th r ov ry f a fin , f r­
feiture or penalty, imposed b a tatute t that wb n
it is imposed for an offense ommitt I on a riv r r th r 
stream of water, or road, whi hi th undary f two r
more counties, the action may b r ught in any ounty
bordering on such river, wat r r roa and ppo- 
site to the place where the om n wa ommitt d. ond 
An action against a public ffi · 1· for an a t 1 n by him 
in virtue or under color of hi offi or f r a nczl t of his
official duties. Third, An action on th official b nd or
undertaking of a public o r. 
SEc. 49. An action, other than n of tho m ntion d in
the first three sections of thi arti 1 aeain ta .orporation
created by the laws of this tat r of th t rritory of Kan­ 
sas, may be brought in the ounty in whi h it is ituat d
or has its principal office or pla of bu in ~ r in w hie h 
any of the principal officer th ro f may r ide r may be
summoned; but if such corporation b an in urance com­ 
pany, the action may be br ught in th county wh re the
cause of action, or some p rt th r of aro . 
SEc. 60. An action agai t a railroa company, or an
?~er of a line of mail stag s or oth r oa he , for any 
IDJury to persons or prop r y upon th ... r ad or line or
upon a liability as a carrier may b brought in any ounty
through or into which said road r lin pa ' . 
SEC. 51. An action, other than on f tho · m ntioned 
in the first three sections of thi article against a turnpike
road company, may be br ught in any c nnty in which 
any part of the road lies. 
SEC. 52. The provisions of this article shall not apply in
the case of any corporation created by a law of this state
or the territory of Kansas, whose charter prescribes the
place where, alone, a suit against such corporation may 
be brought. 
SEc. 53. An action, other than one of those mentioned
in the first three sections of this article, against a non-resi­
dent of this state or a foreign corporation, may be brought
in any county in which there may be property of, or debts
owing to, said defendant, or where said defendant may be 
found; but if said defendant be a foreign insurance com­
pany, the action may be brought in any county where the
cause, or some part thereof, arose. 
SEC. 54. An action for a divorce may be brought in the
county of which the plaintiff is an actual resident at the
time of filing the petition. 
SEC. 55. Every other action must be brought in the
county in which the defendant, or some one of the defend­
ants, reside or may be summoned. 
SEC. 56. In all cases in which it shall be made to appear
to the court that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had 
in the county where the suit is pending, the court may
change the place of trial to some adjoining county. 
ARTICLE VI. 
Commencetmnt of a civil action. 
I 57. Civil action, bow commenced. I ooNsTBUC"l'IVE SERVICE. 
68. Parties entitled to copies of pleadings ! i 72. Servlco by publlcatlon,
or other papers. j' '18. Affidavit necessary. 
50. Summons to Isaue, requisites of. 74. Publication, bow made.
60. Summons shall be issuotl. to other 75. When service complete, how proved; 
county, when. derault not to be entered until proof
61. Time or servfce ; returnable, when. mnde.
6'l. Other writs may be issued, when. 76. Personal service out or state. 
REBV'ICE OP 8UJDION8-ACTUAL SERVICE. Tr. Opening judgment on pnbllcaUon i 
68. By whom to be served. • effect on purchaser.
64. How. 78. Bow to proceed agalnet unknown 
66. Return must state, what. heirs.
66. Must be made, when. 79. Proceedings against defendants when 
67. What equivalent to servlce, not all served.
68. How served on corporation generally. 80. Action against co-defendant not barred.
69. On Insurance company. 81. FUlng petition, notice of action pond· 
70. On foreign corporation. Ing.
71. ~ervice upon infant. SS. Record of judgment to be m11de to 
county In which part or real property
ls. situated. 
SEc. 57. A civil action may be commenced in a court
of record, by filing in the office of the clerk of the proper 
court a petition, and causing a summons to be issued
thereon. 
SEc. 58. A copy of the petition need not accompany
the summons, but the defendant or plaintiff shall be enti- 
tied to a copy of the petition, or any other paper filed in
the action, upon application to the clerk therefor; and
the costs of such copy shall be taxed among the costs in 
the action. 
SEC. 59. The summons shall be issued by the clerk, upon
a written precipe filed by the plaintiff; shall be under the 
seal of the court from which the same shall issue, shall
be signed by the clerk, and shall be dated the day it is 
issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the county,...::
and command him to notify the defendant or defendants, 
named therein, that he or they have been sued, and must/~
answer the petition filed by the plaintiff, giving his name, 
at a time stated therein, or the petition will be taken as
true, and judgment rendered accordingly; and where the
action is on contract for the recovery of money only, there
shall be indorsed on the writ the amount, to be furnished 
in the precipe, for which, with interest, judgment will be
taken, if the defendant fail to answer. If the defendant
fail to appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger 
amount and the costs. 
SEc. 60. Where the action is rightly brought in any
county, according to the provisions of article five, a sum- 
mons shall be issued to any other county against any one
or more of the defendants, at the plaintiff's request. 
SEc. 61. The summons shall be served and returned by
the officer to whom it is delivered, except when issued to/_
any other county than the one in which the action is
~ommenced, within ten days from its date; and, when 
issued to another county, shall be made returnable in not
less than ten nor more than sixty days from the date 
thereof, at the option of the party having it issued.
SEc. 62. When a writ is returned '' Not summoned,'' 
other writs may be issued, until the defendant or defend-
ants shall be summoned· and when defendants reside in
different counties, writs ~ay be issued to such counties at 
the same time. 
SERVICE OF SUMMONS~ACTUAL SERVICE. 
SEc. 63. The summons shall be served by the offi~e.r to 
whom it is duected who shall indorse on the original 
41 , 
writ the time and manner of service. It may be also
served by any person not a party to the action, appointed
by the officer to whom it is directed. The authority of
such person shall be indorsed on the writ. When the 
writ is served by a person appointed by the officer to whom 
it is directed, or when the service is made out of this state, 
the return shall be verified by oath or affirmation. 
SEc. 64. The service shall be by delivering a copy of
the summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving 
one at his usual place of residence, at anY. time before the
return day. 
SEC. 65. In all cases, the return must state the time and
manner of service. 
SEC. 66. The officer, to whom the summons is directed,
must return the same at the time therein stated. 
SEC. 67. An acknowledgment on the back of the sum­ 
mons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is
equivalent to service. 
SEC. 68. A summons against a corporation may be 
served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board
of directors, or trustees, or other chief officer ; or, if its
chief officer is not found in the county, upon its cashier, 
treasurer, secretary, clerk or managing agent; or, if none
of the af oresa.id officers can be found, by a copy left at the 
office or usual place of business of such corporation, with
the person having charge thereof. 
SEc. 69. Where the defendant is an incorporated insur­
ance company, and the action is brought in a county in 
which there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon
the chief officer of such agency . 
SEC. 70. Where the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this state, the service may be 
upon such agent. 
SEc. 71. When the defendant is a. minor, under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon
his guardian or father, or if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother, or the person having the care or
control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither
of these can be found, or if the minor be more than four­
teen years of age, service on him alone will be sufficient.
The manner of service may be the same as in the case of 
adults. 
SEc. 72. Service may be made by publication in either 
of the following eases : In actions brought under the forty-
sixth and forty-seventh sections of this code, where any 
or all of the defendants reside out of the State ; in actions
brought to establish or set aside a will, where any or all 
of the defendants reside out of the state ; in actions to 
obtain a divorce when the defendant resides out of this
state; in actions brought against a non-resident of this 
state, or a foreign corporation, having in this state prop-/
erty or debts owing to them, sought to be taken by any
of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in any
way; in actions which relate to, or the subject of which 
is, real or personal property in this state, where any de-
fendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contin-
gent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or
partly in excluding him from any interest therein, and 
such defendant is a non-resident of the state, or a foreign
corporation ; and in all actions where the defendant, being 
·a resident of the state, has departed therefrom, or from
the county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud
his creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or 
keeps himself concealed therein with the like intent.
SEc. 73. Before service can be made by publication, an 
affidavit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot 
be made within this state, on the defendant or defendants,
to be served by publication, and showing that the case is
one of those mentioned in the preceding section. When
such affidavit is filed, the party may proceed to make ser­
vice by publication. 
SEc. 74. The publication must be made three oonsecu-
tive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where 
the petition is filed, if there be any printed in such county;
and if there be not, in some newspaper printed in this
state, of general circulation in that county. It shall state
the court in which. the petition is filed, the names of the 
parties, and must notify the defendants thus to be served
that he or they have been sued and must answer the peti-
tion filed by the plaintiff, on or before a time to be stated 
(which shall not be less than forty-one days from the date 
of the first publication), or the petition will be taken as'
true, and judgment, the nature of which shall be stated,
will be rendered accordingly. 
SEC. 75. Service by publication shall be deemed com-
plete when it shall have been made in the manner and for 
the time prescribed in the preceding section ; and such ser- 
vice shall be proved by the affidavit of the printer, or his
foreman or principal clerk, or other person knowing the 
same. No judgment by default shall be entered on such
service until proof thereof be made, and approved by the
court, and filed. 
SEC. 76. In all cases ":here service may be made by
publication, personal service of a copy of the summons 
and petition may be made out of the state. 
SEC. 77. A party against whom a judgment or order has
been rendered, without other service than by publication
in a newspaper, may, at any time within three years after
the date of the judgment or order, have the same opened,
and be let in to defend. Before the judgment or order
shall be opened, the applicant shall give notice to the ad­
verse party of his intention to make such an application,
and shall file a full answer to the petition, pay all costs,
if the court require them to be paid, and make it appear 
to the satisfaction of the court, by affidavit, that during
the pendency of the action he had no actual notice thereof 
in time to appear in court and make his defense ; but the title to any property, the subject of the judgment or order
sought to be opened, which, by it, or in consequence of it,
shall have passed to a purchaser in good faith, shall not 
be affected by any proceedings under this section, nor shall
they affect the title of any property sold before judgment 
under an attachment. The adverse party, on the hearing
of an application to open a judgment or order, as provided
by this section, shall be allowed to present counter affida­
vits to show that during the pendency of the action the 
applicant had notice thereof in time to appear in court
and make his defense. 
SEc. 78. In actions where it shall be necessary to make
the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants,
and it shall appear by the affidavit of the plaintiff, 
annexed to his petition, that the names of such heirs or
devisees, or any of them, and their residence, are un­
known to the plaintiff, proceedings may be had against
such unknown heirs or devisees, without naming them ;
and the court shall make such order respecting service as
may be deemed proper. If service by publication be
ordered, the publication shall not be less than three weeks. 
SEC. 79. Where the action is against two or more de­
fendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not 
all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows : First, 
If the action be against defendants jointly indebted upon
contract, he may proceed against the defendants served,
unless the court otherwise direct ; and if he recover judg­
ment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus
jointly indebted, so far only as that it may be enforced
against the joint property of all, and the separate prop­
erty of the defendants served ; and if they are subject to 
arrest, against the persons of the defendants served. Sec­
ond, If the action be against defendants severally liable,
he may, without prejudice to his rights against those not
served, proceed against the defendants served in the same
manner as if they were the only defendants. 
SEC. 80. Nothing in this code shall be so construed as 
to make a judgment, against one or more defendants
jointly or severally liable, a bar to another action against 
those not served.
SEc. 81. When the petition has been filed, the action is 
pending, so as to charge third persons with notice of its
pendency, and while pending no interest can be acquired 
by third persons in the subject matter thereof as against
the plaintiff's title; but such notice shall be of no avail
unless the summons be served or the first publication made
within sixty days after the filing of the petition. 
SEc. 82. When any part of real property, the subject
matter of an action, is situated in any other county or
counties than the one in which the action is brought, a
certified copy of the judgment in such action must be
recorded in the office of the register of deeds of such other 
county or counties, before it shall operate therein as notice
so as to charge third persons, as provided in the preceding section. It shall operate as such notice, without record, in
the county where it is rendered. 
ARTICLE VIL 
Joi.n<kr of actiona. 
I 88. What ca118e9 or action may be joined; must aff'ect all the parties except., &c. 
SEC. 83. The plaintiff may unite several causes of action
in the same petition, whether they be such as have hereto- 
fore been denominated legal or equitable, or both, where 
they all arise out of either one of the following classes : 
First, The same transaction, or transactions, connected 
with the same subject of action. Second, Contracts, ex­
press or implied. Third, Injuries, with or without force, 
to person and property, or either. Fourth, Injuries to 
character. Fiftlt, Claims to recover the possession of
personal property, with or without damages for the with­ 
holding thereof. Si:xtlt, Claims to recover real property,
with or without damages for the withholding thereof, and
the rents and profits of the same. Seoenth, Claims against
a trustee, by virtue of a contract, or by operation of law.
But the causes of action so united must all belong to one
of these classes, and must affect all the parties to the
action, except in actions to enforce mortgages or other
liens. 
ARTICLE
I &l Pleadings, what are. 
86. Former rules or pleading abollehed. 
86. Pleadings allowed. 
PBTITIOK. 
87. Kust contain what. 
88. Causes ot action to be stated eeparately. 
D:SKURBBB. 
89. Defendant may demur, when.
90. Demurrer ehall specify what.
91. Objection may be taken by answer, 
when; objection deemed waived, 
when. 
ft. Proceeding when caueee or action mla­
Jolned. 
Ga. Defendant may demur to part and
anewer to part. 
ANBWBB. 
94. Shall contain what; may set up dltrer­
ent defenses, conntor-clatme, &c. 
96. Counter-claim. what ls.
96. Omission of counter-claim; effect or u 
to costs In subsequent action thereon.
97. New party may be made on counter­ 
claim.
98. Set-oft', what, and when may be pleaded.
99. New party may be made on set-oft'.
100. CroBS demands deemed compensated, 
when.
101. Guardian, attorney, etc., to fllc answer 
denying material allegations. 
RBPLT, 
10'.2. PlnlntUr may reply to demur to new
matter In answer. 
108. Reply may be demurred to, when,
104. Co-defendant may demur or reply, 
when. 
8:SNBRAL BULU OP PLliDINO, 
JOG. Answer, demurrer and reply to be 1lled. 
WML 
Pleading, in civil actiom.
ARTICLE VIII. 
f 106. Time may be extended.
llYI'. Pleading to be subscribed.
108. Certain allegations to be taken u 
true, nnlese denial be verl1led by
affidavit. 
109. VerUlcatlon not required, when.
110. One of several parties may verify; 
when corporation ls a party, who
shall verify. 
111. Veri1lcatlon, when snfflcient.
lli. Verl1lcatlon or non-reeldent ot county. 
118. Verification; bow signed. certl1led
and authenticated. 
114. Vert1lcatlon by agent or attorney.
UIS. Pleadings to be liberally construed.
116. Fictions abolished.
117. Title ot cause not to be changed.
118. Copy ot Instrument to be flied with 
pleading.
119. Redundant or Irrelevant matter may 
be stricken ont. 
120. Counter-claim or set-otr may be made
subject ot separate proceediD&', 
when.
121. Allegation ot Jnrisdlctlon. 
122. or performance of conditions prece­
dent. 
123. Statement or written Instrument for 
payment or money.
124. Pleading private statute.
125. What to etate In action tor IJbel or 
slander.
126. Defendant may allege truth of matter, 
and mitigating circumstances.
127. How real property described.
128. Material allegation not controverted 
to be taken as true ; demurrer to
reply not to admit tacia alle1:ecl. 
•x .. pi. &c:. 
f 1!9. Katerial allegation. what ls. I I 188. Demurrer overruled, party may repl7. 
130. Preeumptlona of law, &c., need not be 189. Court ma7 allow amendment or plead-
etated. lngs, &r., at any time. 
llL Tender or mone7. HO. What erron or defects immaterial. 
111. Ir pleading lost, cop7 may be nbatt- Hl. Amendment, lf demurrer 1uetalned.
tuted. HI. Conthnumce granted on amendment. 
llDTAlal!I m ~me, ilD "1010>Dlffll, when.
133. Effect of variance In pleading, and 148.. Defendant may be eued b7 an7 name, 
bow amended. when. 
UK. When variance not materlal, court 144. Supplemental petition, 8D.1Wer or
may direct what. reply. 
135.. Allegation unproved not deemed a 1415. Coneolldatlon or actions.
variance. HG. Order for conaolldation, b7 whom 
118. Amendment of petition before amwer. made. //.
187. Amendment on demurrer. / {} t' ~ ~ / J 
SEC. 84. The pleadings are -the written statements, by
the parties, of the facts constituting their respective claims 
and defenses.
SEc. 85. The rules of pkading heretofore existing in
civil actions are abolished ; and hereafter, the forms of
pleading in civil actions in courts of record, and the rules 
by which their sufficiency may be determined, are those
prescribed by this code. 
SEc. 86. The only pleadings allowed are: First, The
petition by the plaintiff. Second, The answer or demurrer 
by the defendant. Third, The demurrer or reply by the
plaintiff. Fourth, The demurrer or reply by the defendant. 
SEC. 87. The petition must contain: First, The name of
the court, and the county in which the action is brought, 
and the names of the parties, plaintiff and defendant, fol-
lowed by the word '' petition." Second, A statement of 
the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and/'-'
concise language, and without repetition. Third, A de- 
mand of the relief to which the party supposes himself
entitled. . If the recovery of money be demanded, the 
amount thereof shall be stated ; and, if interest thereon'
be claimed, the time from which interest is to be computed
shall be also stated. 
SEc. 88. Where the petition contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be separately stated and num- 
bered. 
SEc. 89. The defendant may demur to the petition only
when it appears on its face, either: First, That the court 
has no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or the
subject of the action. Second; That the plaintiff has not 
legal capacity to sue. Third, That there is another action
pending between the same parties for the same cause.
Fourth, That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or de­
fendant. Fiftlt, That several causes of action are improp­
erly joined. Sixth, That the petition does not state facts
sufficient t-0 constitute a cause of action. 
SEC. 90. The demurrer shall specify distinctly the
grounds of objection to the petition. Unless it do so, it
shall be regarded as objecting only that the petition does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
SEc. 91. When any of the defects enumerated in section
eighty-nine do not appear upon the face of the petition,
the objection may be taken by answer; and if no objec­
tion be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant 
shall be deemed to have waived the same, except only the
objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and that the pe­
tition does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. 
SEc. 92. When a demurrer is sustained, on the ground
of misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on
motion of the plaintiff, shall allow him, with or without
costs, in its discretion, to file several petitions, each includ­
ing such of said causes of action as might have 'been
joined; and an action shall be docketed for each of said
petitions, and the same shall be proceeded in without fur­ 
ther service. 
SEc. 93. The defendant may demur to one or more of
the several causes of action stated in the petition, and
answer to the residue. 
ANSWER. 
SEc. 94. The answer shall contain : Fir st, A general or
specific denial of each material allegation of the petition 
controverted by the defendant. Second, A statement of
any new· matter constituting a defense, counter-claim or
set-off, or a right to relief concerning the subject· of the
action, in ordinary and concise language, and without rep­
etition. Tldrd, When relief is sought, the nature of the
relief to which the defendant supposes himself entitled.
The defendant may set forth, in his answer, as many
grounds of defense, counter-claim, set-off, and for relief, as
he may have, whether they be such as have been hereto­
fore denominated legal, or equitable, or both. Each must
be separately stated and numbered, and they must refer, 
in an intelligible manner, to the causes of action which
they are intended to answer. 
SEC. 95. The counter-claim mentioned in the last section
must be one existing in favor of a defendant and against 
a. plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be
had in the action, and arising out of the contract or trans- 
action set forth in the petition as the foundation of the/.,.
plaintiff's claim, or connected with the su bject of the 
action. The right to relief concerning the subject of the
action, mentioned in the same section, must be a right to
relief necessarily or properly involved in the action for a
complete determination thereof, or settlement of the ques- 
tion involved therein. 
SEc. 96. If the defendant omit to set up a counter-claim
or set-off, he cannot recover costs against the plaintiff in 
any subsequent action thereon; but this section shall not
apply to causes of action which are stricken out of or 
withdrawn from the answer, as in sections ninety-seven
and one hundred and twenty. 
SEC. 97. When it appears that a new party is necessary 
to a final decision upon a counter-claim, the court may
eitheJ permit the new party to be made by a summons, to 
reply to the counter-claim, or may direct the counter-claim 
to be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of
a separate action. 
SEC. 98. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising 
upon contract or ascertained by the decision of a court. 
SEc. 99. When it appears that a new party is necessary 
to a final decision upon the set-off, the court shall permit
the new party to be made, if it also appear that, owing to
the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintiff, or other
cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim,
unless permitted to use it as a set-off. 
SEC. 100. When cross demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that, if one had brought 
an action against the other, a counter-claim or set-off
could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the 
benefit thereof by the assignment or death of the other;
but the two demands must be deemed compensated so far
as they equal each other. 
SEc. 101. The guardian of an infant or person of un­
sound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny, 
in the answer, all the material allegations of the petition
prejudicial to such defendant. 
SEc. 102. When the answer contains new matter, the
plaintiff may reply to such new matter, denying, generally
or specifically, each allegation controverted by him ; and 
he may allege, in ordinary and concise language, and
without repetition, any new matter not inconsistent with
the petition, constituting a defense to such new matter in the 
answer ; or he may demur to the same for insufficiency,
stating, in his demurrer, the grounds thereof; and he may 
demur to one os more of such defenses set up in the
answer, and reply to the residue. 
SEc. 103. If the reply to any defense set up by the
answer be insufficient, the defendant may demur thereto, 
stating the grounds of such demurrer. 
SEc. 104. When the answer contains new matter consti­
tuting a right to relief against a co-defendant concerning
the subject of the action, such co-defendant may demur
or reply to such matter in the same manner as if he were
plaintiff, and subject to the same rules, as far as ap~lica­ 
ble.  
SEC. 105. The answer or demurrer, by the defendant,
shall. be filed within twenty days after the day on which 
the summons is returnable; the reply or demurrer shall
be filed within thirty days after the day op which the
summons was made returnable ; the demurrer to the reply 
shall be filed within forty days after the day on which the
summons was made returnable. · · 
SEC. 106. The court, or any judge thereof in vacation,
may, in his discretion, and upon such terms as may be 
just, allow an answer or reply to be made, or other act to 
be done, after the time limited by this act, or by an order
enlarge such time. 
SEc. 107. Every pleading, in a court of record, must be
subscribed by the party or his attorney. 
SEC. 108. In all actions, allegations of the execution of
written instruments and indorsements thereon, of the
existence of a corporation or partnership, or of any a p­
pointment or authority, shall be taken as true, unless the
denial of the same be verified by the affidavit of the party,
his agent or attorney. 
SEc. 109. The verification mentioned in the last section
shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defend- 
ing for an infant or person of unsound mind, or a person
imprisoned. 
SEC. 110. If there be several persons united in interest
and pleading together, the affidavit may be made by any 
one of such parties. When a municipal or other corpora-
tion is a party, the verification may be made by an officer 
thereof, its agent or attorney.
SEC. 111. The affidavit shall be sufficient if it state that 
the affiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be 
true. 
SEc. 112. In all cases where the party pleading is a
non-resident of the county in which the action is brought,
or if he shall be absent from the county where the plead-
ing is filed, an affidavit, made before filing the pleading,
stating the substance of the facts afterward inserted in the
pleading, shall be a sufficient verification. Such affidavit
shall be filed with the pleading intended tc > be verified
thereby.
SEc. 113. The affidavit verifying pleadings may be made
before any person before whom a deposition might be 
taken, and must be signed by the party making the same;
and the officer before whom the same was taken shall 
certify that it was sworn to or affirmed before him, and
signed in his presence. The certificate of such officer,
signed officially by him, shall be evidence that the affida-
vit was duly made, that the name of the officer was written
by himself, and that he was such officer. 
SEC. 114. When the affidavit is made by the agent or
attorney, it must set forth the reason why it is not made
by the party himself. It can be made by the agent or 
attorney only: First, When the facts are within the per-
sonal knowledge of the agent or attorney. Second, When
the plaintiff is an infant, or of unsound mind, or impris-
oned. Third, When the pleading to be verified is founded
upon a written instrument for the payment of money only,
and such instrument is in the possession of the agent or
attorney. Fourth, When the party is not a resident of,
or is absent from, the county. 
SEC. 115. In the construction of any pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice 
bet~~: the parties.
SEc. 116. All fictions in pleadings are abolished. 
SEC. 117. The title of a cause shall not be changed in
any of its stages. 
SEC. 118. If the action, counter-claim or set-off be
founded on account, or on a note, bill or other written 
instrument, as evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof
must be attached to and filed with the pleading. If not
so attached and filed, the reason thereof must be shown
in the pleading. 
SEC. 119. If redundant or irrelevant matter be inserted
in any pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion of the
party prejudiced thereby ; and when the allegations of a
pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made definite and certain
by amendment. 
SEC. 120. The court, at any time before the final sub­
mission of the cause, on motion of the defendant, may 
allow a counter-claim or set-off, set up in the answer, to
be withdrawn, and the same may become the subject of 
another action; on motion of either party, to be made at
the time such counter-claim or set-off is withdrawn, an
action on the same shall be docketed and proceeded in, as
in like cases after process served ; and the court shall
direct the time and manner of pleading therein. If an
action be not so docketed, it may afterward be commenced
in the ordinary way. 
SEC. 121. In pleading a judgment, or other determina-
tion of a court or officer of' special jurisdiction, it shall be 
"sufficient to state that such judgment or determination
was duly given or made ; and the jurisdiction of any such
court or officer shall be presumed until the contrary ap­
pears. 
SEc. 122. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state that
the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; 
and if such allegations be controverted, the party pleading
must establish, on the trial, the facts showing such per­
formance. 
SEC. 123. In an action, counter-claim or set-off, founded
upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or
other instrument, for the unconditional payment of money
only, it shall be sufficient for a party to give a copy of the
account or instrument, with all credits, and the Indorse- 
ments thereon, and to state that there is due to him, on
such account or instrument, from the adverse party, a 
specified sum, which he claims, with interest . ., When
others than the makers of a promissory note, or the 
acceptors of a bill of exchange, are parties in the action,
it shall be necessary to state, also, the kind of liability of
the several parties, and the facts, as they may be, which
fix their liability. 
SEC. 124. In pleading a private statute, or a right de-<:-:1~~nr1n1e
rived therefrom, it.shall be sufficient to refer to such statute 
by its title, and the day of its approval, and_ ~e court
shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof. I %1 ... "' 
SEc. 125. In an action for libel or slander, it .. ~hall be
sufficient to state, generally, that the defamatory matter
was pn blished or spoken of the plaintiff; and if the
allegation be denied, the plaintiff must prove, on the trial, 
the facts, showing that the defamatory matter was pub-
lished or spoken of him. 
SEc. 126. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may allege the truth of the matter charged 
as defamatory, and may prove the same, and any miti-
gating circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages,
or he may prove either. 
SEC. 127. In any action for the recovery of real property,
it shall be described with such convenient certainty as will 
enable an officer holding an execution to identify it. 
SEC. 128. Every material allegation of the petition, not 
con ove y e answer, an every ma ria a ega ion
of new matter in the answer, not controverted by the re- 
ply, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true; but the allegation of new matter in the reply shall
be deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as
upon direct denial or avoidance, as the case may require ..
A demurrer to a reply shall not be held to admit any of
the facts alleged in such reply for any purpose other than 
to determine the sufficiency thereof. Allegations of value,
or of amount of damages, shall not be considered as true,
by failure to controvert them ; but this shall not apply to 
the amount claimed in actions on contract, express or im-
plied, for the recovery of money only. 
SEC. 129. A material allegation, in a pleading, is one
essential to the claim or defense, which could not be
stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient. 
SEC. 130. Neither presumptions of law nor matters of 
which judicial notice is taken, need be stated in the
pleading. 
SEC. 131. When a tender of money is alleged in any
pleading, it shall not be necessary to deposit the money in 
court when the pleading is filed, but it shall be sufficient
if the money is deposited in court at the trial, or when
ordered by the court. 
SEc. 132. If an original pleading be lost, or withheld
by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be 
substituted.
SEC. 183. Novariancebetweentheallegations, in a plead-
ing, and the proof, is to be deemed material, unless it have 
actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in
maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. "\Vhen-
ever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact
must be proved to the satisfaction of the. court, and it
must also be shown in what respect he has been misled, 
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be
amended, upon such ternis as may be just. 
SEc. 134. When the variance is not material, as provided
in the last section, the court may direct the fact to be
found, according to the evidence, and may order an imme­
diate amendment without cost. 
SEc. 135. When, however, the allegation of the claim or
defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not
in some particular or particulars only, but in its general
scope and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of vari-
ance within the last two sections, but a failure of proof. 
SEc. 136. The plaintiff may amend his petition without
leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without preju­
dice to the proceedings ; but notice of such amendment
shall be served upon the defendant or his attorney, and the
defendant shall have the same time to answer or demur
thereto as to the original petition. 
SEC. 137. At any time within ten days after the demurrer
is filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on pay­
ment of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice 
of the filing of an amended pleading shall be forthwith
served upon the other party or his attorney, who shall
have the same time thereafter to answer or reply thereto,
as to an original pleading. 
SEC. 138. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party 
who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satis-
fled that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did 
not demur for delay. 
SEC. 139. The court may, before or after judgment, in
furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, amend any pleading, process or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or correct-
ing a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any 
other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to
the case, or conform the pleading or proceeding to the 
facts proved, when such amendment does not change sub-
stantially the claim or defense ; and when any proceeding
fails to conform, in any respect, to the provisions of this 
code, the court may permit the same to be made conform-
able thereto by amendment. /,- 
SEC. 140. The court, in every stage of action, must dis-
regard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings
which does not affect the substantial rights of the ad verse 
party; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by
reason of such error or defect.
SEC. 141. If the demurrer be snstalned, the adverse party
may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way of 
amendment, with or without costs, as the court, in its dis­
cretion, shall direct. 
SEC. 142. When either party shall amend any pleading
or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit 
or otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready
for trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be
granted to some day in term, or to another term of the 
court. 
SEC. 143. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated, in 
any pleading or proceeding, by any name or description;
and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding may be amended accordingly. The plaintiff,
in such case, must state in his petition that he could not
ascertain the true name ; and the summons must contain 
the words, '' real name unknown,'' and a. . copy thereof
must be served personally upon the defendant. 
SEc. 144. Either party may be allowed, on notice, and
on such terms, as to costs, as the court may prescribe, to 
file a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the case, occw;ring after the former petition,
answer or reply. 
SEc. 145. Whenever two or more actions are pending in
the same court, which might have been joined, the defend­
ant may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, re­
quire him to show cause why the same shall not be con­
solidated, and if no cause be shown, the said several
actions shall be consolidated. 
SEc. 146. The order for consolidation may be made by
the court, or by a judge thereof, in vacation. 
ARTICLE 147. or arrest.
148. The affldnlt, and causes for order of 
arrest, 
149. Order not to be f1.1sued until bond exe­
cuted. 
150. Order may accompany summons. 
151. To bo delivered to sheriff; Its con- 
tents. 
Prot1uional remedia.-Arrut and bail. 
152. When returnable.
153. Bo7 executed ; further orders.
154. Defendant to be committed.
155. May deposit money and be discharged. 
156. Money, bow disposed or.
157. The same. 
158. Sheriff' and sureties liable for such
money. 
159. Bail, when may bo given, and how.
160. Ball may be accepted or objected to; 
proceeding in case of objection. 
ARTICLE IX. 
f 161. JustUlcation or bnU. 
162. Bail to be examined on oath.
163. Proceeding when bail sufficient. 
164. Sheriff liable, when.
165. Llablllty, how fixed and enforced,
166. Bail adjudged insufficient, Uablo &o 
sbcrUI'.
167. LiabUlty or ball, bow ft.xed and sued.
168, Surrender or defendant in discharge 
or ball. 
169. Bail mny arrest defendant. 
170. Ball exonerated, when, 
171. Ball may be substituted for money
deposited. 
172. Stay or proceedings against baiL 
173. Appllcation to vacate order of arrest,
or reduce amount of bail. 
174. Plaintur may oppose. 
175. Jail fees, how paid. 
SEc. 147. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested,
before and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by 
this code, and not otherwise ; but this provision does not
apply to proceedings for contempt; nor does it apply to 
actions or judgments prosecuted in the name of the state
of Kansas to recover fines or penalties for crimes, misde­
meanors or offenses. 
SEC. 148. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall
be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is 
brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the
plaintiff, his authorized agent or attorney, stating the
nature of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just, and the
amount thereof, as nearly as may be, and showing one or
more of the following particulars: First, That the de­
fendant has removed, or begun to remove, any of his
property out of the jurisdiction of the court, with intent
to defraud his creditors. Second, That he has begun to 
convert his property, or a part thereof, into money, for the
purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his creditors. 
Third, That he has property, or rights of action, which
he fraudulently conceals. Fourth, That he has assigned,
removed or disposed of, or has begun to dispose of, his
property, or a part thereof, with intent to defraud his 
creditors. Fifth, That he fraudulently contracted the
debt, or incurred the obligation, for which suit is about to 
be or has been brought. The affidavit shall also contain
a statement of the facts claimed to justify the belief in
the existence of one or more of the above particulars. 
SEC. 149. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the
clerk, until there has been executed, by one or more 
sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to
the effect that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if
the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double
the amount of the plaintiff's claim stated in the affidavit. 
SEc. 150. The order may be made to accompany the
summons, or at any time afterward, before the judgment. 
SEC. 151. The order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the sheriff; the
order shall state the name of the parties, the court in
which the action is brought, and the amount of the plain-
tiff's claim specified in the affidavit, and shalf require the
sheriff to an-est the defendant, and hold him to bail in
double the sum stated in the affidavit, and to make return
of the order on a day to be named therein, with the un-
dertaking of the bail, if any be given. 
SEc. 152. The return day of the order of arrest, when
issued at the commencement of the snit, shall be the same 
as that of the summons ; when issued afterward, it shall 
be fifteen days after it is issued. 
SEC. 153. The sheriff shall execute the order by arrest-
ing the defendant, and delivering to him a copy of the
order, and of the affidavit. If' the defendant cannot be
found before the return day, the plaintiff shall be entitled to
further orders, without another affidavit or undertaking
until the defendant is arrested ; but orders of arrest shall
not be issued to any other than the county in which the
action is brought. 
SEc. 154. The defendant, when arrested, shall be com-
mittcd by the sheriff to the jail of the county, and kept 
in custody until discharged by law. 
SEc. 155. The defendant may, before or after giving
bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in court, the 
amount of money mentioned in the order of arrest;
whereupon he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any be 
given, shall be released. 
SEc. 156. The sheriff shall pay into court the money
received by him in lieu of bail. If received in vacation,
he shall pay it in on the first day of the next term ; if
received during a term, he shall pay it in immediately. 
SEc. 157. The court shall make proper orders for the
safe-keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may
directthe sheriff to keep the money, and, after final judg­
ment in the action, shall order it to be paid to the party
entitled thereto, according to the result. 
SEC. 158. Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu
of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall 
be held upon his official responsibility; and he and his
sureties shall be liable, and may be proceeded against ~r 
any default in relation thereto, as in other cases of delin-
quency. 
SEC. 159. Bail may be given by the defendant on his
arrest, or at any time afterward, before judgment, It
shall be done by causing one or more sufficient sureties
to execute a written undertaking to the plaintiff, in the 
presence of the sheriff, to the effect that, if judgment shall
be rendered in the action against the defendant, he will
render himself amenable to the process of the court
thereon. The undertaking, when accepted, shall be re­
turned to the clerk's office, and the defendant discharged . 
SEC. 160. The plaintiff or his attorney may accept the
bail by indorsing such acceptance on the undertaking; 
or may object to the bail, for insufficiency, at any time
within five days after the undertaking has been given.
Within such time, he shall serve upon the sheriff a written
notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be
deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exon­
erated from liability. ,vhen the undertaking is given
after return of arrest, the plaintiff shall have notice thereof. 
SEC. 161. On the receipt of such notice, the sheriff or
defendant may, within two days thereafter, give, to the
plaintiff or his attorney, notice, in writing, of the justifi­
cation of the same or other bail, before a judge or clerk
of the court in which the action is brought, a probate
judge or justice of the peace, at a specified time and 
place ; the time to be not :Jt.ss than five nor more than ten
days thereafter. In case other Bail be given, tpere. must •
be a new undertaking. 
SEC. 162. For the purpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend before the proper office'r, at the time and 
place mentioned, and may be examined on oath or affirm-
ation touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the officer 
may think proper. ·
SEC. 163. If the officer find the bail sufficient, he shall 
indorse his allowance on the undertaking, and cause the
same to be filed with the clerk, and the sheriff shall 
thereupon be discharged from liability. 
SEC. 164. After being arrested, if the defendant escapes
or be rescued, or bail be not taken, or be adjudged insuffi­
cient, or a deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable
as bail. But he may discharge himself from liability by
putting in sufficient bail at any time before judgment. 
SEC. 165. The return of "Not found," upon an execution
against the body of the defendant shall be necessary to fix
the liability of the sheriff as bail, which liability shall be
the amount of the judgment, interest and costs. This
liability shall be enforced only in a separate action against
him, or against him and his sureties on his official bond,
as in other cases of delinquency. 
SEC. 168. The bail adjudged insufficient, shall be liable 
to the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason
of such insufficiency. • 
SEC. 167. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the
manner provided in section one hundred and sixty-five,
for fixing the liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail
can be proceeded against in an action only. 
SEc. 168. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff
of the county in which he was arrested, with a delivery of
a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether 
such surrender be made by the defendant himself, or by
his bail, shall discharge the bail. Such surrender may be
made at any time before the return day of the summons
in an action against the bail. The sheriff shall give to the
bail a written adknowledgment of the surrender, and hold
the defendant in his custody, upon said copy of the under-
taking of the bail, as upon an order of arrest. On the
production of the sheriff' e aoknowledgment pf the sur-
render, to the clerk of the court, an exoneration of the
bail shall be entered on his undertaking. 
SEC. 169. For the pisrpose of surrendering the defend-
ant, •the \an, at any time or place, before he is finally
charged, may himself arrest him, or by a written authori­ 
ty, indorsed on ~ certified copy of the undertaking, may
empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do 
SEc. 170. The bail will be exonerated by the death of
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state-prison, or 
by his legal discharge from the obligation to surrender
himself amenable to the process of the court, or by his
surrender to the sheriff of the county in which he was
arrested in execution thereof, within the time fixed in section one hundred and sixty-eight, or within such further
time as the court, in which the action is pending, may
allow. 
SEC. 171. If money be deposited by the defendant on
his discharge, bail may be given and justified, upon notice 
as prescribed in section one hundred and sixty-one, at any 
time before judgment; and thereupon the court in which
the action is brought, on being satisfied that the bail has 
been given and adjudged sufficient, shall direct that the 
money deposited be refunded to the defendant, and it
must be refunded accordingly.
SEC. 172. If, at any time before or after judgment
against the bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on 
the judglnent against the principal, in the suit in which
their undertaking was taken, the court may, on motion,
stay proceedings against such bail, for a reasonable time,
on their paying all the costs that have accrued again~t
them; and if, on such proceedings, the judgment against 
the principal shall be reversed, and the principal dis­ 
charged from said suit, the bail shall be discharged from
the undertaking. · 
SEC. 173. A defendant arrested may, at any time beforP
the acceptance of the bail by the plaintiff, or the justifica- 
tion of the bail, apply on motion, to the court in which the
snit is brought, if in session, and, in vacation, to a judge 
thereof to vacate the order of arrest or to reduce the 
amount of the bail. Reasonable notice of such mo ion
must be given to the plaintiff. • 
SEc. 174. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the 
part Of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff mar 
oppose the same, by affidavits or other evidt>11Ce, in addi­
tion to that on which the order of arrest was mu.de. 
SEC. 175. Any person causing another to be committed 
tp jail, under the provisions of this article, shall be liable,
in the first instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required
by the jailor, pay such fees weekly, in advanee ; and
such fees, so paid, shall be a part of the costs of the case. 
ARTICLE 
I 176. Delivery or property may be claimed, I 183. Exception to eurenes.
when. 184. Proceedings in the action. 
17"1. Affidavit or plaintiff' must show what. 185. Judgment.
178. Order not to be Issued until nuder- 186. Order for delivery may be te.eued to 
taking executed by one or more ditrerent counties.
sureties. 187. Officer may break open buildings, 
179. Order Cor delivery directed to whom; when.
Its contents. 188. Court or Judge may compel delivery 
180. Returnable, when. by attachment.
181. How executed. 189. When order may be set aside at cost 
llr.i. Defendant may have return or prop- or clerk.
erty, how; to be delivered to plain- / c/;: _./ 
till", when. / 2 ,
11. 
~ 
SEC. 176. The plaintiff, in an actioi lo recover the pos-
session of specific personal property, may, at the com-
mencement of the suit, or at any time before answer, claim
the immediate delh~'~Y of such property, as provided in 
this chapter.
ARTICLE X. 
SEC. 177. An order for tho flelivery of property to the
plaintiff shall be made by tho clerk of the court in which 
the action is brought, when there is filed in his office an
affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing:
First, .A. description of the property claimed. Second,
That the plaintiff is the owner of' the property, or has a 
special ownership or interest therein, stating the facts in
relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate
possession of the propPrty. T'hird, That the property is 
wrongfully detained by the defendant, Fourth, That it
was not taken in execution on tny order or judgment
against said plaintiff, or for the payment of any tax, fine
or amercement assessed against him, or by virtue of an 
order of delivery issued under this article, or any other
• mesne or final process, issued against said plaintiff; or, 
Fiftlt, If taken in execution, or on any order or Judg­
ment against the plaintiff, that it is exempt by law from
being so taken. Sixth, The actual value of the property.
When several articles are claimed, the value of each shall 
be stated as nearly as practicable. 
SEC. 178. The order shall not be issued by the clerk
until there has been executed in his office, by one or more
sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be approved by the
clerk, an undertaking in not less than double the value of
the property, as stated in the affidavit, to the effect that
the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action, and pay all
costs and damages which may be awarded against him,
and if the property be delivered to him, that he will return
the same to the defendant if a return thereof be adjudged .. 
SEC. 179. The order for the delivery of the property to 
the plaintiff shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff.
It shall state the names of the parties, the court in which 
the action is brought, and command the sheriff to take
the property, describing it, and deliver-it to the plaintiff,
and to make return of the order on a day to be named 
therein.
SEc. 180. The return day of the order of delivery;when 
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same
as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall
be twenty days after it is issued. 
SEc. 181. The sheriff shall execute the order by taking
the property therein mentioned. He shall also deliver a
copy of the order to the person charged with the unlawful
detainer of the property, or leave such copy at his usual 
place of residence. 
SEC. 182. If, within twenty-four hours after service of
the copy of the order, there is executed by one or more 
sufficient sureties of the defendant, to be approved by the
sheriff, an undertaking to the plaintiff, in not less than
double the amount of the value of the property as stated
in the affidavit of the plaintiff, to the effect that the de­ 
fendant will deliver the property to the plaintiff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and will pay all costs and damages
that may be awarded against him, the sheriff shall return
the property to the de"endant. If such undertaking be
not given within twenty-four hours after service of the
order, the sheriff shall deliver the property to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 183. The plaintiff may, within twenty-four hours_
from the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding section is given by the defendant, give notice to the sheriff
that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he 
fail to do so, he must be deemed to have waived all objec­
tions to them. When the plaintiff excepts, the suretiPS 
must justify, upon notice, as bail on arrest. The sheriff 
or other officer shall be responsible for the sufficiency
of the sureties, until the objection to them is waived, as
above provided, or until they justify. 
SEC. 184. If the property has been delivered to the plain-
tiff, and judgment rendered against him, on demurrer, or 
if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final judg- 
ment, the court shall, on application of the defendant or
his attorney, proceed 11> inquire into the right of property,
and right of possession of the defendant to the property
taken. 
SEC. 185. In an action to recover the possession of per-
sonal property, judgment for the plaintiff may be for the 
possession, or for the recovery of possession, or the value
thereof in case a delivery cannot be had, and of damages 
for the detention. If the property has been delivered to 
the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof,
judgment for the defendant may be for a return of the 
property, or the value thereof in case a return cannot be
had, and damages for taking and withholding the same. 
SEc. 186. An order may be directed to any other county
than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery 
of the property claimed. Several orders may issue at the
same time, or successively, at the option of the plaintiff;
but only one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless
otherwise ordered by the court. 
SEC. 187. The sheriff or other officer, in the execution of
the order of delivery, may break open any building or in-
closure in which the property claimed, or any part thereof, 
is concealed, but not until he has been refused an entrance
into said building or inclosure and the delivery of the
property, after having demanded the same. . 
SEC. 188. In an action to recover the possession of specific
personal property, the court, or judge in vacation, may, 
for good cause shown, before or aftffier judgment, co~p1 edl
the delivery of the property to the o cer or party entit e 
thereto, by attachment, and may examine either party as
to the possession or control of the property. Such author-
ity shall only be exercised in aid of the foregoing provi-
sions of this article. · 
SEC. 189. Any order for the delivery of property, issued
under this article, without the affidavit and undertaking 
required, shall be set aside at the cost of the clerk issuing
the same, and such clerk, as well as the plaintiff, shall 
also be liable, in damages, to the party injured. 
ARTICLE 
190. Grounds upon which plaintiff' may
have attachment. 
191. Affidavit shall state what.
192. Bond to be executed; not reqaJred, 
when.
198. Order of attachment, to· whom dellv­ 
DUIP08JT10~ OF ATTACHED PROPERTY. 
207. Appointment or receiver; bond.
t08. To take possesslon or books or ac­ 
counts. &c., and settle and collect
the same. 
209. Shall give notice of appointmenL 
210. Report proceedings.
211. Sheriff' to act as receiver, when.
212. Court may make what orders con- 
.; /I I).- 
ered ; its contents. 
194. Hay issue to several counties. 
195. Returnable, when. 
ZXEOUT101'f AND RETURN TBERJ:OP. 
196. In what order executed when there
are several. 
197. Bow executed. 
198. Tho same. 
1119. The same; property lost, &c. 
iOO. Proceedings against garnishee.
201. Bow served. 
202. Written Interrogatories to be served
on gamlebee, when. 
208. Attachment" upon same property.
204. Bow attached under subsequent or­ 
ders,
205. Form of return. 
208. From what time property and gar- 
ntshee bound. 
ccrning property. I 
SEC. 190. The .plaintiff, in a civil action or the recovery
of money, may, at or after the comme cement thereof,
have an attachmc .. nt against the propert of the defendant,
and upon the grounds herein state . First, \Ylwn the
defendant is a foreign corporation o c non-resident of this 
state; or, Second, Has abscondc with the intent to de-
fraud his creditors; or, Third, as left the county of his 
residence to avoid the service a summons ; or, Fourth,
So conceals himself that a su mons cannot be served upon
him ; or, Fiftlt, Is about t remove his property, or a part
thereof, out of the juri iction of the court, with the
intent to defraud his ere tors; or, Sixth, Is about to con­
vert his property, or part thereof, into money, for the 
purpose of placing · beyond· the reach of his creditors;
or, Scccuih, Hasp perty, or rights in action, which he ment granted by court or judge. 
conceals ; or, Eightlt, Has assigned, remov or disposed
of, or is about to dispose of his property, r part thereof,
with the intent to defraud his creditors; ·, Ntnth, Fraud­
ulently contracted the debt, or Incurjed the obligation, for
which suit is about to be or has ~en brought. But an
attachment shall not be grante on the ground that the 
defendant is a foreign corpor. ion or non-resident of this
state, for any claim other an a debt or demand arising
upon contract, judgmen or decree, unless the cause of
action arose wholly wi in the limits of this state, which 
fact must be establis don the trial. 


ARTICLE XI. 
PBO~INGS Ul'ON ATl'ACHmT. 
I 213. Attachment discharged, how.
214. Bow undertaking executed ln vaca- 
u.,,._ 
215. Answer or garnlebee.
116. May pay money into court.
217. Neglect to answer, how punlsbecl. 
218. Court may order dell very or property.
or payment, by garnishee. 
219. When plaintit!' may proceed agalnat
garntshee. 
220. Final judgment against garnlshee.
221. Effect or judgment for defendant. 
222. Proceedings after judgment for plain­
tUI'. 
123. Court may compel delivery of attached
property to sherUt'. 
224. May order @herift" to ropoS:e88 himself. 
225. Question of priority may be referred,
when. 
GDBllAL PROTI8JO:!f8. 
226. Efl"cct of death of defendant.
227. Additional security by plalntUI'. 
ns. Motion to dii,charge attachment.
229. PlntntUI' mny oppose. 
ATTACHXENTS IN CEBTAL'< ACTIONS. 
230. When action may be brought on claim
before due and attachment woe, .te. 
281. Who may grant attachment: affldnit.
28:11. Action dlsmiseed, if attachment re­ 
fused.
233. Order to t1peclry amount. 
la-&. Bond to be executed before order
Iseues, 
231S. Judgment not given until claim ls due.
236. What proceedings to regulate attach­ 
SEC. 191. An order of attachment shall be made by the
clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in any
case mentioned in the preceding section, when there is filed
in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attor-
ney, showing: First, The nature of the plaintiff's claim. 
Second, That it is just. Tldrd, The amount which the
affiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover; and, Fourth, 
The existence of some one of the grounds for an attach-
ment enumerated in the preceding section. 
SEC. 192. The order of attachment shall not be issued
by the clerk, until t~ere has b~en executed in !1is0 office, by 
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be
approved by the clerk, an undertaking, to the effect that/,' 
• the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the order 
be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount
of the plaintiff's claim ; but no undertaking shall be re- 
quired where the defendant is a non-resident of the state,
or a foreign corporation. 
SEC. 193. The order of attachment shall be directed and
delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him to attach the
lands, tenements, goods, chattels, stocks, rights, credits, 
moneys and effects of the defendant in his county, not
exempt by law from being applied to the payment of the 
plaintiff's claim, or so much thereof as will satisfy the
plaintiff's claim, to be stated in the order as in the affida-
vit, and the probable costs of the action, not exceeding 
fifty dollars. 
SEc. 194. Orders of attachment may be issued to the
sheriffs of different counties, and several of them may, at 
the option of the plaintiff, be issued at the same time, or
in succession; but only such as have been executed shall
be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the conrt. 
SEC. 195. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be 
the same as that of the summons. When issued after­
wards, it shall be twenty days after it issued. 
SEc. 196. Where there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the
order in which they were received by the sheriff. 
SEC. 197. The order of attachment shall be executed by
the sheriff, without delay. He shall go to the place where
the defendant's property may be found, and declare that,
by virtue of said order, he attaches said property at the
suit of the plaintiff; and the officer, with two household­
ers, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the officer,
shall make a true inventory and appraisement of all the
property attached, which shall be signed. by the officer
and householders, and returned with the order. 
SEc. 198. When the property attached is real property,
the officer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there
be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of
the order. Where it is personal property, and he can get
possession, he shall take the same into his custody, and
hold it subject to the order of the court .. 
SEC. 199. The sheriff shall deliver the property attached
to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the 
execution, by such person, in the presence of the sheriff,
of an undertaking to the plaintiff, with one or more suffi­
cient sureties, resident in the county, to the effect that the
parties to the same are bound, in double the appraised
value thereof, that the property, or its appraised value in
money, shall be forthcoming to answer the judgment of
the court in the action ; but if it shall appear· to- the court
that any part of' said property has been lost or destroyed
by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall be remit­
ted to the person so bound. 
SEC. 200. When the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall
make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to, and 
does, believe. that any person or corporation, to be named,
has property of the defendant (describing the same) in his
possession, or is indebted to him, he shall leave with such 
garnishee a copy of the order of attachment, with a writ-
ten notice that he appear and answer, as provided herein. 
SEC. 201. The copy of the order and notice shall be
served upon the garnishee, as follows : If he be a person,
they shall be servep. upon him personally, or left at his
usual place of residence ; if a corporation, they shall be 
left with the president or other head of the same, or the
secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof. 
SEc. 202. If the garnishee do not reside in the county in
which the action is brought, the plaintiff shall prepare 
written interrogatories, to be answered by the garnishee, a
copy of which shall be served in the same manner as the
order and notice. · 
SEC. 203. Different attachments of the same property
may be made by the same officer, and one inventory and
appraisement shall be sufficient; and it shall not be neces-
sary to return the same with more than one order. 
SEC. 204. Where property is under attachment, it shall
be attached under subsequent orders, as follows: First, 
If it be real property, it shall be attached in the manner
prescribed in section one hundred and ninety-eight. Sec-
ond, If it be personal property, it shall be attached as in
the hands of the officer, and subject to any previous at-
tac hment. Third, If the same person or corporation be
made a garnishee, a copy of the order and notice shall be
left with him in the manner prescribed in section two hun-
dred and one. 
SEC. 205. The officer shall return, upon every order of 
attachment, what he has done under it. The return must 
show the property attached, and the time it was attached;
when garnishees are served, their names, and the time
each was served, must be stated. The officer shall also
return with the order all undertakings given under it. 
SEC. 206. .An order of attachment binds the property
attached from the time of service, and the garnishee shall 
stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment for all property,
moneys and credits in his hands, or due from him to the 
defendant, from the time he is served with the written
notice mentioned in section two hundred and one; but 
where property is attached in the hands of a bailee, his
lien thereon shall not be affected by the attachment. 
SEC. 207. The court, or any judge thereof, during vaca-
tion, .may, on application of the plaintiff, and on good
cause shown, appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath 
faithfully to discharge his duty, and shall give an under­
taking to the state of Kansas, in such sum as the court or
judge may direct, and with such security as shall be ap­
proved by the clerk of such court, for the faithful perform­
ance of his duty as such receiver, and to pay over all
money and account for all property which may come into
his hands by virtue of his appointment, at such times and
in such manner as the court may direct. 
SEC. 208. Such receiver shall take possession of all
notes, due bills, books of account, accounts and all other
evidences of debt that have been taken, by the sheriff or 
other officer, as the property of the defendant in attach­
ment, and shall proceed to settle and collect the same.
For that purpose, he may commence and maintain actions 
in his own name as such receiver; but in such actions, no
right of defense shall be impaired or affected. 
SEC. 209. Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of
his appointment to the persons indebted to the defendant
in attachment. The notice shall be written or printed,
and shall be served on the debtor or 'de btors, by copy
personally, or by copy left at the residence of the debtor
or de htors ; and from the date of such service, the debt-Ors
shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment for the
amount of moneys or credits in their hands, or due from
them to the defendant in attachment, and shall account
therefor to the receiver. 
SEc. 210. Such receiver shall, when required, report his
proceedings to the court, and hold all moneys collected
by him, and the property which may come into his hands,
subject to the order of the court. 
SEc. 211. Where a receiver is not appointed by the
court or a judge thereof, as provided in section two hun­ 
dred and seven, the sheriff or other officer attaching the
property, shall have all the powers and perform all the
duties of a receiver appointed by the court or a judge,
and may, if necessary, commence and maintain actions in
his own name as such officer. Ile may be required to give
security other than his official undertaking. 
SEC. 212. The court shall make proper orders for the
preservation of the property during the pendency of the
suit ; it may direct a sale of property, when, because of
its perishable nature, or of the costs of keeping it, a sale 
will be for the benefit of the parties. In vacation, such
sale may be ordered by the judge of the court. The sale 
shall be public, after such advertisement as is prescribed
for the sale of like property on execution, and shall be
made in such manner and upon such terms of credit, with
security, as the court or judge, having regard to the prob­
able duration of the action, may direct. The proceeds, if 
collected by the sheriff, with all the money received by
him from garnishees, shall be lreld and paid over hy him,
under the same requirement and responsibility of himself
and sureties, as are provided in respect to money deposited
in lien of bail. 
SEC. 213. If the defendant, or other person on his behalf,
at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be 
executed to the plaintiff, by one or more sureties, resident
in the county, to be approved by the court, in double the
amount of the plaintiff's claim, as stated in his affidavit, 
to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the court, the attachment in such action shall be dis-
charged, and restitution made of any property taken
under it or the proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall,
also, discharge the liability of a garnishee in such action,
for any property of the defendant in his hands. 
SEC. 214. The undertaking mentioned in the last section 
may.zin vacation, be executed in the presence of the
sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands, or
after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the
same effect as if executed in court, the sureties .in either
case to be approved by the officer before whom the under­
taking is executed. 
SEC. 215. The garnishee shall answer as follows : If the
order of attachment be returned during a term of the 
court, and ten days before the close thereof', he shall answer
at that term, on a day to be named in the notice, not less 
than ten days from the date of service. If the order be
returned during vacation, he shall answer on the first day
of the next term after its return. If the garnishee reside 
out of the county in which the action is brought, he shall
file written answers to the interrogatories served upon him 
within the time hereinbefore provided, which answers
shall be sworn to, subscribed and certified in the same
manner as an affidavit. If he reside in the county in
which the action is brought, he shall appear in court and 
be examined. .A garnishee shall answer, under oath, all 
questions or interrogatories put to him touching the prop­
erty, of every description, of the defendant, in his posses­
sion or under his control, and shall disclose truly the
amount owing by him to the defendant, at or after the
service of notice, whether due or not; and in case of a cor­ 
poration, any stock therein held by or for the benefit of
the defendant, at or after. the service of notice. 
SEC. 216. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him to the sheriff having the order of at­
tachment, or into court. He shall be discharged from 
liability to the defendant for any money so paid, not
exceeding the plaintiff's claim. He shall not be subject 
to costs, beyond those caused by his resistance of the
claim against him ; and if he disclose the property in his 
hands, or the true amount owing by him, and deliver and
pay the same, according to the order of the court, he shall
be allowed his costs. 
SEC. 217. If the garnishee do not answer, as required by section two hundred and fifteen, the court may proceed
against him by attachment, as for a contempt. 
SEC. 218. If the garnishee answer, and it is discovered,
on his examination, that, a.t or after the service of the order 
of attachment and notice upon him, he was possessed of
any property of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the
court may order the delivery of such property and the
payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, lnto the
court; or the court may permit the garnishee to retain the
property or the amount owing, upon the execution of an
undertaking to the plaintiff, by one or more sufficient
sureties, t-0 the effect that the amount shall be paid or the
property forthcoming, as the court may direct. 
SEc. 219. If the garnishee fail to answer, or if he answer
and his disclosure is not satisfactory to the plaintiff, or if 
he fail to comply with the order of the court to deliver
the property and pay the money owing into court, or give
the undertaking reg uired in the preceding section, the
plaintiff may proceed against him in an action, by filing a
petition, in his own name, as in other cases, and-eausing
a summons to be issued upon it ; and thereupon such 
proceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment
may be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, for the amount
of property, and credits of every kind, of the defendant, in
the possession of the garnishee, and for what shall appear
to be owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of 
the proceedings against the garnishee. If the plaintiff
proceed against the garnishee by action, for the cause that
his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the
action that such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintiff 
shall pay the costs of such action. The judgment in this
action may be enforced as judgments in other cases. 
When the claims of plaintiffs in attachment are satisfied,
the defendant in attachment may, on motion, be substitu­ 
ted as the plaintiff in this judgment.
SEC. 220. Final judgment shall not be rendered against 
the garnishee until the action against the defendant in
attachment has been determined; and if, in such action, 
judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the
garnishee shall be discharged and recover costs. If the 
plaintiff shall recover against the defendant in attachment,
and the garnishee shall deliver up all the property,
moneys and credits of the defendant in his possession,
and pay all the moneys from him due, as the court may 
order, the garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs of
the proceedings against him shall be paid out of the prop­ 
erty and moneys so surrendered, or as the court may think
right and proper; and on final judgment against the
garnishee, execution may be issued as in other cases. 
SEC. 221. If judgment be rendered in the action for the
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the
property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to
him. 
SEc. 222. If judgment be .rendered for the plaintiff, it
shall be satisfied as follows: So much of the property
remaining in the hands of the officer, after applying the
moneys arising from the sale of perishable property, and
so much of the personal property and lands and tenements,
if any, whether held by legal or equitable title, as may be
necessary to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order
of the court, under the same restrictions and regulations
as if the same had been levied on by execution; and the
money arising therefrom, with the amount which may be 
recovered from the garnishee, shall be applied to satisfy
the judgment and costs. If there be not enough to satisfy
the same, the judgment shall stand, and execution may
issue thereon for the residue, in all respects as in other
cases. Any surplus of the attached property or its pro­
ceeds shall be returned to the defendant. 
SEC. 223. The court may compel the delivery to tht: 
sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which
an undertaking may have been given, and may proceed
summarily, on such undertaking, to enforce the delivery of
the property, or the payment of such sum as may be due
upon the undertaking, by rules and attachments, as in
cases of contempt. 
SEc. 224. The court may order the sheriff to repossess
himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached 
property, which may have passed out of his hands,
without having been sold or converted into money ; and
the sheriff shall, under such order, have the same power 
to take the property as he would have under an order of
attachment. 
SEC. 225. Where several attachments are executed upon
the same property, or the same persons are made gar­
nishees, the court, on motion of any of the plaintiffs, may
order a reference, to ascertain and report the amounts and
priorities of the several attachments, or may determine
any such amount and priorities without such reference. 
SEc. 226. From the time of the issuing of the order of 
attachment, the court shall be deemed to have acquired
jurisdiction and to have control of all subsequent pro­ 
ceedings under the attachment; and if, after the issuing
of the order, the defendant, being a person, should die, or a
corporation, and its charter should expire by limitation,
forfeiture or otherwise, the proceedings shall be carried 
on; but in all such cases, other than where the defendant
was a foreign corporation, his legal representatives shall
be made parties to the action. 
SEC. 227. The defendant may, at any time before judg­
ment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the
court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff;
and if, on such motion, the court is satisfied that the
surety in the plaintiff's undertaking has removed from
this state, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it
may vacate the order of attachment and direct restitution
of any property taken under it, unless, in a reasonable
time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security be given 
by the plaintiff. 
SEC. 228. The defendant may, at any time before judg­
ment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move to dis- 
charge an attachment, as to the whole or a part of the
property attached. 
SEC. 229. If the motion be made upon affidavits, on the
part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, 
but not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by 
a.flidavits or other evidence, in addition to that on which
the order of attachment was made. 
SEC. 230. Where a debtor has sold, conveyed or other- 
wise disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent 
to cheat or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay
them in the collection of their debts, or is about to make
such sale or conveyance or disposition of his property,
with such fraudulent intent, or is about to remove his
property, or a material part thereof, with the intent or to
the effect of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of
hindering or delaying them in the collection of their debts,
a creditor may bring an action on his claim before it is
due, and have an attachment against the property of the 
debtor.
SEC. 231. The attachment authorized by the last section
may be granted by the court in which the action is brought,
or by a judge thereof; but before such an action shall be 
brought, or such attachment shall be granted, the plaintiff,
or his agent or attorney, shall make an oath, in writing,
showing the nature ancl amount of the plaintiff's claim,
that it is just, when the same will become due, and the
existence of some one of the grounds for an attachment
enumerated in the preceding section. 
SEC. 232. If the court or judge refuse to grant an order
of attachment, the action s a e ismisse , ut without
prejudice to a. future action; and in all such actions, ap-
plication for an attachment must be made. 
SEC. 233. The order of the court or judge granting the
attachment shall specify the amount for which it is al-
lowed, not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the plain­
tiff's claim, and the probable costs of the action. 
SEC. 284. The order of attachment, as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there 
has been executed, in his office, an undertaking, on the
part of the plaintiff, as in case of any ordinary attachment. 
SEc. 235. The plaintiff in such action shall not have
judgment on his claim before it is due, but the proceed- 
ings on the attachment may be conducted without delay. 
SEC. 236. The proceedings applicable to attachments
issued by the clerk in ordinary cases, shall regulate the 
attachment granted by the court or judge, as far as ap­
plicable. 
ARTICLE 
I ffl. InJnnctlon,what 111, and when allowed.
288. May be granted, for what causes,
289. When and by whom.
240. Notice or time of bearing to be given.
241. Party may be restrained untll applica- 
• 
tion decided.
'42. Bond to be executed.
24.8. Contents or order, and Its service.
244. The same.
MlS. Injunction operates, when.
146. Application ror, not to be granted by 
Jndge or court ot Inferior Jurl.sdlc­
t.lon, when . 
SEc. 237. The injunction provided by this code is a com­
mand to refrain from a particular act. It may be the final
judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional
remedy, and, when so allowed, it shall be by order. The
writ of injunction is abolished. 
SEC. 238. When it appears, by the petition, that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such re­
lief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the com­
mission or continuance of some act, the commission or 
continuance of which, during the litigation, would produce
injury to the plaintiff; or when, during the litigation, it
appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some 
rt in violation of the plaintiff' S rights respecting the SU b­
ject of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted to re­
strain such act. And when, during the pendency of an
action, it shall appear, by affidavit, that the defendant
threatens or is about to remove or dispose of his property
with intent to defraud his creditors, or to render the judg­
ment ineffectual, a temporary injunction may be granted
to restrain such removal or disposition. It may, also, be
granted in any casevwhere it is specially authorized by 
stature. 
ARTICLE XII. 
S 247. How enforced; dl11obedlence, how
punished. 
248. Party enjoined may move for addl-
tlonal eecurlty. 
!49. Affidavits may be read.
250. Motion to vacate or modify injnnctlon.
251. Plaintiff' may oppose by affidavits.
25i. Defendant may obtain injunction upon 
an answer.
!53. Injunction may be granted to enjoin 
illegal leTy of tax, charge, &c. 
,.AMI· 
SEC. 239. The injunction may be granted at the time of
commencing the action, or any time afterwards, before J.! 
judgment, by the district court, or the judge thereof, or, 7' 
li;'lin his absence from the county, by the probate judge,,~-/
~s,upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by 
the affidavit of the plaintiff or his agent, that the plaintiff,
is entitled thereto. 
SEC. 240. If the court or judge deem it proper that the
defendant, or any party to the suit, should be heard before
granting the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice 
to be given to such party to attend for such purpose, at a
specified time and place, and may, in the meantime, re-
strain such party. 
SEC. 241. An injunction shall not be granted against a
party who has answered, unless upon notice ; but such 
party may be restrained until the decision of the applica-
tion for an injunction. 
SEC. 242. No injunction, unless otherwise provided by
special statute, shall operate, until the party obtaining the
same shall give an undertaking, executed by one or more
sufficient securities, to be approved by the clerk· of the
court granting such injunction, in an amount to be fixed
by the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the
party injured the damages he may sustain, if it be finally 
decided that the injunction ought not to have been granted. 
SEC. 243. The order of injunction shall be addressed to 
the party enjoined, shall state the injunction, and shall be
issued by the clerk. Where the injunction is allowed at
the commencement of the action, the clerk shall indorse 
upon the summons "Injunction allowed," and it shall not
be necessary to issue the order of injunction, nor shall it
be necessary to issue the same where notice of the appli-
cation therefor has been given to the party enjoined. The
service of the summons so indorsed, or the notice of aQ
application for an injunction, shall be notice of its al-
lowance. 
SEC. 244. Where the injunction is allowed during the
litigation, and without notice of the application the ref or,
the order of injunction shall be issued, and the sheriff,
shall forthwith serve the same upon each party enjoined,
in the manner prescribed for serving a summons, and make 
return thereof without delay. 
SEC. 245. An injunction binds the party from the time 
he has notice thereof, and the undertaking required by.
the applicant therefor is executed. 
SEC. 246. NO injunction shall be granted by a judge,
after a motion therefor has been overruled 011 the merits 
of the application, by his court; and where it has beerr:
refused by the court in which the action is brought, or a 
judge thereof, it shall not be granted to the same appli­
cant, by a court of inferior jurisdiction, or any judge 
thereof. 
SEC. 247. An injunction granted by a judge, may be 
enforced as the act of the court. Disobedience of any
injunction may be punished as a contempt, by the court 
or any judge who might have granted it in vacation. An
attachment may be issued by the court or judge, upon 
being satisfied, by affidavit, of the breach of the injunc­
tion, against the party guilty of the same, and he may be 
required, in the discretion of the court or judge, to pay a
fine not exceeding two hundred dollars, for the use of the
county, to make immediate restitution to the party injured,
and give further security to obey the injunction; or, in
default thereof, he may be committed to close custody,
until he shall fully comply with such requirements, or be
otherwise legally discharged. 
SEc. 248. A party enjoined may, at any time before
judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has 
obtained the injunction, move the court for additional
security; and if it appear that the surety in the under­
taking has removed from the state, or is insufficient, the
court may vacate the injunction, unless, in a reasonable
time, sufficient security is given. 
SEC. 249. On the hearing of an application for an injunc-
tion, each party may read affidavits. All affidavits shall 
be filed. 
SEC. 250. If the injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply,
upon notice, to the court in which the action is brought, or 
any judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the petition and affidavits 
upon which the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits
on the part of the party enjoined, with or without answer.
The order of the judge, allowing, dissolving or modifying
an injunction, shall be returned to the office of the clerk
of the court in which the action is brought, and recorded 
and obeyed, as if made by the court. 
SEc. 251. If application be made upon affidavits, on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addi-
tion to that on which the injunction was granted. 
SEC. 252. A defendant may obtain an injunction upon
an answer, in the nature of a counter-claim. He shall pro- 
ceed in the manner hereinbefore prescribed. 
SEC. 253. An injunction may be granted to enjoin the
illegal levy of any tax charge or assessment, or the col­
lection of any illegal tax charge or assessment, or any
proceeding to enforce the same; and any number of per­
sons whose property is affected by a tax or assessment so 
1>.,,1evied, may unite in the petition filed to obtain such injunction

ARTILCE
Recefoers and other provi.nonal remedie,. 
I tM. Appointment of receiver.
255. Who shnll not be appointed.
956. Oath and undertaking.
i57. Powers or receiver.
158. Investment or fonds. 
ARTICLE XIII. 
I 259. Dlsposltlon or property ID hands or
trustee. 
260. Disobedience or order or court under
this article, bow punished. 
SEC. 254. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, or in the 
absence of said judges from the county, by the probate
judge: First, In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraud- 
nlent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject
any property or fund to his claim, or between partners or
others jointly owing or interested in any property or fund,
on the application of' the plaintiff, or of any party whose
right to or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds 
thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the prop-
erty or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or mate-
rially injured. Second, In an action by a mortgagee for 
the foreclosure of his mortgage and sale of the mortgaged
property, where it appears that the mortgaged property is
in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured, or 
that the condition of the mortgage has not been performed,
and that the property is probably insufficient to discharge
the mortgage debt. Third, After judgment, to carry the 
judgment into effect. Fourth, After judgment, to dis-
pose of the property according to the judgment, or to 
preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or in pro- 
ceedings in aid of execution, when an execution has been
returned unsatisfied, or when the judgmenfdebtor refuses 
apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment.
Fifth, In the cases provided in this code, and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is
insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has
forfeited its corporate rights. Sixth, In all ·other cases
where receivers have heretofore been appointed by the
usages of the courts of equity. 
SEC. 255. No party, or attorney, or person interested in
an action, shall be appointed receiver therein. 
SEC. 256. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one
or more sureties, approved by the court or judge, execute 
an undertaking to such person, and in such sum as the
court or judge shall direct, to the effect that he will faith­
fully discharge the duties of receiver in the action, and
obey the orders of the court therein. 
SEc. 257. The receiver has, under the control of the
court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name,
as receiver; to take and keep possession of the property,
to receive rents, collect debts, to compound for and com-
promise the same, to make transfers, and generally to do
such acts respecting the property as the court may author­
ize. 
SEC. 258. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be
invested upon interest, by order of the court; but no such
order shall be made, except upon the consent of all the
parties to the action. 
SEC. 259. When itis admitted, by the pleading or exam-
ination of a party, that he has in his possession or under
his control any money or other thing capable of delivery,
which, being the subject of litigation, is held by him as
trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to 
another party, the court may order the same to be depos­
ited in court or delivered to such party, with or without 
security. subject to the further direction of the court. 
SEC. 260. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a. 
court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money
or other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court,
besides punishing the disobedience as for a contempt, may 
make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money, or
thing, and deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the 
direction of the court. 
SEC. 261. Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or
conclusion of law is maintained by one party, and contro-
verted by the other. They are of two kinds: First, Of 
law. Second, Of fact. 
SEC. 262. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer~to he
petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof. 
SEC. 268. An issue of fact arises: First, Upon am terial
allegation in the petition, controverted by the answer; or, 
Second, Upon new matter in the answer, controverted by
the reply; or, Third, Upon new matter in the reply, which
shall be considered as controverted by the defendant with.
out further pleading. 
SEC. 264. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise
upon different parts of the pleadings in the same action.
In such cases the issues of law must be first tried, unless 
the court otherwise direct. 
ARTICLE 
I ft Trial, what le.
!M. Iseues, how tried,
967. The same.
5168. Separate trial between plalntl11' and 
one of several dofendantll allowed,
when. 
TRIAL BY ,nmy. 
!69. :Mode or summoning Jury.
170. Causes for challenge.
271. Order In which partlos challenge ; 
peremptory challenge.
ffi. Vacancy to be ft.lied before further 
challenges.
ffl. Talesmeu to be selected, when.
274. Oath or Jury.
!75. Order or proceeding in the trial.
2i6. Exceptions to Instructlons. 
m. View by Jury.
178. Deliberation or Jury. how conducted.
r.9. Admonition when Jury permitted to 
separate.
280. Jury may return to court for lnrorma­ 
tion.
•281. llay be dlecharged, when. 
m. c ... io be tried apln, when. 
ARTICLE XV. 
Trial. 
I I !83. Rendering VC?rdict. 
284. Verdict shall be wrlttonandt1lgned by
foreman; verdict defective In form,
how corrected. 
VERDICT. 
285. General and special verdicts.
286. Kinde or verdicts to be rendered; 
verdict to be died.
287. Special finding coutrols general ver­ 
diet.
288. Jury must assess amount or recovery. 
TRIAL BT THE COURT. 
289. Trial by jury waived, how.
290. Finding by court, how to be stated. 
TRIAL BY BEPER'IR8. 
291. When ienee may be referred by con.
sent. 
9. Court may direct reference, in what
caees. 
wa. Trial before referees, how conducted;
their powers and duties; Judgment. 
~4. Referees, how chosen.
295. To sign exceptions. 
296. Reference in vacaUon., how made. 
m. Oath or referees, 
1
.;,; .:.,, 
!l98. Compensation. 
EXCEPTIONS, 
200. Exception, what is.
300. When to be taken. 
301. Must be stated, bow.
302. Bow taken when facts appear on 
record.
808. How taken when facts do not appear 
on record ; to be signed by judge.
804. Immaterial excepnons.
:305. Exceptions may be withdrawn, when. 
NEW TRIAL. 
806. New trial granted, for what causes.
3<Yl'. Not granted, for what causes.
808. Application for new trial to be made, 
when. 
I ~- How made ; certain ceuses to be sus­
tained by afflda,1ts. 
310. Application may be made by petition,
when ; proceedings. 
SEC. 265. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues,
whether of law or of fact, in an action. 
SEC. 266. Issues of law must be tried by the court, un­
less referred. Issues of fact arising in actions for the re- 
covery of money, or of specific real or personal property,
shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or 
a reference be ordered, as hereinafter provided . 
SEC. 267. All other issues of fact shall be hied by the
court, subject to its power to order any issue or issues to 
be tried by a jury, or referred as provided in this code. 
SEC. 268. A separate trial between the plaintiff and any
or all of several defendants may be allowed by the court, 
whenever justice will be thereby promoted.
ARTICLE 
GENERAL PBOVI810N8. 
811. Damages.
812. Provisions respecting trials by jury 
applied to trials by court.
818. '!'rial docket.
814. Order In wbtch cases arc to be tried.
816. Triable, when.
316. Continuance. 
817. Motion for continuance on account or
absent evidence, how made ; con­ 
tmuanco not granted when racta
alleged In affidavit arc admitted. 
818. Tnnl dock.et for nae of bar. 
v i ·~ ~ ../" '-" I ti" .f I" 
SEC. 269. the general mode of summoning the jury is
such as is or may be provided by law. 
SEC. 270. If there shall be impanneled, for the trial of
any cause, any pctit juror, who shall have been convicted 
of any crime which by law renders him disqualified to
serve on a jury; or who has been arbitrator on either side, 
relating to the same controversy ; or who has an interest
in the cause; or who has an action pending between him
and either party; or who has formerly been a juror in the
same cause; or who is the employer, employee, counselor,
agent, steward or attorney of either party; or who is sub­
penaed as a witness ~ or who is of kin to either party ; or
any person who shall have S<'ITPd once already on a jury,
as a talesman on the trial of any cause, in the same com t
during the term, he may be ohallenged for such causes ; in
either of which cases the same shall he cousidered as a
prlneipnl challenge, and the validity thereof be tried by 
the court; and any petit juror who shall be returned upon
the trial of any of the causes herein before specified, against
whom no principal cause of challenge can be alleged, may,
nevertheless, be challenged on suspicion of prejudice
against, or partiality for, either party, or for want of com­
petent knowledge of the English language, or any other
cause that may render him, at the time, an unsuitable 
juror ; and the validity of such challenge shall be deter­
mined by the court. 
SEC. 271. The plaintiff first, and afterward the defendant, s a complete his challenges for cause. They may 
then, in tum, in the same order, have the right to challenge
one juror -each, until each shall have peremptorily chal- 
lenged three jurors, but no more. 
SEC. 272. After each challenge, the vacancy shall be
filled before further challenges are made ; and any new 
juror thus introduced may be challenged for cause as well
as peremptorily. 
SEC. 273. When the requisite number of jurors cannot
otherwise be obtained, the sheriff shall select talesmen to
supply the deficiency from the bystanders, or the body of
the county, as the court may direct. 
SEC. 274. The jury shall be sworn to well and truly try
the matters submitted to them in the case in hearing, and 
a true verdict give, according to the law and the evidence. 
SEC. 275. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall
proceed in the following order, unless the court, for special 
reasons, otherwise directs: First, The party on whom
rests the burthcn of the ·it:sues may briefly state his case, 
1 and the evidence by which he expects to sustain it. Sec-
ond, The adverse party may then briefly state his defense, 
and the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
?Third, The party on whom rests the burthen of the issues 
must first produce his evidence; the adverse party will
then produce his evidence. Fourth, The parties will then
be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the court, for
good reasons, in furtherance of justice, permits them to
off er evidence in their original case. Fifth; When the
evidence is concluded, and either party desires special in­
structions to be given to the jury, such instructions shall
be reduced to writing, numbered and signed by the party, 
or his attorney, asking the same, and delivered to the 
court. Sixth., When the argument of .the cause is conclu­
ded, the court shall give general instructions to the jury, 
which shall be in writing, and be numbered and signed
by the judge, if required by either party. Seventh,
Where either patty asks special instructions to be given
to the jury, the court shall either give each instruction, as
requested, or positively refuse to do so; or give the in­
structions with a modification, in such manner that it shall
distinctly appear what instructions were given, in whole
or in part, and, in like manner, those refused, so that either
party may except to the instructions, as asked for, or as
modified, or to the modification. All instructions given
by the court must be signed by the judge, and filed, to­ 
gether with those asked for by the parties, as a part of the
record. 
SEc. 276. A party excepting to the giving of instruc- 
tions, or the refusal thereof, shall not be required to file a
formal bill of exceptions ; but it shall be sufficient to write 
at the close of each instruction, '' Refused and excepted 
to," or, "Given and excepted to," which shall be signed
by the judge. 
SEC. 277. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of the property which
is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any
material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted,
in a body, under the charge of an officer, to the place,
which shall be shown to them by some person appointed
by the court for that purpose . While the jury are thus
absent, no person, other than the person so appointed,
shall speak to them on any subject connected with the
trial. 
SEC. 278. When the case is finally submitted to the jury,
they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If 
h h b k h .
ey retire, t ey must e ept toget er, m some conve- 
nient place, under charge of an officer, until they agree
upon a verdict or be discharged by the court, subject to
the discretion of the court to permit them to separate tem­
porarily at night, and at their meals. The officer having
them under his charge shall not suffer any communication 
to be made to them, or make any himself, except to ask
them if they are agreed upon their verdict, unless by order
of the court; and he shall not, before their verdict is
rendered, communicate to any person the state of their
deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon. 
SEC. 279. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
during the trial or after the case is submitted to them, 
they shall be admonished by the court that it is their duty
not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed
by, any other person; on any subject of the trial, and that
it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon,
until the case is finally submitted to them. 
SEc. 280. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of
the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any 
part of the law arising in the case, they may request the
officer to conduct them to the court, where the information
on the point of law shall be given in writing, and the court
may give its recollection as to the testimony on the point
in dispute, in the presence of, or after notice to, the parties
or their counsel. 
SEC. 281. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or
calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both 
parties, or after they have been kept together until it
satisfactorily appears that there is no probability of their
agreeing. 
SEc. 282. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the eause is submitted to them, 
it may be tried again immediately, or at a future time, as
the court may direct. 
SEC. 283. When the jury have agreed upon their verdict,
they must be conducted into court, their names called by
the clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman.
When the verdict is announced, either party may require
the jury to be polled, which is done by the clerk or the
court asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one
answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out,
for further deliberation. 
SEC. 284. The verdict shall be written, 'signed by the
foreman and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry 
made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagrees,
the jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement 
be expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be
polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged
from the case. If, however, the verdict be defective in
form only, the same may, with the assent of the jury,
before they are discharged, be corrected by the court. 
SEC. 285. The verdict of a jury is either general or 
special. A general verdict is that by which they pro­
nounce generally upon all or any of the issues, either in
favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is
that by which the jury finds facts only. It must present 
the facts as established by the evidence, and not the evi­
dence to prove them ; and they m ust be so presented as
that nothing :remains to the court but to draw from them
conclusions of law. 
SEC. 286. In every action for the recovery of money
only, or specific real property, the jury, in their discretion,
may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases
the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict, in 
writing, upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases/:
may instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to 
find upon particular questions of fact, to be stated in
writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The
special verdict or finding must be filed with the clerk, and 
entered on the J0 ournal, · 
SEC. 287. When the special finding of facts is inconsist-
ent with the -general verdict, the former controls the latter, 
and the court may give judgment accordingly. 
SEC. 288. When, by the verdict, either party is entitled
to recover monPy of the adverse party, the jury, in tln-ir
verdict, must assess the amount of recovery. 
SEC. 280. The trial by jury may be waived by the
parties, in actions arising on contract, and with the assent 
of the court in other actions, in the following manner :
By the consent of the party appearing, when the other
party fails to appear at the trial by himself or attorm-v.
By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with 
the clerk. By oral consent, in open court, entered on the
journal. 
SEC. 290. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the
court, it shall not be necessary for the court to state its
finding, except g<>rn:rally, for the plaintiff or defendant,
unless one of the parties request it, with the view of ex­
cepting to the decision of the court upon the q u-stions of
law invoked in the trial; in which case the court shall
state, in writing, the conclusions of fact found, separately 
from the conclusions of In w. 
SEC. 291. All or any of the issues in the action, whether 
of fact or of law, or both, may be referred, upon the
written consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent
in court, entered upon the journal. 
SEC. 292. When the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application or either, or of its own motion, 
direct a reference in either of the following cases: Where
the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination 
of mutual accounts, or when the account is on one side
only, and it shall be made to appear to tho court that it is
necessary that the party on the other side should be exam-
ined as a witness to prove the account ; in which case the
referees may be directed to hear and report upon the 
whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact involved
therein; or where the taking of an account shall be neces- 
sary for the information of the court before judgment, in
cases which rqay be determined by the court, or for carry- 
ing a judgment into effect; or where a question of fact
other than upon the pleadings, shall arise, upon motion
or otherwise, in any stage of an action. 
SEC. 293. A trial before referees is conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. They have the same 
power to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses,
to administer all necessary oaths in the trial of the case, 
and to grant adjournments, as the court, upon such trial.
Theymuststatethefacts found and the conclusions of law
separately, and their decisions must be given, and may be
excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of
the referees upon the whole issue stands as the decision of
the court, and. judgment may be entered thereon in the
same manner as if the action had-been tried by the court.
When the referee is to report the facts, the report has the
effect of a special verdict. 
SEc. 294. In all cases of reference, the parties, except
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suita-
ble person or persons, not exceeding three, and the refer-
ence shall be ordered accordingly ; and if the parties do
not agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who shall be free from exception. 
SEC. 295. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign any
true exceptions taken to any order or decision by them 
made in the case, and return the same, with their report,
to the court making the reference. 
SEC. 296. A. judge, in vacation, upon the written consent
of the parties, may make any order of reference which 
the court of which he is a member could make in term
time. In such case, the order of reference shall be made
on the written agreement of the parties to refer, and shall
be filed with the clerk of the court, with the other papers 
in the case. 
SEc. 297. The referees must be sworn or affirmed well
and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make 
a just and true report therein, according to the best of
their understanding. The oath may be administered by
any person authorized to take depositions. 
SEC. 208. The referees shall be allowed such compensa­
tion for their services as the court may deem just and
proper, which shall be taxed as part of the costs in the 
case.
SEC. 299. An exception rs an objection taken to a deci-
sion of the court or judge upon a matter of law. 
SEC. 300. The party objecting to the decision must ex-
cept at the time the decision is made, and time may be
given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond
the term. If the decision objected to is made in vacation
or at chambers, the judge may give time to reduce the 
exception to writing, not exceeding ten days. 
SEC. 301. No particular form of exception is required.
The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence
as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole
as briefly as possible. 
SEc. 802. Where the decision objected to is entered on
the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the 
entry, the. exception may be taken by the party causing 
to be noted. at the end of the decision, that he excepts.
SEc. 808. Where the decision is not entered on the 
record, or the grounds of objection do not sufficiently
appear in the entry, the party excepting must reduce his 
exceptions to writing, and present it to the judge for his
allowance. If true, it shall be the duty of the judge to 
allow and sign it; whereupon it shall be filed with the
pleadings as a part of the record, but not spread at large
on the joumal. If the writing is not true, the Judge shall 
correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and it
shall then be signed as aforesaid . 
SEc. 304. No exception shall be regarded, unless it is
material. and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the 
party excepting. f;", it, 
SEC. 305. Exceptions taken to the decision of any court
of record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from
the files by the party taking the same, at any time before
proceedings in error are commenced. 
SEC. 306. New trial is a re-examinatloii, m t e same 
·l~;- court, of an issue of fact, after a verdict by a. jury, report
of a referee, or a decision by the court. The former ver- 
diet, report or decision shall be vacated, and a new trial
granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for 
any of the following causes, affecting materially the sub-
stantial rights of such party: First, Irregularity in the 
proceedings of the court, jury, referee, or prevailing party,
or any order of the court or referee, or abuse of discretion, 
by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.
Second, Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party . .: 
Third, .Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence.:
could not have guarded against. Fourth, Excessive dam- 
ages, appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice. Fiftli, Error in the assessment of 
the amount of recovery, whether too large or too small,
where the action is upon a contract, or for the injury or 
det.ention of property. Sixth, That the verdict, report or
decision is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is con-
trary to law. Seventh, Newly discovered evidence, mate-v: 
rial for the party applying, which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial. Eighth, Error of law occurring at the trial, and
except.ed to by the party making the appli£,tion. 
SEC. 307. A new trial shall not be granted;n account of
the smallness of the damages, in an action for an injury 
to the person or reputation, nor in any other action where
the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury
sustained. 
SEC. 308. The application for a riew trial must be made
at the t.erm the verdict, report or decision is rendered; and, 
except for the cause of newly discovered evidence, material
for the party applying, which he could not, with reason- 
able diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial,
shall be within three days after the verdict or decision was
rendered, unless unavoidably prevented. 
SEC, 309. The application must be by motion, upon
written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion.
The causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three and
seven, of section three hundred and six, must be sustained
by affidavits, showing their truth, and may be controverted
by affidavits. 
SEC. 310. Where the grounds for a new' trial could not,
with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, 
but are discovered after the term at which the verdict,
report of referee or decision was rendered or made, the
application may be made by petition, filed as in other
cases, not later than the second term after discovery ; on
which a summons shall issue, be returnable and served,
or publication made, as prescrlbejt in section seventy-four.
The facts stated in the petition sha1' be considered as denied
without answer, and if the service shall be complete in
vacation, the case shall be 'heard and summarily decided
at the ensuing term, and if in term, it shall be heard and
decided after the expiration of twenty days. from such
service. The case shall be placed on the trial docket, and
the witnesses shall be examined in open court, or their
depositions taken as in other cases; but no such petition
shall be filed more than one year after the final judgment 
was rendered. 
SEc. 311. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plain­
tiff may claim and recover any rate of damages to which
he may be entitled for the cause of action established. 
SEC. 312. The provisions of this article respecting trials
by jury apply, so ar as they are in their nature applicable, 
to trials by the court. 
SEC. 313. A trial docket shall be made out by the clerk-J<
of the court, at least twelve days before the first day of',
each term of the court ; and the actions shall be set for par- ..;,, 
ticular days, in the order in which they are brought, and
so arranged that the cases set for each day shall be tried 
as nearly as may be on that day . 
SEc. 314. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assess-
ment of damages in any case, shall be in the order in 
which they are placed on the trial docket, unless by con- 
sent of the parties or the order of the court, they are con­
tinued or placed at the heel of the docket. The time of 
hearing all other cases shall be in the order in which they
are placed on the docket, unless the court, in its discretion, 
shall otherwise direct. The court may, in its discretion,
hear at any time a motion, and may, .by rule, prescribe
the time for hearing motions. 
SEc. 815. Actions shall be triable at the first term of the
court, after the issues therein by the times fixed for plead- 
~g are or should hav? been m~de up; and when, by the
times fixed for pleading, the issues are or should have 
been made up during a term, such action shall be triable
at that term. When the issues are or should have been 
made up, either before or during a term of court, but after
the period for preparing the trial docket of such term, the
clerk shall place such actions on the trial docket of that
term. 
SEC. 316. The court may, for good cause shown, continue
an action at any stage of the proceedings, upon such 
terms as may be just. When a continuance is granted on
account of the absence of evidence, it shall be at the cost
of the party making the application, unless the court 
otherwise order. · 
SEC. 317. A motion for a continuance, on account of the 
absence of evidence, can be made only upon affidavit,
showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be 
obtained, and that due diligence has been used to obtain
it, and where the evidence may be; and if it is for an 
absent witness, the affidavit must show where the witness
resides, if his residence is known to the party, and the
probability of procuring his testimony within a reasonable 
time, and what facts he believes the witness will prove,
and that he believes them to be true. If, thereupon, the 
_....,adverse party will consent that on the trial the facts alleged
in the affidavit shall be read and treated as the deposition
of the absent witness, or that the facts in relation to other
evidence shall be taken as proved to the extent alleged in 
the affidavit, no continuance shall be granted on the
ground of the absence of such evidence. 
SEc. 318. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial
docket for the use of the bar, before the first day of the 
term of court. 
ARTICLE 
I 819. Who competent generally.
820. Laws relaUng to settlement or estates 
or deceued persone, ete., not
dected. 
821. Advem, party may be compelled to 
testify. 
m. What parties not allowed to tesUty; tr
del)08itlon or party be need In behalf
or executors, &c., other party may 
te1Wy. •
818. Persons Incompetent to te11Ufy. 
JBA1'8 OJ' P•ODUCDIG W1TNU8U. 
BM. Subpena, by whom t..iued; by whom
served, 
m. To whom directed, and what it llhall
'require. 
8!6. Subpena in taking depoeltlon.
827. How subpena ae"ed. 
828. Attendance or wltne111e11.
819. Wltnel!8 may demand fee,.
880. Contempt or court by wltnesa.
881. Attachment against wltncee. 
an. Punishment ; wttneu llable to ln.Jured
party for damage,. 
888. Witness may apply to Judge for dls­
charge. 
834. Attachment for arrel!t or order or
commltmtnt to be under seal. 
886. Examination or impriloned wltne111.
886. To remain in c1111tody.
887. Wltnese not to be 1Ued out or hla 
OOUDty. 
888. :May demand ree1 each day.5 
888. Oath or wttneu. 
XODB OJ' TAXING TBB TJ:ITIXOBT OJ' Wl'l'-
:NE88U, 
MO. :Modes or taking te11tlmon7.
SU. Amdavtt, what le.
Ml. Deposltlon, what le.
843. Oral examination, what le. 
.il"J"IDAVl'l'B. 
844. A.ffldavlt may be used, ror what.
846. May be made before whom. 
DKPOl!lfflONl!I, 
846. Depoelt.lon may be need, in what 
cue 11. 
847. May be taken, when. 
OJ'PICEB WHO JUT TAK.J: TJOX. 
848. Before whom taken in this state.
849. Before whom taken out or this etate.
8'50. Who cannot take.
861. Commlselon to take depoeltloll!. 
XANm OP TAKINO ARD AUTBDTICATDIG 
TDD. 
85t. Notice and servtee on advense party.
~. Notice by publication. 
BM. By whom to be written.
85G. To be sealed, indorsed, etc., and for­ 
warded to clerk or conn. 
ARTICLE XVI. 
f BM. Shall be evidence before what tribu-
nals. 
867. :May be read, when,
868. How authenticated.
859. Cerilllcate or officer llhall ehow what.
880. Depoelt.lon not to be read when wlt- 
nesa can be procured,
861. llust be fl.Jed one day before trlat
861. Fees for taking depoettlone. 
BXCEl'TIONB TO DBPOIITlONI. 
868. To be In writing.
864. To be Aled before trial. 
866. Court to decide questions before trial.
866. Errors of court waived, unleaa ex- 
cepted. 
ADKI88ION8, IN8PBCTI01', PRODUCTION .A.l{J) 
PROOP or DOCUJOJl'T8. 
867. Party must admit genutneneu of
paper, or pay expense or proving It. 
888. May demand Inspection or books,
papers, etc., or adveree party. 
869. Coples or deeds or other written In­
struments to be fuml!hed. 
870. Lawe or other @tatee a11d govern­
ments, how proved. 
871. Coples or record, and proceedlDgs in
foreign court may be admitted,
when. 
ffi. Coples or papen recelTed wltJi aamo 
ett'cct ae orlglnal, when.
3'18. Statute books of thla state shall be 
etldence.
874. Coples of acts, laws, etc., depoelted 
with secretary of state shall be evi­
dence. 
ffl. Books containing acta or congreee
ahall be evidence. 
878. What public documents ehall be evi­
dence. 
8'77. Coples of proceedings before Justlcee
ehall be evtdenco . 
878. Copiea of proceedings before Justice,
when such justice ls out or office. 
879. Printed coplee of ordlnancea. resoln- 
tlone, etc.
880. Register or marrtage1.
881. Copy or register verUled by affidavll
88'J. Tranelatlon or foreign language into 
Engllah.
888. Duplicate receipt or receiver or land 
office.
884. Coplea or papen and documents do­ 
poelted In office or regtster or re­
ceiver or land office. 
886. ExempUAcatlona from booka of de­
partmenta or government of United 
8tate11.
886. Signature orofficerpresumed genuine. 
887. Entriea in accoUDt book admitted.
when. 
PBOCEBDmae TO PBBPfttl'ATK TIIIITIXORT. S 891. Depoettlon, to be taken by whom. 
I 888. Testimony may be perpetuated. sua. To be apprond and 1lled; copy &hall
389. Petition to be ft led ; shall state what. be evidence. ~; ,
390. Court may order eumlnation. 8M. Coete paid, by whom. Cl <;,/ ~ o 
;,1,,1,,. 
891. Crou-lnterrogatorles to be 1lled, when. 
SEC. 819. No person shall be disqualified as a witness,
in any civil action or proceeding, by reason of his interest
in the event of the same, as a party or otherwise, or by 
reason of his conviction of a crime; but such interest or
conviction may be shown for the purpose of affecting his 
credibility.
SEC. 820. Nothing in the preceding section contained
shall, in any manner, affect the laws now existing, relat- 
ing to the settlement of estates of deceased persons, infants,
idiots or lunatics, or the attestation of the execution of
last wills and testaments, or of conveyances of real estate,
or of any other instrument required by law to be attested. 
SEC. 821. Any party to a civil action or proceeding may
compel any adverse party or person, for whose benefit 
such action or proceeding is instituted, prosecuted or de-
fended, at the trial, or by deposition, to testify as a. wit-
ness in the same manner, and subject to the same rules, as 
other witnesses. 
SEC. 822. No party shall be allowed to testify in his own
behalf, in respect to any transaction or communication
had personally by such party with a deceased person, 
when the adverse party is the executor, administrator,
heir at law, next of kin, surviving partner or assignee of 
such deceased person, where they have acquired title to 
the cause of action immediately from such deceased per-
son ; nor shall the assignor of a thing in action be allowed 
to testify in behalf of such party concerning any transao-
tion or communication had personally by such assignor
with a deceased person in· any such case ; nor shall such 
party or assignor be competent to testify to any transac-
tion had personally by such party or assignor with a de-
ceased partner or joint contractor in the absence Qf his
surviving partner or joint contractor, when such surviving
partner or joint contractor is an adverse party. If the
testimony of a party to the action or proceeding has been
taken, and he afterwards die, and the testimony so taken
shall be used after his death, in behalf of his executors,
administrators, heirs at law, next of kin, assignee, surviv-
ing partner or joint contractor, the other party, or the 
assignor, shall be competent to testify as to any and all
matters to which the testimony so taken relates. 
SEc. 323. The following persons shall be incompetent to
testify: First, Persons who are of unsound mind at the 
time of their production for examination. Second, Chil­
dren under ten years of age, who appear incapable of re­
ceiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they 
are examined, or of relating them truly. Third, Husband
and wife, for or against each other, except concerning
transactions in which one acted as the agent of the other,
or when they are joint parties and have a joint interest in
the action; but in no case shall either be permitted totes­
tify concerning any communication made by one to the
other during the marriage, whether called while that rela­
tion subsisted, or afterwards. Fourth, An attorney, con­
cerning any communication made to him by his client, in
that relation, or his advice thereon, without the client's
consent. Fifth, A clergyman or priest, concerning any 
confession made to him in his professional character, in
the course of discipline enjoined by the church to which
he belongs, without the consent of the person making the
confession : Provided, That if a person offer himself as a 
witness, that is to be deemed a consent to the examination ;
also, of an attorney, clergyman or priest on the same sub­
ject, within the meaning of the last two sub-divisions of
this section. 
SEC. 324. The clerks of the several courts, and judges
of the probate courts, shall, on application of any person
having a cause or any matter pending in the court, issue a
su bpena for witnesses, under the seal of the court, insert­ 
ing all the names required by the applicant in one sub­
pena, which may be served by the sheriff, coroner or any
constable of the county, or by the party, or any other
person. When a su bpena is not served by the sheriff,
coroner or constable, proof of service shall be shown by
affidavit; but no costs of service of the same shall be al­
lowed, except when served by an officer. 
SEC. 325. The subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular
time and place, to testify as a witness ; and it may contain
a clause directing the witness to bring with him any 
book, writing or other thing, under his control, which he
is bound by law to produce as evidence. 
SEC. 326. When the attendance of the witness, before
any officer authorized to take depositions, is required, the 
subpena shall be issued by such officer. 
SEC. 327. The su bpena shall be served either by reading
or by copy delivered to the witness, or left at his usual
place of residence ; but such copy need not contain the
name of any other witness. 
SEC. 328. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial of a civil action except in the 
county of his residence, nor to attend to give his deposi-
tion out of the county where he resides, or where he may
be when the subpena is served upon him. 
SEC. 329. A witness may demand his traveling fees and
fee for one day's attendance, when the subpena is served
upon him ; and if the same be not paid, the witness shall 
not be obliged to obey the su bpena. The fact of such
demand and non-payment shall be stated in the return. 
SEC. 330. Disobedience of a su bpena, or refusal to be
sworn or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposi-
tion, when lawfully ordered, may be pu~ished as a con- 
tempt of the court or officer by whom his attendance or
testimony is required. 
SEc. 331. When a witness fails-to attend in obedience to 
a subpena (except in case of a demand and failure to pay
his fees), the court or officer before whom his attendance
is required may issue an attachment to the sheriff, coroner
or constable of' the county, commanding him to arrest and
bring the person therein named before the court or officer,
at a time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give
his testimony and answer for the contempt. If the attach­
ment be not for immediately bringing the witness before
the court or officer, a sum may be fixed in which the wit-
ness may give an undertaking, with surety, for his appear­
ance ; such sum shall be indorsed on the back of the
attachment; and if no sum is so fixed and indorsed, it
shall be one h nndred dollars. If the witness be not per-
sonally served, the court may,· by a rule, order him to 
show cause why an attachment should not issue against
him. 
SEC. 832. The punishment for the contempt mentioned
in section three hundred and thirty-one, shall be as fol- 
lows : When the witness fails to attend, in obedience to 
the su bpena ( except in case of a demand and failure to 
pay his fees), the court or officer may fine the witness in a
sum not exceeding fifty dollars. In other cases, the court
or officer may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty
dollars, or may imprison him in the county jail, there to 
remain until he shall submit to be sworn, testify or give
his deposition. The fine imposed by the court shall be
paid into the county treasury, and that imposed by the
officer shall be for the use of the party for whom the wit­
ness was subpenaed. The witness shall, also, be liable to 
the party injured for any damages occasioned by his fail­
ure to attend, or his refusal to be sworn, testify or give his 
deposition.
SEC. 333. A witness so imprisoned by an officer before 
whom his deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge
of a court of record, who shall have power to discharge
him, if it appears that his imprisonment is illegal. 
SEC. 834. Every attachment for the arrest, or order of 
commitment to prison o a witness y a court or o cer, 
pursuant to this chapter, must be under the seal of the
court or officer, if he have an official seal, and must spec­
ify, particularly, the cause of the arrest or commitment;
and if the commitment be for refusing to answer a ques­
tion, such question must be stated in the order. Such
order of commitment may be directed to the sheriff, coro­
ner or any constable of the county where such witness
resides, or may be at the time, and shall be executed by
committing him to the jail of such county, and delivering
a copy of the order to the jailor. 
SEC. 385. A person confined to any prison in this state,
may, by order of any court of record, be required to be 
produced for oral examination in the county where he is
imprisoned, but in all other cases his examination must
be by deposition. 
SEC. 336. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken,
he shall remain in the custody of the officer having him in
charge, who shall afford reasonable facilities for the taking
of the deposition. 
SEC. 337. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in a
county in which he does not reside, by being served with a
summons in such county, while going, returning or attend­
ing, in obedience to a sn bpena. 
SEC. 338. At the commencement of each day after the
first day, a witness may demand· his fees for that day's 
attendance, in obedience to a su bpena ; and if the same be
not paid, he shall not be required to remain. 
SEC. 339. Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the 
truth. The mode of administering an oath shall be such
as is most binding on the conscience of the witness. An
interpreter may be sworn to interpret truly, whenever
necessary. 
SEC. 340. The testimony of witnesses is taken in three 
modes: First, By affidavits. Second, By deposition.
Third, By oral examination. 
SEc. 341. An affidavit is a written declaration, under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party. 
SEC. 342. A deposition is a written declaration, under
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for the pur- 
pose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine, or upon
written interrogatories. 
SEC. 343. An oral examination is an examination in the
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact
or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or
tribunal from the lips of the witness. 
SEC. 344. An affidavit may be used to verify a pleading, 
to prove the service of a summons, notice or other process
in an action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an examina-
tion of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, 
or in any other case permitted by law. 
SEC. 345. An affidavit may be made in and out of this
state, before any person authorized to take depositions,
and must be authenticated in the same way, except as 
provided for the verification of pleadings. 
SEC. 346. The deposition of any witness may be used 
only in the following cases: First, \Vheµ the witness
does not reside in the county where the action or proceed-
ing is pending, or is sent for trial by change of tenue, or
is absent therefrom. Second; When, from age, infirmity
or imprisonment, the witness is unable to attend court, or
is dead. Third, When the testimony is required upon a 
motion, or in any other case where the oral testimony of 
the witness is not required. 
SEC. 347. Either party may commence taking testimony
by deposition at any time after service upon the defendant. 
SEC. 348. Depositions may be taken in this state before 
a judge or clerk of a court of record, before a county
clerk, justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief 
magistrate of any city or town corporate, or before a 
master commissioner, or any person empowered by a 
special commission; but depositions taken in this state, to
be used therein, must be taken by an officer or person
whose authority is derived within the state. 
SEC. 349. Depositions may be taken out of this state by
a judge, justice or chancellor of any court of record, a 
justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magis­
trate of any city or town corporate, a commissioner
appointed by the governor of this state to take deposi­
tions, or any person authorized by a special commission
from this state. 
SEC. 350. The officer before whom depositions are taken
must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or other­
wise interested in the event of the action or proceeding. 
SEC. 351. Any court of record of this state, or any judge
thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depo­
sitions within or without the state. The commission must
be issued to a person or persons therein named, by the
clerk, under the seal of the court granting the same ; and 
depositlons under it must be taken upon written interroga-
tori es, unless the parties otherwise agree. 
SEC. 852. Prior to the taking of any deposition, unless 
taken under a special commission, a written notice, speci- 
fying the action or proceeding, the name of the court or
tribunal in which it is to be used, and the time and place 
of taking the same, shall be served upon the adverse
party, his agent or attorney of record, or left at his usual 
place of residence. The notice shall be served so as to
allow the adverse party sufficient time, by the usual route
of travel, to attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive 
of Sunday and the day of service ; and the examination
may, if so stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to
day. 
SEc. 353. When the party against whom the deposition 
is to be read is absent from or a non-resident of the state,
and has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be
notified of the taking of the deposition by publication.
The publication must be made three consecutive weeks, in
some newspaper printed in the county where the action or
proceeding is 'pending, if there be any printed in such
county, and if not, in some newspaper printed in this
state, of general circulation in the county. The publica­
tion must contain all that is required in a written notice,
and may be proved in the-manner prescribed for service
by publication at the commencement of the action. 
SEc. 354. The deposition shall be written in the presence
of the officer taking the same, either by the officer, the
witness or some disinterested person, and subscribed by 
the witness. 
SEC- 355. The deposition, so taken, shall be sealed up
and indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of 
the officer taking the same, and by him addressed and
transmitted to the clerk of the court where the action or 
proceeding is pending. It shall remain under seal until
opened by the clerk by order of the court, or at the
req nest of a party to the action or proceeding, or his 
attorney. 
SEC. 856. The depositions taken pursuant to this article
shall be admitted in evidence on the trial of any civil 
action or proceeding, pending before any justice of the
peace, mayor or other judicial _officer, arbitrator or referee. 
SEC. 857. When a deposition has been once taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceed- 
ing, or in any other action or proceeding upon the same
matter between the same parties, subject, however, to all
such exceptions as may be taken thereto under the provi-
sions of this artlcle. 
SEC. 358. Depositions taken pursuant to this article, by
any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take dep-
ositions, having a seal of office, whether resident in this
state or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence, upon the 
certificate and signature of such officer, under the seal of
the court of which he is an officer, or his official seal; and
no other or further act of authentication shall be required.
If the officer taking the same have no official seal, the dep-
osition, if not taken in this state, shall be certified and
signed by such officer, and shall be further authenticated,
either by "parol proof, adduced in court, or by _the official 
certificate and seal of any secretary or other officer of the
territory keeping the great seal thereof, or of the clerk or
prothonotary of any court having a seal, attesting that
such judicial or other officer was, at the time of taking the
same, duly qualified, and acting as such officer. But if
the deposition be taken within this state by an officer hav­
ing no seal, or within or without this state under a special 
commission, it shall be sufficiently authenticated. by the
official signature of the officer or commissioner taking the
same. 
SEC. 359. The officer taking the deposition shall annex
thereto a certificate, showing the following facts : That the
witness was first sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth ; that the deposition was re­
duced to writing by some proper person, naming him;
that the deposition was written and subscribed in the pres­
ence of the officer certifying thereto ; that the deposition
was taken at the time and place specified in the notice. 
SEC. 360. When a deposition is offered to be read in
evidence, it must appear to the satisfaction of the court
that, for any cause specified in section three hundred and 
forty-six, the attendance of the witness cannot be procured.
SEC. 361. Every deposition intended to be read in evi­ 
dence on the trial, must be filed at least one day before
the day of trial. 
SEc. 362. The following fees shall be allowed for taking
depositions in this state, viz : Swearing each witness, ten
cents ; for each su bpena, attachment or order of commit­
ment, fifty cents; for each hundred words contained in
such deposition and certificate, fifteen cents, and no more ;
and such officer may retain the same until such fees are
paid ; such officer shall also tax the costs of the sheriff or
other officer who shall serve the process aforesaid, and fees
of the witnesses, and may, also, if directed by the person
entitled thereto, retain such deposition until the said fees 
are paid. 
SEc. 363. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing,
specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the
papers in the cause. 
SEC. 364. No exception other than for incompetency or
irrelevancy shall be regarded, unless made and filed be­
fore the commencement of the trial. 
SEc. 866. The court shall, on motion of either party,
hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to
depositions, before the commencement of the trial,. 
SEC. 366. Errors of the court, in its decisions upon ex­
ceptions to depositions, are waived, unless excepted to. 
SEC. 367. Either party may exhibit to the other, or to his
attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or docu­
ment material to the action, and request an admission, in 
writing, of its genuineness. If the ad verse party, or his
attorney, fail to give the admission in writing within four
days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the 
paper or document be afterward put to any cost or expense 
to prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved
or admitted on the trial, such costs and expenses, to be 
~scertained at the tri~l, ~hall be pa~d by the party ref us-
mg to make the admission, unless it shall appear to the> 
satisfaction of the court that there were good reasons for
the refusal. IP//" 2- 
SEC. 368. Either party, or his attorney, may demand of the adverse pa y an mspec on an copy, or penmssion 
to take a copy, of a book, paper or document in his pos-
session or under his control, containing evidence relating 
to the merits of the action or defense therein. Such de­
mand shall be in writing, specifying the book, paper or
document with sufficient particularity to enable the other
party to distinguish it, and if compliance with the demand,
within four days, be refused, the court or juclge, on motion
and notice to the adverse party, may, in their discretion,
order the adverse party to give to the other, within a speci­
fied time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a, 
copy, of such book, paper or document ; and on failure to
comply with such order, the court may exclude the paper
or document from being given in evidence, or, if wanted
as evidence by the party applying, may direct the jury to 
presume it to be such as the party, by affidavit, alleges it
to be. This section is not to be construed to prevent a, 
party from compelling another to produce any book,
paper or document when he is examined as a witness. 
SEc. 369. Either party, or his attorney, if required, shall 
deliver to the other party, or his attorney, a copy of any 
deed, instrument or other writing whereon the action or 
defense is founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence
at the trial. If the plaintiff' or defendant shall refuse to 
furnish the copy or copies required, the party so refusing
shall not be permitted to give in evidence, at the trial, the
original of which a copy has been refused. This section 
shall not apply to any paper, a copy of which is filed
with a pleading. 
SEc. 370. Printed copies in volumes of statutes, codes
other written law, enacted by any other state or terri- 
tory, or foreign government, purporting or proved to have ·
been published by the authority thereof, or proved to be 
commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law in the
courts or tribunals of such state, territory or government, 
shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this state,
on "all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws.
The unwritten or common law of any other state, territory
or foreign government, may be proved as facts by parol
evidence ; and the books of reports of cases adjudged in
their courts, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence
of such law. 
SEc. 371. Copies of records and proceedings in the courts
of a foreign country may be admitted in evidence, upon
being authenticated as follows: First, By the official
attestation of the clerk or officer in whose custody such
records are legally kept ; and, Second, By the certificate 
of one of the judges or magistrates of such court, that the
person so attesting is the clerk or officer legally intrnsted
with the custody of such records, and that the signature 
to his attestation is genuine ; and, TMrd, By the official
certificate of the officer who has the custody of the princi­ 
pal seal of the government under whose authority the
court is held, attested by said seal, stating that such court
is duly constituted, specifying the general nature of its
jurisdiction, and verifying the seal of' the court. 
SEc. 872. Copies of all papers authorized or required by
law to be filed or recorded in any public office, or of any
record required by law to be made or kept in any such
office, duly certified by the officer having the legal custody
of such paper or record, under his official seal, if he have 
one, may be received in evidence with the same effect as
the original, when such original is not in the possession
or under the control of the party desiring to use the
same. 
SEc. 373. The printed statute books of this state, or of 
the territory of Kansas, printed under authority, shall be
evidence of the private acts therein contained. 
SEC. 374. Copies of any act, law or resolution contained 
in the printed statute books of the states and territories
of the United States, purporting to be printed by author- 
ity, and which are now or may be hereafter deposited in
the office of the secretary of this state, and req nired by
law to be kept there, certified under the hand and seal of
office of the secretary of this state, shall be admitted as 
evidence.
SEc. 375. The printed books containing the acts of the 
congress of the United States, purporting to be published
by authority of congress, or by authority of the United
States, shall be evidence of the laws, public or private,
general, local or special, therein contained. · 
SEC. 376. Public documents, purporting to be edited or
printed by authority of congress, or either house. thereof, 
shall be evidence to the same extent that authenticated
copies of the same would be. 
SEC. 377. Copies of proceedings before justices of the
peace, certified by the justice before whom the proceedings 
are had, shall be evidence of such proceedings.
SEc. 378. Copies of proceedings had before a justice of 
the peace, where such justice IS out of office, certified by
the justice who is in possession of the docket and papers 
of such justice, shall be received in evidence in any court
in this state. 
SEC. 379. Printed copies of the ordinances, resolutions,
rules, orders and by-laws of any city or incorporated town
in this state, published by authority of such city orincor- 
porated town, and manuscript copies of the same, certified
under the hand of the proper officer, and having the cor- 
porate seal of such city or town affixed thereto, shall be
received as evidence. 
SEC. 380. When, by ordinance or custom of any religi-
ous society or congregation in this state, a register is re-
quired to be kept of marriages, births, baptisms, deaths
or interments, such register shall be admitted as evidence. 
SEC. 381. Copies of the register referred to in the pre-
ceding section, certified by the pastor or other head of any 
such society or congregation, or by the clerk or other
keeper of such register, and verified by his affidavit in
writing, shall be received in evidence. 
SEC. 382. Whenever any written evidence in a cause 
shall be in a language other than the English, a written
translation thereof, in the English language, made by a
competent translator, and verified by his affidavit, may be 
read in evidence instead of the original, if such original
be competent evidence. 
SEC. 383. The usual duplicate receipt of the receiver of
any land office, or, if that be lost or destroyed, or beyond 
the reach of the party, the certificate of such receiver that
the books of his office show the sale of a tract of land to a
certain individual, is proof of title equivalent to a patent
against all but the holder of an actual patent. 
SEC. 384. Copies of all papers and documents, lawfully
deposited in the office of the register or receiver of any 
land office of the United States within this state, and copies
of any official letter or communication, received by the
register or receiver of any such land office, from any
department of the government of the United States, when
duly certified by the register or receiver having the custody
of such paper, document, letter or other official communi­
cation, shall be received in evidence in the same manner
and with like effect as the originals. 
SEC. 385. Exemplifications from the books of any of the
departments of the government of the United States, or of
any papers filed therein, shall be admitted in ·evidence
in the same manner and with like effect as the originals,
when attested by the officer having the custody of such
originals. 
SEc. 386. The signature of the officer to any certificate
or document herein before mentioned, shall be presumed 
to be genuine until the contrary is shown.
SEC. 387. Entries in books of account may be admitted 
in evidence, when it is made to appear by the oath of the
person who made the entries, that such entries are correct,
and were made at or near the time of the transaction to 
which they relate, or upon proof of the handwriting of the
person who made the entries, in case of his death or
absence from the county. 
SEC. 388. The testimony of a witness may be perpetu­ 
ated in the manner hereinafter provided.
SEc. 389. The applicant shall file in the office of the 
clerk of the district court a petition, to be verified, in 
which shall be set forth, specially, the subject matter 
relative to which testimony is to be taken, and the names
of the persons interested, if known to the applicant; and
if not known, such general description as he can give of
such persons, as heirs, devisees, alienees or otherwise.
The petition shall also state the names of the witnesses to 
be examined, and the interrogatories to be propounded to 
each ; that the applicant expects to be a party to an action
in a court of this state, in which such testimony will, as
he believes, be material, and the obstacles preventing the
immediate commencement of the action, where the appli­
cant expects to be plaintiff. 
SEC. 890. The court, or a judge thereof, in vacation,
may forthwith make an order allowing the examination
of such witnesses. The order shall prescribe the time and
place of the examination, how long the parties interested
shall be notified thereof, and the manner in which they
shall be notified. 
SEc. 391. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or
judge that the parties interested cannot be personally noti­ 
fied, such court or judge shall appoint a competent attor­
ney to examine the petition, and prepare and file cross­
Interrogatories to those contained therein. The witnesses
shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the appli­
cant, and upon cross-interrogatories, where they are re­
quired to be prepared, and no others shall be propounded 
to them ; nor shall any statement be received which is not
responsive to some one of them. The attorney filing the
cross-interrogatories shall be allowed a reasonable fee
therefor, to be taxed ~ the bill of costs. · 
SEC. 392. Such depositions shall be taken before some
one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some
one specially authorized by the court or judge, and shall
be returned to the office of the clerk of the court in which
the petition was filed. 
SEc. 393. The court or judge, if satisfied that the depo­ 
sitions have been properly ta.ken, and as herein required, 
shall approve the same and order them to be filed ; and if 
a trial be had between the parties named in the petition,
or their privies or successors in interest, such depositions,
or certified copies thereof, may be given in evidence by
either party, where the witnesses are dead · or insane, or
where attendance for oral examination cannot be obtained 
or required; but such depositions shall be subject to the 
same objections for irrelevancy and incompetency as may
be made to depositions taken pending an action. 
SEC. 394. The applicant shall pay the costs of all such proceedings.

ARTICLE XVII. ., 
j ~ I 1)1 · J GP :J 
, ,;6/> Judgmmt. I~ 
396. Judgment, what ls. f 407. Warrant or attorney to l r,roduce: 
896. May be given for or against whom, &c.
&c. 408. Person In custody may authorize con- 
m. Action may be dlsmlBBed withontpreJ- feB1:Jlon of Jndgment, how. /,,,;.,
udlce, in what oases. KANNER OJ' GIVING A.ND ENTERING lUDGXBNT. 
898. When defendant may proceed to trial, 409. Judgment to conform to verdict.
altbongh plaintiff may have failed 410. Jndgment on special verdict, or case 
to appear, &c. reversed.
899. Mortgaged property to be sold. 411. Judgment contrary to the verdict. //, 
400. Judgment for conveyance, etc., to 412. For defendant in cases of counter/
operate aa such; sheriff may be claim, set-off, etc.
ordered to execute conveyance. 413. Against infants. 
401. How account may be taken, proof 414. Judgments and orders to be entered
heard, and damages aseeseed. on Journal. 
lUDOJDNT BY CONl'EBBION. 415. Record to be made, when.
ft. Defendant may conrese judgment, 416. When to be made up and signed .
403. Judgment may be entered upon con- 417. Shall consist or what. 
fession by an authorized attorney. 418. Further time to complete record;
404. Pleadings In such cases. Judge to sign.
405. Affidavit or defendant. 419. Judgment a lien on real estate, from
406. Exec:.ution; confeuion a roleaso er what time ; may be entered, and be 
errors. a Jien in another court; execution
shall be Issued, from what court. 
SEC. 395. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of the parties in an action. 
SEC. 396. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more
of several defendants ; it may determine the ultimate
rights of the parties on either side, as between themselves,
and it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief
to which he maybe entitled. In an action against several
defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judg­
ment against one or more of them, leaving the action to
proceed against the others whenever a 'several judgment
may be proper. The court may also dismiss the petition
with costs, in favor of one or more defendants, in case of
unreasonable neglect on the part of the plaintiff to serve
the summons on other defendants, or proceed in the cause
against the defendant or defendants served. 
SEC. 397. An action may be dismissed, without preju­
dice to a future action: First, By the plaintiff, before
the final submission of the case to the jury, or to the court, 
where the trial is by the court. Second, By the court,
where the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial. Third, 
By the court, for the want of necessary parties. Fourth, 
By the court, on the application of some of the defendants,'
where there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prose- 
cute with diligence. Fifth, By the court, for disobedience
by the plaintiff of an order concerning the proceedings in
the action. Sixth, In all other cases, upon the trial of the
action, the decision must be upon the merits. 
SEc. 398. In any case where a set-off or counter-claim 
has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of
proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintiff
may have dismissed his action or failed to appear. 
SEC. 399. In actions to enforce a mortgage or other lien
or charge, a personal judgment shall be rendered for the
amount due, with interest, and for the sale of the proper-
ty charged, and the application of the proceeds; or such 
application may be reserved for the further order of the/j
court. When the same mortgage em braces separate tracts 
of land, situated in two or more counties, the sheriff of /~J;:,f' 
each county shall make sale of the lands situated in the
county of which he is sheriff. No real estate within this
state shall be sold for the payment of any money, in"/ 
security for which it may have been pledged, except in
pursuance of a judgment of a court of competent juris- 
diction, ordering such sale. /.:~/,·'_/..;-- If_:·
SEC. 400. When a judgment shall be rendered for a
conveyance, release or acquittance, in aay court of this 
state, and the party against whom the judgment shall be
rendered does not comply therewith by the time appointed, 
such judgment shall have the same operation and effect,
and be as available, as if the conveyance, release or ac- 
quittance had been executed conformably to such judg-
ment ; or the court may order such conveyance, -release or
acquittance to be executed in the first instance by the
sheriff; and such conveyance, release or acquittance, so
executed, shall have the same effect as if executed by the
party against whom the judgment was rendered. This section shall apply to decrees rendered or to be rendered
in suits now pending. 
SEc. 401. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a
fact, or the assessment of damages, be necessary to enable
the court to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer,
or after a decision of an issue of law, the court may, with 
the assent of the party not in default, take the account,
hear the proof, or assess the damages; or may, with the
like assent, refer the same to a referee or master commis­
sioner, or may direct the same to be ascertained or assessed
by a jury. If a jury be ordered, it shall be on or after the
day on which the action is set for trial. 
SEC. 402. Any person indebted, or against whom a cause
of action exists, may personally appear in a court of com- 
petent jurisdiction, and, with the assent of the creditor or
person having such cause of action, confess judgment
therefor ; whereupon judgment shall be entered accord-
ingly. 
SEC. 403. Judgments may be entered upon confession 

by an attorney, authorized for that purpose by a warrant
of attorney, acknowledged or proved as conveyances of
land, without any previous · process or proceeding ; and 
judgments so entered shall be a lien from the date of
entry. 
SEC. 404. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly
stated in the judgment, or in writing, to be filed as plead­
ings in other actions. 
SEC. 405. Before any judgment shall be entered bycon-
fession, an affidavit of the defendant must be filed, stating 
concisely the facts on which the indebtedness arose, and
that the amount of such indebtedness is justly due and
owing by the defendant to the plaintiff. 
SEc. 406. Such judgment shall authorize the same pro­
ceedings for its enforcement as judgments rendered in
actions regularly brought and prosecuted; and the confes­
sion shall operate as a release of errors. 
SEC. 407. Every attorney, who shall confess judgment
in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession, 
produce the warrant of attorney for making the same to
the court before which he makes the confession, and the
original, or a copy of the warrant, shall be filed with the
clerk of the court in which the judgment shall be entered. 
SEC. 408. If any person be in custody in a civil action,
at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney, executed
by the person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of
the person at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any
force, unless some attorney, expressly named by the person 
in custody, be present and sign the warrant of attorney
as a witness. 
SEC. 409. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be entered by the clerk in conformity to the verdict, 
unless it is special, or the court order the case to be re-
served for future argument or consideration. 
SEc. 410. Where the verdict is special, or where there
has been a special :finding on particular questions of fact, 
or where the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it
shall order what judgment shall be entered. 
SEC. 411. Where, upon the statement in the pleadings,
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, 
judgment shall be so rendered by the court, though a.
verdict has been found against such party. 
SEC. 412. If a counter-claim or set-off, established at the
trial, exceed the plaintiff's claim so established, judgment
for the defendant must be given for the excess; or if it 
appear that the defendant is entitled to any affirmative
relief, judgment shall be given therefor. 
SEC. 413. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a judg-
mentor order, the right of an infant to show cause against 
it a.ft.er his attaining full age; but in any case in which,
but for this section, such reservation would have been 
proper, the infant, within one year after arriving at the age
of twenty-one years, may show cause against such order 
or judgment. 
SEC. 414. All judgments and orders must be entered on
the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief 
granted or order made in [the] action. 
SEC. 415. The clerk shall make a complete record of
every cause as soon as it finally determined, whenever 
such record shall be ordered by the court. 
SEC. 416. He shall make up such record, in each cause,
in the vacation next after the term at which the same was 
determined ; and the presiding judge of such court shall,
at its next term thereafter, subscribe the same. 
SEC. 417. The record shall be made up from the peti-
tion, the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, 
reports, verdicts, orders, judgments, and all material acts
and proceedings of the court ; but if the items of an ac-
count, or the copies of papers attached to the pleadings,
be voluminous, the court may order the record to be made 
by abbreviating the same, or inserting a pertinent descrip­
tion thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evidence must
not be recorded. 
SEC. 418. When the judicial acts Jr other proceedings
of any court have not been regularly brought up and re­
corded by the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the
same to be made up and recorded within such time as it
may direct. When they are made up, and, upon exami­ 
nation, found to be correct, the presiding judge of such
court shall subscribe the same. 
SEc. 419. Judgments of courts of record, of this state,
and of courts of the United States rendered within this 
state, shall be liens on the real estate of the debtor, within
the county in which the judgment is rendered, from the 
first day of the term at which the judgment is rendered;
but judgments by confession, and judgments rendered at
the same term during which the action was commenced,
shall bind such lands only from the day on which such
judgment was rendered. An attested copy of the journal
entry of any judgment, together with a statement of the
costs taxed against the debtor in the case, may be filed in
the office of the clerk of the district court of any county,
and such judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the 
debtor, within that county, from the date of filing such
copy. The clerk shall ent.er such judgment on the appear­ 
ance and judgment dockets in the same manner as if ren­ 
dered in the court of which he is clerk. Executions shall
only be issued from the court in which the judgment is 
rendered. 
SEc. 420. In addition to the causes of action which snr- 
vive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or
for an injury to the person, or to real or personal estate,
or for any deceit or fraud, shall also survive ; and the action
may be brought, notwithstanding the death of the person 
entitled or liable to the same.
SEc. 421. No action pending in any court shall abate by 
the death of either or both the parties thereto, except an 
action for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, for a nui­
sance, or against a justice of the peace for misconduct in
office, which shall abate by the death of the defendant. 
SEC. 422. When the death of one is caused by the
wrongful act or omission of another, the personal repre­ 
sentatives of the former may maintain an action therefor
against the latter, if the former might have maintained an
action had he lived, against the latter for an injury for the
same act or omission. The action must be commenced 
within two years. The damages cannot exceed ten
thousand dollars, and must inure to the exclusive benefit
of the widow and children, if any, or next of kin, to be 
distributed in the same manner as personal property of
the deceased. 
ARTICLE 
I 413. Where one of 1everal plalntlfl's, &c.,
dies, If cause of action survive, the 
action may proceed.
61. Trial may proceed, as against remain· 
Ing parties, when one party dies,
and cause or action does not aurvlve. 
fi5. Action may be revived, and proceed
in name of repreaentatlve, when. 
es. Proceedings to revive.
ffl. The aame. 
.as. The same.
.fi9. The aame.
480. In whoee name revived when plaintiff 
dies.
481. When defendant dle111.
412. When defendant In real action dies. 
ARTICLE XIX. 
I 433. Must be revived against representa­ 
tlve, of defendant In one year.
434. Order to revive may be made, with 
consent, after one year.
435. Ir action not revl ved, how disposed of.
436. The aame.
487. Trial or revived action shall be had, 
when. 
BEVTVOB, .um lOW PARTIBS TO .JUDGXBNT, 
488. Joint debtors not originally summon­
ed; may be made parties to Judg·
ment by action. 
'89. Where one or both parties die after
Judgment. 
440. Dormant judgment. how revived. 
SEC. 423. Where there are several plaintiffs or defend­
ants in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as
personal representative cease, if the right of action survive
to or against the remaining parties the action may pro­
ceed, the death of the party or the cessation of his powers 
being stated on the record.\ . 
SEc. 424. Where one of several plaintiffs or defend­
ants dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, 
if the cause of action do not admit of survivorship, and
the court is of opinion that the merits of the controversy
can be properly determined and the principles applicable
to the case fully settled, it may proceed to try the same
as between the remaining parties; but the judgment shall
not prejudice any who were not parties at the time of trial. 
SEC. 425. When one of the parties to an action dies, or
his powers as a personal representative cease before the 
judgment, if the right of action survive in favor of or
against his representatives or successors, the action may
be revived and proceed in their names. 
SEC. 426. The revivor shall be by an order of the court,
if made in term, or by a judge thereof, if in vacation,
that the action be revived in the names of the representa­
tives or successor of the party who died, or whose powers
ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them. 
SEC. 427. The order may be made on the motion of the
adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of
the party who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting
his death or the cessation of his powers, which, with the
names and capacities of his representatives or successor,
shall be stated in the order. 
SEC. 428. If the order is made by consent of the parties,
the action shall forthwith stand revived ; and, if not made
by consent, notice of the application for such order shall 
be served in the same manner and returned within the
same time as a summons, upon the party adverse to the
one making the motion ; and if sufficient cause be not
shown against the revivor, the order shall be made. 
SEc. 429. When the plaintiff shall make an affidavit
that the representatives of the defendant, or any one of
them, in whose name it is desired to have the action
revived, are non-residents of the state, or have left the
same to avoid the service of the order [notice], or so con­
cealed themselves that the order [notice] cannot be served
upon them, or that the names and residence of the heirs 
or devisees of the person against whom ·the action may be 
ordered to be revived, or some of them, are unknown to 
the affiant, a notice may be published for three consecutive
weeks, notifying them to appear on a day therein named, 
not less than ten days after the publication is complete, and
show cause why the action should not be revived against
them; and, if sufficient cause be not shown to the contrary,
the order shall be made. 
SEC. 430. Upon the death of the plaintiff in an action,
it may be revived in the names of his representatives, to
whom his right has passed. Where his right has passed 
to his personal representatives, the revivor shall be in
their names ; where it has passed to his heirs or devisees, 
who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor
may be in their names. 
SEc. 431. Upon the death of a defendant in an action,
wherein the right, or any part thereof, survives against his
personal representatives, the revivor shall be against them; 
and it may, also, be against the heirs and devisees of the
defendant, or both, when the right of action, or any part
thereof, survives against them. 
SEC. 432. Upon the death of a defendant in an action
for the recovery of real property only, or which concerns
only his rights or claims to such property, the action may
be revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an
order therefor may be forthwith made, in the manner di-
rected in the preceding sections of this article. 
SEC. 433. An order to revive an action against the rep-
resentatives or successor of a defendant shall not be made 
without the consent of such representatives or successor,
unless in one year from the time it could have been first 
made. 
SEC. 434. An order to revive an action, in the names of
the representatives or successor of a plaintiff, may be 
made forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent
of the defendant, after the expiration of one year from the 
time the order might have been first made; but where the
defendant shall also have died, or his powers have ceased,
in the meantime, the order of revivor, on both sides, may
be made in the period limited in the last section. 
SEc. 435. When it appears to the court, by affidavit,
that either party to an action has died, or where a party 
sues or is sued as a personal representative, that his
powers have ceased for a period so long that the action 
cannot be revived in the names of his representatives or
successor, without the consent of both parties, it shall 
order the action to be stricken from the docket. 
SEC. 436. At any term of the court succeeding the death
of the plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket,
the defendant having given the plaintiff's proper repre­
sentatives, in whose name the action might be revived, ten
days' notice of the application therefor, may have an order 
to strike the action from the docket, and for costs against
the estate of the plaintiff, unless the action is forthwith 
revived. 
SEc. 437. When, by the provisions of the preceding sec-
tions, an action is revived, the trial thereof shall not be 
postponed by reason of the revivor, if the action would
have stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete,
had no death or cessation of powers taken place. 
SEC. 438. When a judgment is recovered against one or
more persons, jointly indebted upon contract, those who
were not originally summoned may be made parties to the
judgment, by action. 
SEC. 439. If either or both parties die after judgment,
and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real
or personal, or both, as the case may require, may be 
made parties to the same, in the same manner as is pre­
scribed for reviving actions before judgment ; and such
judgment may be rendered, and execution awarded, as
might or ought to be given or awarded against the repre­
sentatives, real or personal, or both, of such deceased 
party. 
SEc. 440. If a judgment become dormant, it may be re-.
vived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving
actions before judgment. 
ARTICLE 
f 441. Executions, bow Issued.
441. Kinds or executions. 
BXJl:CUTIONS AGAINST TUB PROPERTY OJ' THE 
.JUDGJU:NT DEBTOR, 
448. Property subject to levy.
444. To be bound, from what time. 
445. Judgment becomes dormant, when.
446. Execution agatut property ; Its com- 
mand and Indorsement,
447. Preference given to exeentlons,
448. Goods and chattels to be fll"llt taken.
449. Proceedings when property levled on 
ls claimed by third person.
460. Bond ror delivery when goods remain 
unsold ; breach of bond.
41i1. Notice or sale or goods on execution; 
inventory or unsold goods to be
annexed to execution. 
4152. When property insufficient, other
property to be levied on. 
458. Appralsement or lands levied on.
4M. Copy or appralsement to be deposited 
with clerk. 
4M. Llen of Judgment restricted to two­
thlrds or appraised value. 
4116. Property of certain officers to be sold
without apprai.eement. 
ARTICLE XX. 
Ezecution,. 
i 457. Notice or sale or lands.
458. Confirmation ; officer may retain pur· 
chase money untn sale conftrmed.
41>9. Deed to be given by sheriff:
460. Printer's fees may be required in ad­ 
vance.
481. Must be demanded before retusal to 
advertise sale.
482. Sales of land to bo held, where ; offi­ 
cer not to purchase.
463. Other executions may Isane, when.
484. Proceedings when creditors require 
separate levies to be made in separate
parcels of land. 
466. Bucceseor or sherUf may make deed,
when. 
466. Overplus of money, how disposed ot
487. Effect or reversal or Judgment on title 
or purchaser. . 
468. Judgment to lose its preference, If
execution not levied in one year,
unless, &c.; new appralsement may 
be ordered, when.
469. Writ of execution returnable, when.
470. Judgment.II against principal and 
surety, how entered; execution In
such cue. 
I m. Feea or appn.taera ; penalty for not
appearing. 
ffl. Llablllty ohherlff' for neglect or duty.
473. IJablllty or clerk.
4'14. Penalty for withholding money.
4'm. Proceedings when execution is iaued 
to eberUI' or county other than that 
in which Judgment was rendered.
478. Beturn or execution by mall. 
m. SherUr not to send money by mail, nn­ 
le• Instructed ; notice to amerce 
Bherlff' or other county.
4'i8. Bow auretiea may be made partiee to 
Judgment.
411. Offl.cer may have execution on origlnal 
Judgment.
480. Party who pays more than hie share 
may compel contribution. 
PROCEKDIN08 IN ill> o• llKOUTIOK. 
481. Bqultable interests, stocks, etc., or
debtor, may be subjected to pay­
ment or Judgment, when and bow. 
48l. Debtor required to answer concerning
his property, when. 
483. Proof required or creditor before order
ehall lYue. 
484. Debtor may be arrested, when; ex­
amination. 
485. Not excused from anawerlng on
ground or fraud. 
& Debtor may pay execution agaimt h1B
creditor. 
48'1'. Party indebted to Judgment debtor
may be requlred to appear. 
488. Witncues may be required to te1tUy.
489. 'l'eatimony, how taken.
GO. Property or Judgment debtor in hands 
of other person may be applied.
491. Judge may appoint receiver, and for­ 
bid tranaf'er or property.
491. When receiver may sell equitable in­ 
tere1t in real estate; eale, how con­
ducted. 
493. When sheriff' appointed receiver,
sureties liable; other persons to
give bond. 
I 4M. Receiver eball be veeted with what
property ; may collect &&me and
apply, how. 
a. Court may order delivery to receiver
or notes, bills, etc. 
488. Proceedings may be continued.
4"7. Judge may order reference.
498. Disobedience or order, bow punlahed.
499. Ordere to be In writing, and signed.
l!OO. Compeneation.
601. Fees of clerk.
60I. Proceedings when execution returned 
nn1atlded.
II08. The same. 
11()4. The same. 
UUUTIOXB AGAINBT TIIB PBB801'. 
l50IS. Execution against person or debtor
ahall require, what. 
606, May be laaued, when. 
Wl'. By whom and how allowed.
l508. May be iBBned by Jnstice, when.
!509. May IMue or course, when.
510. Person ehall be discharged, how.
511. EnUUed to prilOn bounds; execution 
against property may iYue.
511. Death or debtor no satlstaction or 
Judgment.
513. Debtor discharged IC not charged In 
execunon within ten daya.-
514. or dlecbarge in general 
KDCUTIONII J'OB Tin: DBLIVERY OJ' BBAL .A.ND 
PBB80NAL PBOPKBTY. 
515. Shall require, what.
516. EnCorced by attachment, when. 
llBCUTION8 IN 8PBOI.A.L O.AJIU. 
517. Shall conform to Judgment or order of
court; execution may l88ue for bal·
ance unsaUefted. 
DOOJt'BTING .JUDOJONTS o• .JU8TIO. OJ' TJDI
PB.A.CB, AND BXl:CUTIOXS TBUEON. 
518. Transcript or Judgment rendered by
Justice may be lled In dletrlct court. 
519. Shall operate aa a lien, when.
520. Execution thereon. 
91. Amount paid to be certl4ed on tran­
script. 
m. Dormant Judgment, how revived. 
SEC. 441. Executions shall be deemed process of the
court, and shall be issued by the clerk and directed to the
sheriff of the county. They may be directed to different
counties at the same time. 
SEc. 442. Executions are of four kinds : First, .Against
the property of the judgment debtor. Second, Against
his person. Third, For the delivery of the possession of
real or personal property, with damages for withholding
the same, and costs. Fourth, Executions in special cases. 
SEc. 443. Lands, tenements, goods and chattels; not 
exempt by law, shall be subject to the payment of debts,
and shall be liable to be taken on execution and sold, as
hereinafter provided. 
SEc. 444. All real estate, not bound by the lien of the
judgment, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor,
shall be bound from the time they shall be seized in exe­
cution. 
SEC. 445. If execution shall not be sued out within five
years from the date of any judgment that now is or may
hereafter be rendered, in any court of record in this state,
or if five years shall have intervened between the date of
the last execution issued on such judgment and the time
of suing out another writ of execution thereon, such
judgment shall become dormant, and shall cease to operate
as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor. 
SEc. 446. The writ of execution against the property of
the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in
this state, shall command the officer to whom it is di­ 
rected, that of the goods and chattels of the debtor he
cause to be made the money specified in the writ ; and for
want of goods and chattels, he cause the same to be made
of the lands and tenements of the debtor ; and the amount
of the debt, damages and costs, for which the judgment
is entered, shall be indorsed on the execution. 
SEc. 447. When two or more writs of execution against
the same debtor shall be sued out during the term in
which judgment was rendered, or within ten days there­
after, and when two or more writs of execution against
the same debtor shall be delivered to the officer on the
same day, no preference shall be given to either of such
writs ; but if a sufficient sum of money be not made to
satisfy all [such] executions, the amount made shall be
distributed to the several creditors in proportion to the
amount of their respective demands. In all other cases,
the writ of execution first delivered to the officer shall be
first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the officer to 
indorse on every writ of execution the time when he re­ 
ceived the same; but nothing herein contained shall be 
so construed as to affect any preferable lien which one or
more of the judgments, on which execution issued, may
have on the lands of the judgment debtor. 
SEC. 448. The officer to whom a writ of execution is 
delivered, shall proceed immediately to levy the same
upon the goods and chattels of the debtor; but if no 
goods and chattels can be found, the officer shall indorse
on the writ of execution "No goods," and forthwith levy
the writ of execution upon the lands and tenements of the
debtor, which may be liable, to satisfy the judgment. 
SEc. 449. If the officer, by virtue of an execution issued
from any court of record in this state, shall levy the same 
on any goods and chattels claimed by any person other
than the defendant, or be requested by the plaintiff' to 
levy on any such goods and chattels, the officer may re-
quire the plaintiff to give him an undertaking, with good
and sufficient securities, to pay all costs and damages
that he may sustain by reason of the detention or sale of
such property ; and until such undertaking shall be given,
the officer may refuse to proceed as against such property. 
SEc. 450. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner or other
officer shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any
goods and chattels which shall remain upon his hands 
unsold, for want of bidders, for the want of time to adver- 
tise and sell, or any other reasonable cause, the officer
may, for his own security, take of the defendant an un-
dertaking, with security, in such sum as he may deem
sufficient, to the effect that the said property shall be deliv-
ered to the officer holding an execution for the sale of the
same, at the time and place appointed by said officer, 
either by notice" given in writing, to said defendant in
execution, or by advertisement, published in a newspaper
printed in the county, naming therein the day and place
of sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver the goods
and chattels at the time and place mentioned in the notice
to him given, or to pay to the officer holding the execution
the full value of said goods and chattels, or the amount
of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given as afore- 
said, may be proceeded on as in other cases. 
SEC. 451. The officer who levies upon goods and chat- 
tels, by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record,
before he proceeds to sell the same shall cause public
notice to be given of the time and place of sale, for at 
least ten days before the day of sale. The notice shall be
given by advertisement, published in some newspaper
printed in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed
therein, by setting up advertisements in five public places
in the county. Two advertisements shall be put up in the
township where the sale is to be held; and where goods
and chattels levied upon cannot be sold for want of bid- 
ders, the officer making such return shall annex to the
execution a true and perfect inventory of such goods and
chattels, and the plaintiff in such execution may there­
upon sue out another writ of execution, directing the sale
of the property levied upon as aforesaid; but such goods
and chattels shall not be sold, unless the time and place
of sale be advertised, as herein before provided. 
SEC. 452. When any writ shall issue, directing the sale
of property previously taken in execution, the officer issu­ 
ing said writ shall, at the request of the person entitled to
the benefit thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a
command to the officer to whom such writ shall be directed,
that if the property remaining in his hands not sold shall,
in his opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the judgment, he
shall levy the same upon lands and tenements, goods and
chattels, or either, as the law shall permit, being the prop-
erty of the judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the debt. 
SEC. 453. If execution be levied upon lands and tene­
ments, the officer levying such execution shall call an in­
quest of three disinterested householders, who shall be 
resident within the county where the lands taken in exe­
cution are situate, and administer to them an oath, impar-
tially to appraise the property so levied on; upon actual 
view ; and such householders shall forthwith return to said
officer, under their hands, an estimate of the ;eal value of 
said property. 
SEC. 454. The officer receiving such return shall forth­
with deposit a copy thereof with the clerk of the court 
from which the writ issued, and advertise and sell such
property, agreeably to the provisions of this article. 
SEC. 455. If, upon such return, as aforesaid, it appear,
by the inquisition, that two-thirds of the appraised value 
of said lands and tenements, so levied upon, is sufficient
to satisfy the execution, with costs, the judgment on which
such execution issued shall not operate as a .lien on the
residue of the debtor's estate, to the prejudice of any other
judgment creditor; but no such property shall be sold for
less than two-thirds of the value returned in the inquest;
and nothing in this section contained shall, in any wise,
extend to affect the sale of lands by the state, but all lands,
the property of individuals indebted to the state for any 
debt or taxes, or in any other manner, shall be sold, with­ 
out valuation, for the discharge of such debt or taxes,
agreeably to the laws in such cases made and provided. 
SEC. 456. If the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner,
justice of the peace, constable, or any collector of state, 
county, town or township tax, shall be levied on for, or on
account of, any moneys that now are, or may hereafter be,
by them collected or received in their official capacity, the
property so levied on shall be sold without valuation. 
SEC. 457. Lands and tenements taken on execution shall
not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time/'.; 
and place of sale to be given, for at least thirty days be-
fore the day of sale, by advertisement in some newspaper 
printed in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed/()
in the county, in some newspaper in general circulation 
therein, and by putting up an advertisement upon the
court house door, and in five other public places in the~
county, two of which shall be in the township where such
lands and tenements lie. .All sales made without such ad- 
vertisement shall be set aside, on motion, by the court to
which the execution is returnable. 
SEc. 458. If the court, u pon the return of any writ of
execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands or tene- 
men ts have been sold, shall, after having carefully exam-
ined the proceedings of the officer, be satisfied that the sale 
bas, in all respects, been made in conformity to the provi-
sions of this article, the court shall direct the clerk to
make an entry on the journal that the court is satisfied
of the legality of such sale, and an order that the officer 
make to the purchaser a deed for such lands and tene-
ments ; and the officer, on making such sale, may retain 
the purchase money in his hands until the court shall have
examined his proceedings, as aforesaid, when he shall pay
the same to the person entitled thereto, agreeably to the 
order of the court. 
SEC. 459. The sheriff or other officer who, upon such
writ or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and
tenements, or any part thereof, shall make to the pur-
chaser as good and sufficient deed of conveyance of the
lands and tenements sold, as the person or persons against
whom such writ or writs of execution were issued could
have made of the same, at or any time after they became
liable to the judgment. The deed shall be sufficient evi- 
dence of the legality of such sale, and the proceedings
therein, until the contrary be proved, and shall vest in the
purchaser as good and as perfect an estate in the premises
therein mentioned, as was vested in the party at, or airer, 
the time when such lands and tenements became liable to
the satisfaction of the judgment; and such deed of con­
veyance, to be made by the sheriff or other officer, shall 
recite the execution or executions, or the substance thereof,
and the names of the parties, the amount and date of ren­
dition of each judgment, by virtue whereof the said lands 
and tenements were sold as aforesaid, and shall be exe­
cuted, acknowledged and recorded as is or may be provi­
ded by law, to perfect the conveyance of real estate in
other cases. 
SEC. 460. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels,
or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty
of selling the same, by virtue of any writ of execution, 
may refuse to publish a notice of the sale thereof, by ad­
vertisement in a newspaper, until the party for whose ben­
efit such execution issued, his agent or attorney, shall
advance to such officer so much money as will be sufficient 
to discharge the fees of the printer for publishing such
notice. 
SEC. 461. Before any officer shall be excused from giving
the notification, mentioned in the last section, he shall 
demand of the party for whose benefit the execution was
issued, his agent or attorney (provided either of them
reside in the county), the fees in said section specified. 
SEC. 462. All sales of lands or tenements under execution shall be held at the court house, in the county in 
which such lands and tenements are situated. No sheriff
or other officer making the sale of property, either per- 
sonal or real, nor any appraiser of such property, shall,
either directly or indirectly, purchase the same; and 
every purchase, so made, shall be considered fraudulent
and void. 
SEC. 463. If lands or tenements, levied on as aforesaid,
are not sold upon one execution, other executions may be
issued to sell the property so levied upon. 
SEC. 464. In all cases where two or more executions
shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other officer,
and it shall be necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy 
the same, and either of the judgment creditors, in whose
favor one or more of said executions are issued, shall
require the sheriff or other officer to levy said executions,
or so many thereof as may be required, on separate par­
cels of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors,
giving to the officer making the levy on behalf of the 
creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions of this article, be entitled to a preference, the choice of such part
of the real property of the judgment debtor or debtors, 
as will be sufficient, at two-thirds of the appraised value, 
to satisfy the same ; and in all cases where two or more
executions, which are entitled to no preference over each 
other, are put into the hands of the same officer, it shall
be the duty of the officer, when required, to levy the same
on separate parcels of the real property of the judgment 
debtor or debtors, when, in the opinion of the appraisers,
the same may be divided without material injury ; and if
the real property of said debtors will not be sufficient, at
two-thirds of its appraised value, to satisfy all the execu­
tions chargeable thereon, such part of the same shall be
levied on, to satisfy each execution, as will bear the same
proportion in value to the whole, as the amount due to
the execution bears to the amount of all the executions
chargeable thereon, as near as may be, according to
the appraised value of each separate parcel of said real
property. 
SEC. 465. If the term of service of the sheriff or other
officer who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any
lands and tenements, shall expire, or if the sheriff or other 
officer shall be absent, or be rendered unable, by death
or otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, 
any succeeding sheriff or other officer, on receiving a
certificate from the court from which execution issued for 
the sale of said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk,
by order of said court, setting forth that sufficient proof
has been made to the court that such sale was fairly and 
legally made; and on tender of the purchase money, or
if the same or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof
of such payment and tender of the balance, if any, may
execute to the said purchaser or purchasers, or his or their
legal representatives, a deed of conveyance of said lands
and tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as good and
valid in law, and have the same effect, as if the sheriff or
other officer who made the sale had executed the same. 
SEC. 466. If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall
be in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, more money 
than is sufficient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution,
with interest and costs, the sheriff or other officer shall, on
demand, pay the balance to the defendant in execution, or
his legal representatives. 
thereof. 
SEC. 467. If any judgment or judgments, in satisfac­
tion of which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at
any time thereafter be reversed, such reversal shall i::tot
defeat or affect the title of the purchaser or purchasers ;
but, in such cases, restitution shall be made, by the judg-
ment creditors, of the money, for which such lands or
tenements were sold, with lawful interest from the day of
sale. 
SEC. 468. No judgment heretofore rendered, or which
erea r may e ren ere , on W IC execution B a no
have been taken out and levied before the expiration of
one year next after its rendition, shall operate as a lien on
the estate of any debtor, to the prejudice of any other 
judgment creditor. But in all cases where judgment has
been or may be rendered in the supreme court, and a
special mandate awarded to the district court to carry the
same into execution, the lien of the judgment creditor
shall continue for one year after the first day of the term
of the district court to which such mandate may be 
directed. Nothing in this section contained shall be
construed to defeat the lien of any judgment creditor who
shall fail to take out execution and cause a levy to be 
made, as herein provided, when such failure shall be
occasioned by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or 
by vacancy in the office of sheriff or coroner, or the disa­
bility of such officer, until one year after such disability
shall be removed. In all cases where real estate has been
or may hereafter be taken on execution and appraised,
and twice advertised and offered for sale, and shall remain
unsold for want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the
court from which such execution issued, on motion of the
plaintiff, to set aside such appraisement and order a new
one to be made, or to set aside such levy and appraise­
ment and award a new execution to issue, as the case may 
require.
SEC. 469. The sheriff or other officer, to whom any writ 
of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to 
ixty
the court to which the same is returnable, within si 
SEC. 470. In all cases where judgment is rendered in
any court of record within this state, upon any instrument 
of writing in which two or more persons are jointly and
severally bound, and it shall be made to appear to the 
court, by parol or other testimony, that one or more of said persons so bound, signed the same as surety or bail, for his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of said court, in recording the judgment htereon, to certify which of the defendants is principal debtor, and which are sureties or bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid shall issue execution on such judgment, commanding the hseriff or other oficer to cause the money to be made of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the principal debtor; but for want of sufficient property of the principal debtor to make the same, that he cause the same to be made or the goods and chattels, lands and tnements, of the surety or bail. In all cases, the property, both personal and real, fo the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of the court, shall be exhausted before any of the property of the surety or bail shall be taken in execution. 

SEC. 471. Each householder, summoned to appraise real estate under the provisions of this chapter, shall be allowed
and receive for his services the sum of fifty nt f r ach 
day he may be so engaged as such apprc i r to b ol-
lected on the execution by virtue of whi h th pr p rty
appraised was levied on, if claimed: t th tim f making
the return of such appraisement. And wh n any house-
holder, summoned as aforesaid, shall fail to a p ar at th 
time or place appointed by the offi.c r and dischar hi
duty as appraiser, he shall, on com.._ laint b ing mad to
any justice of the peace of the to hip in which such
householder resides, forfeit and pay th um of fifty c nts 
for every such neglect, unless he can r nd r a r a ona bl
excuse. Such sum shall be collected y said ju ti 'and
paid in to the township treasurer, for the us of th town- 
ship. 
SEC. 472. If any sheriff or other flic .r hall refuse or
neglect to execute. any writ of execn ti n to him dire ted,
which has come to his hands, or shall n gl ct or r fu to 
sell any goods and chattels, lands and t n ment · or shall
neglect to call an inquest and return a copy ther of forth­
with, to the clerk's office, or shall n glect to return any 
writ of execution to the proper court, on or before the
return day thereof; or shall neglect to return a just and 
perfect inventory of all and singular the goods and chat-
tels by him taken in execution, unless the said sheriff or 
other officer shall return that he has levied and made the
amount of the debt, damages and costs; or shall refuse or 
neglect, on demand, to pay over to the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney of record, all moneys by him collected or re­
ceived for the use of said party, at any time after collect­
ing or receiving the same, except as provided in section 
four hundred and fifty-eight; or shall neglect or refuse, on
demand made by the defendant, his agent or attorney of 
record, to pay over all moneys by him received for _any
sale made, beyond what is sufficient to satisfy the writ or
writs of execution, with interest and legal costs, such
sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in court, and two
days' notice thereof, in writing, be amerced in the amount
of said debt, damages and costs, with ten per cent. thereon, 
to and for the use of said plaintiff or defendant, as the
case· may be. 
SEC. 473. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse,
on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent
or attorney of record, to pay over all money by him re­
ceived in his official capacity, for the use of such persons,
every such clerk may be amerced, and the proceedings
against him and his sureties shall be the same as provided
for, in the foregoing section, against sheriffs and their
sureties. 
SEC. 474. When the cause of amercement is for refusing
to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff 
or other officer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than
the amount so withheld, with ten per cent. thereon. 
SEC. 475. When an execution is issued to the sheriff of
any county other than that in which the judgment was 
rendered, the sheriff, after indorsing the date of its recep-
tion thereon, shall deliver the same to the clerk of the dis- 
trict court of his county, who shall thereupon enter the
same in the execution docket in the same manner a! if it
had issued from the court of which he is clerk ; and before
the sheriff shall return any such writ, he shall cause his
return to be entered in like manner.· 
SEc. 476. When execution shall be issued in any county 
in this state, and directed to the sheriff or coroner of 
another county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or cor­
oner having the execution, after having discharged all the
duties required of him by law, to inclose such execution, 
by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the same.
On proof being made by such sheriff or coroner, that the 
execution was mailed soon enough 
have reached the 
office where it was issued within the time prescribed by 
law, the sheriff or coroner shall not be liable for any
amercement or penalty if it do not reach the office in due
time. 
SEC. 477. No sheriff shall forward, by mail, any money
made on any such execution, unless he shall be specially 
instructed to do it by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of 
record, In all cases of a motion to amerce a sheriff, or
other officer of any county other than that from which the
execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such
officer, as herein before required, by leaving it with him, or
at his office, at least fifteen days before the day on which 
such motion shall be niade. All amercements so procured
shall be entered on the record of the court, and shall. have
the same force and effect as a judgment. 
SEC. 478. Each and every surety of any sheriff or other
officer may be made party to the judgment rendered as 
aforesaid, against the sheriff or other officer, by action, to
be commenced and prosecuted as in other cases; but the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of any such
surety shall not be liable to be taken on execution, when
sufficient goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the
sheriff or other officer, against whom execution may be is­
sued, can be found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent either party from proceeding
against such sheriff or other officer, by attachment, at his
election. 
SEc. 479. In cases where a sheriff or other officer may
be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the 
original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an
execution and collect the amount of said judgment, in the
name of the original plaintiff, for his use. 
SEC. 480. When property, liable to an execution against
several persons, is sold thereon, and more than a due pro- 
portion of the judgment is laid upon the property of one
of them, or one of them pays, without a sale, more than 
his proportion, he may compel contribution from the
others ; and when a judgment is against several, and is
upon an obligation of one of them, as security for another, 
and the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either
by sale of his property or before sale, he may compel 
repayment from the principal; in such case, the person
so paying or contributing is entitled to the benefit of the 
judgment, to enforce contribution or repayment, if within
ten days after his payment he file, with the clerk of the 
court where the judgment was rendered, notice of his
payment and claim to contribution or repayment. Upon
a filing of such notice, the clerk shall make an entry
thereof in the margin of the docket. 
SEC. 481. When a judgment debtor has not personal or
real property, subject to levy on execution, sufficient to
satisfy the judgment, any equitable interest which he
may ha_ve in real estate, as mortgagor, mortgagee, or 
otherwise, or any interest he may have in any banking,
turnpike, bridge, or other joint stock company, or any 
interest he may have in any money, contracts, claims, or
choses in action, due or to become due to him, or in any
judgment or decree, or any money, goods or effects which
he may have in the possession of any person, body politic
or corporate, shall be subject to the payment of such
judgment, by action, or as hereinafter prescribed. 
SEC. 482. When an execution against a judgment debtor,
or one of several debtors in the same judgment, issued to
-the sheriff of the county where he resides, or, if he do not
reside in the state, to the sheriff of the county where the 
judgment was rendered, or a transcript of a justice's
judgment has been filed, is .returned unsatisfied, in whole 
or in part, the judgment creditor is entitled to an order of
the probate judge, or judge of the district. court, of the
county to which the execution was issued, requiring such
debtor to appear and answer concerning his property,
before such judge, or a referee appointed by such judge,
at a time and place specified in such order, within the
county to which the execution was issued. 
SEC. 483. After the issuing of an execution against
property, and upon the affidavit of the Judgment credi­ 
tor, his agent or attorney, that the judgment debtor has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply toward the sat­
isfaction of the judgment, the probate judge or judge of
the district court of the county in which the order may be
served, may, by order, require the judgment debtor to
appear, at a time and place in said county, to answer
concerning the same ; and such proceedings may there­
upon be had, for the application of the property of the
judgment debtor toward the satisfaction of the judgment,
as hereinafter prescribed. 
SEc. 484. Instead of the order requiring the attendance 
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sec­
tions, the judge may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by 
affidavit of the party or otherwise, that there is danger of
the debtor leaving the state, or concealing himself, to avoid
the examination herein mentioned, issue a warrant requir­
ing the sheriff to arrest him and bring him before such
judge, within the county in which the debtor may be
arrested. Such a warrant can be issued only by a probate
judge, or the judge of the district court, of the county in
which such debtor resides or may be arrested. Upon be­
ing brought before the judge, he shall be examined on
oath, and other witnesses may be examined on either side ;
and if, on such examination, it appear that there is danger
of the debtor leaving the state, and that he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, he
may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, in such sum
as the judge may prescribe, with one or more sureties,
that he will, from time to time, attend for examination
before the judge or· referee, as shall be directed. In de­ 
fault of entering into such undertaking, he may be com­
mitted to the jail of the county, by warrant of the judge,
as for a contempt. 
SEC. 485. No person shall, on examination pursuant to
this article, be excused from answering any question on
the ground that his examination will tend to convict him
of a fraud; but his answer shall not be used as evidence
against him in a prosecution for such fraud. 
SEC. 486. After the issuing of execution against prop-
erty, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may
pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt,. or so much
thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the execution; and
the sheriff's receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the
amount so paid, or directed to be credited by the judgment
creditor on the execution. 
SEC. 487. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of a judgment debtor, or of any one of 
several debtors in the same judgment, where it is made
to appear by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
the judge, that there is reason to believe that any person
or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or
is indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require
such person or corporation, or any officer or mem her 
thereof, to appear at a specified time and place within tho
county in which such person or corporation may he served 
with the order to answer, and answer the same. The
judge may, also, in his discretion, require notice of such
proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper. 
SEC. 488. Witnesses may be required, upon the order
of the judge, to appear and testify upon any proceedings
under this article, in the same manner as upon the trial
of an issue. 
SEC. 489. The party or witness may be required to 
attend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by
the court or judge. All examinations and answers before
a judge or a referee, under this article, must be on oath,
and reduced to writing; but when a corporation answers,
the answer must be on oath of an officer thereof. 
SEc. 490. The judge may order any property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands either 
of himself or any other person or corporation, or due to
the judgment debtor, to be applied toward the satisfaction 
of the judgment, and may enforce the same by proceed­
ings for contempt, in case of refusal or disobedience; but
the earnings of the debtor for his personal services, at any
time within three months next preceding the order, can-
not be so applied, when it is made to appear, by the
debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are 
necessary for the use of a family supported wholly or
partly by his labor. 
SEc. 491. The judge may also, by order, appoint the
sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable person, a 
receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the
same manner and with like authority as if the appoint­
ment was made by the court. The judge may also, by
order, forbid a transfer or other disposition of the property
of the judgment debtor, not exempt by law, and any
interference therewith. 
SEC. 492. If it shall appear that the judgment debtor
has any equitable interest in real estate in the county in 
which proceedings are had, as mortgagor or mortgagee, or
otherwise, and the interest of said debtor can be ascer-
tained as between himself and the person or persons hold­
ing the legal estate, or the person or persons having a lien
on or interest in the same, without controversy as to the
interest of such person or persons holding such legal
estate or interest therein, or lien on the same, the receiver
may be ordered to sell and convey such real est.ate, or the 
debtor's interest therein. Such sale shall be conducted,
in all respects, in the same manner as is provided by this
code for the sale of real estate upon execution; and the
proceedings of sale shall, before the execution of the deed,
be approved by the court in which the judgment was ren­
dered, or the transcript has been filed as aforesaid, as in
case of sale upon execution. 
SEC. 493. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he
and his sureties shall be liable on his official bond for the
faithful discharge of his duties as receiver, and no addi-
tional oath shall be required of him; if any other person
shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a written under-
taking, in such sum as shall be prescribed by the judge,
with one or more sureties, to the effect that he will faith-
fully discharge the duties of receiver, and he shall also
take an oath to the same effect before acting as such re-
ceiver. The undertaking mentioned in this section shall
be to the state of Kansas, and actions may be prosecuted
for a breach thereof, by any person interested, in the same
manner as upon a sheriff's official bond. 
SEC. 494. The receiver shall be vested with the property
not exempt by law, or such part thereof as the court or
judge may order, and may sue for, collect, and recover, 
and dispose of the same, and apply the proceeds accord-
ing to the order of the court or judge, and generally may
do such acts concerning the property as the court or judge
may authorize. 
SEc. 495. The court or judge may order the delivery, to
the receiver, by the judgment debtor, or any other person
in whose possession the same may be, any notes, bills, ac-
counts, contracts, books or other evidences of indebted-
ness or right in action, of the judgment debtor, and may
enforce such order by attachment, as for a contempt. 
SEC. 496. The judge or referee, acting under the provi-
sions of this.article, sha11 have power to continue his pro-
ceedings, from time to time, until they shall be completed. 
SEc. 497. The judge may, in his discretion, order a refer-
ence to a referee, agreed upon or appointed by him, to
report the evidence or the facts. 
SEc. 498. If any person, party or witness disobey an 
order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person,
party or witness may be punished by the judge, as for a 
contempt. 
SEc. 499. The order mentioned in sections four hundred
and eighty-two, four hundred and eighty-three, four hun­
dred and ninety-one, and four hundred and eighty-seven,
shall be in writing, and signed by the judge making the
same, and shall be served as a summons in other cases.
The judge shall reduce all his orders to writing, which, 
together with a minute of his proceedings, signed by him­
self, shall be filed with the clerk of the court of the county 
in which the judgment is rendered, or the transcript of the
justice filed, and the clerk shall enter on his execution 
docket the time of filing the same. 
SEC. 500. The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs, ref­
erees, receivers and witnesses such compensation as is al­
lowed for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs 
in the case, and shall enforce, by order, the collection
thereof, from such party or parties as ought to pay the same. 
SEC. 501. The clerk shall be allowed such fees, for ser­
vices under this head, as are allowed for similar services 
in other cases. 
SEC. 502. When an execution shall have been returned
unsatisfied, the judgment creditor may file an affidavit of 
himself, his agent or attorney, in the office of the clerk,
setting forth that he has good reasons to, and does, believe
that any person or corporation, to be named, has property
of the judgment debtor, or is indebted to him; and there­
upon the clerk shall issue an order, requiring such person
or corporation to answer, on or before a day to be named
in the order, not less than ten nor more than twenty days
from the date of issuing the same, all interrogatories that
may be propounded by the judgment creditor, concerning
such indebtedness or property. 
SEC. 503. The judgment creditor, or his attorney, shall
prepare interrogatories concerning such indebtedness or
property, a copy of which shall be served on the garnishee 
at the time of the service of the order, or within three days
thereafter. And the garnishee shall, on or before the day 
required 'in the order, file with the clerk full and true
answers to all such interrogatories, verified by his affidavit. 
SEo. 504. All subsequent proceedings against the gar­
nishee shall be the same as in cases of attachment, as far 
as applicable.  
SEc. 505. An execution against the person of the judg- 
ment debtor shall require the officer to arrest such debtor,
and commit him to the jail of the county, until he pay the 
judgment, or is discharged according to law. 
SEc. 506. An execution against the person of the debtor
may be issued upon any judgment for the payment of
mpney: First, When the judgment debtor has removed, 
or begun to remove, any of his property out of the juris-
diction of the court, with intent to prevent the collection
of money due on the judgment. Second, When he has
property, rights in action, evidences of debt, or some in- 
terest or stock in some corporation or company, which he
fraudulently conceals with the like intent. Third, When
he has assigned or disposed of all, or any part, of his
property, or rights in action, or has converted the same
into money, with intent to defraud his creditors, or with
the intent to prevent such property from being taken in 
execution. Fourth, When he fraudulently contracted the
debt, or incurred the obligation, upon which the judgment
was rendered. Fiftlt, When he was arrested, on an order,
before judgment, and has not been discharged as an insol-
vent debtor, or the order has not been set aside, as im- 
properly made. 
SEC. 507. An execution against the person of the debtor,
except as prescribed in section five hundred and nine, can 
be issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, upon being
satisfied, by the affidavit of the judgment creditor, or his
attorney, and such other evidence as may be presented, of
the existence of one or more of the particulars mentioned
in section five hundred and six. 
SEC. 508. A justice of the peace may issue an execution
against the person of a judgment debtor, upon being sat- 
isfied of the existence of one or more of the same particu­
lars, by the like affidavit and evidence. 
SEC. 509. In all cases in which the judgment debtor was
arrested before judgment, and has not been released from
imprisonment by an application for relief, as an insolvent 
debtor, and where the order for such arrest has not been
adjudged improper, an execution against the person of
such judgment debtor may issue of course. 
SEc. 510. Any person taken in execution as aforesaid,
shall be discharged by delivering or setting off to the
officer serving the same, if issued from a court of record,
real or personal property, if issued from a justice of the 
peace, personal property only, sufficient to satisfy the
judgment, and costs, for which the writ is issued. 
SEc. 511. Any person imprisoned under the provisions
of this article shall be entitled to prison bounds, which 
shall be coextensive with the county, upon executing an
undertaking, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be 
approved by the sheriff, to the effect that if the debtor go
beyond the prison bounds before being discharged accord­
ing to law, he will pay to the plaintiff the amount of the
execution, with interest and costs ; but in case the person 
shall be out of jail, in prison bounds, the judgment cred­
itor, upon whose judgment he was imprisoned, shall be
entitled to execution against the lands and tenements,
goods and chattels of the debtor, and all other remedies
prescribed by this code for the collection of debts. 
SEC. 512. The death of a person under arrest in an
action does not satisfy the judgment; but an execution 
may issue thereon as if no arrest had been made. 
SEc. 513. If a person, imprisoned under an order of
arrest made before judgment, is not charged in execution, 
within ten days after judgment, he shall be discharged
from such imprisonment. 
SEC. 514. In cases of commitment under this article, or
upon arrest before or after judgment, in civil cases, the 
person imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform. the
act or to endure the imprisonment, may be discharged 
from imprisonment by the court or judge committing
him, or the court or judge thereof in which the judgment
was or might be rendered, on such terms as may be just. 
SEC. 515. If the execution be for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, it shall require 
the officer to deliver the same, particularly describing the
property, to the party entitled thereto, and may, at the
same time, require the officer to satisfy any costs or dam­
ages, recovered in the same judgment, out of the goods
and chattels of the party against whom it was rendered;
and, for the want of such goods and chattels, then out of
the lands and tenements ; and in this respect it shall be
deemed an execution against the property. 
SEC. 516. When the judgment is not for the recovery of
money or real property, the same may be enforced by 
attachment, by the court rendering judgment, upon motion
made, or by a rule of the court upon the defendant; but
in either case, notice of the motion or a service of a copy
of the rule shall be made on the defendant, a reasonable
time before the order of attachment is made. 
SEC. 617. In special cases, not hereinbefore provided
for, the execution shall conform to the judgment or order
of the court. When a judgment for any specified amount,
and also for the sale of specific real or personal property,
shall have been rendered, and an amount, sufficient to
satisfy the amount of the debt or damages and costs, be
not made from the sale of the property specified, an exe­ 
cution may issue for the balance, as in other cases. 
SEc. 518. In all cases in which a judgment shall be ren-
dered by a justice of the peace, the party in. whose favor 
the judgment shall be rendered may file a transcript of
such judgment in the office of the clerk of the district
court of the county in which the judgment was rendered ;
and thereupon the clerk shall, on the day on which the
same shall be filed, enter the case on the appearance 
docket, together with the amount of the judgment and
time of filing the transcript; and shall also enter the same
on the judgment docket, as in case of a judgment rendered
in the court of which he is clerk. 
SEC. 519. Such judgment shall be a lien upon the real
estate of the judgment debtor, from the day of filing the 
transcript, in the same manner and to the same extent as
if the judgment had been rendered in the district court. 
SEc. 520. Execution may be issued thereon, to the sher-
iff, by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the 
judgment had been taken in court ; and the sheriff shall
execute and return the same, as other executions ; and in
case of sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be exam-
ined and approved by the court as in other cases. 
SEc. 521. The justice of the peace shall certify on the
transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. 
SEC. 522. If such judgment becomes dormant, or if any
of the parties thereto die before the same is satisfied, it 
may be revived in the same manner as other judgments 
in the district court; and a certified copy of the entry of
such transcript may be filed in the office of the clerk of
the di trict court of any other county, and shall be alien
on th r al state of the debtor in such county, from the 
date of the filing of such copy. 
ARTICLE 
Miscellaneous proceedinga.-0.ffer to compromiae. 
§ 528. Effect of offer or compromise by de­
fenclnnt before trtal, 
524. The offer no cnnse of continuance. 
BUllllI'M'ING A. CONTROVERSY. 
525. Parties may nbmlt case to court with- 
out action.
526. The record.
527. Judgment and reversal, 
O~'FER TO CONFESS JUDGXENT. 
ARTICLE XXI. 
G28. Effect of, if made by defendant after
actlon brought. 
PROCEEDINGS BY 8UBETIE8. 
S 529. To compel principal to pny debt.
5.'30. To obtain indemnity.
5.'31. Remedies In such actions. 
KOTIONS AND OBDEB8. . 
5.'12. Motion, what Is.
MS. May include several objects.
584. N otlce or motion shall state what.
6."35. How served,
5:36. The 1111me.
537. Motions without notice.
MS. Order, what 111.
539. To be entered in journal. 
SEc. 523. The defendant, in an action for the recovery
of mon y only, may, at any time before the trial, serve 
upon th plaintiff or his attorney an offer, in writing, to 
allow judgment-to be taken against him for the sum speci­
fied th r in. If the plaintiff accept the offer and give
noti th r of to the defendant or his attorney, within five
days after th offer was servetl, the offer, and an affidavit
that th notic of acceptance was delivered within the time
limited may be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant
may fil th acceptance, with a copy of the offer, verified
by affidavit; and in either case, the offer and acceptance
shall b not din the journal, and judgment shall be ren­
d red a cordingly. If the notice of acceptance be not
given in th period limited, the offer shall be deemed with­
drawn, and shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on
th trial. If the plaintiff fails to obtain judgment for
mor than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay the
d fendant' osts from the time of the offer. 
SEC. 624. The making of an offer, pursuant to the pro­
vi ion contained in the foregoing section, shall not be a 
f r .a continuance of an action or a postponement
trial. 
SEC. 525. Parties to a question, which might be the 
subject of a civil action, may, without.action, agree upon
a cas~ containing the facts upon which the controversy
depends, and present a submission of the same to any
court, which would have jurisdiction if an action had
been brought. But it must appear, by affidavit, that the
controversy is real, and the proceedings in good faith to 
determine the rights of the parties. The court shall there­
upon hear and determine the case, and render judgment
as if ~n action were pending. 
SEc. 526. The case, the submission, and a copy of the
judgment, shall constitute the record. 
SEC. 527. The judgment shall be with costs, may be
enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless
otherwise provided in the submission. 
SEC. 528. After an action for the recovery of 'money is 
brought, the defendant may off er in court to confess judg­
ment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes
involved in the action; whereupon, if the plaintiff, being
present, refuse to accept such confession of judgment in
full of his demands against the defendant in the action, 
or, having had such notice that the offer would be made,
of its amount, and of the time of making it, as the court
shall deem reasonable, fail to attend, and on the trial do
not recover more than was so offered to be confessed, such
plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred 
after the offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an
admission of the cause of action, or the amount to which 
the plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the
trial. 
SEC. 529. A surety may maintain an action against his 
principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability
for which the surety is bound, after the same has become 
due. 
SEC. 530. A surety may maintain an action against his
principal, to obtain indemnity against the.debt or liability
for which he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of
the grounds exist, ·upon which, by the provisions of this 
code, an order may be made for arrest and bail, or for an
attachment. 
SEC. 531. In such action, thesurety may obtain any of 
the provisional remedies mentioned in article nine, upon
the grounds and in the manner therein described. 
SEC. 682. A motion is an application for an order, ad­
dressed to the court, or a judge in vacation, by any party
to a suit or proceeding, or one interested therein, or
affected there by. 
SEC. 533. Several objects may be included in the same
motion, if they all grow out of, or are connected with, the
action or proceeding in which it is made. 
SEC. 534. Where no ice O a mo 10n is require , 1 mus
be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to 
the action or proceeding in which it is made, the name of
the court or judge before w horn it is to be made, the 
place where and the day on which it will be heard, the
nature and terms of the order or orders to be applied for;
and if affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice
shall state that fact, and it shall be served a reasonable
time before the hearing. 
SEC. 585. Notices of motions, mentioned in this article,
may be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, the party
or his attorney, or by any other person, and the return of
any such officer or affidavit of any such person shall be 
proof of service; the service shall be on the party, or his
attorney of record, and in case there is more than one
party adverse to such motion, service shall be made upon
eachparty or his attorney. 
SEc. 586. The service of a notice shall be made as is
required by law for the service of a summons; and when
served by an officer, he shall be entitled to like fees. 
SEC. 537. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from
the files may be made with or without notice, as the court
or judge may direct. 
SEc. 538. Every direction of a court or judge made, or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is an
order. 
SEC. 689. Orders, made out of court, shall be forthwith
entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the 
same manner as orders made in term. 
ARTICLE 
S MO. What Judgment or order may bo re­
versed or modUled by district court. 
Ml. Judgment or probate court may bo
reversed. 
54!. Supreme court may renrse what
Judgments and orders. 
543. What la a Anal order.
Mt. Proceedings to obtain reveraal or 
modUlcation.
Ml>. The ume. 
cue. 
MS. Caae to be served on oppoalte party. 
549. Time may be extended.
ClriO. By whom and when tranacrlpt to be 
furnished.
15&1. When proceedlDga In error ehall 11tay 
execution on Judgment; plaintiff's
undertaking. 
B. Snbetttute ror such undertaking.
1558. Undertaking nece88U'7 tn proceedings 
for revereal tn vacation.
lRW. Undertaking to be approved. 
15116. E:ii:ecution may be bad on Judgment
by giving secnrtty to make restttu­
tlon, etc. 
f!M. IJmltation. 
557. Stay or execution on judgment or Jua­
tlce; undertaking by plalnUtr' In
error. 
&158. Execution or Judgment, bow stayed.
15&9. Proceed Inga upon reversal; mandate 
to court below .. 
ea>. Optnlon or aupreme court to be 11.led;
11baJl be part or the record. 
1561. Syllabua to be 11.le4, and copy eent to 
court below., 
ARTICLE XXIl. 
Error in eioil caaea. 
S IS6I. Coeta tn error.
1163. Neglect of clerk not ground or error 
until, k
1564. Writs or error and certiorari abol­ 
ished.
1565. Coeta when judgment or Juatlce af. 
flnned. 
M6. Costa when Judgment reversed.
ll67. Proceeding to review order discharg­ 
ing or modltytng attachment or In­
Jnnctlon. 
546. The aame.
M'l. Party deairlng reveraal mar make PBOomn>IN&a TO BffBB8B, TACAD OB •oDUT 
JUDGXDT8 A.ND ORDBB8 IN TBB COUBT8 Il( 
WRICH TBBY ABB BBND:SBBD, 
1568. District court may vacate or modify
lta own Judgment after term, how. 
1569. Proceedlnga to correct mistakes, &c.;
motion to vacate. 
Im>. Proceedtnga to ncate or modlty.
571. The same. 
ffi. The aame ; effect on lieu.
678. Order suspending proceedlnga; under­ 
taking.
514. Stll!pentlon or Judgment. 
ts"m. Time or commencing proceedlnga to 
vacate or modify Judgment.
578. Provislona or tbla article apply to what 
courts. 
m. Who need not give undertaking on 
appeal, or proceedinga ln error.
6'18. Judgment for 1lve per cent. upon 
amount du, rrom plalntltr' shall be
rendered, when. 
579. Summona tn error not to be tuned,
when. 
tiBO. Cues pending when code tak9e etr'ect, 
to be conducted to 1lnal Judgment;
Uena to be preeened. 
SEC. 540. A judgment rendered, or final order made, by
a justice of the peace, or any other tribunal, board or
officer exercising judicial functions, and inferior in juris­ 
diction to the district court, may be reversed, vacated or
modified by the district court. · 
SEC. 541. A judgment rendered, or final order made, by
the pro bate court, may be reversed, vacated or modified
by the district court, for errors appearing on record. 
SEC. 542. The supreme court may reverse, vacate or
modify a judgment of the distriot court, for errors appear­
ing on the record ; and in the reversal of such judgment or
order, may reverse, vacate or modify any intermediate
order involving the merits of the action, or any portion
thereof. The supreme court may also reverse, vacate or
modify any of the following orders of the district court, or 
a judge thereof: First, A final order. Second, An order
that grants or refuses a continuance ; discharges, vacates or
modifies a provisional remedy; or grants, refuses, vacates
or modifies an injunction ; that grants or refuses a new
trial ; or that confirms, or refuses to confirm, the report of
a referee ; or that sustains or overrules a demurrer. T'lcird;
An order that involves the merits of an action, or some 
part thereof. 
SEc. 543. An order affecting a substantial right in an
action, when such order, in effect, determines the action
and prevents a judgment, and an order affecting a sub­ 
stantial right, made in a special proceeding, or upon a
summary application in an action after judgment, is a final 
order, which may be vacated, modified or reversed, as
provided in this article. 
SEC. 544. The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vaca­
tion or modification, shall be' by petition, to be entitled
petition in error, filed in a court having power to make such
reversal, vacation or modification, setting forth the errors
complained of; and thereupon a summons shall issue and
be served, or publication made, as in the commencement
of an action. A service on the attorney of record, in the
original case, shall be sufficient. The summons shall
notify the adverse party that a ·petition in error has been
filed in a certain case, naming it, and shall be made re­
turnable on or before the first'day of the term of the court, 
if issued in vacation, and ten" days before the commence­
ment of the term. If issued in term time, or within ten 
days of the first day of the term, it shall be returnable on
a day therein named. If the last publication or service of
the summons shall be made 1Rn days before the end of the
term, the case shall stand for hearing at that term. 
SEC. 645. The summons mentioaed in the last section
shall, upon the written precipe of the plaintiff in error or
his attorney, be issued by the clerk of the court in which
the petition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which 
the defendant in error or his attorney of record may be ; 
and if the writ issue to a county other than that in which
the petition is filed, the sheriff thereof may return the
same by mail to the clerk, and shall be entitled to the
same fees as if the same had been returnable to the dis­
trict court of the county in which such officer resides.
The defendant in error, or his attorney, may waive, in
writing, the issuing or service of the summons. 
SEC. 546. The plaintiff in
tion a transcript of the pro
judgnient or order sought
modified, or a copy of the ca 
vided. 
SEC. 647. A party desirinz t ha any judgm nt r
order of the district court, or a judo- th · of r v rs d by 
the supreme court, may make a a c ntaininz a tat -
ment of so much of the proc e in o- and vid n or oth r 
matters in _the action, as may b n c ary to pr nt th
errors complained of to the upr m urt, 
SEC. 548. The case so mad or a · py th r f hall
within three days after the judgm nt r rd r i nter d 
be served upon the opposit party r hi att rn wh
may, within three days ther after
thereto in writing, and pre nt th sam
making the case, or his attorn y. Th a and am nd-
ments shall be submitted to th judg who hall ttl an
sign the same; and the case o mad hall t r upon be 
filed with the other papers in th action. / r : 
SEC. 549. The court or judge may upon ho
shown, extend the time for making a ca se and th tim 
within which the case may b "" rv id, and may al. o dir t 
notice to be given of the time wh n a cas will b pre­
sented for settlement. /-/~., ~ 
SEC. 550. Judges of pro bat courts, J0U ti s of th p a ,
and other judicial tribunals having n 1 rk, and th cl rk 
of every court of record, shall upon r que t, and b ing
paid the lawful fees theref r fnrni h an auth nti at d
transcript of the proceedings containing th judgm nt or
final order in said court, or of a a mad , to ith r of the 
parties to the same, or to any per on int r st d in procur­
ing such transcript. 
SEC. 551. NO proceeding to I' ver va at or modify
an y judgment or final order r ml red in th pro bate ourt 
or district court, except as provid d in the n xt ction,
and the fourth subdivision of thi ction, shall operate to
stay execution, unless the cl rk of th court in which th
record of such judgment or final ord r shall b shall tak
a written undertaking, to be ex cut d on th .. part of the
plaintiff in error, to the adv r ·e party with on or more
sufficient sureties, as follows: First, Wh .n the judgment
or final order sought to be reversed dire ·t the payment of
money, the written undertaking shall be in double the 
47 
amount of the judgment or order, to the effect that the
plaintiff ia errror will pay the condemnation money and
costs, in case the judgment or final order shall be affirmed,
in whole or in part. Second, When it directs the execu­
tion of a conveyance or other instrument, the undertaking 
shall be in such a sum as may be prescribed by any court
of record in this state, or any judge thereof, to the effect
that the plaintiff in error will abide the judgment, if the
same shall be affirmed, and pay the costs. Third, When
it directs the sale or delivery of possession of real proper­ 
ty, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may be pre­
scribed by any court of record in this state, or any judge
thereof, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the plaintiff in error, he will not commit, or
suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and if the judg­
ment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property, from the date of the under­
taking until the delivery of the possession, pursuant to
the judgment, and all costs. When the judgment is for
the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment of a
deficiency arising from the sale, the undertaking must also
provide for the payment of such deficiency. Fourth, 
When it directs the assignment or delivery of documents,
they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the
court in which the judgment was rendered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court, or the undertaking shall
be in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, to
abide the judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be 
affirmed. 
SEC. 652. Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the
second subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or
other instrument may be executed and deposited with the
clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered or
order made, to abide the judgment of the appellate court. 
SEC. 553. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify an
order made in vacation shall operate to stay the effect of
such order until the party taking such proceeding shall
execute to the adverse party an undertaking, with one or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk, that 
if the order be affirmed, in whole or in part, he will pay
the opposite party all damages that he may sustain by
reason of such proceedings, and all costs in the supreme 
court.
SEc. 654. Before an undertaking shall operate to stay 
execution of the jhdgment or order, a petition in error
must be filed in the appellate court, and the execution of
the undertaking and the sufficiency of sureties must be
approved by the court in which the judgment was rendered
or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and the clerk shall 
indorse said approval, signed by himself, upon the under­
taking, and file the same in his office, for the defendant in
error. 
SEC. 555. In an action arising on contract for the pay-
ment of money only, notwithstanding the execution of the
undertaking in the last section mentioned, to stay pro-
ceedings, if the defendant in error give adequate security 
to make restitution in case the judgment is reversed or
modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court
below, or a judge thereof in vacation, proceed to enforce
the judgment. Such security must be an undertaking,
executed to the plaintiff in error, by at least two sufficient 
sureties, to the effect that if the judgment be reversed or
modified, he will make full restitution to the plaintiff in 
error, of the money by him received under the judgment.
SEc. 656. No proceeding for reversing, vacating or mod- 
ifying judgments or final orders, shall be commenced
unless within three years after the rendition of the judg-
ment or making of the final order complained of; or in
case the person entitled to such proceeding be an infant, a
person of unsound mind or imprisoned, within three years
as aforesaid, exclusive of the time .of such disability. 
SEC. 567. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify
any judgment or final order of a justice of the peace shall 
operate as a stay of execution, unless the clerk of the
district court, in which such proceeding is commenced,
shall take a written undertaking to the defendant in error,
executed on the part of the plaintiff in error, by one or
more sureties, to be approved by the clerk, to the effect: 
First, When the judgment directs the payment of money,
that the plaintiff will pay all costs which have accrued or 
may accrue in such proceedings in error, together with the
amount of any judgment that may be rendered against
the plaintiff in error, either upon and after the a:ffirmance
thereof in the district court, or on the further trial of the
case in such court, after the judgment of the court below
shall have been set aside or reversed. Second, When the 
judgment directs the delivery of the possession of lands
or tenements by the plaintiff in error, he will not commit 
or suffer to be committed any waste thereon ; and if the
judgment be affirmed by the court above, or if judgment
be rendered against the plaintiff upon the further trial of
the case, after the judgment of the court below shall have 
been set aside or reversed, that he will pay don ble the
value of the use and occupation of the property, from the
date of the undertaking until the delivery of the property,
pursuant to the judgment, and all damages and costs that
may be awarded against him. 
SEC. 558. Execution of the judgment or final order of
any judicial tribunal, other than those enumerated in this article, may be stayed on such terms as may be prescribed
by the court. or a judge thereof, in which the proceedings
in error are pending. 
SEC. 559. When a judgment or final order shall be re­
versed, either in whole or in part, in the district court or
supreme court, the court reversing the same shall proceed
to render such judgment as the court below should have
rendered, or re~and the cause to the court below for such 
judgment. The court reversing such judgment' or final
order shall not issue execution in causes that are removed 
before them on error, on which they pronounce judgment
as aforesaid, but shall send a special mandate to the court
below, as the case may require, to award execution there­
upon; and such court, to which such special mandate is
sent, shall proceed in such cases in the same manner as if
such judgment or final order had been rendered therein. 
In cases decided by the supreme court, when the facts
are agreed to by the parties, or found by the court below,
or a referee, and when it does not appear, by exception or
otherwise, that such findings are against the evidence in
the case, the supreme court shall send a mandate to the
court below, directing it to render snch judgment in the
premises as it should have rendered on the facts agreed to
or found in the case. 
SEc. 560. It shall be the duty of the judges of the su- 
preme court to prepare, and file with the papers in each
case, full notes of the opinion of the court upon the ques­ 
tions of law arising in the case, within sixty days after the
decision of the same ; and the opinion so filed shall be
treated as a part of the record in the case, but no costs
shall be charged therefor, except for copies thereof ordered
by a party ; and no mandate shall be sent to the court be- 
low, until the opinion provided for by this section has
been filed. 
SEc. 561. A syllabus of the points of law decided in
any case in the supreme court shall be stated, in writing, 
by the judge delivering the opinion of the court, and filed
with the papers of the case, which shall be confined to 
points of law arising from the facts in the case, that have
been determined by the court; and the syllabus shall be
submitted to the judges concurring therein, for revisal be-
fore filing thereof, and it shall be filed with the papers,
without alteration, unless by consent of the judges con­
curring therein ; and a copy of such syllabus shall, in all
cases, be sent to the' court below, by the clerk of the
supreme court, with the mandate provided for by section
five hundred and fifty-nine of this act. 
SEC. 562. When a judgment or final order is reversed,
the plaintiff in error shall recover his costs, including the 
costs of the transcript of the proceedings, or case made,
filed with the petition in error ; and when reversed in part
and affirmed in part, costs shall ·be equally divided be-
tween the parties. 
SEC. 563. A mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk
shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been 
presented and acted upon in the court in which the mis-
take, neglect.or omission occurred. 
SEc. 564. Writs of error and certiorari, to reverse, va-
cate or modify judgments or final orders, in civil cases,
are abolished; but courts shall have the same power to 
compel complete and perfect transcripts of the proceedings
containing the judgment or final order sought to be re­
versed, to be furnished, as they heretofore had under writs
of error and certiorari. 
SEC. 565. If the judgment of a justice of the peace,
taken on error, as herein provided, to the district court, 
be affirmed, it shall be the duty of such court to render
judgment against the plaintiff in error for the costs of suit, 
and award execution therefor; and the court shall there- 
n pon order the clerk to certify its decision in the premises
to the justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced,
as if such proceedings in error had not been taken ; or 
such court may award execution to carry into effect the
judgment of such justice, in the same manner as if such
judgment had been rendered in the district court. 
SEC. 566. When the proceedings of a justice of the peace 
are taken in error to the district court, in the manner
aforesaid, and the judgment of such justice shall be re­
versed or set aside, the court shall render judgment of re­
versal, and for the costs that have occurred up to that
time, in favor of the plaintiff in error, and award execu­
tion therefor ; and the same shall be retained by the court
for trial and final judgment, as in cases of appeal. 
SEC. 567. That when an order, discharging or modifying
an attachment or a temporary injunction, shall be made
in any case, and the party who obtained such attachment
or injunction shall except to such order, for the purpose
of having the same reviewed in the supreme court upon
petition in error, the court or judge granting said order
shall, upon application of the proper party, fix the time,
not exceeding thirty days from the discharge or modifica­
tion of said attachment or injunction, within which such
petition in error shall be filed; and during such time the
execution of said order shall be suspended, and until the
decision of the case upon the petition in error, if the same
shall be filed; and the undertaking, given upon the al­
lowance of the attachment, shall be and remain in force
until the order of discharge shall take effect. If such
petition in error shall not be filed within the time limited,
the order of discharge shall become operative and be car­
ried into effect; and the certificate of the clerk of the
supreme court that such petition is or i~ not filed, shall be 
evidence thereof. 
SEC. 568. The district court shall have power to vacate
or modify its own judgments or orders, at or after the term
at which such judgment or order was made: First, By
granting a new trial for the cause, within the time and in
the manner prescribed in section three hundred and ten.
Second, By a new trial granted in proceedings against de­
fendants constructively summoned, as provided in section
seventy-two. Tltird, For mistake, neglect or omission of
the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order. 
Fourth, For fraud, practiced by the successful party, in
obtaining the judgment or order. Fifth, For erroneous
proceedings against an infant, or a person of unsound
mind, where the condition of such defendant does not 
Google 
appear in the record, nor the error in the proceedings.
Sixth, For the death of one of the parties before the judg- 
ment in the action. Seoenih, For unavoidable casualty
or misfortune, preventing the party from prosecuting or
defending. Elghth, For errors in a judgment, shown by
an infant in twelve months after arriving at full age, as
prescribed in section four hundred and thirteen. Ninth,
For taking judgments upon warrants of attorney for more
than was due to the plaintiff, when the defendant was not
summoned or otherwise legally notified of the time and
place of taking such judgment. 
SEC. 569. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omis- 
sions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment
or order, shall he by motion, upon reasonable notice to the
adverse party or his attorney in the action. The motion to
vacate a judgment, because of its rendition before the
action regularly stood for trial, can be made only in the
first three days of the succeeding term. 
SEC. 570. The proceedings to vacate or modify"the judg-
ment or order, on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions 
four, five, six, seven, eight and nine, of section five hun-
dred and sixty-eight, shall be by petition, verified by 
affidavit, setting forth the judgment or order, the grounds 
to vacate or modify it, and the defense to the action, if the
party applying was defendant. On such petition, a sum-
mons shall issue and be served as in the commencement of
an action. 
SEC. 571. The court may first try and decide npon the
grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order before 
trying or deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause
of action.
SEC. 572. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or
petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to 
the action on which the Judgment is rendered; or, if the
plaintiff seeks its vacation, that thereis a valid cause of
action; and where a judgment is modified, all liens and
securities obtained under it shall be preserved to the
modified judgment. 
SEC. 573. The party seeking to vacate or modify a judg-
ment or order, may obtain an order suspending proceed-
ings on the whole or part thereof; which order may be
granted by the court, or any judge thereof, upon its being
rendered probable, by affidavit, or by exhibition of the 
record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment 
or order vacated or modified. On the granting of any such ·
order, the court, or judge, may require the party obtain­
ing any such order to enter into an undertaking to the ad­
verse party to pay all damages that may be caused by 
granting of the same. 
SEC. 574. When the judgment was rendered before the
action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted, as
provided in the last section, although no valid defense to
the action is shown ; and the court shall make such orders,
concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment,
as shall give to the defendant the same rights of delay he
would have had if the judgmenthad been rendered at the
proper time. 
SEC. 575. Proceedings to vacate or modify a judgment
or order, for the causes mentioned in subdivisions four, five
and seven, of section five hundred and sixty-eight, must be
commenced within two years after the judgment was ren­
dered or order made, unless the party entitled thereto be
an infant, or person of unsound mind, and then within
two years after removal of such disability. Proceedings
for the causes mentioned in subdivisions three and six of
the same section, shall be within three years, and in subdivision nine, within one year after the defendant has
notice of the judgment. A void judgment may be vacated
at any time, on motion of a party, or any person affected
thereby. 
SEc. 576. The provisions of this article, subsequent to  section five hundred and sixty-seven, shall apply to all the
courts of record of the state, so far as the same may be
applicable to the judgments or final orders of' such courts. 
SEC. 577. Executors, administrators and guardians who
have given bond in this state, with sureties, according to
law, are not required to give an undertaking on appeal or
proceedings in error. 
SEC. 678. If the district court affirm a judgment on pe­
tition in error, it shall also render judgment against the
plaintiff in error, for five per cent. upon the amount due 
from him to the defendant in error, unless the court shall
enter upon its minutes that there was reasonable grounds
for the proceedings in error. 
SEC. 579. A summons in error shall not be issued in any
case in which there is, upon the minutes of the court, or 
among the files of the case, a waiver of error, by the party,
or his attorney, endeavoring to commence such proceed.- 
ings, unless the court in which the petition is to be filed,
or a judge thereof, shall indorse on the same permission to 
issue such summons. 
SEc. 580. Cases pending in appellate courts, or writs of
error, or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall be
conducted to final judgment as if it had not been adopted,
and the liens of judgments and decrees rendered when it 
takes effect shall be preserved. They shall be enforced
as provided in section seven hundred and twenty-seven
[twenty-six]; but process already issued at such time shall
be carried on and executed. 
ARTICLE 
I IS81. Non-resident plalntiff to give eecurity
for coats. 
tiBt, Action to be dismissed when security
not given. 
688. Security when plalntlff' becomes non­
resident, after action brought. 
684. Defendant may move for additional
security, when. 
585. Judgment against surety ror coats.
688.. Informer, under penal statute, shall 
pay eoets, when. 
ARTICLE XXIII. // J /
,;__-- _ 
'J 7· J
Coata. - 
I 1587. Derendant dlaclalmtng title ahall re­ 
cover costs, when.
588. Coats of motions and amendments, 
bow paid.
58il. When defendant to pay.
590. When plnlntiff' to pay.
591. May be divided between parties, when.
692. Costa In actions against several par- 
ties to same obligation.
-598. Summons issued to another county 
may be returned by mall; fees of
I sheriff'. 
SEC. 581. In all cases in which. the plaintiff is a non-
resident of the county in which the action is to be brought, 
before commencing such action the plaintiff must furnish
a sufficient surety for costs. The surety must be a resi-
dent of the county where the action is to be brought, and
approved by the clerk. His obligation shall be complete,
simply by indorsing the summons, or signing his name on
the complaint as security for costs. He shall be bound
for the payment of all costs which may be adjudged
against, the plaintiff, in the court in which the action is
brought, or in any other to which it may be carried, and
for the costs of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether the plain-
tiff obtain judgment or not. 
SEC. 582. An action in which security for costs is re-
quired by the. last section and has not been given, shall 
be dismissed on the motion and notice by the defendant,
at any proper time before judgment, unless in a reasona-
ble time, to be allowed by the court, such security for
costs be given. 
SEC. 583. If the plaintiff in !),n action, after its com­
mencement, becomes a non-resident of the county in which 
it is brought, he shall give security for costs, in the man­
ner and under the restrictions provided in the two:preced­ 
ing sections. 
SEC. 584. In an action in which security for costs has
been given, the defendant may, at any time before judg-
ment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the 
court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff;
and if, on such motion, the court be satisfied that the 
surety has removed from this state, or is not sufficient, the
'acti~n may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time, to 
be fixed by the court, sufficient security be given by the
plaintiff. 
SEc. 585. After final judgment has been rendered in an
action in which security for costs has been given, as
required by this article, the .court, on motion of the de­
fendant, or any other person having a right to such costs,
or any part thereof, after ten days' notice of such motion,
may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant or
his legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his
executors or administrators, for the amount of costs ad­
judged against the plaintiff, or so much thereof as may
be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such judgment
as in other cases, for the use and benefit of the [persons 
entitled to such costs. 
SEc. 586. If any informer, under a penal statute, to
whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is
given, shall dismiss bis suit or prorecution, or fail in the
same, he shall pay all costs accruing on such suit or prose­
cution, unless he be an officer, whose duty it is to com­
mence the same. 
SEC. 587. "Where defendants disclalm having [any title
.or interest in land or other property, the subject.matter 
of the action, they shall recover their costs, unless for
special reasons the court decide otherwise. 
SEC. 688. Unless otherwise provided by statute. the 
costs of motions, continuances, amendments and the like,
shall be taxed. and paid as the court, in its discretion, may 
direct. 
SEc. 589. Where it is not otherwise provided by this
and other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to
the plaintiff, upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for 
the recovery of money only, or for the recovery of specific,
real or personal property. 
SEC. 690. Costs shall be allowed of course to any de-
fendant, upon a judgment in his favor, in the actions
mentioned in the last section. 
SEC. 691. In other actions, the court may award and tax
costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the 
same or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think
right and equitable. 
SEC. 692. Where several actions are brought on one bill
of exchange, promissory note or other obligation, or 
instrument in writing, against several parties who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, as
allowed by section thirty-nine, no costs shall be recovered
by the plaintiff in more than one of such. actions, if the 
parties proceeded against in the other actions were, at
the commencement of the previous action, openly within 
the state. 
SEC. 698. When a summons is issued. to another county
than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it 
may be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled 
to the same fees as if the summons had issued in the
county of which he is sheriff.

ARTICLE
ACTIONS AND PROCEEDINGS IN PARTICULAR 
S 594. The parties.
595. The petition.
596. The answer.
CWi. Petition by tenant in common, agalnet 
...... . . . 
co-tenant. ,,,... 
1 
Actiona concerning real property.
ARTICLE XXIV. 
., ~ 
f / ._,,"t,,,I 'C 
CASES. 
f 598. Recovery, whore rlghttermlnatee dur­
ing pandency or action. 
1189. Party may demand another trial,
when. 
000. Norurther trial unleBB rorcanaeehown
or on reverul of Judgment • 
SEC. 694. An action may be brought by any person in
possession, by himself or tenant, of real property, against 
any person who claims an estate, or interest therein, ad-
verse to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse'
estate or interest.
SEC. 695. In an action for the recovery of· real property,
it shall be sufficient if the plaintiff state, in his petition, 
,- that he has a legal or equitable estate therein, and is entitled to the possession thereof, describing the same, as re­
quired by section one hundred and twenty-seven, and that
the defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession.
It shall not be necessary to state how the plaintiff's estate
or ownership is derived. 
SEc. 596. It shall be sufficient, in such action, if the de­
fendant, in his answer, deny, generally, the title alleged 
in the petition, or that he withholds the possession, as the
case may be ; but if he deny the title of the plaintiff, pos­
session, by the defendant, shall be taken as admitted.
Where he does not defend for the whole premises, the
answer shall describe the particular part for which defense 
is made. 
SEC. 597. In an action, by a tenant in common of real
property, against a co-tenant, the plaintiff must, in addi­
tion to what is required in section five hundred and ninety­ 
five, state, in his petition, that the defendant either denied
the plaintiff's right, or did some act amounting to such 
denial. 
SEC. 598. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time the
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has 
terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict
and judgment must be according to the fact, and the
plaintiff may recover for withholding the property. 
SEc. 599. In an action for the recovery of real property,
the party against whom judgment is rendered may, at 
any time during the term at which the judgment is ren­
dered, demand another trial, by notice on the journal, and
thereupon the judgment shall be vacated, and the action 
shall stand for trial at the next term. 
SEC. 600. No further trial can be had in such action,
unless, for good cause shown, a new trial be granted, or
the judgment be reversed, as in other actions. 
ARTICLE XXV. 
Occupying claimant,. 
I 601. In what cases occupying claimants or I 003. Entry onjournal, orctalmror improve·
land shall not be evicted until paid ments ; JllrY to be drawn. 
for improvements, &c. 604. Duty or Jury.
602. Persons occupying under tax title 605. Talcsman may be summoned. 
shall not be evicted until paid for 606. Return or Jury ; court may set asJde
improvement,, and order new valuation. 
t 607 • .Jadgment and execution In ravor or
"plaintiff; action for mesne proftt8 
barred.
808. Advenie claimant may tender deed, or 
pay the 11um usossed against him
by the Jury. • 
809. Wrlt or p08881111ton shall Issue upon
payment or 11um reported ln favor or
occupying claimant. 
810. Ir occupying claimant reru~e to pay
value or land without Improvements,
writ or pos11euion may t11eue. 
t 611. Occupying claimant not to be evicted,
unless, &c. : occupant may obtain
decree ror title, when. 
611. Plaintiff' entitled to exeentlon, when.
613. When land sold by executor, adminis­ 
trator, etc., la afterward recovered
by person originally liable, plaintiff'
not entitled to posecselon until par­
chase JDOney refunded, &c. 
SEC. 601. In all cases, any occupying claimants, being
in quiet possession of any lands or tenements for which
such person can show a plain and connected title, in law 
or equity, derived from the records of some public
office; or being in quiet possession of, and holding the
same by deed, devise, descent, contract, bond or agree-
ment, from and under any person claiming title, as afore·
said, derived from the records of some public office, or by 
deed duly authenticated and recorded; or being in quiet
possession of, and holding the same under sale on execu­
tion or order of sale, against any person claiming title as
aforesaid, derived from the records of some public office,
or by deed duly authenticated and recorded; or being in
possession of, and holding any land under any sale for
taxes, authorized by the laws of this state or the laws of
the territory of Kansas ; or any person or persons, who
have made a bona fide settlement and improvement which
he, she or they still occupy, upon any of the Indian lands 
lying in this state; or any person in quiet possession of
any land, claiming title thereto, and holding the same
under a sale and conveyance, made by executors, admin-'
istrators or guardians, or by any other person or persons,
in pursuance of any order of court, or decree in chancery,
when lands are or have been directed to be sold, and the
purchaser or purchasers thereof have obtained title to and
possession of the same without any fraud or collusion on
his, her or their part, shall not be evicted or turned out
of possession, by any person or persons who shall set up
and prove an adverse and better title to said lands, until 
said occupying claimant, his, her or their heirs, shall be
paid the full value of all lasting and valuable improve-
ments made on said land by such occupying claimant, or
by the person or persons under whom he, she or they may 
hold the same, previous to receiving actual notice by the
commencement of suit on each adverse claim by which
eviction may be effected, unless such occupying claimant 
• 
shall refuse to pay the person so setting up and proving
an adverse mid better title, tb.e value of tbe land without
the improvements made thereon, as aforesaid, upon the
demand of the successful claimant, or hie heirs, as herein­
after provided: Pronided, That this article shall not ap­
ply to persons occupying and claiming any lauds granted
co this'state, or granted to, or purchased by, any company 
to aid in the construction of any works of internal im­
provement in this state. 
SEC. 602. The title by which the successful claimant
succeeds against the occupying claimant, in all cases of
lands sold for taxes, by virtue of any of the laws of this 
state or of the territory of Kansas, shall be considered an
adverse and better title, under the provisions of this arti­
cle, whether it be the title under which the taxes were due,
and for wh ich said land was sold, or any other title or
claim whatever; and the occupying claimant holding pos­
ussion of land sold for taxes, as aforesaid, having the
deed of a collector of taxes or county clerk for such sale
for taxes, or a certificate of sale of said land from a col­
lector of taxes or a county treasurer, or shall claim under
the person or persons who hold such deed or certificate, or
any other title or claim whatever, shall be considered as
having sufficient title to said land to demand the value of 
improvements under the provisions of this article. 
SEc. 608. The court rendering judgment in any case
provided for by this act [article], against the occupying
claimant, shall, at the request of either party, cause a jour­
nal entry thereof to be made; and the sheriff and clerk of
the court, when thereafter required by either party, shall
meet and draw from the box a jury of twelve men, of the ju­
rymen returned to serve as such for the proper county, in 
the same manner as the sheriff and county clerk are required 
by law to draw a jury in other cases; and immediately
thereupon, the clerk shall issue an order to the sheriff,
under the seal of the court, setting forth the name of the
jury, and the duty to be performed under this article. 
SEc. 604. The jury drawn and named in said order shall
immediately, on being notified by the sheriff, proceed to 
view the premises in question, and then and there, on oath
or affirmation, to be administered by any competent
authority, assess the value of all lasting and valuable im­ 
provr-ments made, as aforesaid, on the lands in question,
previous to the party receiving actual notice, as aforesaid, 
of such adverse claim ; and shall also assess the damages,
if any, which said land may have sustained by waste, to­ 
gether with the net annual value of the rents and profits
which the occupying claimant may have received from the
same, alter having received notice of the plaintiff's title,
by service of a summons, and deduct the amount thereof
from the estimated value of such lasting and valuable im­
provements ; and said jury shall also assess the value of
the land in question, at the time of rendering judgment
as aforesaid, without the improvements made thereon, or 
damages sustained by waste, as aforesaid. 
SEC. 605. In case any one or more of the jury named in
said order shall be absent from the county, of kin to either 
party, or, from any other cause, disqualified or unable to
serve upon such jury, the sheriff shall have power to sum- 
mon talesmen, as in other cases, who shall be qualified
and serve on such jury in the same manner as if origin-
ally drawn and named in said order. 
SEC. 606. The jury shall sign and seal their respective
assessments and valuations aforesaid, and deposit the same 
with the clerk of the court by whom they were appointed,
before the first day of the next term of said court after 
said order is made ; and if either party shall think him-
self or herself aggrieved by any such assessment or valu-
ation aforesaid, he or she may apply .to the court, at the
term to which the proceedings are returned, and said court
may, upon good cause shown, set aside such assessment 
or valuation, and order a new valuation, and appoint
another jury, as herein before provided, who shall proceed 
in the same manner as herein before directed. 
SEC. 607. If the jurors shall report a sum in favor of
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in said action, for the recovery
of real property on the assessment and valuation of the 
valuable and lasting improvements, and the assessment
of damages for waste, and the· net annual value of the 
rents and profits, the court shall render a judgment there-
for without pleadings, and issue execution thereon as in
other cases; or if no excess be reported in favor of said
plaintiff or plaintiffs, then, and in either case, the said
plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be thereby barred from having 
or maintaining any action for mesne profits. 
SEC. 608. If the jurors shall report a sum in favor of
the occupying claimant or claimants, on the assessment
and valuation of the valuable and lasting improvements, 
deducting therefrom the damages, if any, sustained by
waste, with the net annual value of rents and profits
which the defendant or defendants may have received 
after commencement of the action of ejectment as
aforesaid, th successful claimant or his heirs, they being
minors, may, at his or her or their election, either de­
mand of the occupying claimant the value of the land
without improvements, so as aforesaid assessed, and tender 
a deed of the land in question to the occupying claimant,
or he, she or they may pay the occupying claimant the
sum so allowed by the jurors in his favor, within such
reasonable time as the court shall allow. 
SEC. 609. If the successful claimant, his heirs, or the
guardian of such heirs, they being minors, shall elect to 
pay, and do pay to, the occupying claimant, the sum so
r ported in his favor by the jurors, within such reasonable
time as the court may have allowed for the payment there­
of, then a writ of possession shall issue in favor of said
successful claimant, his heirs, or the guardians of such
heirs. 
SEc. 610. If the successful claimant, his heirs, or the
guardians of said heirs, they being minors, shall elect to 
r c ive the value without improvements so as aforesaid
a s ed, to b paid by the occupying claimant within
such reasonable time as the court may allow, and shall
tend r a g neral warranty deed of the land in question,
conv ying such ad verse or better title within said time
allowed by the court for the payment of the money in this 
s ction mention d, and the occupying claimant shall refuse
or n gl ct to pay said money (the value of the land with­
out the improv men ts) to the successful claimant, his heirs
or th ir guardians, within the time limited as aforesaid,
th n a writ of pos ession shall be issued in favor of said
successful claimant, his heirs or their guardians. 
SEC. 611. The occupying claimant or his heirs shall in
no case be evicted from the possession of such land,
unl s, as is provided in the two preceding sections, where
an application is made for the value of improvements
under this law; and in all cases, where the occupying
claimant or claimants, or his or their heirs, shall have paid
into ourt the value of the lands in question, without im­
prov m nt, within the time allowed by the court (when
an 1 ction ha b . n made by the successful claimant or 
laimant , his or their heirs or guardians as aforesaid, to 
surrender any tract of land under the provisions of this
act), such occupant or his heirs may, at any time after
such payment shall have been made, file his, her or their
petition in the court where such judgment of eviction was
obtained, and obtain a decree for the title of such land, if
the same has not been previously conveyed to such occu­
pant as aforesaid. 
SEC. 612. The plaintiff shall be entitled to an execution
for the possession of his property, in accordance with the
provisions of this article, but not otherwise. 
SEC. 613. Whenever any land, sold by an executor, ad­ 
ministrator, guardian, sheriff or commissioner of court, is
afterwards recovered in the proper action by any person
originally liable, or in whose hands the land would be
liable to pay the demand or judgment for which, or for 
whose benefit the land was sold, or any one claiming
under such person, the plaintiff shall not be entitled to
the possession of the land until he has refunded the pur­
chase money, with interest, deducting therefrom the value
of the use, rents and profits, and injury done by waste
and cultivation, to be assessed under the provisions of this article. 
ARTICLE 
I 614. Petition.
615. Facts to be sot forth.
616. Who may be 1DAde parties.
617. Answer mnst etate what.
618. Order of conrt.
619. Commlseionel'8 to be appointed to 
make partition. ·
8!0. Court may direct allotment.,.
Oil. Oath or commleeioners. 
m. Partition, how made ; commleeioners 
to make report. 
SEC. 614. When the object of the action is to effect a
partition of real property, the petition must describe the
property and the respective interests of the owners there- 
of, if known. 
ARTICLE XXVI. 
PartUion. 
I 613. Report may be set aside, when.
614. Judgment shall be rendered, when.
625. It partlUon cannot be made, party may 
take property at the appraieement.
616. Property eball be l!Old, In what caee.
617. Return of 1herlft'; he ehall execute a 
deed, when.
6t8. Costa and fee1, how paid. 
619. Power of court to make orders. 
SEC. 615. If the number of shares orinterests is known,
but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are
supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contin-
gent or doubtful, these facts must be set forth in the peti-
tion with reasonable certainty. 
SEc. 616. Creditors having a specific or general lien upon
all or any portion of the property, may be made parties. 
SEc. 617. The answers of the defendants must state,
among other things, the amount and nature of their re­
spective interests. They may also deny the interests of
any of the plaintiffs, or any of the defendants. 
SEC. 618. After the interests of all the parties shall have
been ascertained, the court shall make an order specifying
the interests of the respective parties, and directing par­
tition to be made accordingly. 
SEC. 610. Upon making such order, the court shall ap­
point three commissioners to make partition into the requi-
site number of shares. , 
SEC. 620. For good and sufficient reasons appearing to 
the court, the commissioners may be directed to allot par­
ticular portions to any one of the parties. 
SEc. 621. Before entering upon their duties, such com­
missioners shall take and subscribe an oath that they will 
perform their duties faithfully and impartially, to the best
of their ability. 
SEC. 622. The commissioners shall make partition of the
property among the parties according to their respective
interests, if such partition can be made without manifest
injury. But if such partition cannot be made, the com- ·
missioners shall make a valuation and appraisement of the
property. They shall make a report of their proceedings 
to the court, forthwith. 
SEC. 623. Any party may file exceptions to the report
of the commissioners, and the court may, for good cause, 
set aside such report, and appoint other commissioners, or
refer the matter back to the same commissioners. 
SEc. 624. If partition be made by -the commissioners,
and no exceptions are filed to their report, the court shall 
render judgment that such partition be and remain firm
and effectual forever. 
SEc. 625. If partition cannot be made, and the property
shall have been valued and appraised, any one or more of 
the parties may elect to take the same at the appraisement,
and the court may direct the sheriff to make a deed to the
party or parties so electing, on payment to the other par­
ties of their proportion of the appraised value. 
SEc. 626. If none of the parties elect to take the prop­
erty at the valuation, or if several of the parties elect to
take the same at the valuation, in opposition to each other, 
the court shall make an order directing the sheriff of the
county to sell the same, in the same manner as in sales of
real estate on execution ; but no sale shall be made at less
than two-thirds of the valuation placed upon the property
by the commissioners. 
SEc. 627. The sheriff shall make return of his proceed­ 
ings to the court, and if the sale made by him shall be a p­
proved by the court, the sheriff shall execute a deed to the 
purchaser, upon the payment of the purchase money, or
securing the same to be paid, in such manner as the court
shall direct. 
SEc. 628. The court making partition shall tax the costs,
attorneys' fees and expenses which may accrue in the
action, and apportion the same among the parties, accord­
ing to theirrespective interests, and may award execution
therefor, as in other cases. 
SEC. 629. The court shall have full power to make any
order, not inconsistent with the provisions of this article,
that may be necessary to make a just and equitable par­
tition between the parties, and to secure their respective
interests. 
ARTICLE XXVII. 
Lima of muhanica and otkra. 
I 830. Lien tor labor and materlale.
681. Lien not to extend to contract 'trith 
tenant, except to extent or his in­
terest. 
831. Lien or sub-contractor.
688. VerlJled statement to be fl.led.
GM. !Jen may be enforced by civil acUon. 
I 635. Who may be parties; court may direct
sale or land and buildings ; acUona 
consoHdatod.
686. Sale or real estate shall be ordered, 
when ; no redemption.
687. Paymenta, how made when procee" 
1D8u1llclent.
688. Property roleaeed from liens, how. 
SEc. 630. .Any person who shall, under contract with
the owner of any tract or piece of land, furnish materials
or perform labor for erecting, repairing or altering any
building, or the appurtenances of any building, or shall
plant, or plant and grow successfully, a hedge fence,
or shall build a stone fence, on · such land, shall have a
lien from the time of making such contract upo~ the whole 
tract or piece of land, the buildings and appurtenances, in
the manner herein provided, for the amount due to him
for such labor or materials. 
SEC. 631. The lien shall not extend to any contract 
made with a tenant or other person, not the owner of the 
land upon which the building is situated or other im- 
provements made, except only to the extent of the interest
of such tenant or other person. 
SEC. 632. Any sub-contractor, who intends to furnish
materials or perform labor, may give notice, in writing, to 
owner, of his intention, and the probable value of the
materials to be furnished or labor performed; and if 
afterwards he furnish such materials or perform such
labor, such sub-contractor shall have a lien for such labor 
or materials, not exceeding the amount due or to become
due from the owner to the contractor at or after the service 
of such notice. 
SEc. 633. Any person claiming a lien, as aforesaid, shall
file a statement of the· amount claimed and a description 
of the property subject to the lien, verified by affidavit,
in the office of the clerk of the district court of the county 
within which the land is situate, within six months after
the materials were furnished or the completion of the
building or improvement. 
SEc. 634. Any person having such lien may enforce
the same by civil action in the district court of the county/.}/
where the land is situate, at any time within one year
from the completion of the work -or furnishing the mate­ 
rials ; or, if a credit be given, from the expiration of the
credit. 
SEC. 635. In such action, all persons whose liens are
filed, as herein provided, may be made parties, and issues
shall be made up, and trials had, as in other cases ; and
the court may, by the judgment, direct a sale of the land
and building for the satisfaction of the liens and costs ;
such sale to be without prejudice to the rights of any prior
Incum brancer, owner or other persons not parties to the
action. If several such actions be brought by different
claimants, and be pending at the same time, the court may
order them to be consolidated. 
SEc. 636. In all cases where judgments have been or
may hereafter be rendered in favor of any person, under 
the provisions of this article, the real estate or other prop­ 
erty shall be ordered to be sold as in other cases of orders
of sale of real estate, except that the same shall not be
subject to redemption under any law of this state. 
SEc. 637. If the proceeds of the sale be insufficient to 
pay all the claimants, then the court shall order them to 
be paid in proportion to the amount due each. 
SEc. 638. In all proceedings commenced under this arti-
cle, the defendant may file a written undertaking, with 
surety, to be approved by the court, to the effect that he
will pay the judgments that may be recovered, and costs,
and there by release his property from the liens. 
ARTICLE XXVIII. I I 
I (\ ~ ... /1 '\· -~- 
DiA,oree and alimony. c)..Yrl- 
1 ~u[ ror granting divorce. I 646. Court may adjudge alimony to the
&10. Plaintiff to be a resident, how long. wife, when ; how paid. 
&11. Petition to be verified; issue and eer- 647. Divorce, a dissolution or marriage con-
vice or summons. tract; claim to property barred. 
84!. Answer or derendanL 648. :Marriage vold,for Incapacity orpartlee.//
643. When court may refuse divorce; may 649. Alimony may be obtained without di- 
make what order. vorce; defense of husband.
&U. Attachment to restrain disposition or 6!50. What shall be admitted in evidence; 
property; expeuees O( suit. DO divorce to be granted without
6'6. Upon granting divorce, court shall proof. 
make provision ror custody and sup- 651. Wife shall be deemed resident or thle
port or minor children. state, when. 
SEC. 639. The district court may grant a divorce for any
of the following causes: First, When either of the parties 
had a former husband or wife living at the time of the
subsequent marriage. Second, Abandonment for one year. 
Third, Adultery. Fourth, Impotency. Fifth, ,vhen the/~,
wife, at the time of the marriage, was pregnant by another 
than her husband. Sixth, Extreme cruelty. Seventh, 
Fraudulent contract. Eighth, Habitual drunkenness. 
Ninth, Gross neglect of duty. Tenth, The conviction of a
felony, and imprisonment in the penitentiary therefor, sub-
sequent to the marriage. 
SEc. 640. The plaintiff in an action for divorce must
have been an actual resident, in good faith, of the state,
for one year next preceding the filing of the petition, and
a resident of the county in which the action is brought at 
the time the petition is filed. 
SEC. 641. The petition must be verified as true, by the 
affidavit of the plaintiff. A summons may issue thereon,
and shall be served, or publication made, as in other cases. 
When service by publication is proper, a copy of the pe- 
tition, with a copy of the publication notice attached
thereto, shall, within three days after the first publication 
is made, be inclosed in an envelope addressed to the de­
fendant, at his or her place of residence, postage paid, and
deposited in the nearest post office, unless the plaintiff 
shall make and file an affidavit that such residence is un/
known to the plaintiff, and cannot be ascertained by any
means within the control of the plaintiff . 
SEC. 642. The defendant, in his or her answer, may al-
lege a cause for a divorce against the plaintiff, and may 
have the same relief thereupon as he or she would be entitled to for a like cause if he or she were plaintiff. When
new matter is set up in the answer, it shall be verified as 
to such new matter by the affidavit of the defendant. 
SEC. 643. When the parties appear to be in equal wrong,
the court may, in its discretion, refuse to grant a divorce; 
but in any such case, or in any other case where a divorce
is refused, the court may, for good cause shown, make
such order as may be proper for the custody, maintenance
and education of the children, or the control and disposi­
tion of the property of the parties as may be proper. 
SEC. 644. After a petition has been filed in an action for
a divorce, or for alimony alone, the court, or a judge there- 
of in vacation, may make and enforce, by attachment,
such order to restrain the disposition of the property of 
either party, or for the control of the children and support
of the wife, during the pendency of the action, as ma.y be 
right and proper ; and, also, may make such order, rela­
tive to the expenses of the suit, as will insure to the wife
an efficient preparation of her case ; and on granting a di­
vorce in favor of the wife, or refusing one on the a pplica­
tion of the husband, the court may require the husband to
pay all reasonable expenses of the wife in the prosecution
or defense of the action. 
SEC. 645. When a divorce is granted, the court shall
make provision for guardianship, custody, support and
education of the minor children of the marriage, and may 
modify or change any order in this respect, whenever cir-
cumstances render such change proper. 
SEc. 646. When the divorce is granted for the fault of the
husband, the court may adjudge to the wife a reasonable
sum as alimony, to be paid by the husband in gross, or in
installments, out of his estate ; and any such allowance
shall have the same effect, and may be enforced, as any 
other money judgment. 
SEC. 647. A divorce granted at the instance of one party,
shall operate as a dissolution of the marriage contract as 
to both, and shall be a bar to any claim of the party for 
whose fault it was granted, in or to the property of the
other. 
SEC. 648. When either of the parties to a marriage shall
· be incapable, from want of age or understanding, of con­ 
. tracting such marriage, the same may be declared void by
the district court, in an action brought by the incapable
party ; but the children of such marriage, begotten before
the same is annulled, shall be legitimate. Cohabitation
after such incapacity ceases, shall be a sufficient defense 
to any such action.
SEc. 649. The wife may obtain alimony from the hus­ 
band without a divorce, in an action brought for that pur­
pose in the district court, for any of the causes for which
a divorce may be granted. The husband may make the
same defense to such action as he might to an action for a
divorce, and may, for sufficient cause, obtain a divorce
from the wife in such action. · 
SEc. 650. Upon the trial of an action for a divorce, or
for alimony, the court may admit proof of the admissions
of the parties to be received in evidence, carefully exclud­ 
ing such as shall appear to have been obtained by conniv­
ance, fraud, coercion or other improper means. Proof of 
'cohabitation, and reputation of the marriage of the parties,
may be received as evidence of the marriage. But no di­
vorce shall be granted without proof. 
SEc. 651. A wife who resides in this state at the time of
applying for a divorce, shall be deemed a resident of this
state, though her husband resides elsewhere. 

ARTICLE XXIX. 
Ojftcu and fra.ncl,,i,e, • 
f 851. Writ or quo warranto abolished ; rem·
edy by civil action. 
853. Action may be brought, In what e&see.
GM. When prosecuted In name or state ; 
when in name or person ; petition
in DBurpatlon or office. 
el55. Judgment In caae contesting right to
office. 
. 
. 
I 656. Proceedings upon J.ndgmenta ror per­
son entitled, 
651. Order or court enforced by attachment.
658. Separate action ror damages; Jnd&­ 
ment of ou11ter.
659. Costs., bow collected tn cue or Judg­ 
ment agalDBt a corporation. 
SEC. 652. The writ of quoeoarranto, and proceedings by
;- information in the nature of quo marramto, are abolished, 
and the remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms may
be had by civil action. 
SEC. 653. Such action may be brought in the supreme;::.~-.....,,,. 
court or in the district court, in the following cases : Fir st, 
When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully
hold or exercise any public office, or any franchise within
this state, or any office in any corporation created by the 
authority of this state. Second, Whenever any public
officer shall have done or suffered any act which, by the
provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office. 
Third, Where any association or number of persons shall
act within this state as a corporation, without being legally
incorporated. Fourth, Where any corporation do or omit
acts which amount to a surrender or a forfeiture of their
rights and privileges as a corporation, or when they exer­
cise powers not conferred by law. Fifth, For any other 
cause for which a remedy might have been heretofore
obtained by writ of quo uiarranto or information in the 
nature of quo ioarramto. 
SEc. 654. When the action is brought by the attorney
general or the county attorney of any county, of his own 
motion, or when directed to do so by competent authority,
it shall be prosecuted in the name of the state. But where
the action is brought by a person claiming an interest in
the office, franchise or corporation, which is the subject of 
the action, it shall be prosecuted in the name of such
person. Whenever the action is brought against a person 
for usurping an office, by the attorney general or the
county attorney, he shall set forth in the petition the name 
of the person rightfully entitled to the office, and his right
or title thereto. When the action in such case is brought
by the person claiming title, he may claim and recover 
any damages he may have sustained. 
SEC. 655. In every case contesting the right to an office,
judgment shall be rendered according to the rights of 
the parties, and for the damages the plaintiff Qr person
entitled may have sustained, if any, to the time of the
judgment. 
SEC. 656. If judgment be rendered in favor of the
plaintiff or person entitled, he shall proceed to exercise 
the functions of the office, after he has been q nalified as
required by law; and the court shall order the defendant
to deliver over all the books and papers in his custody or
within his power, belonging to the office from which he
shall have been ousted. 
SEc. 657. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to
deliver over the books and papers, pursuant to the order, the court, or judge thereof, shall enforce the order by attachment and imprisonment.
SEC. 658. When judgment is rendere din favor of the plaintiff, he may, if he has not claimed his damages in the action, have a separate action for the damages at any time within one year after the judgment. The court may give judgment of ouster against the defendant, and exclude him from the office, franchise or corporate rights; and in cases of corporations, that the same shall be dissolved.
SEC. 659. If judgment be rendered against any corporation, or against any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs to be collected by execution against th eperson claiming to be a corporation, or by attachment against the directors or other officers of the corporation, and may restrain any disposition of the effects of the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property and effects, take an account, and make a distribution thereof among the creditors and persons entitled.
ARTICLE
1660, Who may prosecute writ of habea
corpus. 
881. Application, bow made; petition hall
specify what. 
682. Writ may be granted, b, whom.
863. Shall be directed to whom; its com­ 
mand.
864. When directed to sberlfl', to be deliv­ 
ered without delay.
9IZ. When directed to other per on, It shall 
be served by sheriff'.
668. How served when person cannot be 
found. 
ARTICLE XXX. 
err. Immediate return to be made; obedi­
ence enforced by attachment. 
668. Return shall state what.
tl69. Hearing may be adjourned, when; 
plaintiff' may except to return, or
allege new matter. 
670. Cau.ee to be heard, and party dis­
charged, when. 
671. Cases in which party Bhall not be dis­
charged. 
Habeas corpus. 
§ 67'2. Person shall not be discharged for
want of bail or defect in proce . 
673. Writ may be bud for letting to bail. 
674. Person interc ted in detention to be
notified b fore pri oner di charged. 
675. Power of court over wltnc es. 
670. Officer not Iiabl in civil action for
obeying writ. 
677. When warrant may i uc to heriff to
bring person in custody before court. 
678. Wnrrnnt may is. uo for the person
cu using the restraint. 
670. Writ, how executed; return and pro­
ceeclings. 
080. Temporary orders; custody of party
may he changed. 
681. Writ may ho crve d on Sunday, when.
682. Writ to be Issued by whom; amend­ 
me nrs.
083. Writ hall be erantcd In favor of par­ 
ent, gunrdian, etc.
084. No security for cost required. 
SEC. 660. Every p rson r train d of his lib rty, under
any pretense whatever may pro cut a writ of habeas
corpus to inquire into the cau e of the restraint, and hall
be delivered therefrom wh n illegal. 
SEc. 661. Application for the writ shall be mad by 
petition, Signed and Verified either by the plaintiff Or by
some person in his behalf, and shall specify: First, 
By whom the person in whose behalf the . writ is applied
for is restrained of his liberty, and the place where, 
naming all the parties, if they are known, or describing
them, if they are not known. Second, The cause or pre­
tense of the restraint, according to the best of the knowl­
edge and belief of the applicant. Third, If the restraint
be alleged to be illegal, in what the illegality consists. 
SEc. 662. Writs of habeas corpus may be granted by
any court of record in term time, or by a judge of any 
such court, either in term or vacation ; and upon applica-
tion the writ shall be granted without delay. 
SEc. 663. The writ shall be directed to the officer or
party having the person under restraint, commanding him 
to have such person before the court or judge, at such
time and place as the court or judge shall direct, to do
and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and
have then and there the writ. 
SEC. 664. If the writ be directed to the sheriff, it shall
be delivered by the clerk to him without delay. 
SEC. 665. If the writ be directed to any other person, it
shall be delivered to the sheriff, and shall be by him 
served by delivering the same to such person without de­
lay. 
SEc. 666. If the person to whom such writ is directed
cannot be found, or shall refuse admittance to the sheriff,
the same may be served by leaving it at the residence of
the person to whom it is directed, or by affixing the same
on some conspicuous place, either of his dwelling house
or where the party is confined or under restraint. 
SEC. 667. The sheriff or other person to whom the writ
is directed shall make immediate return thereof, and if 
he neglect or refuse, after due service, to make return, or
shall refuse or neglect to obey the writ by producing the
party named therein, and no sufficient excuse be shown for
such neglect or refusal, the court shall enforce obedience
by attachment. 
SEC. 668. The return must be signed and verified by the
person making it, who shall state : First, The authority
or cause of restraint of the party in his custody. Second, 
If the authority be in writing, he shall return a copy and
produce the original on the hearing, Third, If he has 
had the party in his custody or under his restraint, and 
has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the
time, place and cause of the transfer. He shall produce
the party on the hearing, unless prevented by sickness or
infirmity, which must be shown in the return. 
SEC. 669. The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth
of the allegation of sickness or infirmity, may proceed to 
decide on the return, or the hearing may be adjourned
until the party can be produced, or for other good cause.
The plaintiff may except to the sufficiency of, or contro-
vert the return or any part thereof, or allege any new mat-
ter in avoidance ; the new matter shall be verified, except
in cases of commitment on a criminal charge ; the return
and pleadings may be amended without causing any delay. 
SEC. 670. The court or judge shall thereupon proceed
in a summary way to hear and determine the cause ; and
if no .legal cause be shown for the restraint or for the 
continuance thereof, shall discharge the party. 
SEC. 671. No court or judge shall inquire into the legal-
ity of any judgment or process, whereby the party is in 
custody, or discharge him when the term of commitment
has not expired in either of the cases following : Fir st, 
Upon process issued by any court or judge of the United
States, or where such court or judge has exclusive juris- 
diction ; or, Second, Upon any process issued on any final
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction; or, Third, 
For any contempt of any court, officer or body having 
authority to commit ; but an order of commitment as for 
a contempt, upon proceedings to enforce the remedy of a. 
party, is not included in any of the foregoing specifica-
tions; Fourth, Upon a warrant or commitment issued
from the district court, or any other court of competent 
jurisdiction, upon an indictment or information. 
SEc. 672. No person shall be discharged from an order
of commitment issued by any judicial or peace officer for 
want of bail, or in cases not bailable, on account of any
defect in the charge or process, or for alleged want of
probable cause; but in all such cases, the court or judge 
shall summon the prosecuting witnesses, investigate the
criminal charge, and discharge, let to bail or recommit the 
prisoner, as may be just and legal, and recognize wit-
nesses when proper. 
SEC. 673. The writ may be had for the purpose of letting
a prisoner to bail in civil and criminal actions. 
SEC. 674. ·When any person has an interest in the de- 
tention, the prisoner shall not be discharged until the per­
son having such interest is notified. 
SEC. 675. The court or judge shall have power to require
and compel the attendance of witnesses, and to do all
other acts necessary to determine the case. 
SEC. 676. No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a
civil action for obeying any writ of habeas corpus or order 
of discharge made thereon.
SEC. 677. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit that any 
one is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there
is good reason to believe that such person will be carried 
out of the jurisdiction of the court or judge before whom
the application is made, or will suffer some irreparable 
injury before compliance with the writ can be enforced,
such court or judge may cause a warrant to be issued,
reciting the facts, and directed to the sheriff or any con­
stable of the county, oonimanding him to take the person 
thus held in custody or restraint, and forthwith bring him
before the court or judge, to be dealt with according to 
law.
SEC. 678. The court or judge may also, if the same be 
deemed necessary, insert in the warrant a command for
the apprehension of the person charged with causing the 
illegal restraint.
SEC. 679. The officer shall execute the writ by bringing 
the person therein named before the court or judge ; and
the like return and proceedings shall be required and had
as in case of writs of habeas corpus. 
SEC. 680. The court or judge may make any temporary
orders in the cause or disposition of the party during the 
progress of the proceedings, that justice may require.
The custody of any party restrained may be changed from
one person to another, by order of the court or judge. 
SEC. 681. Any writ or process authorized by this article,
may be issued and served, in case of emergency, on Sun­
day. 
SEC. 682. All writs and other process, authorized by the
provisions of this article, shall be issued by the clerk of
the court, and, except summons, sealed with the seal of
such court, and shall .be served and returned forthwith,
unless the court or judge shall specify a particular time
for any such return. And no writ or other process shall
be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is shown 
to notify the officer or person of the purport of the process. 
SEC. 683. Writs of habeas corpus shall be granted in
favor of parents, guardians, masters and bus bands ; and 
to enforce the rights, and for the protection of, infants and
insane persons ; and the proceedings shall, in all such
cases, conform to the provisions of this article. 
SEC. 684. No deposit or security for costs shall be
required of an applicant for a writ of habeas corpus. 
SEC. 686. When an officer, executor or administrator 
within this state, by misconduct or neglect of duty, for-
feits his bond or renders his sureties liable, any person 
injured thereby, or who is, by law, entitled to the benefit
of the security, may bring an action thereon in his own
name, against the officer, executor or administrator and
his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be 
entitled by reason of the delinquency. The action may
be instituted and proceeded in on a certified copy of the 
bond, which copy shall be furnished by the person holding
the original thereof. 
SEC. 685. The action of waste is abolished, but any
proceeding heretofore commenced or judgment rendered 
or right acquired, shall not be affected thereby; and where
the action of waste is specially mentioned and authorized
in any statute, it may be used until otherwise provided ; 
but it shall be commenced, and proceeded in throughout,
in the manner prescribed for the civil action of this code.
Wrongs heretofore remediable by actions of waste, are
subjects of action as other wrongs, and the same relief
shall be granted as may now be granted under the action 
of waste. 
Waate.
ARTICLE XXXI. 
ARTir.LE XXXII. 
Action& cm ojftcial aecuritiu. 
0 

SEC. 687. A judgment in favor of a party for one delin­
quency does not preclude the same or another party from 
an action on the same security for another delinquency. 
ARTICLE 
S 688. Writ lseued to whom, and for what
purpose. 
689. May not issue, in what cues.
600. Writ alternative or peremptory.
691. When peremptory.
692. MoLlon to be made upon nflldav1t.
693. How allowed and served.
69'. 'l'he answer. 
ARTICLE XX.XIII. {, . .<-- '! ~ 
Proceedings upon mandamus/ 
I...) V ....... 
I 696. Peremptory mandamu tr no answer;
new matter in answer. 
696. No pleading but writ and answer;
tuuea to be tried. 
ffln'. Judgment for plaintiff'.
·6118. Recovi,ry or damages a bar to other 
action.
699. Penalty for omcer neglecting to per­ 
form duty enjoined. 
SEC. 688. The writ of mandamus may be issued by the
supreme court or the district court to any inferior tribunal, 
corporation, board or person, to compel the performance
of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty,
resulting from 'an office, tru~t or station. But, though it
may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment
or proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it can-
not control judicial discretion. 
SEC. 689. This writ may not be issued in any case where
there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary 
course of the law. It may issue on the i~ormation of the,
party beneficially interested. S'jLJ,:- i' [ / ~1 .: r- ~~ ~, .: I 1 
SEc. 690. The writ is either alternative or peremptory. 
.The alternative writ must state, concisely, the facts,
showing the obligation of the defendant to perform the
act, and his omission to perform it, and command him
that immediately upon the receipt of the writ, or at some
other specified time, he do the act req nired to be performed 
or show cause before the court whence the writ issued, at 
a specified time and place, why he has not done so ; and
that he then and there return the writ with his certificate
of having done as he is commanded. The peremptory
writ must be in a similar form, except that the words
requiring the defendant to show cause why he has not
done as commanded, must be omitted. 
SEC. 691. When the right to require the performance of
the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can 
be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus
may be allowed in the first instance ; in all other cases,
the alternative writ must be first issued. 
SEc. 692. The motion for the writ must be made upon
affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the appli- 
cation to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an
order to show cause why it should not be allowed, or may
grant the writ without notice. 
SEC. 693. The allowance of the writ must be indorsed
thereon, -signed by the judge of the court granting it, and 
the WJi't must be served personally upon the defendant ; if
the defendant, duly served, neglect to return the same, he
shall bE\ proceeded against, as for a cofttempt. 
SEC. 694. On the return day of the }Jternative writ, or
such further day as the court may allow, the party on 
whom the writ shall have been served may show cause, by
answer made in the same manner as an ailS.l'7'er to a peti- 
tion in a civil action. · 
SEC. 695. If no answer be made, a peremptory man- 
damus must be allowed against the defendant; if answer
be made, containing new matter, the same shall not, in any 
respect, conclude the plaintiff, who may, on the trial or
other proceeding, avail himself of any valid objections to· 
[its] sufficiency, or may countervail it by proof, either in
direct denial or by way of avoidance. 
SEc. 696. No other pleading or written allegation is al-
lowed than the writ and answer ; these are the pleadings 
in the case, and have the same effect, and are to be con-
strued and may be amended in the same manner, as plead- 
ings in a civil action; and the issues thereby joined must
be tried, and the further proceedings thereon had, in the
same manner as in a civil action. 
SEC. 697. If judgment be given for the plaintiff, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be 
ascertained by the court or jury, or by referees, as in a
civil action, and costs ; and a peremptory mandamus shall
also be granted to him without delay. 
SEC. 698. A recovery of damages, by virtue of this article, against a party who shall have made a return to a
writ of mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the 
same party for the making of such return. 
SEC. 699. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed 
to any public officer, body or board, commanding the per-
forma.nce of any public duty specially enjoined by law, if 
it appear to the court that such officer, or any member of
such body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or 
neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may
impose a fine, not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon
every such officer or member of such body or board.
Such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the treasury
of the county where the duty ought to have been per-!
formed ; and the payment thereof is a bar to an action for
any penalty incurred by such officer or msm ber of such
body or board, by reason of his refusal or neglect to per­
form the duty so enjoined. 
ARTICLE 
General prcmriona applicable to tM whole eode.-Prou.ss. 
I 700. Style or proeees ; seal, slgnature and
date. 
'701. Process, when eberl1r a party.
70l. Court, etc., may appoint person to 
serve process ; bow verl1led. 
DUTIES OP CLEBK.8, 
708. To keep dockets, Journals, etc.
704. Shall enter what on appearance 
docket.
705. On Journal.
706. Judgment docket to be kept, bow; 
statement to be entered.
707. Entrle11 ln execution docket; re tum 
to execution to be recorded,
708. Clerk may receive amount of Judg­ 
ment and costs, when; hie llablllty.
709. Write, orders, &c., to be issued upon 
preclpe.
710. Clerk to file papers ln every acUon or 
special proceeding. 
'111, Papers lo each case, how to be kept.
71i. lndorsement upon papers and orders.
713. Entry upon return of summons.
714. Records and books or oonrt.
711>. Provisions or this article applicable to 
clerks or all courts or record.
716. Clerk to exercise what powers and 
perform what duUea. 
ARTICLF; XllIV. 
DUTIEB CJr BBBBTIT, 
i 717. To Indorse upon process, time of re­
celvlng it. 
718. To execute and return procese ; liable
for neglect. 
719. To adjourn court from day to day, un­
tll Judge attend ; tart.her powers and
duties. 
KISCELLANEOUll PROYISIONB, 
720. Duty enjoined upon ministerlal officer
may be performed by deputy. 
'l'il. Affirmation sufficient, when.
'l'a. Time, how oomputcd.
~. Person off'ered as security may be re­ 
quired to take oath.
'724. Quailllcations or surety.
'l'i5. Supreme court to revise its rules, and 
make amendments. 
PROVI8ION8 RESPECTING ACTIONII, 
'1'16. Application or the code to suite pend­
ing ; shall apply to proceedinge to 
enforce or reverse Judgment. 
PBOVISIONB A8 TO THB OPERATION OP Tll1I
OODE, 
727. Rights or action under existing prac­
tice to be enforced under thla code,
except, etc. 
'1'!8. Code not to aff'ect certain proceedings.
'129. When action shall be prosecuted in 
conformity with this act. 
SEc. 700. The style of all process shall be : "The state
of Kansas. It shall be under the seal of the court from
whence the same shall issue, shall be signed by the clerk,
and dated the day it is issued. 
SEC. 701. An order for a provisional remedy or any
other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party or
is interested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both of
these officers are interested, the process shall be directed 
to and executed by a person appointed, as provided in the
next section.
SEc. 702. The court or judge, or the clerk, in the ab-
sence of the judge from the county, for good cause, may 
appoint a person to serve a particular process or order,
who shall have the same power to execute it which the
sheriff has. The person may be appointed on the appli- 
cation of the party obtaining the process or order, and the
return must be verified by affidavit. He shall be entitled 
to the same
fees allowed to the sheriff for similar services . 
SEC. 703. The clerk of the district court shall keep an
appearance docket, a trial docket, a journal. a judgment
docket, an execution docket, and such other books as may 
be ordered by the court or required by law. 
SEc. 704. On the appearance docket he shall enter all
actions in the order in which they are brought, the date
of the summons, the time of the return thereof by the 
officer, and his return thereon, the time of filing the peti-
tion, and all subsequent pleadings and papers, and an
abstract of all judgments and orders of the court. 
SEc. 705. On the journal shall be entered the proceed-
ings of the court of each day, and all orders of the judge
in vacation or at chambers, and also all judgments entered
on confession or default. 
SEC. 706. The judgment docket shall be kept in the
form of an index, in which the name of each person 
against whom a judgment is rendered shall appear in
alphabetical order. .A. statement of each judgment upon
its rendition shall be entered therein, containing the names
of the parties, the amount or nature of the judgment and 
costs, and the date of its rendition; and if the judgment
be against several persons, the entry shall be repeated 
under the name of each person against whom the judg-
ment is rendered, in alphabetical order. 
SEC. 707. In the execution docket the clerk shall enter
all executions as they are issued by him. The entry shall 
contain the names of the parties, the date and amount of
the judgment and costs, the date of the execution, and the
name of the county to which it is issued. The clerk shall
also record in full the return of the sheriff to each execu-
tion ; and such record shall be evidence of such return, if 
the original be mislaid or lost. 
SEC. 708. W11en there is no execution outstanding, the
clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered 
may receive the amount of the judgment and costs, and
receipt therefor, with the same effect as if the same had 
been paid to the sheriff on an execution; and the clerk
shall be liable to be amerced for refusing to l)ay the same 
to the party entitled thereto, when requested, and shall
also be liable on his official bond. 
SEc. 709. All writs and orders for provisidnal remedies,
and process of every kind, shall be issued b~ ... + he clerks 
of the several courts, upon a precipe filed w~ 
demanding the same. 
SEC. 710. It is the duty of the clerk of ~~ 1 of the
courts, to file together, and carefully preserve in his office, 
all papers delivered to him for that purpose, in every action
or special proceeding. 

SEc. 711. He shall keep the papers, in each case, sepa-
rate, carefully enveloped in a wrapper, labeled with the title of the cause.
SEc. 712. He shall indorse upon every paper filed with 
him, the day of filing it ; and upon every order for a
provisional remedy, and upon every undertaking given 
under the same, the day of its return to his office. 
SEC. 713. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the appearance docket the name of the 
defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of the
service upon each one. The entry shall be evidence of
the service of the summons, in case of the loss thereof. 
SEC. 714. He shall keep the records and books and pa­
pers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings. 
SEc. 715. The provisions of this article shall, as far as
they are applicable, apply to the clerks of all courts of 
record . 
SEC. 716. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed 
upon him by other provisions of this code, by other
statutes, and by the common law. In the. performance of 
his duties, he shall be under the direction of his court. 
SEC. 717. The sheriff shall indorse upon every summons,
order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of
attachment or injunction, the day and hour it was received 
by him.

SEC. 718. He shall execute every summons, order or
other process, and return the same as required by law ;
and if he fail to do so, unless he make it appear to the
satisfaction of the court that he was prevented by inevi,
table accident from so doing, he shall be amerced by the 
court in a sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, upon
motion and ten days' notice, and shall be liable to the
action of any person aggrieved by such failure. 
SEc. 719. If the judge of a court fail to attend at the
time and place appointed for holding his court, the sheriff 
shall have power to adjourn the court, from day to day, ,
until the judge attend, or a judge pro tem. be selected ; /
but if the judge be not present in his court, nor a judge ~ 
pro tem. be selected, within two days after the first day
of the term, then the court shall stand adjourned for the
term. The sheriff shall exercise the powers and duties
conferred and imposed upon him by other provisions of
this code, by other statutes, and by the common law. 
SEC. 720. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a min­
isterial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him,
may be performed by his lawful deputy. 
SEc. 721. Whenever an oath is required by this code,
the affirmation of a person, conscientiously scrupulous of
taking an oath, shall have the same effect. 
SEc. 722. The time within which an act is to be done,
shall be computed by excluding the first day, and includ­
ing the last; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be ex-
cluded. 
SEC. 723. A ministerial officer, whose duty it is to take
security in any undertaking provided for by this code or 
by other statutes, shall require the person offered as surety 
to make an affidavit of his qualifications, which affidavit
may be made before such officer, and shall be indorsed
upon or attached to the undertaking. The taking of such
an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liability
to which he might otherwise be subject for taking insuffi-
cient security. 
SEC. 724. The surety in every undertaking provided for
by this code or other statute, must be a resident of this 
state, and worth double the sum to be secured. over and
above all exemptions, debts and liabilities. ·v· 're there 
are two or more sureties in the same under'~ 1 they 
must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed
in this section. 
SEC. 725. The judges of the supreme court shall, during
the month of the first June after this code shall take effect,
ahd every two years thereafter, meet at the capital of the
state, and revise their general rules, and make such amend­
ments thereto as may be required to carry into effect the
provisions of this code, and shall make such further rules 
consistent therewith as they may deem proper. The rules
so made shall apply to the supreme court, the district 
courts, the pro bate courts, and all other courts of record. 
SEC. 726. The provisions of this code do not apply to
proceedings in actions or suits pending, when it takes 
effect. They shall be conducted to final judgment or de­
cree, in all respects, as if it had not been adopted; but
the provisions of this code shall apply after a judgment,
order or decree, heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the
proceedings to enforce, vacate, modify or reverse it. 
SEC. 727. Rights of civil action, given or secured by
existing laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided 
for by this code, except as provided in the next section.
If a case ever arise in which an action or proceeding for
the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or
prevention of a wrong, cannot be had under this code, the
practice heretofore in use may be adopted, so far as may 
be necessary to prevent a failure of justice. 
SEC. 728. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide,
this code shall not affect proceedings to assess damages 
for private property taken for public uses, nor proceedings
under the statutes for the settlement of estates of deceased
persons, nor proceedings under statutes relating to appren­ 
tices, bastardy, insolvent debtors or any special statutory
remedy, not heretofore obtained by action; but such 
proceedings may be prosecuted under the code whenever
it is applicable. 
SEC. 729. Where, by statute, a civil action, legal or
equitable, is given, and the mode of proceeding therein is 
prescribed, this code shall not affect the proceeding under
such statr,m. until the legislature shall otherwise provide ; 
but the ~may, if they see fit, proceed under thiasct, 
and in all such cases, as far as it may be consistent with
the statute giving such action and practicable under this
code, the proceedings shall be conducted in conformity
thereto. Where the statute designates, by name or other­
wise, the kind of action, such action shall be commenced.
and prosecuted in conformity to 'this code. Where the
statute gives an action, but does not designate the kind of
action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such
action shall be held to be the civil action of this code, and
proceeded in accordingly. 
SEC. 780. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its publication in the statute book. 
CHAPTER 81. 
PROCEDURE-CIVIL, BEFORE JUSTICES . 
.An ad regulating the juri,diction and procedure before juaticu of the peau
in citnl cases. 
ARTICLE I. J uri.sdiction.
II. Commencement of an action. 
III. Arrest and bail.
IV. Attachment.
V. Replevin. 
VI. Bill of particulars.
VII. Change of place of trial. 
VIII. Trial.
IX. Judgment.
X. Appeal.
XI. Stay of execution.
XII. Execution. 
XIII. Forcible entry and detainer.
XIV. Constables.
XV. Miscellaneous. 
Be it enacted by the Legislature of tlte State of Kansas : 
I 1. Jurlsdlctlon coextensive with county, 
!t. Jurisdiction In particular cases.
3. Jurisdiction as to AmQUnt.
4. The same.
5. Conresslon or judgment. 
ARTICLE L 
Jurildiction. 
I 6. Jurisdiction In actions ror trcspas1.
7. Action to bo dlemlssed when tltlo to 
land In dispute.
8. Justices have not cogni.zance, or what 
actions. 
SEC. 1. The jurisdiction of justices of the peace in
civil cases shall be coextensive with the county wherein
they may have been elected, and wherein they shall reside. 
SEC. 2. The justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction
and authority: First, To administer any oath or affirma­ 
tion authorized or required by law to be administered. 
Second, To take the acknowledgment of deeds, mortgages
and other instruments in writing. Third, To solemnize 
marriages. Fourth, To issue su bpenas for witnesses, and
coerce their attendance in causes or matters pending be­
fore them, or other cause or matter wherein they may be 
required to take depositions. Fiftlt, To try the action for 
the forcible entry· and detention, or the detention only, of
real property. Sixth, To proceed against security for costs 
and bail for the stay of execution on their dockets. Sen- 
enth, To issue attachment, and proceed against the goods
and effects of debtors in certain cases. .Eigldlt, To issue 
executions on judgments rendered by them. Ninth, To
proceed against constables failing to make return, making 
false return, or failing to pay over money collected on exe-
cution issued by such justice. Tenth, To act, in the ab-
sence of the probate judge, in the trial of contested
elections of justices of the peace. Bleoenih, Under the
restrictions and limitations herein provided, to. have ex- 
clusive ori inal ·urisdiction of civil cases where the amount
claimed does _ _not excee one undred dollars, "and concur:- 
rent jurisdiction with the d1str1et court in actions on con-
tract, express or implied, for the recovery of money only, 
when __ th~_anwunt claimed exceeds one hundred dollars,
and does not exceed three hundred dollars . 
SEC. 3. When the balance claimed to be due on any
open or unsettled account, or on any bill, note or bond, 
shall not exceed three hundred dollars, the party by whom
such balance shall be claimed may commence his action 
therefor, before a justice of the peace, who shall have
power, and he is hereby authorized, to hear and determine
the matters in controversy, without regard to the amount 
of the original account or contract, and he may render 
judgment for any balance found due, not exceeding three
hundred dollars.
SEC. 4. Actions founded upon an undertaking given
in pnrsuance-of la.win...any _c~v_il proceeding pending before
a justice, such justice, or his successor Tn office, shall have
jurisdiction thereof, where the sum due or demanded on
such undertaking does not exceed five hundred dollars. 
SEc. 5. If any debtor shall appear before a justice of the
peace, without process, and confess that he is indebted to 
another, it shall be lawful for such justice, on the appli-
cation of the creditor, to render judgment on such confes- 
sion against the debtor. 
1 
SEC. 6. Justices shall have jurisdiction i~_tio!!._~- for
trespass 91!_!,'eal estate, where damages demanded for such 
trespass shall not exceed one h1~~~~q.jl~. 
SEC. 7. If, in any action commenced before a justice, it
appears to the satisfaction of the justice that the titl~ or 
': c; 
boundaries of land is in dispute in such action, it shall be
dismissed without prejudice to a future action . 
SEC. 8. Justices shall not have cognizance of any action: 
First, To recover damages for an assault or an assault and
battery ; or, Second, In any action for slander or malicious
prosecution; or, Third, In actions against justices of the
peace or other officers, for misconduct in office, except in
the cases provided for in this act ; or, Fourth, In actions
on contracts for real estate; or, Fifth, In actions in which
the title to real estate is sought to be recovered, or may be 
drawn inquestion. 
ARTICLE 
S 9. How action commenced.
10. When guardian necessary, how ap­ 
pointed.
11. The summons. 
12. Service and return. 
ARTICLE Il. 
Commencement of an action. 
I 18. Semce on corporation.
14. On insurance company.
15. On foreign corporation.
16. On minor.
17. Time for appearance . 
SEc. 9. Actions before justices of. the peace are com­
menced by summons, or by appearance and agreement of
the parties, without summons. In the former, the action
is deemed commenced upon delivery of the writ to the
constable to be served, and he shall note thereon the time
of receiving the same. In the latter case, the action is
deemed commenced at the time of docketing the case. 
SEC. 10. When a guardian to the suit is necessary, he
must be appointed by the justice, as follows: First, If 
the infant be plaintiff, the appointment must be made
before the summons issued, upon the application of the 
infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards ; 
if under that age, upon the application of some friend.
The consent, in writing. of the guardian to be appointed,
and to be responsible for the costs if he fail in the action, 
must be filed with the justice. Second, If the infant be
defendant, the guardian must be appointed before the
trial. It is the right of the infant to nominate his own
guardian, if the infant be over fourteen years of' age, and
the proposed guardian be present and consent, in writing, 
to be appointed; otherwise, the justice may appoint any
suitable person who gives such consent. 
SEc. 11. The summons shall be dated the day it is
issued, signed by the justice issuing the same, directed to 
a constable of the proper township ( except in case a person
be deputed to serve it, in which case it shall be directed to
such person), must contain the name or names of the
defendant or defendants, if known ; if unknown, give a
description of him or them, and command the officer or
person serving the same to summon the defendant or
defendants to appear before such justice, at his office in
- township, at a time specified therein, and must
describe the plaintiff's cause of action in such general
terms as to apprise the defendant of the nature of the
claim against him ; and there shall be indorsed on the
writ the amount for which the plaintiff will take judgment,
if the defendant fail to appear. If the defendant fail to
appear, judgment shall not be rendered for a larger 
amount and the costs.
SEc. 12. The summons must be returnable not more 
than twelve days from its date, and must, unless accom-
panied with an order of arrest, be served at least three 
days before the time of appearance, as follows: First,
By delivering a copy of the summons, with the indorse-
ment thereon ( certified by the constable or person serving 
the same to be a true copy), to the defendant, or leaving
the same at his usual place of residence. Second, An
acknowledgment on the back of the summons, or the
voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equivalent to 
service. ,
SEc. 13. A summons against a corporation may be 
served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board
of directors or trustees, or other chief officer; or, if its
chief officer is not found in the county, upon its cashier,
treasurer, secretary, clerk or managing agent ; or, if none 
of the aforesaid officers can be found, by a copy left at
the office or usual place of business of such corporation, 
with the person having charge thereof. 
SEC. 14. When the defendant is an incorporated insur-
ance company, and the action is brought in the county in
which there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon 
the chief officer of such agency. 
SEC. 15. When the defendant is a foreign corporation,
having a managing agent in this state, the service may be
upon such agent. 
SEC. 16. When the defendant is a minor, under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him and upon 
his guardian or father ; or, if neither of these can be found, 
then upon his mother, or the person having the care or
control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither
of these can be found, or if the minor be more than four­
teen years of age, service on him alone shall be sufficient. 
The manner of service may be the same as in the case of
adults. 
SEc. 17. The parties are entitled to one hour in which
to appear, after the time mentioned in the summons for
appearance, or to which the case is adjourned, but are not
bound to remain longer than that time, unless both parties
have appeared, and the justice, being present, is engaged 
in the trial of another cause. In such case the justice may
postpone the time of appearance until the close of such
trial. 
ARTICLE 
I 18. Causes for arrest ; affidavit. 
19. Order DlAY accompany summons.
20. Undertaking or plaintiff'. 
it. Order shall be delivered to whom;
shall state what. 
n. Bow executed.
23. Proceedings after arrest. 
ARTICLE III. 
Arrut and bail. 
S t4. Defendant not to bo kept In custody in
case of continuance, unless, &c. 
t:s. Counter-affidavit; defendant discharg­
ed, when. 
26. 188uing of order of arrest after judg·
ment; affidavit. 
S'l. Order to be dellvered to whom; shall
require what. 
SEc. 18, An order for the arrest of the defendant in a
civil action shall be made by the justice of the peace 
before whom the same is brought, when there is filed in his
office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his authorized agent or 
attorney, made before any person authorized by law to
administer oaths, stating the nature of the plaintiff's claim,
that it is just, the amount thereof, as near as may be, and
showing one or more of the following particulars: First, 
That the defendant has removed or begun to remove any
of his property out of the county, with intent. to defraud
his creditors. Second, That the defendant has begun to
convert his property, or any part thereof, into money, for
the purpose of defrauding his creditors. Third, That he
has property or rights in action which he fraudulently
conceals. Fourth, That he has assigned, removed or dis­
posed of, or has begun to assign, remove or dispose of his
property, or any part thereof, with intent to defraud his
creditors. Fiftli,, That the defendant fraudulently con­
tracted the debt or incurred the obligation for which snit 
is about to be brought. Sixth, That the defendant is
about to abscond, with intent to defraud his creditors.
The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or
more of the above particulars. 
SEC. 19. The order of arrest may be made to accompany'
the summons, or at any time afterwards before judgment. 
SEC. 20. The order of arrest shall not be issued by a
justice of the peace until there has been executed, by one 
or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a written under-
taking, to the effect that the plaintiff shall pay to the
defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of
the arrest, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not ex-
ceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's claim, stated 
in the affidavit. 
SEC. 21 The order of arrest shall be addressed and de- 
livered, with a copy of the affidavit, to a constable of the
proper township ; it shall state the names of the parties, 
the amount of the plaintiff's claim specified in the affida-
vit, be signed by the justice of the peace issuing it, and
shall require the constable to arrest the defendant and
bring him forthwith before said justice. 
SEc. 22. The officer receiving said order shall execute
the same by forthwith arresting the defendant and deliver-
ing to him a copy thereof, and of the affidavit ; and the
defendant so arrested, unless the claim of the plaintiff,
specified in the affidavit, and costs of suit, are paid, or un-
less discharged from custody by order of the plaintiff,
shall be taken by such constable, forthwith, before the 
justice of the peace by whom said order of arrest was
issued, and kept in custody until discharged by law. 
SEC. 23. Upon the return of said order of arrest, exe-
coted in pursuance of the preceding section, the trial of
said ca use shall proceed, unless for good ca use shown,
upon the application of either party, or at the instance of 
the justice himself', the same shall be continued, as is pro-
vided for in other cases before justices of the peace; and 
when the trial of said cause is continued for any period,
the defendant, upon executing, with one or more sufficient
sureties, a written undertaking to the effect that if judg-
ment be rendered against him upon the final determina-
tionof the action, he will render himself amenable to the
process thereon; or upon depositing in the hands of the 
justice of the peace the amount of money mentioned in 
the order of arrest, and the probable amount of costs of
suit, shall be forthwith discharged from custody. 
SEC. 24. In no case shall the defendant be detained in
the custody of the officer, when a continuance has· been
for a period of more than forty-eight hours, unless said 
continuance has been made at the instance, or with the
consent, of the defendant himself. 
SEC. 26. If the defendant, before the commencement of
the trial, file his affidavit with the justice, denying the
grounds laid in the affidavit of the plaintiff for the arrest, 
the truth of such grounds shall be considered in issue on
the trial, and shall be tried at the same time and in the
same manner as the other issues in the case ; but a separate
finding shall be made whether such grounds are "true" 
or 'i not sustained by the evidence." If all the grounds
are found to be not sustained by the evidence, the defend­
ant shall be discharged. 
SEc. 26. On judgment against the defendant, in any
civil action before a justice of the peace, when the defend-
ant is in the custody of th.e officer, as herein before provided, 
or if, after judgment against him, there is filed, in the office
of such justice, an affidavit of the plaintiff, his authorized
agent or attorney, made before any person competent to
administer an oath, stating the amount of judgment re­
maining unpaid, and one or more of the particulars men­
tioned in section eighteen, said justice of the peace shall,
unless otherwise ordered by the plaintiff, issue an execu­
tion, and accompany the same with an order for the arrest 
of the defendant. 
SEc. 27. Said order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered, with a copy of the affidavit, to the constable hav­
ing said execution, and shall state the names of the parties,
be signed by the justice issuing it, and state the amount
of the judgment and costs unpaid, and shall require the
officer, in case the same shall not be paid, or an amount
of property of the defendant, whereon to levy execution,
sufficient to satisfy the same cannot be found in his county, 
to arrest the defendant, if not already in the custody of the
officer, and deliver him to the sheriff of the proper county, 
to be committed by him to the jail of the county, and kept
in custody until discharged by law. 
ARTICLE 
Attachment.
I ts. Amdavlt for attaehment; attachment 
when defendant Is a foreign corpora­
tion or non-resident. 
t9. Undertaking to be given.
IIO. The tuulng, dellvery and command or 
attachment.
81. Return day.
82. How attachments executed.
38. How property disoharged from attach· 
ment. 
84. Inventory when two -or more attacb­
menta; priority of ltena. 
85. How order aened when accompanied
with summons; proceedings It sum­
mons cannot be 1ened. 
18. Perubable property to be sold, when;
bow money reall.zed, dl1posed of. 
rr. Proceedings agalnat garnl1bee.
88. Copy of order and notice, how ae"ed.
39. Examination of ganu1bee.
40. lfoney due defendant may be paid Into 
court. 
ARTICLE IV. 
/!'J'L:_ 
3 .3 3 
I 41. Attachment for garnishee.
41. Property or money ID hands of gar­ 
nh>bee, bow dlsposed ot
48. PlalntlJl' may proceed agaln1t gar­ 
nllhee, when.
44. Trial or truth of amwer or garniabee 
may be demanded, when. 
45. When Judgment 1ball be rendered.
46. Attachment discharged upon Judgment 
for defendant.
47. Judgment, how eatlstled.
48, Order to re-eelse property. 
49. Who to determine priorltie1.
GO. Officer', return.
&l. Gaml11bee liable to plalnttft 
Iii. When defendant may retain property.
M. Duty or Justice when counter-affidavit 
tlled.
M. Proceedings to be cert14ed to district 
court where the-re are lands but no
gooda, &c. 
SEC. 28. The plaintiff shall have an order of attachment
against the property of the defendant, in a civil action
before the justice of the peace for the recovery of money,
before or after the commencement thereof, when there is
filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or 
attorney, showing the nature of the plaintiff's claim, that
it is just, the amount which the affiant believes the plain· 
tiff ought to recover, and the existence of some one or
more of the following particulars: First, That the defend- 
ant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the
county; or, Second, Has absconded, with intent to defraud
his creditors; or, Third, Has left the county of his resi-
dence to avoid the service of summons; or, Fourth, So
conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon
him; or, .Fifth, Is about to remove his property, or a part 
thereof, out of the county, with the intent to defraud his
creditors; or, Sixth, Is about to convert his property, or
a part thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it
beyond" the reach of his creditors ; or, Snenth. Has prop-
erty or rights in action which he conceals ; or, .Eighth, 
Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is about to dis-
pose of, his property, or a part thereof, with intent to de·
fraud his creditors ; or, Ninth, Fraudulently contracted
the debt or incurred the obligation for which suit is about 
to be or has been brought. When the defendant is a for- 
eign corporation, or a non-resident of the county, the
attachment shall not be granted, unless the claim is for a
debt or demand arising upon contract, judgment or decree,
unless the cause of action arose wholly within the limits
of this state, which fact must be established on the trial. 
SEC. 29. The order of attachment shall not be issued by
the justice until there has been executed in his office, by
one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to be ap­
proved by the justice, an undertaking, not exceeding
double the amount of the plaintiff's claim, to the effect
that the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the 
order be wrongful1y obtained. 
SEc. 30. The order of attachment may be made to ac­
company the summons, or at any time afterward before
judgment; it shall be addressed and delivered to any
constable of the proper township, and shall require him 
to attach the goods, chattels, stocks or interest in stocks,
rights, credits, moneys and effects of the defendant in his
county, not exempt by law from being applied to the pay­
ment of the plaintiff's claim, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the plaintiff's claim, to be stated in the order asin
the affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not
exceeding fifty dollars. 
SEC. 31. The return day of the order of attachment,
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be
the same as that of the summons ; when issued afterwards,
it shall be executed and returned forthwith. 
SEc. 32. When there are several orders of attachment
against the same defendant, in the hands of the same offi­
cer, they shall be executed in the order in which they 
were received by said officer. He shall go to the place
where the defendant's property may be found, and there,
in the presence of two credible persons, declare that by 
virtue of said order, he attaches said property at the suit
of such plaintiff; and the officer, with two householders
of the county, who shall be first sworn or affirmed by the
officer, shall make a true inventory and appraisement of
all property attached, which shall be signed by the officer
and said householders, and returned with the order ; when
the property can be come at, he shall take the same into
his custody, and hold it subject to the order of the justice. 
SEc. 33. The constable shall deliver the property at­
tached to the person in whose possession it was found, 
upon the execution by such person, in the presence of the
constable, of an undertaking to the plaintiff, with one or
more sufficient sureties, resident in the county, to the effect
that the parties to the same are bound in double the
appraised value thereof, that the property or its appraised
value in money shall be forthcoming to answer the judg- 
ment of the court in the action ; but if. it shall appear to 
the court that any part of said property has been lost or
destroyed by unavoidable accident, the value thereof shall 
be remitted to the person or persons so found.
SEc. 34. Different attachments of the same property 
may be made, and one inventory and appraisement shall
be sufficient. The lien of the attachments shall be in the
order in which they are served, and the subsequent
attachments shall be served on the property as in the
hands of the officer, and subject to the prior attachments.
The justice who issued the attachment having the priority
of lien, shall determine all questions as to the priority of
liens on the property attached. 
SEC. 35. If the order of attachment is made to accompany
the summons, a copy thereof and the summons shall be
served upon the defendant in the usual manner for the 
service of summons, if the same can be done within the
county ; and when any property of the defendant has been 
taken under the order of attachment, and it shall appear"
that the summons issued in the action has not been. and 
cannot be served on the defendant in the county, in the
manner prescribed by law, the justice of the peace shall 
continue the cause for a period not less than thirty or more
than fifty days ; whereupon the plaintiff shall proceed, for 
three consecutive weeks, to publish, in some newspaper
printed in the county, or, if none be printed therein, then
in some newspaper of general circulation in said county,
a notice, stating the names of the parties, the time when,
by what justice of the peace, and for what sum said order
was issued and the time when the cause will be heard,
and shall make proof of such publication to the justice ;
and thereupon said action shall be proceeded with the
same as if said summons had been duly served. 
SEC. 36. When the cause is continued, as provided for
in the preceding section, and it shall appear that any of 
the property taken under the attachment is live stock, or
is of a perishable nature, the justice may issue his order 
directing the officer having custody thereof, to dispose of 
the same as upon execution; and the moneys realized
therefrom shall be paid over to the justice, and applied as
other money realized from the sale of the property attached 
is applied.
SEc. 37. When the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall 
make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to and
does believe that any person or corporation, to be named, 
and within the county where the action is brought, has
property of the defendant (describing the same), or credits
in his possession, or is indebted to him, if the officer cannot
come at the property, he shall leave with such garnishee
a copy of the order of attachment, with a written notice
that he appear before the justice, at the return of the
order of attachment, and answer, as provided in section 
thirty-nine.
SEC. 38. The copy of the order and notice shall be 
served upon the garnishee as follows : If he be a person,
they shall be served upon him personally, or left at his
usual place of residence ; if a corporation, they shall be 
left with the president or other head of the same, or the
secretary, cashier or managing agent thereof. 
SEC. 39. The garnishee shall appear before the justice,
in accordance with the command of the notice, and shall
answer, under oath, all questions put to him touching the
property of every description and credits of the defendant,
in his possession or under his control ; and h.e shall disclose
truly the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether
due or not ; and in the case of a corporation, any stock
therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or
after the service of the notice. The examination of the
garnishee, with the questions and answers, shall be re­
duced to writing by the justice, or in his presence signed
by the party and filed, unless the parties otherwise agree. 
SEC. 40. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
defendant by him, to the constable having the order of
attachment, or into court. He shall be discharged from 
liability to the defendant for any money so paid, not
exceeding the plaintiff's claim. He shall not be subject
to costs beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim
against him, and if he disclose the property in his hands,
or the true amount owing by him, and deliver or pay the
same according to the order of the court, he shall be
allowed his costs. 
SEC. 41. If the garnishee do not appear and answer, as 
required by section thirty-nine, the justice may proceed
against him by attachment, as for a contempt. 
SEc. 42. If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is
discovered on his examination that at or after the service 
of the order of attachment and notice upon him, he was
possessed of any property of the defendant, or was
indebted to him, the justice may order the delivery of
such property, and the payment of the amount owing by
the garnishee into court, or may permit the garnishee to 
retain the property or the amount owing, upon the execu­
tion of an undertaking to the plaintiff, by one or more
sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall be
paid or the property forthcoming, as the court may direct. 
SEC. 43. If the garnishee fails to appear and answer, or 
if he appears and answers, and his disclosure is not satis-
factory to the plaintiff, or if he fails to comply with the 
order of the justice to deliver the property and pay the
money owing into court, or give the undertaking required
in the preceding section, the plaintiff may proceed against
him in an action, in his own name, as in other cases ; and 
thereupon such proceedings may be had as in other actions,
and judgment may be rendered in favor of the splaintiff
for the amount of the property and credits of every kind,
of the defendant in the possession of the garnishee, and for
what shall appear to be owing by him to the defendant,
and for the costs of the proceedings against the garnishee.
If the plaintiff proceed against the garnishee by action,
for the cause that his disclosure was unsatisfactory, unless 
it appears in the action that such disclosure was incom­
plete, the plaintiff shall pay the costs of such action. The 
judgment in this action may be enforced as Judgments in
other cases. When the claims of the plaintiffs in attach­
ment are satisfied by the garnishee, he may, on motion, be
substituted as the plaintiff in the judgment. • ; 
SEC. 44. The plaintiff may give notice to the J"usi·~-ffl; 
the answer of the garnishee is unsatisfactery, and ~nd
a trial of the trntp of' such answer, and the justi~~lfJJ.
thereupon appoint a day for such trial, which shall be rr 
ducted, in all respects, as in other cases. 
SEC. 45. Final .. dg ment shall not be rendered azainst 
the garnishee until the action against the defendant in at-
tachment has been determined ; and if, in such action, 
judgment be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the
garnishee shall be discharged, and recover costs. If the 
plaintiff shall recover against the defendant in attach­
ment, and the garnishee shall deliver up all property, 
moneys and credits of the defendant in his possession, and
pay all the moneys from him due, as the court may order, 
the garnishee shall be discharged, and the costs of the pro­
ceedings against him shall be paid out of the property and
moneys so surrendered, or as the court may think right 
and proper.
SEC. 46. If judgment be rendered, in the action, for the 
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the
property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to 
him.
SEC. 47. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it shall 
be satisfied as follows : So much of the property remain­
ing in the hands of the officers, after applying the moneys
arising from the sale of perishable property, and so much
of the personal property, if any, as may be necessary to 
satisfy the judgment, shall be sold, by order of the justice,
under the same restrictions and regulations as if the same
had been levied on by execution ; and the money arising
therefrom, with the amount which may be recovered from
the gan:Ashee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment
and costs. If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the
judgment shall stand, and execution may issue thereon
for the residue, in all respects as in other cases. Any sur­
plus of the attached . property, or its proceeds, shall be
returned to the defendant. 
SEC. 48. The justice may order the constable to repos­
sess himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the at­
tached property which may have passed out of his hands
without having been sold or converted into money; and the
constable shall, under such order, have the same power to 
Ufte the property as he would have under an order of attachment.
SEC. 49. Where several attachments are executed on the
Ett.W\1"operty, ~ the same persons are made garnishees, 
,.y of the plainti:l's, may determine the amounts and pri­
orities of the several attachments, and the proceeds shall 
t:lfe Justice issuing the first order served, on the n!otion of 
be applied accordingly. •
SEc. 50. The officer shall return, upon every order of 
attachment, what he has done under it. The return must
show the property attached, and the time it was attached.
When garnishees are a,rved, their names, and the time 
each was served, must be stated. The officer shall also
return, with the order, all undertakings given under it. 
SEc. 51. An order of attachment ~inds the property at- 
tached from the time of service, and tl!e garnishee shall
stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment for all property,
moneys and credits in his hands, or due from him to the
defendant, from the time he is served with the written
notice mentioned in section thirty-s~ven; but when prop-
erty is att,,ched in the hands of a consignee or other person 
hiving attl'>r lien, his lien thereon shall not be affected
by the attachment. 
SEC. 52. If the defendant, or other person in his behalf,
at any time before judgment, cause an undertaking to be 
executed to theplaintiff by one or more sureties, resident
in the county, to be approved by tfie justice, in double the
amount of the plaintiff's claim, to be stated in his affidavit, 
to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment
of the justice, the attachment in such action shall be dis-
charged, and restitution made of any property taken
under it, or the proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall
also discharge the liability of a garnishee, in such action,
for any property of the defendant in his hands. 
SEc. 53. If the defendant shall, before the trial is com-
menced, file an affidavit, denying the grounds laid for the
attachment in the plaintiff's affidavit, the justice shall, on/\,~/-,/,
reasonable notice, in writing, being given to the opposite
party, proceed to examine i. the truth of the grounds
laid for such attachment, and shall hear such evidence as
may be produced by either party; and if it appear that
such grounds are not sustained by the evidence, the jus-
tice shall discharge the attachment. 
SEC. 54. If, in any case where an order of attachment
has been issued by a justice of the peace, it shall appear 
from the return of the officer and from the examination of
the garnishee, that no property, moneys, rights, credits or 
effects of the defendant has been taken under the attach-
ment, but that the defendant is the owner of an interest in
real estate in the county, the justice before whom such 
action is pending shall, at the request of the plaintiff,
forthwith certify his proceedings to the dlMrict court of
the proper county ; and thereupon the clerk of said court
shall docket said cause, and the action shall be proceeded
with in said court in all respects as if the same had 
originated therein.
ARTICLE 
f M. ,Tnrlsdiction or justice.
00. A ffldult.
67. Undertaking to be executed. 
r>8. Summon .. : itt< command.
69. now writ executed. 
60. Defendant may have return of property,
when. 
61. Plaintiff' may except to sureties. 
62. AffldaYlt or pluintllf to fix jurlsdlctlon
as to amonnt ; value of property, how
assessed. 
63. Proceedings wben plaintiff' falltt to pros-
ecute action to ftnnl judgment. LI 'J / J' 
S 5
,., J ti f t1' '/,.. 1 11 1 • . 1· ti 
EC. ;). us Ices O .ae pea<,e H la iave .]Ul"IS( IC ion 
of actions for the rPCOV("ry of specific personal property
not exceeding three hundred dollars in value, as herein 
provided. J (,I~ fJ, S 
• AltTICLE V . 
Replecin.
• 
• f 64. Findings of jury.
65. Judgment tor return of property.
06. D11m11!!'e!< to plalntltt'; judgment against 
defendant.
fl7. Action may proceed for damages only.
68. Constable may break open buildtnga, 
when. •
69. Defendant who concfais froperty, IDl\1 
be committed. •
'iO. Penalty for 111,ming writ without affl· 
davit, 
SEC. 55. Justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction of actions for the recovery of specific personal property not exceeding three hundred dollars in value, as herein provided.
SEC. 55. An action for this purpose shall not be brought
until there is filed in the office of the justice an affidavit
of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing: First, A 
description of the property claimed. Second, "I'hat the
plaintiff is the owner thereof', or has a special ownership
therein, stating the facts in relation thereto, and that he· is 
entitled to the immediate possession of the property.
Third, That the property is wrongfully detained by the 
defendant. Fourth, That i~,is not taken in execution on
any order or judgment agai~t said plaintiff: or if so taken
on execution, that it is by statute exempt from seizure, or
for the payment of any tax, fine or nmercement assessed
against him, or by virtue of an order of delivery issued
under this article, or any other mesne or final process
issued against said plaintiff; and, Fifth, The actual value
of the property. When several articles are claimed, the
value of each article shall be stated as nearly as practica­
ble. 
SEC. 57. The justice shall not issue a summons as here­
inafter provided, until there has been executed in his office, 
by one or more sufficient sureties of' the plaintiff', to be
approved by the justice, an undertaking in not less than
double the value of the property, as stated in the affidavit,
to the effect that the plaintiff shall dnly prosecute the
action, and pay. all costs and damngvs which may be 
awarded against him; and if the pr~1Jerty be delivered to 
him that he will return the same to the defendant, if a re­
turn thereof be adjudged. 
SEc. 58. Upon such affidavit and undertaking being
executed and filed with the justice, he shall issue a sum- 
mons as in other cases, but in addition commanding the
constable immediately to seize and take into his custody,
wherever they may be found in the county, the goods and
chattels mentioned in the affidavit, and deliver the same
to the plain tiff. 
SEC. 59. The constable shall execute the writ by taking
the property therein mentioned. · He shall also deliver a 
copy of the summons to the persons charged with the un-
lawful detention of property, or leave such a copy at his
usual place of residence, and shall make return of the
time and manner of service, and any undertaking taken 
by him. 
SEc. 60. If, within twenty-four hours after service of the
copy of the summons, there is executed, by one or more 
sufficient sureties of the defendant, to be approved by the
constable, an undertaking to the plaintiff, in not less than
double the amount of the value of the property, as stated
in the affidavit of the plaintiff, to the effect that the defend-
ant will deliver the property to the plaintiff if such delivery
be adjudged, and will pay all costs and damages that may 
be awarded against him, the constable shall return the
property to the defendant, If such undertaking be not 
given within twenty-four hours after the service of the or-
der, the constable shall deliver the property to the plaintiff. 
SEC. 61. The plaintiff may, within twenty-four hours 
- 
· from the time the undertaking mentioned in the preceding section is given by the defendant, give notice to the con­
stable that he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If 
he fails to do so, Im must be deemed to have waived all
objections to them. When the plaintiff excepts, the sure­
ties must justify, upon notice, as bail on arrest. The 
constable shall be responsible for the sufficiency of the 
sureties until the ob} .. ction to them is waived, as above
provided, or until they justify. 
SEc. 62. The affidavit of the plaintiff, as to the value of 
the property, shall fix the jurisdiction of the justice so tar
as such value is concerned; but the value of the property 
shall not be assessed against the defendant at a greater
amount than that sworn to by the plaintiff in his affidavit, 
SEc. 63. If tho property has been delivered to the plain- 
tiff, and he fails to prosecute his action to final judgment,
the justice shall, upon the application of the defendant or 
his attorney, impannel a jury to inquire into the right of
property, and the right of possession of the defendant to 
the property taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that the
said property was the property of the defendant at the
commencement of the action, or if the said jury be satis­
fied that the defendant was entitled to the possession at
such time, they shall find accordingly, and shall further
find the value of such property, or the value of the pos­
session thereof, and any damages for withholding the same
as may be just and proper. 
SEC. 64. In all cases when the property has been deliv-
ered to the plaintiff, when the jury shall find for the de­ 
fendant, they shall also find whether the defendant had the
right of property, or the right of possession only, at the
commencement of the suit, and, if they find either in his
favor, they shall also find the value of the property, or the
value of the possession, and such damages for withholding
said property as may be just and proper. 
SEC. 65. The judgment, in the cases mentioned in the
two preceding sections, shall be for the return of the prop- 
erty, or the value thereof,. or the value of the possession
of the same, in case a return cannot be had, and the costs 
of the suit. 
SEc. 66. In all cases when the property bas been deliv­
ered to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the 
plaintiff on the trial, or on inquiry of damages, they shall
assess adequate damages to the plaintiff for the illegal de­
tention of the property, for which, with costs of suit, the
justice shall render judgment against the defendant. 
SEC. 67. When the property claimed has not been taken,
the action may proceed as one for damages only, and the
plaintiff shall be entitled to such damages as may be right
and proper. 
SEC. 68. The constable, in executinz the writ, may break 
open any building or inclosure in which the property
claimed, or any part thereof, is concealed; but not until
he has been refused an entrance into said building or in­ 
closure, and the delivery of the property, after having de­
manded the same. 
SEC. 60. Whenever it shall be made to appear to the
satisfaction of the justice, by the affidavit of the plaintiff, 
or otherwise, that the defendant, or any other person, 
knowingly conceals the property sought to be recovered,
or, having 'Control thereof, refuses to deliver the same to 
the officer, the justice may commit such defendant, or other
person, until he or they disclose where such property is, 
or deliver the same to the officer. 
SEC. 70. If any justice shall issue a writ to replevin
property, as is provi e by t is act, without the affidavit
and undertaking being executed and filed in his office, as 
is provided in this article, the same shall be set aside at
his costs, and he shall be liable, in damages, to the party 
injured. 

ARTICLE VI. 
I
• '78. Time or 411Dg.
74. Amendment. 
SEc. 71. In all cases before a justice, the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney, shall file with such justice a bill of par- 
ticnlars of his demand, and the defendant, if required by,.·~
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall file a like bill of 
particulars he may claim as a set-off; and the evidence on
the trial shall be confined to the items set forth in said 
bills.
SEc. 72. The bill of particulars must state, in a plain 
and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause of
action or the claim to be set off. 
SEC. 73. The bill of particulars of the plaintiff must be
filed at the time the action is commenced, and that of the
defendant must be filed at or before the hour named in the
summons for the appearance of the defendant, unless
further time be given by the justice, for good cause shown. 
SEc. 74. The bill of particulars maybe amended at any
time before the trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, 
to supply any deficiency or omission in the items, when,
by such amendment, substantial justice will be promoted . 
If the amendment be made at the time of or during the
trial, and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the 
justice, by oath, that an adjournment is necessary to the
adverse party, in consequence of such amendment, an 
adjournment must be granted. The justice may also, in
his discretion, require, as a condition of an amendment,
the payment of coste to th .. adverse party, to bs fixed by 
the justice ; but such payment cannot be required unless
an adjournment is made necessary by the amendment. 
ARTICLE VII. 
Cl~ange of place of trial. 
f 715. Causes for change or place or trial. 11 77. Papers, etc., to be transmitted.
76. Changed to justice or same township, 78. Costs. 
when; chnnged to justice or adjoin- 79. The same.
tng township, when. 
SEC. 75. If, on the return of process, or at any time
before trial shall have been commenced, either party shall
file with the justice of the peace before whom any cause
is instituted or is pending for trial, an affidavit, stating: 
First, That such justice is a material witness for either
party ; or, Second, That he verily believes that he cannot
have a fair and impartial trial before such justice, on
account of the bias or prejudice of the said justice against
the afliant ; or, Third, If a jury be demanded by the
adverseparty, then that he cannot, as he verily believes,
have a fair and impartial trial in such township, on ac­
count of the bias or prejudice of the citizens thereof, the
trial of the case shall be changed to some other justice of
the peace, as provided in the next section. 
SEC. 76. If the place of the trial be changed on account 
0 e ias or prt.'Jll tee O le JUS ICe, or O is emg a 
material witness in the cause, such cause shall be trans-
ferred for trial before some other justice of the peace of
the same township, if there be one there Iegally competent
to try such cause ; if there be no such justice within such 
township, or if such change be granted on account of the
bias or prejudice of the citizens of such township against 
such party, the case shall be taken to some justice in an
adjoining township of the same county. 
SEC. 77. The justice granting such change shall deliver
or transmit the papers in tho cause, together with a certi­ 
fied transcript of the proceedings before him, to the justice
to whom such change may be ,grantt·d, who shall proceed
therein, and have the same jurisdiction, powers and duties,
in all rPSJ)Pds whatever, as if such suit had been originally 
Instituted before him. 
SEc. 78. Before any such change shall be allowed, the
costs, as specified in the next following section, shall be 
paid by the party applying for such change, or he shall
have confessed a judgment therefor before the justice 
granting the change.
SEc. 79. When such change is at the instance of the 
plaintiff, he shall be taxed with all the costs which have
accrued, and which shall accrue in the cause, until such'// 
transcript and papers shall be delivered to the justice to
whom such cause is removed for trial; and when on the
application of the defendant, he shall be taxed with the
costs which have accrued for issuing subpenas to witnesses,
and service thereof, witness fees, and costs of the justice
for transferring the cause to the docket of the other justice. 
SEc. 80. Upon the return day, if a jury be required, or 
if the justice be actually engaged in other official business,
he may adjourn the trial without the consent of either
party, as follows: First, Where a party is in attendance
who is not a resident of the county, or where the defend­
ant is in attendance, under arrest, the adjournment not to
exceed forty-eight hours, and the defendant, if under
arrest, to continue in custody. Second, In other cases,
not to exceed eight days, unless by consent of parties. If 
the trial be not adjourned, it must take place at the time 
stated in the summons. 
ARTICLE 
1 
82. Adjournment at return day mny be 00. Service or summons. 
had, how. 100. Liability or jurors for not attending,&c.
83. Party falling to appear, cause may pro- 101. Constable 11ball attend eourt ; tales- 
cecd, men.
84. Proor or execution of inetrumeut not 102. Upon adjournment, Jurors to attend 
necessary unless affidavit flied. without notice.
85. Snbpenas for witnesses. 108. Objection to juror, bow tried.
86. By whom and how served. 104. Challenge of talesmen, 
S'i. No tec11 for service, when. 105. Oath or jury.
88. Co11ts when wltuess not examined. 10tl. Instructions to Jury. 
89. Warrant for arrest of wltue11s way be 
1 
107. Jury to hear evidence and agree upon
Issued, when. I verdict. 
90. Fine lu such case, 108. Shall deliver verdict to justfce,
91. Liable to party for damll£'e&. 109. Proceedlngs when jury cannot agree.
ti. Deposition may be taken, In what CAl'O. 110. New trial may bo granted, when.
98. Action to proceed to trial at time ap- 111. Opposite party to ha Ye notice or motion 
pointed. for new trial.
94. Appearance and trial without process. 112. Bill of exceptions to bo allowed and
96. Jury may be demanded, when; num- signed, when. 
bor and qualUlcaUons. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
Prial. 
SEC. 81. Tlie trial may be adjourned upon the applica-
tion of either party, without the consent of the other, for
a period not exceeding thirty days, as follows : The party
asking the adjournment must, if required by his adversary, 
prove, by his oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want
of material testimony, which he has been unable to pro- 
cure, safely proceed to trial.
SEC. 82. .An adjournment may be had either at the return 
day or any subsequent time to which the cause may stand
adjourned, on the application of either party, for a period
not to exceed ninety days from the time of the return of
the summons, upon· compliance with the provisions of the
preceding section, and upon proof, by oath of the party or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the justice, that such party 
cannot be ready for trial before the time to which he
desires adjournment, for the want of material evidence, 
describing it ; that the delay has not been made necessary
by any act or negligence on his part since the action was
commenced, and that he expects to procure the evidence
at the time stated by him. ' 
SEc. 83. If either party fail to appear at the time speci-
fled in the summons, or within one hour thereafter, or fail 
to attend at the time to which the trial has been adjourned,
or fail to file the necessary bill of particulars, the cause
may proceed at the .request of the adverse party; and in 
all cases where a counter-claim or set-off has been filed
before the dismissal of the cause by the plaintiff, the
defendant shall have the right to proceed with the trial of
his claim. 
SEc. 84. In no case shall it be necessary to prove the
execution of any written instrument upon which the action
or counter-claim or set-off is founded, or any indorsement
thereon, or the partnership of the plaintiffs, unless the op­ 
posite party shall file an affidavit denying the execution of
such instrument, or the making of such indorsement, or the 
existence of such partnership.
SEc. 85. Any justice may issue subpenas to compel the 
attendance of witnesses to give evidence on any trial
pending before himself, or for the purpose of taking depo­ 
sitions, or to perpetuate testimony. 
SEC. 86. Subpenas may be served by a constable or any
other person, and shall be served by reading the same or
stating the contents thereof to the witness, or by leaving a
copy thereof at his usual place of residence. 
SEc. 87. When not served by a constable or some person
deputed for that purpose by a justice, no fees shall be
charged in the suit for serving it. 
SEC. 88. If any witness, having been subpenaed, attend,
and be not examined by either party, the costs of such
witness shall be paid by the party ordering the subpena,
unless the adverse party, by confessing the matter or 
otherwise, render unnecessary tJ\e examination of such
witness. 
SEc. 89. Whenever it shall appear to the satisfaction of
a justice, by proof made before him, that any person has 
been duly served with a subpena to appear and give
testimony before him in any matter in which he has
authority to require such witness to appear and testify,
that his testimony is material, and that he refuses or
neglects to attend as such witness; in conformity with such
subpena, the justice shall issue a, warrant to arrest the
delinquent, for the purpose of compelling his attendance
and punishing his disobedience. 
SEc. 90. When the person arrested is brought before the
justice, or when a person in attendance refuses to testify 
as a witness, and no valid excuse be shown, the justice
may impose a fine on him not exceeding five dollars. An
entry of such fine, stating the reason thereof, must be
made by the justice in his docket; and thereupon shall
have the effect of a judgment in favor of the state of
Kansas against the delinquent, and may be enforced
against his person or property. 
SEc. 91. Every person subpenaed as aforesaid, and
neglecting to appear or refusing to testify, shall also be 
liable to the party in whose behalf he shall have been
subpenaed, for all damages which such party shall sustain
by reason of such delinquency. 
SEC. 92. Depositions may be taken to be read in any
cause pending before a justice of the peace, in like man- 
ner, and subject to the same rules and restrictions and
rules of law, as in cases pending in courts of record. 
SEC. 93. At the time appointed for trial, if no jury shall
have been demanded by either party, the justice shall pro-
ceed to try the action, shall hear the proofs and determine
the cause, according to law and the right. 
SEc. 94. Where parties agree to enter, without process,
before a justice, an action, of which such justice has cog-
nizance, the justice shall enter the same on his docket and 
proceed to trial, judgment and execution, in all respects
in the same manner as if summons had been issued, served
and returned. 
SEC. 95. In all civil actions, after an appearance of the
defendant, and before the justice shall proceed to inquire
into the merits of the cause, either party may demand a
jury to try the action, which jury shall be composed of
six good and lawful men, having the qualifications of
jurors in the district court, unless the parties shall agree
on a less number. 
SEc. 96. When a jury is demanded, the trial of the case
must be adjourned until a time fixed for the return of the
jury ; if neither party desire an adjournment, the time
must be determined by the justice, and must be on the
same day or within the next two days. The jury must
be immediately selected as herein provided. 
SEC. 97. The justice shall write in a panel the names of
eighteen persons, citizens of the county, from which the
defendant, his agent or attorney, must strike one name,
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, 01w, and so on alter­
nately, until each shall have stricken six names, and the
remaining six shall constitute the jury to try such case; 
and if either party neglect or refuse to aid in striking the
jury as aforesaid, the justice shall strike the same in
behalf of such party. 
SEc. 08. The justice thereupon shall issue a summons
for the jury, in which the following form shall he ob­
served, in substance, as near as practicable : "The state
of Kansas, county. The state of Kansas to---, 
constable of township: You are hereby commanded
to summon to appt1ar before me at , in said 
township, on the ---day of---, A. D. , at
--- o· clock in the noon, to serve as jurors in a
case pending before me, then and there to be tried, and
this they shall in no wise omit; and have you then
there this writ, with your doings thereon. Given under
my hand this day of , A. D. A. B.,
justice of the peace." 
SEc. 99. The constable shall serve such summons by a 
personal service thereof, and return the same indorsed
with the names of the persons summoned, at the time 
appointed for the trial of the cause. 
SEc. 100. Jurors, for noglvcting or refusing to nttend 
when properly summoned, or refusing to serve when in 
Google 
attendance, shall be liable to a like penalty, and be pro­
ceeded against in the same manner, as witnesses who fail
to attend or refuse to testify. 
SEc. 101. The constable shall be in attendance on the
court, at and during the progres::; of the trial ; and if. from
challenge or other cause, the panel shall not be full, he
may fill the same in the same manner as is done by the 
sheriff in the district court, 
SEc. 102. When a jury shall be in attendance and the
cause shall be continued, the jurors must attend at the
time and place appointed for the trial, without further
notice. 
SEc. 103. If either party object to the competency of a
juror, the question thereon must be tried in a summary 
manner by the justice, who may examine the juror or
other witness under oath. 
SEC. 104. The plaintiff and defendant shall each be
entitled to challenge peremptorily two talesrnen. 
SEc. 105. The justice shall administer an oath or affirm­
ation to the jury, well and truly to try the matter in dif­
ference between the parties, and a true verdict give
according to the evidence. 
SEC. 106. The justice shall, upon the request of either
party, instruct the jury upon any point of law arising in
the case ; but such instructions shall be reduced to writing
before they are given, and shall be filed among the papers
in the case. 
SEc. 107. After the Jury shall have been sworn, they
shall sit together and hear the proofs and allegations of
the parties, and, after hearing the same, shall be. kept
together in some convenient place, under the charge of a
constable, until they have agreed upon their verdict or 
shall be discharged by the justice. 
SEC. 108. When the jurors shall have agreed upon their
verdict, they shall deliver it to the justice publicly, who
shall enter it upon his docket. 
SEc. 109. Whenever the justice shall be satisfied that a
jury, sworn in any cause before him, cannot agree on their 
verdict, after having consulted upon it a reasonable time,
he may discharge them and continue the cause, and may,
if required by either party, proceed to strike another 
jury as herein before provided. The cause shall be con­
t inned until such time as the justice thinks reasonable,
unless the parties or their attorneys agree on a longer or 
shorter time, or unless they agree that the justice may
render judgment on the evidence already heard before
him. 
SEc. 110. It shall be lawful for the justice, before whom 
a cause has been tried, on motion, and being satisfied that
the verdict was obtained by fraud, partiality or undue
means, at any time within four days after the entering of
judgment, to grant a new trial; and he shall set a time
for the new trial, of which the opposite party shall have
at least three days' notice. 
SEC. 111. The opposite party shall also have a reasonable
notice of such motion for a new trial, if the same is not
made on the day of the former trial and in the presence of
such party; such notice to be given by the applying
party. If the new trial shall be granted, or the jury una­
ble to agree, the proceedings shall be, in all respects, as
upon the return of the summons. 
SEc. 112. In all cases which shall be tried by a jury
before a justice of the peace, either party shall have the ··
right to except to the opinion of the justice upon any
question of law arising during the trial of the cause ; and
when either party shall allege such exception, it shall be 
the duty of the justice to allow and sign a bill containing
such exception, if truly alleged, with the point decided,
so that the same may be made part of the record in the 
cause. .
ARTICLE 
I 118. Judgment for dlllmwnl without prej­
udice, may be entered, when. 
114. Judgment rendered In absence or de­
fendant, may be set aside ; condi­
ttone. 
115. Judgment, when rendered; when en­ 
tered. 
SEC. 113. Judgment that the action be dismissed with­
out prejudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs,
in the following cases: First, When the plaintiff volun­
tarily dismisses the action before it is finally submitted.
Second, When he fails to appear at the time specified in
the summons, or within one hour thereafter, or upon ad­ 
journment. 
ARTICLE IX. 
Judgmmt. 
S 116. Proceedings when snm due exceeds
Jurh,dtctlon. • 
117. When defendant offere to alJow Jndg­
ment. 
118. Judgment where defendant ls subject
to arrest and imprisonment. 
119. Form of abstract of Judgment of juis­
tlce, 
SEC. 114. When judgment shall have been rendered
against a defendant, 1n his absence, the same may be set 
aside upon the following conditions: First, That his motion
· be made within ten days after such judgment was entered. 
Second, That he pays or confesses judgment for the costs
awarded against him. Third, That he file an affidavit
that he has a just and valid defense to the whole, or some
part, of the plaintiff's claim. Fourth, That he notifies, in
writing, the opposite party, his agent or attorney, or
causes it to be done, of the opening of such judgment,
and of the time and place of trial, at least five days before
the time, if the party resides in the county, and if he be
not a resident of the county, by leaving a written notice
thereof at the office of the justice, ten days before the trial. 
SEC. 115. Upon a verdict, the justice must immediately
render judgment accordingly. ,vhen the trial is by the 
justice, judgment must be entered immediately after the
close of the trial, if the defendant has been arrested, or his 
· property attached ; in other cases, it must be entered either
at the close of the trial, or, if the justice then desires fur·
ther time to consider, on or by the fourth day thereafter,
both days inclusive. 
SEC. 116. When the amount due to either party exceeds
the sum for which the justice is authorized to enter judg- 
ment, such party may remit the excess, and judgment
may be entered for the residue. A defendant need not re· 
mit such excess, and may withhold setting the same off;
and a recovery for the amount set off and allowed, or any
part thereof, shall not be a bar to his subsequent action for
the amount withheld. 
SEC. 117. If the defendant, any time before trial, offers,
in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for 
a specified sum, the plaintiff may immediately have judg-
ment therefor, with the costs then accrued ; but if he do
not accept such offer before the trial, and fails to recover,
in the action, a sum equal to the offer, he cannot recover
costs accrued after the offer, but costs must be adjudged 
against him ; but the offer, and failure to accept it, cannot
be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial. 
SEc. 118. When judgment is rendered in a case where
the defendant is subject to varrest and imprisonment, it 
mnst be BO stated in the judgment, and entered on the
docket. 
SEC. 119. For the purpose of docketing in the district 
court, the abstract of a judgment of a justice of the peace
shall be in the following form (fill up the blanks as 're­
quired): 
"State of Kansas, county. ---, plaintiff,
vs. , defendant. In justice's court, before ---,
justice of the peace, township, , 186-. 
Judgment entered for plaintiff (or defendant). Debt$---. 
Costs$--.· I hereby certify that the foregoing is a full' 
and correct abstract of a judgment rendered by me in the
suit above entitled. 
SEc. 120. In all cases, not otherwise specially provided
for by law, either party may appeal from the final judg­ 
ment of any justice of the peace to the district court of
the county where the judgment was rendered. 
SEC. 121. The party appealing shall, within ten days
from rendition of the judgment, enter into an undertaking
to the adverse party, with at least one good and sufficient 
surety, to be approved by such justice, in a sum not less
than fifty dollars in any case, nor less than double the
amount of the judgment and costs, conditioned: First, 
That the appellant will prosecute his appeal to effect, and
without unnecessary delay. Second, That if judgment be 
rendered against him on the appeal, he will satisfy such
judgment and costs. Such undertaking need not be signed
by the appellant. 
SEc. 122. The said justice shall make out a certified
transcript of his proceedings, including the undertaking
for such appeal, and shall, on demand, deliver the same
to the appellant or his agent, who shall deliver the same 
taking, to be transmttted to court
above. 
ARTICLE 
128. Clerk to ff.le papers, and docket ap­
peal. 
124. Parties In district court; pleadlngs,
etc. 
125, Proceedings on failure to deliver
transcript. 
' 
---, justice of the peace." 
ARTICLE X . 
.Appeal. 
i 1!J6. Proceeding! on falhtre to prosecute
appeal. 
m. When no appeal entered, execution to
be l,11!t1Cd. 
ttS. Appellant to pay costs, when.
129. Liability or surety,
130. Cause of qnashlng appeal to be stated 
In order or court.
131. Change, or renewal or undertaking.
13'2. Cases in which 110 nppenl allowed.
133. Proceedings if jul!ticc's term or office 
expires before appeal taken. 
to the clerk of the court to which such appeal may be
taken, on or before the second day of the term thereof
next following such appeal; and such justice shall also
deliver or transmit the papers in the case to such clerk on
or before the said second day of such form ; and all further
proceedings before the justice of the peace in that case
shall cease and be stayed from the time of entering into
such undertaking. 
SEC. 123. The clerk, on receiving such transcript and
other papers as aforesaid; shall file the same and docket
the appeal. 
SEC. 124. The plaintiff in the court below shall be
plaintiff in the district court; and the parties shall 
proceed, in all respects, in the same manner as though
the action ·had been originally instituted in the said court. 
SEC. 125. If the appellant shall fail to deliver the
transcript and other papers, if any, to the clerk as afore- 
said, on or before the second day of the term of the said 
ings and judgment of the justice, and the said cause
shall, on motion of the appellee, be docketed ; and the
court is authorized and required, on his application, either 
to enter a judgment in his favor, similar to that entered
by the justice of the peace, and for all the costs that have
accrued in the court, and award execution thereon, or such
court may, with the consent of such appellee, dismiss the 
appeal at the cost of the appellant, and remand the cause 
to the justice of the peace, to be thereafter proceeded in
as if no appeal had been taken. 
SEC. 126. If the plaintiff in the action before the justice
shall appeal from any judgment rendered against such
plaintiff, and after having filed his transcript, and caused
such appeal to be docketed, according to the provisions of
this act, shall fail to file a petition, or otherwise neglect to
prosecute the same to final judgment, so that such plaintiff 
shall become non-suit, it shall be the duty of the court to 
render judgment against such appellant, for the amount
of the judgment rendered against him by the justice of
the peace, together with the interest accrued thereon, and
for costs of suit, and to award execution therefor as in
other cases. 
SEC. 127. If both parties fail to enter such appeal within
th~ time limited, as aforesaid, the justice, on receiving a 
certificate from the clerk of the court, stating that the ap­
peal was not entered, or, being entered, was dismissed as
aforesaid, shall thereupon issue execution upon the judg­
ment, in the same manner as if such appeal had never been
taken. 
SEC. 128. If any person, appealing from a judgment
rendered in his favor, shall not recover a greater sum than 
the amount for which judgment was rendered, besides
costs and the interest accruing thereon, every such appel- 
lant shall pay the costs of such appeal. 
SEC. 129. When any appeal shall be dismissed, or when
judgment shall be entered in the district court against the 
appellant, the surety in the undertaking shall be liable to 
the appellee for the whole amount of the debt, costs and
damages recovered against the appellant. 
SEc. 130. When an appeal taken to the district court
shall there be quashed, by reason of irregularity in taking 
or consummating the same, the cause for quashing shall
be stated in the order of the court, and a transcript of such
order shall be filed with such justice, who shall thereupon
proceed to issue execution, in the same manner as if no
appeal had been taken. 
SEC. 131. In proceedings on appeal, when the surety in
the undertaking shall be insufficient, or such undertaking 
may be insufficient in form or amount, it shall be lawful
for the court, on motion, to order a change or renewal of 
such undertaking, and direct that the same be certified to
the justice from whose judgment the appeal was taken, or
that it be filed in said court. 
SEC. 132. Appeals in the following cases shall not be al-
'lowed : First, On judgments rendered on confession.
Second, In jury trials, where neither party claim, in their
bill of particulars, a sum exceeding twenty dollars.
Third, In the action for the forcible entry and detention, or
forcible detention, of real property. Fourth, In the trials
of the right of property under the statutes, either levied
by execution or attachment. 
SEC. 133. When the term of office of a justice shall ex­
pire between the date of the judgment and the time limited 
for appeal, such justice may take the undertaking for ap­
peal, at any time before he has delivered his docket to his 
successor, and give the appealing party a transcript. After 
the delivery of the docket, the undertaking shall be given
to his successor, and it shall be his duty to give the tran- 
script, and do and perform all things required of his
predecessor. 
ARTICLE XI. 
Stay of ~ecution. 
S lM. Stay or e:z:ecotlon to be applied for, I ' 1M. How long granted.
when; undertaking. 136. Not allowed, in what caee11. 
SEc. 134. Any person against whom a judgment may be
rendered, under the provisions of this act, except as here- 
inafter excepted, may have a stay of execution, for the
several periods of time hereinafter mentioned, by entering
into an undertaking to the adverse party, within ten days
after the rendition of the judgment, with good and suffi-
cient surety, resident of the county, such as the justice
shall approve, conditioned for the payment of the amount
of such judgment, interests and costs that may accrue,
which undertaking shall be entered on the docket of the
justice, and shall be signed by the surety ; and in case 
execution has been issued, it shall be immediately with-
drawn by said justice. 
SEC. 135. The stay of execution hereby authorized shall
be graduated as follows, namely: First, On any judg-"
ment for twenty dollars and under, thirty days. Second, 
On any judgment over twenty dollars and not exceeding
fifty dollars, sixty days. Third, On any judgment over
fifty dollars and not exceeding one hundred dollars, ninety
days. Fourth, On any judgment exceeding one hundred
dollars, one hundred and twenty days. 
SEC. 136. No stay of execution on judgments rendered
in the following cases shall be allowed: First, On jndg- 
men ts rendered against justices of the peace for refusing
to pay over money by them collected or received in their
official capacity. Second, On judgments against justices
for not reporting all fines. as required by law. Third, On
any judgment rendered against a constable for failing to 
make return, making a false return, or refusing to pay
over money collected in his official capacity. Fourth, 
On judgments against bail for the stay of execution. 
Fifth, Where judgment is rendered in favor of bail who
have been compelled by judgment to pay money on ac- 
count of their principal. Sia;th, On judgments obtained 
by constables on undertakings executed to them for the
delivery of property. 
ARTICLE 
t 187. Execution may i11l!ue by Justice or his
eueceseor, within what time. 
188. When iseued without demand.
189. By whom issued and to whom direct­ 
ed ; its requislte11.
140. Execution against Joint debtora, some 
or whom not served.
141. Constable liable Ir be omit to arrest, 
or permit escape or debtor.
142.. Sheriff may discharge prisoner, when.
148. Time and conditions of con1lnement. 
H4. Prll!Oner ma7 be discharged on di·
davit. 
141S. CoDatable liable for amount of exeeu­
tion, in what casos. 
146. Notice of sale or property taken in
execution. 
147. Justice or constable not to purcbaso.
148. Allowance for keeping stock.
149. Inventory of good!! sold to be an· 
nexed to return to execution. 
SEc. 137. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment
before a justice of the peace may issue by the justice 
before whom the judgment was rendered, or by his suc­
cessor in office, on the application of the party entitled
thereto, at any time within five years from the entry of
the judgment or the date of the last execution issued
thereon. 
SEc. 138. It shall be the duty of the justice, if the case
be not appealed, taken up on error, docketed in the dis­ 
trict court, or bail has not been given for the stay of exe­
cution, at the expiration of ten days from the entry of the 
judgment, to issue execution without a demand, and pro­
ceed to collect the judgment, unless otherwise directed by 
the judgment creditor. 
ARTICLE XII.. ft__ 2.3:: 
~-.? --~ 
Execution. ~ .;,, 
t 150. Schedule or goodeand chattels oneold
to be returned with execution ; pro­
ceeding, thereupon. 
151. Security ror re-delivery or property.
list. Con11table levying on goods and chat­ 
tels claimed by another perBOn than
defendant, may require security of 
plaintiff'.
163. Landlord and tenant not airected by 
sale or land, when.
154. JU!!tlce may 1s8ue further proceee, 
when.
115G. When execution returned unsatltdl.ed, 
garnishee may be ordered to ap­
pear. 
156. Order, bow i81lued; subsequent pro­
ceedinga same as In attachment. 
- 157. Earnings of debtor not to be applied
to payment or debts, when. 
SEC. 139. The execution must be directed to a constable
of the county, and subscribed by the justice by whom the 
judgment was rendered, or by his successor in office, and
must bear date the day of its delivery to the officer to be 
executed; it must intelligibly refer to the judgment by
stating the names of the parties, and the name of the
justice before whom, and of the county and township
where, and the time when, it was rendered; the amount of 
the judgment, and, if less than the whole is due, the true
amount due thereon. It must require the constable sub-
stantially as follows : First, If it be a case where the
defendant cannot be arrested, it must direct the officer to 
collect the amount of the judgment out of the personal
property of the debtor, and pay the same to the party
entitled thereto. Second, If it be a case where any of the 
judgment debtors are certified on the docket as surety, it
shall command that the money be made of the personal
property of the principal debtor, and, for want thereof,
of the personal property of the surety. In such case, the
personal property of the principal, subject to execution
within the jurisdiction, shall be exhausted before any of
the property of the surety shall be taken in execution.
Third, If it be a case where the defendant may be arrested,
in addition to the foregoing, it must direct the officer, if suf-
cient property of the defendant, subject to the execution,
cannot be found to satisfy the judgment, that he arrest the
debtor and commit him. to the jail of the county until he 
pays the judgment or be discharged according to law, un-
less the execution be accompanied by an order of arrest. 
Fourth, It must) in all cases, direct the officer to make
return of the execution, and a certificate thereon, showing
the manner in which he has executed the same, in thirty
days from the time of his receipt thereof. 
SEc. 140. Upon an execution on a judgment against
debtors, upon one or more of whom the summons was not 
served, the execution must contain a direction to collect
the amount of the joint property of the person upon whom
the summons was served, to be specified by name. If 
such judgment be also such that the defendants are sub-
ject to arrest thereon, the justice must further specify the 
names of those defendants served with the summons, who
may be arrested for the want of property. 
SEC. 141. A. constable may, at his peril, omit to arrest a
debtor, or, after arrest, suffer him to go at large before the 
return day, subject only to the liability for an escape, or
for omitting to arrest, if he fails to have either the money
or the person of the debtor in custody at the expiration of 
the thirty days. 
SEC. 142. It shall be lawful for the sheriff or jailor re-
ceiving any person imprisoned on any execution issued in 
any civil proceeding, at any time where there is no money 
in his hands to pay for the sustenance of such prisoner, to
discharge him from prison. 
SEC. 143. The debtor, committed as herein provided,
may be held in prison ten days, and if he be a person 
without a family for which he provides, one day in addi­
tion for every dollar over ten due on the execution; or, if 
he have a family for which he provides, one day in addition
for every two dollars over twenty due on the execution. 
SEc. 144. The affidavit of an imprisoned debtor that he
has a family, for which he provides, specifying by name 
one or more persons, members of such family, and the
place of their residence, is sufficient evidence thereof to
authorize his discharge by the jailer. 
SEc. 145. A constable is liable to the party in whose
favor an execution issued to him, for the amount thereof,
in the following cases : Flrst, Where he suffers thirty 
days to elapse without making a return thereof to the
justice, and paying to him or the party entitled, the
money collected thereon by him.. Second, When he will­
fully and carelessly omits to levy on property within
thirty days, or if the defendant be liable to be imprisoned,
then to arrest and commit him to the jail of the county
within thirty days. 
SEC. 146. All property taken in execution, under the
provisions of this act, shall be advertised for sale at four
of the most public places in the township where such
property was seized, at least ten days previous to the
time appointed for such sale, which sale shall be held
between the hours of ten o'clock A. ~1., and four o'clock 
·P. M., at the house or on the premises where such property
was taken, or at one of the most public places within the
township. 
SEC. 147. It shall not be lawful for any justice of the
peace who issued the execution, or for the constable
holding the execution, to purchase, either directly or
indirectly,any property sold on such execution ; and any 
justice or constable who shall offend against the pro­
visions of this section, shall forfeit and pay for every such 
offense, any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars nor
less than five dollars, to be recovered by civil action in
the name of the state of Kansas, before any court having 
jurisdiction thereof, for the use of the county where such
offense was committed, and shall, moreover, be liable to
the action of the party injured thereby. 
SEc. 148. When any cattle or live stock shall be taken
in execution, it shall be the duty of the justice of the
peace who issued the execution, or other justice charged 
with the duty of collecting the judgment whereon such
execution issued, to allow the constable, for keeping of
the same, a reasonable compensation, to be taxed and
collected as other costs in the suit. 
SEC. 149. When a constable shall levy on and sell any
goods and chattels, he shall make out and annex to his 
return to the execution, in virtue of which such sale was
made, a true inventory of all such property and of each article thereof, and the price at which the same was sold;
and for each and every neglect to return a true and accu- 
rate schedule or inventory of property sold, or remaining
unsold for want of bidders, or other just cause, and, if
sold, the price at which the same was sold, each and every
constable guilty of such neglect shall forfeit and pay, on
conviction thereof, any sum not exceeding one hundred
dollars, to be recovered by action in the name of the state
of Kansas, for the use of the party injured thereby, to be
prosecuted before any court having cognizance thereof. 
SEC. 150. Where a constable shall have levied on any
goods and chattels which remain unsold for want of' bid-
ders, or other just cause, it shall be his duty to return
with the execution a schedule of all such goods and chat-
tels ; and the justice shall, unless otherwise directed by
the party for whom such execution issued, or his agent,
immediately thereafter issue an order, thereby command-
ing any constable to whom the same may be directed or 
delivered, to expose such property to sale ; which sale and
the proceeding thereon shall be the same as if such prop- 
erty had been sold on the original execution. 
SEC. 151. Any constable having levied on goods and
chattels, of which he permits the party against whom the
execution issued to retain the possession, is hereby au-
thorized to take such security for his own indemnity as
he may require, that such property shall be delivered at
the time and place appointed for the sale thereof. 
SEC. 152. If the constable, by virtue of any attachment 
or execution, shall levy the same on any goods and chat-
tels claimed by any person other than the defendant, or 
be requested by the plaintiff to levy on any such goods
and chattels, the officer may require the plaintiff to give 
him an undertaking, with good and sufficient securities, to 
pay all costs and damages he may sustain by reason of
the detention or sale of such property; and until such
undertaking shall be given, the officer may refuse to pro­
ceed as against such property. 
SEC. 153. In all cases where any lands may have been
let, reserving rent in kind, and when the crops or em ble­
ments growing or grown thereon shall be levied on or
attached by virtue of any execution, attachment or other
process against the landlord or tenant, the interest of such 
landlord or tenant, against whom such process was not
issued, shall not be affected thereby; but the same may be 
sold, subject to the claim or interest of- the landlord or
tenant against whom such process did not issue. 
SEC. 154. In cases where the constable shall make it
appear, to the satisfaction of the justice, that he has been 
deprived of an opportunity of levying an execution within
the time prescribed by this act, or otherwise prevented 
from making the whole of the money therein required to
be made, and shall make return to the justice who issued
the same to that effect, such justice is hereby authorized
and required to issue further process of execution for the
amount or balance remaining unsatisfied, which shall be
served and returned in all respects as other executions are
under this act. 
SEc. 155. When an execution issued by a justice of the
peace shall have been returned unsatisfied, the judgment
creditor, his agent or attorney, may file an affidavit with
the justice, setting forth that he has good reason to and
does believe that any person or corporation, to be named,
and within the county, has property of the defendant, or
is indebted to him, and thereupon the justice shall issue
an order to such garnishee to appear before him, on a day
to be named, and answer such questions as may be pro­
pounded to Mm by the judgment creditor touching the 
property of the ,j ndgment debtor in his possession or under
his control, and the amount owing by him to the judgment
debtor, whether due or not. 
SEc. 156. Such order shall be issued in the same man­
ner as a summons, and the sn bsequent proceedings upon 
such order shall be the same and have the same effect as
proceedings against a garnishee in case of attachment) as
near as may be. 
SEc. 157. The earnings of the debtor for his personal
services, at any time within three months next preceding 
the issuing of an execution, cannot be applied to the pay­
ment of his debts, when it is made to appear, by the
debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are nec­
essary for the maintenance of a family supported wholly
or partly by his labor. 
ARTICLE 
f w. JurfMUctlon or justice.
158.. Cases to which t.hlB article la applica- 
ble.
180. Judgment no bar to second action.
161. Notice to leave, when and how served.
161. Sammons not to Issue until complaint 
Aled ; requleltea or complaint.
168. Service or aummou ; Its contenta.
l&l Proceedings lr defendant tail to ap­ 
pear. 
ARTir.LE XIII. 1'11 ,:,/ 
Forcibu entry a.nd deta.i.:u/. 
I 166. Continuance; undertaking therefor. 
168. When justice to try cauae; judgmenL
167. Trial by jury; their verdict.
1118. Entry or Terdlct and jndgmenL 
169. E1:ccptlons.
170. E1:ecntion; form of writ.
171. Bow uecuted; proceedlnga stayed, 
when. 
SEC. 158. Any justice, within his proper county, shall
have power to inquire, in the manner hereinafter directed, 
as well against those who make unlawful and forcible
entry into lands and tenements, and detain the same, as
against those who, having a lawful and peaceable entry into
land or tenements, unlawfully and by force hold the same ;
and if it be found, upon such inquiry, that an unlawful
and forcible entry has been made, and that the same
lands and tenements are held by force, or that the same,
after a lawful entry, are held unlawfully, then said justice
shall cause the party complaining to have restitution
thereof. 
SEC. 159. Proceedings under this article may be had in
all cases against tenants holding over their terms ; in sales
of real estate on executions, orders, or other judicial pro­
cess, when the judgment debtor was in possession at the
time of the rendition of the judgment or decree, by virtue
of which such sale was made ; in sales by executors, ad­
ministrators, guardians, and on partition, where any of the
parties to the partition were in possession at the commence­
ment of the suit, after such sales, so made, on execution or
otherwise, shall have been examined by the proper court,
and the same, by said court, adjudged legal ; and in cases
where the defendant is a settler or occupier of lands or
tenements, without color of title, and to which the com­
plainant has the right of possession. This section is not to 
be construed as limiting the provisions of the first preced­
ing section. 
SEC. 160. Judgments, either before a justice or in the·
district court, in actions brought under this article, shall 
not be a bar to any after action brought by either party.
SEC. 161. It shall be the duty of the party desiring to 
commence an action under this article, to notify the
adverse party to leave the premises, for the possession of 
which the action is about to be brought, which notice shall
be served at least three days before commencing the action,
by leaving a written copy with the defendant, or at his
usual place of abode, if he cannot be found; such notice
may also be served by leaving a copy thereof with some
person over twelve years of age, on the premises described 
in the notice. ·
SEc. 162. The summons shall not issue herein until the 
plaintiff shall have fi]ed his complaint in writing, under
oath, with the justice, which shall particularly describe
the premises so entered upon or detained, and shall set
forth either an unlawful and forcible entry and detention,
or an unlawful and forcible detention after a peaceful or
lawful entry of the described premises. 
SEc. 163. The summons shall be issued and directed,
shall state the cause of complaint, and the time and place
of trial, and shall be served and returned as in other cases.
It may also be served by leaving a copy thereof with some
person over twelve years of age, on the premises sought to
be recovered. Such service shall be at least three days
before the day of trial appointed by the justice. 
SEc. 164. If the defendant does not appear in accord­
ance with the requisitions of the summons, and it shall
have been properly served, the justice shall try the cause 
as though he was present.
SEC. 165. No continuance shall be granted for a longer 
period than eight days, unless the defendant applying
therefor shall give an undertaking to the adverse party,
with good and sufficient surety, to be approved by the jus­
tice, conditioned for the payment of all damages, and
double the rent that may accrue, if judgment be rendered
against the defendant. 
SEC. 166. If the suit be not continued, place of trial
changed, or neither party demand a jury upon the return
day of the summons, the justice shall try the cause ; and
if, after hearing the evidence, he shall conclude that the 
complaint is not true, he shall enter judgment against the
plaintiff for costs ; if he find the complaint true, he shall 
render a general judgment against the defendant, and in
favor of the plaintiff, for restitution of premises and costs 
of suit ; if he find the complaint true in part, he shall
render a judgment for the restitution of· such part only, 
and costs shall be taxed as the justice shall deem just and
equitable. 
SEC. 167. If a jury be demanded by either party, the
proceedings until the impanneling thereof shall be in all
respects as in other cases. The jury shall be sworn or
affirmed to well and truly try and determine whether. the
complaint of (naming the plaintiff'), about to be laid
before them, is true, according to the evidence. If the
jury shall find the com plaint true, they shall render a
general verdict of guilty against the defendant ; if not
true, then a general verdict of not guilty; if true in part,
then a verdict setting forth the facts they find true. 
SEC. 168. The justice shall enter the verdict upon his
docket, and render such judgment in the action, as if the 
facts authorizing the finding of such verdict had been
found to be true by himself. 
SEC. 169. Exceptions to the opinion of the justice, in
cases under this head, upon questions of law, may be 
taken by either party, whether tried by jury or otherwise. 
SEC. 170. Where a judgment of restitution shall be
entered by a justice, he shall, at the request of the plain-
tiff, his agent or attorney, issue a writ of execution thereon,
which shall be in the following form, as near as practica-
ble: "The state of Kansas, county. The state of
Kansas to any constable of county: Whereas, in
a certain action for the forcible entry and detention ( or
the forcible detention, as the case may be), of the follow­
ing described premises, to wit: ---, lately tried before
me, wherein was plaintiff, and --- --­
was defendant, judgment was rendered on the day 
of , A. D. , that the plaintiff have restitution
of said premises ; and also that he recover costs in the 
sum of : you, therefore, are here by commanded to 
cause the defendant to be forthwith removed from said
premises, and the said plaintiff to have restitution of the
same ; also, that you levy of the goods and chattels of
the said defendant, and make the costs aforesaid, and all
accruing costs, and of this writ make legal service and 
due return. Wltness my hand, this day of ---
A. D. A. B., justice of the peace."
SEc. 171. The officers shall, within ten days after receiv­
ing the writ, execute the same by restoring the plaintiff to 
the possession of the premises, and shall levy and collect
the costs and make return, as upon other executions. If
the officer shall receive a notice from the justice that the
proceedings have been stayed by proceedings in error, he 
shall immediately delay all further proceedings upon the
execution; and if the premises have been restored to the
plaintiff, he shall immediately place the defendant in the
possession thereof, and return the writ with his proceed­
ings and costs taxed thereon. 
Constable,.
ARTICLE XIV. 
I 1'l'i. Justice ma:, appoint constable for ape- I 180. Retum or "not found,. shall not be
clal purpose, In what cases. made, unless, &c. 
178. Authority of person so appointed. 181. Authority or constable coextensive 
174. Ju1tlcc to stand as his surety. with hie county; power over goods 
175. General powers of constable. and chattels, &c.
176. Duty in executing process. 182. On taking prisoner to jatl, copy of
177. Ma:, call aid. proce111 to be left with shertir. 
178. Return or process. 183. Money received by constable to be
179. Time of receiving proeees to be noted; paid to whom. 
manner of executing it to be stated. 184. Llablllt1. 
SEC. 172. A justice of the peace may appoint a consta­
ble or constables for a special purpose, either in civil or
criminal cases, whenever such appointment may become
necessary, in the following cases: Where there is no con­
stable in the township; in the case of disability of one of
the regular constables in the township; where the consta­
ble therein is a party to the suit ; when, from the pressure
of official business, the constables therein are not enabled
to perform the duties required by the office. The justice
making the appointment shall make a memorandum 
thereof on his docket, and shall require the person ap­
pointed to take an oath, as in other cases. 
SEC. 173. The person so appointed by the justice, after
taking such oath, shall have the same authority, be sub­ 
ject to the same penalties, and entitled to the same fees, as
other constables. 
SEc. 174. Such justice shall stand as surety, and shall
be in that character liable, he and his sureties, for any 
neglect of duty or any illegal proceedings on the part of
such constable so by him appointed. 
SEC. 175. All constables shall be minist.erial officers in
justices' courts in their respective counties, and civil and 
criminal process may be executed by them throughout the
county, under the restrictions and provisions of the law ..
They may appoint one or more deputies, who may per-
form the same duties as their principals, and such princi-
pals shall be responsible, upon their official bond, for the
acts of said deputies. 
SEC. 176. It shall be the duty of every constable to 
serve all warrants, writs, precepts, executions and other
process to him direct.ed and delivered, and, in all respects 
whatever, to do and perform all things pertaining to the
office of constable. 
SEC. 177. In discharging their duties, constables may
call to their aid the power of the county, or such assist-
ance as may be necessary. 
SEC. 178. It shall be the duty of every constable to make
due return of all process, to him directed and delivered,
at the proper office and on the proper return day thereof ; 
or, if the judgment be docket.ed in the district court, or
appealed, upon which he has an execution, on notice to 
return the execution, stating thereon such fact.
SEc. 179. It shall be the duty of every constable, on the 
receipt of any writ or other process (subpenas excepted),
to note thereon the time of receiving the same ; he shall,
also, state in his return on the same, the time and manner
of executing it. 
SEC. 180. No constable shall make a return on any
p rOCeSS of "not found," as to any defendant, unless he 
shall have been once, at least, at the usual place of resi­
dence of the defendant, if such defendant have any in the 
county. 
SEC. 181. In serving process, either civil or criminal, and
in doing his duties generally, when not otherwise restricted
by law, the authority of a constable shall extend through-
out the county in which he may be .appotnted ; and in
executing and serving process issued by a justice of the
peace, he shall have and exercise the same authority and
powers over goods and chattels and the persons of parties 
as is grant.ed by law to a sheriff or coroner, under like 
process issued from courts of record. 
SEC. 182. When it shall become the duty of the oonsta- 
ble to take the body of any person to the jail of the
county, he shall deliver to the sheriff or the jailor a
certified copy of the execution, commitment or other 
process, whereby he holds such person in custody, and
return the original to the justice who issued the same, 
which copy shall be sufficient authority to the sheriff or
jailor to keep the prisoner in jail until discharged by due
course of law. 
SEC. 183. Constables shall pay over to the party entitled
thereto all money received by them in their official capacity,
if demand be made by such party, his agent or attorney,
at any time before he returns the writ upon which he has
received it; if not paid over by that time, he shall pay
the same to the justice when he returns the writ. 
SEC. 184. Constables shall be liable to ten per cent.
penalty upon the amount of damages for which judgment 
may be entered against them for failing to make return,
making a false return, or failing to pay over money by
them collected or received in their official capacity; and
such judgment must include, in addition to the damages
and costs, the penalty herein provided. 
ARTICLE 
f 185. Civil code to apply to jw,tlce'e conrte,
when applicable. 
186. Justice may require non-re8ident to
givo l!ecurity. 
187. Or plaintiff' who removes aner action
commenced. 
188. Docket of Justice 11b&ll contain what.
189. How and when entries made.
190. The index; how papers to be kepL 
191. At expiration or term. Justice to de­
posit his official docket, papers, &c.,
with his successor. 
192. J1115tlce receiving them to rocelpt
therefor. 
198. Justice receiving docket, papers, &c.,
or another, may proceed, how. 
194. When two JU8tlcos equally entlUed,
how sacceeeor designated. 
ARTICLE XV. 
Miscellaneous. 
I 1915. In case or disability or absence or j111-
tlce, other Justice or same towushlp 
to try cause.
196. Papers leeued, void, it they contain a 
blank. 
197. Justice may depute whom, to serve
11nmmon11. 
198. Authority of such person; fees.
199. Contempts, punishable by Justice.
200. Proceedings In such cases. 
201. The same.
202. Attorneys at law may appear before 
Justice; appearance to be noted 1D
justice's docket. 
toll. Justice not to purchase Judgment;
penalty. 
20i. Suits pending not affected by thls act.
205. Process may be directed to the sberffl',
tOO. Repeal. 
SEC. 185. The provisions of an act entitled "An act to 
establish a code of civil procedure," which are, in their
nature, applicable to the jurisdiction and proceedings be­
fore justices, and in respect to which no special provision 
is made by statute, are applicable to proceedings before
justices of the peace. 
SEc. 186. When a person intending to bring an action
before a justice of the peace is a non-resident of the county 
in which he intends to commence such action, the justice
may, previous to his issuing process, req nire such person 
to give security for the costs of snit, which may be done
by depositing a sum of money, deemed by the justice to
be sufficient to discharge the costs that may accrue in the
action, or by giving an undertaking, with surety approved
by the justice, payable to the adverse party, for the pay-
ment of all costs that may accrue in the action. 
SEC. 187 If any plaintiff or plaintiffs after commencinz 
an action before a justice, in the county in which he or
they reside, remove out of the county, the justice may 
require such plaintiff or plaintiffs to deposit a sum equal 
to the costs that have accrued, and that probably will
accrue ; or require, in place thereof, that such party give
sufficient surety for all costs which have accrued, or which
may accrue in the action ; and in default to do either, shall
dismiss the action. 
SEc. 188. Every justice of the peace must keep a book,
denominated a docket, which shall be furnished by the 
proper township, in which must be entered, by him, the
proper title of every action in which the writ is served, or 
when the parties voluntarily appear; the date of the writ;/'..;,
the time of its return ; and if an order to arrest the defend- 
ant, or attach property, was made, such fact must be
stated, together with the affidavit upon which such order 
was made ; the filing of the bill of particulars of either
party ; which of the parties, if either of them, appear at 
the trial; every adjournment, stating upon whose appli-
cation, whether on oath or consent, and to what time.
When trial by jury is demanded, the demand must be
stated, and by whom made; the names of the jurors
selected, and the time appointed for the trial ; the names
of the jurors who appear, and of those sworn; the names
of all witnesses sworn, and at whose request; the excep-
tions to the ruling of the justice on questions of law, taken
by either party; the verdict of the jury, and when received.
If the jury disagree, and are discharged, that fact must
be stated. The judgment of the justice, specifying the
items of costs included, and the time when rendered; the
issuing of the execution, and orders to sell, when issued, 
and to whom the renewals thereof, if any, were made ; the
return, and when made ; and a statement of any money
paid to the justice, and by whom; the giving of a tran­
script, to be filed in the clerk's office, and when given ; if 
appeal be taken, the undertaking, and the time of enter­
ing into the same, and by which party taken; the satisfac­ 
tion of the judgment, and the time of satisfying the same.
SEC. 189. The several particulars in the last section 
specified, must be entered under the title of the action to
which they relate, and at the time when they occurred,
except that the bill of exceptions in regard to the ruling
on questions of law or evidence need not be entered until
after the judgment, unless required by the justices, or one
of the parties. Such entries in a justice's docket, or a
transcript thereof, certified by the justice, or his successor
in office, shall be evidence to prove the facts stated therein. 
SEc. 190. Each justice must keep an alphabetical index
to his docket, in which must be entered the names of the
parties to each judgment, with reference to the page of the
entry. The names of the plaintiffs must be-entered in the
index, in the alphabetical order of the first letter of the
family name. He shall number the cases progressively
upon his docket, and he shall correspondingly number the
papers in each case; he shall keep the entire papers in
each action tc ,gether, and in packages of a proper and con­
venient size, and in the order in which the cases are num­
bered on his docket. 
SEC. 191. It is the duty of every justice, upon the expi-
ration O his term O O ce, to deposit wit his successor
his official docket, as well his own as those of his prede­
cessors, which may be in his custody, together with all files
and papers, laws and statutes pertaining to his office, there 
to be kept as public records and property. If there be no
successor elected and qualified, or if the office becomes
vacant by death, removal from the township, or otherwise,
before his successor is elected and qualified, the dockets
and papers in possession of such justice must be deposited
with the nearest justice in the township, if there be any;
and if there be none, then with the nearest in the county,
there to be kept until a successor shall be chosen and 
qualified, then to be delivered over to such successor, on
request. 
SEc. 192. A justice receiving by succession or on deposit
any such docket, papers and laws, shall, if requested, 
give a receipt therefor to the person from whom he receives
the same. 
SEC. 193. The justice with whom the docket of another
may be deposited, either during a vacancy or as his sue- 
cessor, is hereby authorized, while having such docket
legally in his possession, to issue execution on any judg-
ment there entered and unsatisfied, and not docketed in
the district court, in the same manner and with the same
effect as the justice by whom the judgment was rendered 
might have done, to take bail in appeal, to issue certified
transcripts of judgments on such docket, and proceed in
all cases in like manner as if the same had been originally 
had or instituted before him. 
SEC. 194. When two or more justices are equally enti-
tled to be deemed the successor in office of a justice, the 
county commissioners shall designate which justice is to 
be deemed the successor of the justice going out of office,
or whose office has become vacant, and shall enter a cer-
tificate in the last docket of the justice going out of office,
or whose office is vacant, of their determination, before
the same is delivered to such successor. 
SEC. 195. In case of sickness or other disability, or nee-
essary absence of a justice at the time appointed for trial, 
another justice of the same township may, at his request,
attend in his behalf, and shall, thereupon, become vested
with the power, for the time being, of the justice before
whom the summons was returnable. In that case, the
proper entry of the proceeding before the attending jus-
tice, subscribed by him, must be made in the docket of
the justice before whom the writ was returnable. If the
case be adjourned, the justice before whom the summons
was returnable, must resume jurisdiction. 
SEC. 196. The summons, execution, and every other
paper made or issued by a justice, must be filled up, 
without a blank to be filled by another ; otherwise it is
void. 
SEC. 197. A justice, at the req nest of a party, and on
being satisfied that it is expedient, may specially depute 
any disoreet person of suitable age, and not interested in
the action, to serve a summons or execution, with or with-
out an order to arrest the defendant or to attach property.
Such deputation must be in writing on the process. 
SEC. 198. The person so deputed has the authority of a
constable in relation to the service, execution and return 
of such process, and. is subject to the same obligations;
but there can be no fee for his services taxed in the bill of 
costs. 
SEc. 109. The justice may punish, as for a contempt,
persons guilty of the following acts, and no others : Dis­
orderly, contemptuous · or insolent behavior toward the
justice, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or
other judicial proceeding ; willful resistance, in the pres­
ence of the justice, to the execution of a lawful order or
process made or issued by him. . 
SEc. 200. A warrant of arrest may be issued 'by such
justice, on which the person so guilty may be arrested 
and brought before the· justice, when an opportunity to 
be heard in his defense or excuse must be given. The
justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him
of the offense, and adjudge a punishment by fine or im­
prisonment, or both ; such fine not to exceed twenty
dollars, and such imprisonment ten days. 
SEc. 201. The conviction, specifying particularly the
offense and the judgment thereon, must be entered on his
docket ; a warrant of commitment to the jail of the
county, until the fine be paid, or for the term of imprison­
ment, may then be issued. Such warrant must contain a 
transcript of the entry in the docket, and the same mnst 
be executed by any constable to whom it may be given, 
and by the jailer of the county. 
SEC. 202. Attorneys at law, duly admitted to practice as 
such, may appear for and represent any party before a 
justice, to the same extent and with the same effect as in
the district court. When a.n attorney appears for a party, 
the justice shall note the fact of such appearance on his
docket in the case in which the attorney appears, which
shall have the same effect as an appearance of record in 
the district court. 
SEc. 203. It shall not be lawful for any justice of the 
peace to purchase any judgment upon any docket in his
possession ; and for so doing, for every such offense, such
justice shall forfeit and pay a sum not more than fifty 
dollars nor less than ten dollars, to be recovered by action
before any court having jurisdiction thereof, and when 
collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county
where such offense was committed. 
SEc. 204. The provisions of this act do not apply to
proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes 
effect. They shall be conducted to final judgment and
determination in all respects as if it had not been adopted. 
SEC. 206. All process, provided for by this act, may be
directed to the sheriff of the county, in the discretion of
the justice, and be by the sheriff served and returned in
the same manner as provided for in cases where the same 
is issued to the constable. 
sEC. 206. That ''.An act regulating the jurisdiction and
procedure before justices of the peace, and the duties of
constables in civil cases," approved February 10, 1859,
and all acts amendatory and supplemental thereto, be and
the same are here by repealed. 
SEC. 207. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after its publication in the statute book. 
