§ 1. Civil cases are actions or special proceedings.

§ 2. A civil action is a demand, by pleadings, in a court of justice,
for the enforcement of an alleged right of a plaintiff against a defendant.

§ 3. Every other civil case is a special proceeding.

§ 4 [1]. Form of actions —There shall be but one form of action.

§ 5 [3]. Actions are ordinary or equitable.
§ 6 [4, 5]. When to be ordinary or equitable. —Unless otherwise pro
vided by this Code or other statute—
1. Actions of which courts of chancery had jurisdiction before the
first day of August, 185 1, may be equitable ; and actions of which such
jurisdiction was exclusive must be equitable.
2. All other actions must be ordinary.
§ 7 [6]. Actions on lost writings, &c. —An ordinary (a) or equitable
action may be brought upon a bill of exchange, or a note(^) or other
obligation, or upon an indorsement or assignment thereof, which, or
upon a judgment the record of which, is lost, destroyed, mutilated, (<r)
or defaced, without fraud on the part of the plaintiff, or of those under
whom he claims.^/) But no action shall be brought upon an instru
ment transferable by delivery, merely, which is alleged to be lost,
destroyed, mutilated, or defaced, without a previous tender by the
plaintiff" to the defendant, if his name and place of residence be known
to the plaintiff, of an indemnifying bond, with good surety ; nor shall
judgment be given against the defendant, in such action, until such
bond is given, with good surety approved by the court, 

§ 8 [7]. Correction by plaintiff of error as to form. —An error of the
plaintiff as to the form of action shall be cause, not for the abatement
or dismissal of it, but merely for a change into the proper proceedings
by an amendment of the pleadings and a transfer of the action to the
proper docket.

§ 9 [8]. The error mentioned in the last section may be corrected by
the plaintiff without motion, at any time before the defendant answers,
or afterward by leave of court.
§ 10 [9]. Transfer of action from one docket to the other. — i. The de
fendant, by motion made when he answers, may have an equitable ac
tion transferred to the ordinary docket, if, according to the provisions
of section 6, it should have been an ordinary action, and if the answer
present a defence of which he is entitled to a jury-trial.
2. The defendant, by motion made when or before he answers, may
have an ordinary action transferred to the equity docket, if, according
to the provisions of section 6, it should have been an equitable action.
3. The court may, without motion, order the transfer of an action
from one docket to another if either party be entitled to such transfer;
or may try the action, or render judgment therein by default, unless a
party entitled to a transfer move therefor, (a)
[The court may, in its discretion, on motion of either party, or with
out motion, order the transfer of an action from the ordinary to the
equity docket, or from a court of purely common law to a court of
purely equity jurisdiction, whenever the court, before which the action
is pending, shall be of the opinion that such transfer is necessary because
of the peculiar questions involved, or because the case involves accounts
so complicated, or such great detail of facts, as to render it impractica
ble for a jury to intelligently try the case.(^) (Act of April 29, 1890.)]

§ 11 [10]. Transfer of ordinary action to equity docket. —In an ordinary
action properly commenced as such —
1. If there be several issues, all of which were, before the first day
of August, 1851, cognizable in chancery, though none were exclusively

so, either party may, by motion, have the case transferred to the equity
docket.
2. Either party may, by motion, have the case transferred to the
equity docket for the trial of any issue which, before the said day, was
exclusively cognizable in chancery.
3. If there be an issue which was not cognizable in chancery, and an
issue which was exclusively cognizable in chancery, before the said day,
the plaintiff may have the former issue tried before the latter is dis
posed of.
4. If there be an issue which was not cognizable in chancery, and an
issue which was cognizable in chancery, but not exclusively so, before
the said day, the case shall not be transferred to the equity docket with
out consent of the parties.

§ 12. Transfer of action in equity, for trial by jury. —In an equitable
action, properly commenced as such, either party may, by motion, have
the case transferred to the ordinary docket for the trial of any issue
concerning which he is entitled to a jury-trial ; but either party may re
quire every equitable issue to be disposed of before such transfer.

§ 13. Transfers of actions from one court to another. —In counties
wherein the jurisdiction of circuit courts is vested in different courts—
I. The provisions of this title/concerning transfers to the proper
docket, apply to transfers to the proper court.
2. Upon an order for the transfer of an action from one court to
another, the papers in the action and a copy of the order shall be de
livered by the clerk of the court which makes the order to the clerk of
the court to which the action is transferred ; and it shall proceed as if
it had been brought in the latter court.

§ 14 [1 1], Bond of defendant before transfer to equity. —In an ordinary
action, properly commenced as such, if the defendant be entitled to the
transfer of one or more issues to the equity-docket, and move for such
transfer, the plaintiff may file his affidavit that he verily believes he will
succeed in the action, and that the collection of his claim, after judg
ment, will be endangered by delay arising from such transfer ; and if
such affidavit be filed, the court shall not grant the motion of the de
fendant to transfer, except upon condition that the defendant execute a
bond, wrtir good' surety, approved by the court, that he will pay any
judgment rendered in favor of the plaintiff (a) : Provided, That no such
bond shall be required if the trial of the case or issue transferred take
place during the term at which the transfer is made, nor until all issues
not transferred are tried or disposed of in favor of the plaintiff.
In) See ILirrolJ v. Howard, 80 A'y., 51.
§ 15 [12]. Waiver of errors to form of action. —An error as to the
kind of proceedings adopted in the action is waived by failure to move
for its correction at the time and in the manner prescribed in this
chapter; and errors in the decisions of the court, on any of the motions
named in this chapter, are waived, unless excepted to at the time—
which may be done by the clerk noting, at the end of such decision,
words of the following import: "To which decision the plaintiff (or
defendant) excepts."
See notes to ?J 8 and 11.
§ 16 [13]. The provisions of this Code apply to all civil actions,
unless the contrary appears.
§ 17 [14]. Limitation of equity powers over judgments at law. — A
judgment obtained in an ordinary action shall not be annulled nor
modified by any order in an equitable action, except for a defence
which arises or is discovered after rendition of the judgment. But
such judgment does not prevent the recovery of any claim which was
not, though it might have been, used as a defence by way of set- off or
counter-claim in the action.
§ 18 [30]. Every action must be prosecuted in the name of the real
part)' in interest, except as provided in section 21.

§ 19 [31]. Ac/ions by assignees.*—In the case of an assignment of a
thing in action, the action by the assignee is without prejudice to any
discount, set-off, or defence now allowed (a) ; and if the assignment be
not authorized by statute the assignor must be a party, as plaintiff or
defendant (6). This section does not apply to bills of exchange, nor to
promissory notes placed upon the footing of bills of exchange, nor to
common orders or checks 

§ 20 [32]. If the right of the plaintiff be transferred or assigned
during the pendency of the action, it may be continued in his name;
or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer or assignment
is made to be substituted in the action, proper orders being made as to
security for the costs.

§ 21 [33]. Actions by fiduciaries. —A personal representative (a), guar
dian (b), curator, committee of a person of unsound mind, trustee of an
express trust (c), a person with whom or in whose name a contract is
made for the benefit of another, a receiver appointed by a court (</), the
assignee of a bankrupt (V), or a person expressly authorized by statute
to do so, may bring an action without joining with him the person for
whose benefit it is prosecuted.

§ 22 [34]. Who may join as plaintiffs. —All persons having an inter
est in the subject of an action and in obtaining the relief demanded may
be joined as plaintiffs, unless it is otherwise provided in this Code.

§ 23 [35]- Any person may be made a defendant who claims an
interest in the controversy adverse to the plaintiff", or who is a necessary
party to a complete determination of the question involved in the
action.

§ 24 [36]. Joinder of parties as plaintiffs or defendants. —Parties who
are united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants ; but if
. the consent of one who should be joined as plaintiff can not be obtained,
he may be made a defendant, the reason being stated in the petition.

§ 25 [37]- When one may sue or defend for others. —If the question
involve a common or general interest of many persons, or if the parties
^^^be numerous and it is impracticable to bring all of them before the
court within a reasonable time, one or more may sue or defend for the
benefit of all.

§ 26 [38]. Joint or srocral actions against persons severally liable on
contract. —Persons severally liable upon the same contract (a), and parties
to bills of exchange, to promissory notes placed upon the footing of bills
of exchange, or to common orders and checks, and sureties on the same
or separate instruments, may all, or any of them, or the representatives
of such as may have died, be included in the same action at the plaintiff's
option.

§ 27 [39]. Several actions against persons Jointly liable on contract. —
If two or more persons be jointly bound by contract, the action thereon
may be brought against all, or any of them, at the plaintiff's option.
If any of the persons so bound be dead, the action may be brought
against any or all of the survivors, with the representatives of all or
any of the decedents, or against the latter or any of them. If all the
persons so bound be dead, the action may be brought against the
representatives of all or of any of them. An action or judgment
against any one or more of several persons jointly bound shall not be a
bar to proceedings against the others.

§ 28 [40, 400]. Who must be parties. —The court may determine any
controversy between parties before it, if it can do so without prejudice
to others ; if it can not do so, it must require such other persons to be
made parties, or must dismiss the action without prejudice.

§ 29 [41, 257]. Intervention in action by claimant. —In an action or
proceeding for the recovery of real or personal property, or for the
subjection thereof to a demand of the plaintiff under an attachment or
other lien, any person claiming a right to, or interest in, the property
or its proceeds, may, before payment of the proceeds to the plaintiff,
file, in the action (a), his verified petition, stating his claim and contro
verting that of the plaintiff (6) ; whereupon the court may order him to
be made a defendant ; and upon that being done, his petition shall be
treated as his answer (c), but if he be a non-resident he must give security
for costs.
§ 30 [42]. Interpleader by defendants generally. —Upon affidavit of a
defendant before answer, in an action upon contract, or for the recovery
of personal property, that a person who is not a party to the action,
without collusion with him, makes a claim to the subject of the action,
and that the affiant is ready to pay or dispose thereof as the court may
direct, the court may make an order for the safe-keeping of the subject
of the action, or for its payment or deposit in court, or for its delivery
to such person as the court may direct, and an order requiring such
alleged claimant to appear in a reasonable time and maintain or relin
quish his claim against the defendant, and, in the meantime, stay the
proceeding. If such alleged claimant, being served with a copy of the
order, fail to appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in
respect to the subject of the action against the defendant therein. If
he appear he shall be allowed to make himsejf defendant in the - action,
in lieu of the original defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability
to either of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action upon
his compliance with the order of the court for the payment, deposit, or
delivery thereof.

§ 31 [43]. Interpleaders by officers who are sued. —The provisions of
§ 30 shall be applicable to an action against a sheriff or other officer for
the recovery of personal property taken by him under execution or
distress warrant, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and sold
by him. And the defendant in such action shall be entitled to the
benefit of those provisions against the party in whose favor the exe
cution or distress warrant issued, upon exhibiting to the court the pro
cess under which he acted, with his affidavit that the property, for the
recovery of which, or its proceeds, the action is brought, was taken
under such process.
§ 32 [44]. Substitution of creditor for officer who is sued. —In an action
against a sheriff or other officer for the recovery of property taken
under an execution or distress warrant the court may, upon the appli
cation of the defendant and of the party in whose favor the execution
or distress warrant is issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the
defendant, security for the costs being given.

§ 33 [45]- An action to recover the possession of specific personal
property taken under a distress warrant, if it be brought by the tenant,
or his assignee or under-tenant, may be against the party who sued out
the warrant ; and the property claimed in such action may, under the
order for its delivery, be taken from the officer who seized it if he have
no other claim to hold it than that derived from the warrant. The
indorsement of a levy on the property, made upon the warrant by the
officer holding it, shall be a sufficient taking of the property to sustain
the action against the party who sued out the warrant.

§ 34 [49 to 52]. [1. In actions between husband and wife (a) ; in
actions concerning her separate property (£) ; and, inactions concern- ^/ ^■ &2
ing her general property [and in actions for the personal suffering of or
injury to her person or character (Act 1892, p. 85)], in which he refuses
to unite (c), she may sue or be sued alone.
2. In all other actions by or against a wife she and her husband^ /^
must join or be joined as plaintiffs or defendants (

. She may defend an action against her and husband [for herself
and] for him [also] if he fail to defend.
4. If a husband desert his wife, she may bring or defend for him any
action which he might bring or defend, and shall have the powers and
rights with reference thereto which he would have had but for such
desertion^).
5. If a female party to an action marry, her husband may be made
a party by a motion, causing the fact to be stated upon the record ; and
the action shall not be delayed by reason of the marriage (/).
6. But if a wife be of unsound mind, or imprisoned, the actions
mentioned in subsections 1, 3, and 4, of this section, must be prose
cuted or defended by her committee or curator, if she have one ; and,
if she have none, must be prosecuted by her next friend, or defended
by her guardian ad litem.

§ 35 [53. 5 8]. Excepting married women—
1. The action of a person who is under disability must be brought
by his guardian, curator, or committee, if he have one residing in this
State, unless it be against his guardian, curator, or committee ; or unless
said guardian, curator, or committee refuse to sue, in which case he
must be made a defendant.
2. The action of an adult, who is imprisoned in or out of this State,
and who has no curator residing herein, or his action against his curator,
may be brought by him, or, with his consent, by his next friend.
3. The action of an infant, or of a person of unsound mind, who
resides in this State, and who has no guardian, curator, or committee
residing herein, or whose guardian, curator, or committee refuses to
sue, or his action against his guardian, curator, or committee may be
brought by his next friend.
4. The action of an infant, or of a person of unsound mind who
resides in a foreign country, and who has a guardian, curator, or com
mittee residing therein, may be brought by such guardian, curator, or
committee, or by his next friend.

§ 36 [55, 60, 63]. Defences of infants. —Excepting married women,
if a defendant, who is under disability and who is summoned in this
State, have a defence—
1. That of an infant or person of unsound mind must be made by
his guardian or committee, or by a guardian ad litem (a).
2. That of an adult prisoner in this or any other State must be made by
his curator or by an attorney employed by him, or by a guardian ad litem.
3. No judgment shall be rendered against an infant—other than a
feme ccn'crt—nor against a person of unsound mind, who is summoned
in this State, until the regular guardian, or committee, or guardian ad
litem, of such defendant, shall have made defence, or have filed a report
stating, that, after a careful examination of the case, he is unable to
make defence (6). His report, that he can not make a defence, must be
filed on or before the day for making defence, unless, for cause shown,
the court extend the time ; and failure to file such report, as required
hereby, or by the court, shall be punished as a contempt.

§ 37- 1 [S3. 58]- No person shall sue as next friend unless he reside
in this State and be free from disability, nor unless he file his own
affidavit showing his right to sue as next friend according to the
provisions of this chapter.
2 [54, 59]. A guardian, curator, committee, or next friend, who
brings or prosecutes an action for a person who is under disability, is
liable for the costs which accrue during his conduct of the action, unless
he be allowed to sue in forvia pauperis, by an order of the court, or by
an order of the judge thereof during vacation.

§ 38. Appointment, &c., of guardian ad litem. — I. No appointment
of a guardian ad litem shall be made until the defendant is summoned,
or until a person is summoned for him, as is authorized by $ 52 (a);
nor until an affidavit of the plaintiff, or of his attorney, be filed in court,
or with the clerk, or presented to the judge during vacation, showing
that the defendant has no guardian, curator, nor committee, residing
in this State, known to the affiant (b).
2 [56, 60, 61]. A guardian ad litem must be a regular, practicing
attorney of the court ; and may be appointed by the court, or the judge
thereof, whether a guardian, curator, or committee appear for the
defendant or not (c) ; or by the clerk of the court, during vacation, if
the affidavit mentioned in subsection I of this section be filed. The
guardian ad litem may be appointed, upon the motion of the plaintiff,
or of any friend of the defendant ; but neither the plaintiff nor his
attorney shall be appointed, nor be permitted to suggest the name of
the proposed guardian ad litem; and the court or judge may change the
guardian so appointed whenever the interest of the infant may appear
to require such change.
3. It shall be the duty of the guardian ad litem to attend properly
to the preparation of the case (d) ; and in an ordinary action he may
cause as many witnesses to be subpoenaed as he may think proper,
subject to the control of the court ; and in an equitable action he may
take depositions, not, however, exceeding three, without leave of the
court.
4 [64]. The court shall allow to the guardian ad litem a reasonable fee
for his services, to be paid by the plaintiff and taxed in the costs (e).
The affidavit of such guardian, or of another person, or other com
petent evidence, is admissible to prove the services rendered, but not to
prove their value. The court must decide concerning such value, with
out reference to the opinions of parties or other witnesses.

§ 39 [65]. How action is commenced. —An action is commenced by
filing in the office of the clerk of the proper court a petition stating
the plaintiff's cause of action ; or, in cases wherein written pleadings
are not required, by filing in such court the account, or the written
contract, or a short written statement of the facts on which the action
is founded ; and, in either case, by causing a summons to be issued, or
a warning order to be made, thereon.

§ 40 [66]. Form and requisites of summons. —The summons (a) shall
command the officer to whom it is directed (d) to summon the defendant
named therein (c), to answer the petition (d) filed by the plaintiff, giving
his name, at a time stated therein, under the penalty of the petition
being taken for confessed, or of the defendant being proceeded against
for contempt of court on his failure to do so. The summons shall be
dated the day it is issued (e) and be signed by the clerk.

§ 41 [67]. Summons may be issued to any eounty, &c. —A summons
shall be issued at any time, to any county, against any defendant, at the
plaintiff's request. But a summons not served shall not be taxed in
the costs unless otherwise ordered by the court.
§ 42 [68]. Copy of summons for each defendant. —With every sum
mons the clerk shall issue a copy thereof for each defendant named
therein unless otherwise ordered by the plaintiff.
§ 43 [69]. Time fixed in summons for answer. —The time fixed in
the summons for the defendant to answer shall be the day the summons
is returnable.

§ 44 [70 1. When summons to be rettirnable. —The summons shall be
returnable to the first day of the next term of the court which does
not begin within ten days from the date of the summons.
§ 45 [71]- To whom summons to be delivered. —The summons and
copies shall be delivered to the sheriff or other officer authorized to
execute it.
§ 46 [72]. Attendance of sheriff to receive summons. —It shall be the
duty of the sheriff, or of one of his deputies, to attend at the clerk's
office daily—Sundays excepted—to receive .any process that may be
issued, and the clerk shall deliver to him any process remaining in his
office.

§ 47 [73]- Who to serve summons. —The summons may be served—
1. By the officer to whom it is directed, or any officer to whom it
might have been directed (a), and his return thereon shall be proof of
the time and manner of service (d).
2. By any person appointed by the officer to whom it is directed,
by an indorsement on the summons (r) ; and the affidavit of such person
indorsed thereon shall be proof of the time and manner of service.

§ 48 [74]. How service of summons to be made. —Unless otherwise
provided (a) the summons shall be served by delivering, or if acceptance
be refused, by offering to deliver, a copy of it to the person to be sum
moned.
§ 49 [75]- The return or affidavit mentioned in section 47 must state
when and how the summons was served (a), and, if erroneous, may,
with leave of the court, be amended according to the truth (b). An
officer who makes such erroneous return may be fined by the court not
exceeding ten dollars, and shall be liable to the person aggrieved for
any injury caused by the error.

§ 50 [76]. Acknowledgment of service. — Service may be acknowl
edged by the person to be summoned by an^jndorsement upon the
summons, signed and dated by him, and attested by a witness. The
affidavit of the witness shall be proof of the service.
§ 5 1 [77 to ^o]. Service on counties, corporations, and common carriers.
I. In an action against a county the summons must be served on the
presiding judge of the county court, or, if h^be absent from the
county, upon its attorney. ^
2. In an action against a municipal corporation the summons must
be served upon its mayor, or the chairman of its board of trustees ; or,
if he be absent from the county, upon the defendant's official attorney,
if it have one; or, if it have no such attorney, upon its marshal.
3. In an action against a private corporation the summons may be
served, in any county, upon the defendant's chief officer, or agent,
who may be found in this State ; or it may be served in the county
wherein the action is brought upon the defendant's chief officer or
agent who may be found therein. [Or if the defendant operate a rail
road, it may be served upon the defendant's passenger or freight agent
stationed at or nearest to the county seat of the county in which the
action is brought. (Act 1893, p. 588.)]
4. [In every action (Act 1893, p. 1207) against a common carrier,
the summons may be served, in any county, upon the defendant's chief
officer or agent; or it may be served, in the county wherein the action
is brought, upon the defendant's chief officer or agent who resides
therein (a) ; or, if the defendant operate a railroad, it may be served
upon defendant's passenger or freight agent stationed at, or nearest to,
the county seat of the county in which the action is brought.]
5. [Where the defendant corporation is the owner or the lessee of a
railway in this State, or the builder or constructor of a railway in this
State, and can not be served with summons under existing laws, then
the person or corporation controlling or operating the railway so owned
or built or constructed shall be treated as the representative of the de
fendant, and service of summons upon such of the officers or agents of
the persons or corporation operating or controlling the railway as would
be required if such controller or operator were the party sued, shall be
a sufficient service of summons upon the defendant to the action ; but
such service must be twenty days before the commencement of the
term, and the facts authorizing the same must be made to appear by
the return of the officer or the affidavit of some person other than the
plaintiff in the action, and the appearance of the defendant to move for
the quashal of the service of the summons shall operate as an appear
ance for all the purposes of the action, and the same shall stand for
trial at the succeeding term of the court, in case the motion to quash
shall prevail. (Act of May 10, 1890.)]
6. [In actions against an individual residing in another State, or a
partnership, association, or joint stock company, the members of which
reside in another State, engaged in business in this State, the summons
may be served on the manager, or agent of, or person in charge of
such business in this State in the county where the business is carried
on, or in the county where the cause of action occurred. (Act 1893,
page 911.)]
(a) See 78 Ky., 136.
§ 52 [81]. Service on infants under fourteen. —If the defendant be
under the age of fourteen years the summons must be served on his
father; or, if he have no father, on his guardian; or, if he have no
guardian, on his mother; or, if he have no mother, on the person
having charge of him.
[If any of the parties upon whom summons is directed to be served
by § 52 of the Civil Code is a plaintiff, then it shall be served on the
person who stands first in the order named in said section, and who is
not a plaintiff; and if all such persons are plaintiffs, it shall, on the
affidavit of one or more of them showing that fact, be the duty of the
clerk of the court to appoint a guardian ad litem for the infant, and the
summons shall be served on such guardian. (Act January 16, 1882.)]

§ 53 [82]. Service on persons of unsound mind. —If the defendant be
of unsound mind the summons must be served on him and on one of
the following named persons, if residing in the county, viz. : on his
committee; or, if he have no committee, on his father; or, if he have
no father, on his guardian; or, if he have no guardian, on his wife; or,
if he have no wife, on the person having charge of him ; or, if the
defendant be a married woman of unsound mind, and her husband be
plaintiff in the action, the summons must be -served on her and her
committee ; or, if her husband be not plaintiff in the action, upon her
and her committee, if she have one; or, if she have no committee,
upon her and her husband: Provided, That the summons shall not be
served upon a person of unsound mind, if he be under charge or treat
ment of a physician who certifies that, in his opinion, the service would
be injurious to such person. Such certificate shall be returned with the
summons.
[Service of a summons by delivering a copy of it to the physician
having change [charge] of a person of unsound mind shall have the
same effect as a service on the person of unsound mind, if such physi
cian gives a certificate, attested by the officer delivering him the copy,
that a personal service would, in his opinion, be injurious to such person
of unsound mind. —Act January 16, 1882.]
§ 54 [83]. Sendee on prisoners. —If the defendant be a prisoner a
copy of the petition must accompany the summons, and the service
must be upon the keeper of the penitentiary, who shall deliver the
copies of the petition and summons to the prisoner. And a copy of
the summons must also be delivered to the curator of the defendant,
if he have one; or, if he have no curator, to his wife, if he have one;
or, if he have no wife, it shall be left at the place, if known, where he
resided, or claimed to reside, prior to his confinement, with some per
son of the age of sixteen years.
§ 55 [84]- Service on community of Shakers. —If the defendant be a
community of Shakers, holding property in common, the service must be
made by posting a copy of the summons at the door of its meeting-house,
and by delivering a copy thereof to some member of the community.

§ 56 [86]. Sennce on persons out of Kentucky. —Excepting infants [un
der the age of fourteen years (Act of April 18, 1890)], other than married
women, and persons of unsound mind and prisoners, if a defendant be out
of this State the plaintiff may take a copy of the petition, certified by the
clerk, with a summons annexed thereto, warning him to appear and an
swer the petition within sixty days after the same shall have been served
on him, and may cause a copy thereof to be delivered to such defendant
by a person to whom he is personally known. Proof of the delivery
shall be made by the affidavit of the person making it, indorsed on or an
nexed to the certified copy and summons, in which the time and place of
the delivery, and the fact that the defendant was personally known to the
affiant, shall be stated. The officer before whom the affidavit is made shall
certify that the affiant is personally known by him to be worthy of credit.

§ 57 [88 to 90]. If the defendant be—
1. A corporation having no agent in this State, known to the plain
tiff, upon whom a summons can be lawfully served ; or,
2. A non-resident of this State and believed to be absent there
from (a) ; or,
3. Have departed therefrom with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors; or,
4. Have been absent therefrom for four months (6) ; or,
5. Have left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a
summons; or,
6. So conceal himself that a summons can not be served upon
him(<r); or,
7. If his name and place of residence be unknown to the plain
tiff id), the clerk shall, subject to the provisions of § 58, make upon
the petition an order warning the defendant to defend the action on the
first day of the next term of the court, which does not commence
within sixty days after the making of the order 

§ 58 [89]. 1. The clerk shall not make such warning-order upon
any of the grounds mentioned in subsections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7, of § 57,
except upon an affidavit of the plaintiff (a) ; or of his agent or attorney,
if he be absent from the1 county ; or of his guardian, curator, com
mittee, or next friend, if he be under disability ; or of the attorney of
either of them, if absent from the county, stating the ground of the
application for such order.
2. Nor shall the clerk make such order on any of the grounds
mentioned in subsections i, 2, and 4 of § 57, unless the affidavit also
state in what country the defendant, or, if the defendant be a cor
poration, in what country its chief officer or agent resides or may be
found, and the name of the place wherein a post-office is kept nearest
to the place where the defendant or its chief officer or agent, resides or
may be found ; or unless the affidavit state the affiant's ignorance of
such of those facts as he does not know.
3. Nor shall the clerk make such order upon an affidavit of an agent
or attorney of the plaintiff, stating any of the grounds mentioned in
subsections 1, 2, 4, and 7, of § 57, unless the affidavit state the affiant's
belief that the plaintiff is ignorant of such of the facts as are unknown
to the affiant.
4. The clerk may make such order upon an affidavit of the plaintiff,
or of his agent or attorney if he be absent from the county ; or of his
guardian, curator, committee, or next friend, if he be under disability ;
or upon the return of a summons by the proper officer, stating either
of the grounds mentioned in subsections 5 and 6, of § 57.
5. But the clerk shall not make such order upon the affidavit of an
agent or attorney unless it also state the affiant's connection with the
plaintiff, and the fact that he is absent from the county.
6. An affidavit made pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this
section, unless it be controverted by the defendant's affidavit, shall be
sufficient evidence of the facts therein stated for the support of the
action as well as of the warning-order 

§ 59 [440, 441]. Appointment, duties, &c., of attorneys for defendant.
1. The clerk, at the time of making such warning-order, shall ap
point, as attorney for the defendant, a regular, practicing attorney of
the court (a) ; but the court may, and for any reason which it deems
good, shall, appoint another attorney as a substitute for the attorney
appointed by the clerk. Neither the plaintiff nor his attorney shall be
appointed, or be permitted to suggest the name of, the defendants
attorney.
2. Such attorney must make diligent efforts to inform the defendant,
by mail, concerning the pendency and nature of the action against him,
and must report to the court, during the first term, which does not
commence within sixty days after his appointment, the result of his
efforts (£).
3. The duties and powers of such attorney are governed by the last
foregoing paragraph unless he be employed by the defendant ; or unless
he be unable to inform the defendant concerning the action ; or unless
he learn that the defendant is under disability other than coverture, or
other than infancy and coverture combined (c).
4. Such attorney, if employed by the defendant, shall so report to
the court ; and such report shall be treated as an appearance of the
defendant in the action (d).
5. If such attorney can not inform the defendant concerning the
action, or if he learn that the defendant is under disability (c), other
than coverture, or other than infancy and coverture combined, he shall
so report to the court, and shall make an affirmative defence if he can;
or, if he can not make such defence, he shall so report to the court,
and shall be subject, with reference to such report, to the provisions ot
subsection 3 of § 36 ; and no act of his shall be treated as an appear
ance of such defendant.
6. The provisions of subsection 4 of § 38 apply with reference to
the compensation of such attorneys (/).
7. No judgment shall be rendered against such defendant if under
any disability, other than coverture, or infancy and coverture combined,
until a defence or report shall have been filed pursuant to subsection 5
of this section (g-

§ 60 [91]. When defendant deemed to be constructively summoned.
A defendant against whom a warning-order is made and for whom an
attorney (a) has been appointed shall be deemed to have been construct
ively summoned on the thirtieth day thereafter, and the action may
proceed accordingly 

§ 61 [92]. Actual after constructive service.. —The plaintiff may, at
any time before judgment, have a summons served on the defendant if
found in this State, although a warning-order may have been previously
entered against him ; and after such service the case shall proceed as in
other cases of actual service.

§ 62 [93]. Venue of actions concerning real property. —Actions must
be brought in the county in which the subject of the action, or some
part thereof (a), is situated—
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest
therein (o).
2. For the partition of real property (c) except as is provided in
§66.
3. For the sale of real property under title 10, chapter 14 (d), or
0^. <JJ\3 under a mortgage (e), lien, or other encumbrance or charge (/), except
for debts of a decedent.
4. For an injury to real property.
§ 63 [94]- Venue of actions for fine, penalty, or forfeiture, or against
public officers or sureties. —Actions must be brought in the county where
the cause of action, or some part thereof, arose—
I. For the recovery of a fine, penalty, or forfeiture, imposed by a
statute (a) ; but if the offense for which the claim is made be committed
on a water-course or road which is the boundary of two counties, the
action may be brought in either of them.
2. Against a public officer for an act done by him in virtue or under
color of his office, or for a neglect of official duty.
3. Upon the official bond of a public officer 
§ 65 [96]. Venue of action to settle decedent' s estate, assigned estate,
&c. —[An action to settle the estate of a deceased person, of a person,
corporation, or company assigned for the benefit of creditors of any
estate in the hands of a receiver of court, must be brought in the county
in which such personal representative, assignee, or receiver qualified,
and for the purpose of a settlement of such estates, such personal rep
resentative, assignee, or receiver shall have the same power to sue as
had the deceased person, the assignor, or owner of the estate in such
receiver's hands, but any action brought by such personal representative,
assignee, or receiver for the recovery of or sale of, under a mortgage,
deed of trust, or other lien, or charges upon, or injury to real estate or
an estate or interest therein, must be brought in the county in wkich
such real estate is situated, and not elsewhere, and that in any suit
heretofore, brought, and which is now pending in any county in this
State, for the settlement of the estate of a deceased person, or of a
person, corporation, or company assigned for the benefit of creditors,
and in which the enforcement of mortgaged liens, or other liens, upon
real estate, or for the recovery of real estate or an interest therein, the
judge of said court in which such action is pending shall, by proper
orders, transfer for hearing and trial that part of the record necessary
for the enforcement of such liens or the recovery of such real estate to
the circuit court of the county in which such land or a part thereof is
situated, and such shall be docketed and stand for trial in the court to
which same is transferred under this act, as other causes of like nature,
as if originally brought in such court. 

§ 66 [97]. Venue of actions for distribution or partition. —An action
for the distribution of the estate of a deceased person, or for its par
tition among his heirs, or for the sale, for payment of his debts, of
property descended from, or devised by him, must be brought in the
county in which his personal representative was qualified.

§ 67 [98]. Venue of action by ward against guardian. —An action
by a ward against his guardian for a settlement of his accounts, for
additional security, or for his removal, must be brought in the county
in which the guardian was qualified.

§ 68 [99]. Venue of actions against Commissioners of Sinking Fund, <5r.
An action against the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, or the
Board of Education, of this State, must be brought in the county that
includes the Seat of Government.
§ 69 [100]. Against prisoners and inmates of asylum. —An action, not
mentioned in 62 to 67, both inclusive, nor in § 70, against a prisoner
in this State (a), or a person confined in an asylum for persons of unsound
mind in this State, must be brought in the county, if known, in which
he resided, or claimed his residence, when confined.

§ 70 [474]. Venue of actions on return of nulla bona. —An action upon
a return of no property found, pursuant to § 439, must be brought hi
the county in which the judgment is rendered (a), or in which the
defendant resides or is summoned 

§ 71 [101]. Venue of actions against banks and insurance companies. ^
Excepting the actions mentioned in §§ 62 to 66, both inclusive, and in
§§ 70 and 75, an action against an incorporated bank or insurance com
pany may be brought in the county in which its principal office or place
of business is situated ; or, if it arise out of a transaction with an agent
of such corporation, it may be brought in the county in which such
transaction took place.
§ 72 [101, 103]. Venue of actions against corporations generally. —
Excepting the actions mentioned in §§ 62 to 66, both inclusive, and in ^ ^ Oi Lf
§§68, 70, .71, 73, 75, and 77, an action against a corporation which ^ QC})4has
an office or place of business in this State, or a chief officer or
agent residing in this State, must be brought in the county in which
such office or place of business is situated, or in which such officer
or agent resides ; or, if it be upon a contract, in the above-named
county, or in the county in which the contract is made or to be per
formed ; or, if it be for a tort, in the first named county, or the county
in which the tort is committed.
§ 73 [102]. Venue of actions against common carriers. —Excepting Acf^f^yr
the actions mentioned in §75, an action against a common carrier, *
whether a corporation or not, upon a contract to carry property, must P
be brought in the county in which the defendant, or either of several
defendants, resides ; or in which the contract is made (a) ; or in which
the carrier agrees to deliver the property. An action against such car
rier for an injury to a passenger, or to other person or his property,
must be brought in the county in which the defendant, or either of
several defendants resides; or in which the plaintiff or his property is
injured; or in which he resides, if he reside in a county into which the
carrier passes.
§ 74. Venue of actions for injury to person or diameter. —Every other »j i«<il
action for an injury to the person of the plaintiff, and every action for JT* «
an injury to the character of the plaintiff, against a defendant residing
in this State, must be brought in the county in which the defendant
resides, or in which the injury is done.

§ 75 [io5]- Venue of actions against defendants constructively sum
moned. —Excepting the actions mentioned in §§ 62 to 67, both inclusive,
and in § 70 and § 76, an action against a defendant who may be pro
ceeded against by a warning-order, as is authorized by § 57, must be
brought in a county in which the defendant resides at the commence
ment of the action ; or in which he has property ; or in which a person
resides against whom he has a valid claim for money or property.
§ 76. Venue of actions for alimony or divorce. —An action for alimony
or divorce must be brought in the county where the wife usually
resides (a), if she have an actual residence in this State ; if not, in the
county of the husband's residence 
§ 77. Venue of actions against contractors forpublic works. —Excepting
the actions mentioned in § 75, an action against a contractor who under
takes to construct in whole or in part, any turnpike, bridge, railway,
lock, dam, or other public work, for labor done, or materials or supplies
furnished, for the construction or promotion of said work, may be
brought in the county wherein the labor, or most of it, is done, or
wherein the materials, or supplies, or most thereof, are furnished ; and
if such bridge connect two counties, such action may be brought in
either of them.
§ 78 [106]. Venue of transitory actions generally. —An action which is
not required by the foregoing sections of this article to be brought in
some other county may be brought in any county in which the defend
ant, or in which one of several defendants, who may be properly joined
as such in the action, resides or is summoned.

§ 79 [107]. Venue of transitory actions against one defendant. —In an
action brought pursuant to § 78, against a single defendant, there shall
be no judgment against him, unless he be summoned in the county
wherein the action is brought ; or, unless he reside in such county when
the action is brought and be summoned elsewhere in this State (a) ; or,
unless he make defence to the action before objecting to the jurisdiction
of the court 
§ 80 [108, 109]. Venue in transitory actions against several defendants.
In an action brought pursuant to § 78 against several defendants, no
judgment shall be rendered against any of them, upon the service of a
summons out of the county in which the action is brought, if no one
of them be summoned in that county, nor resided therein when the
action was commenced ; nor if the action be discontinued or dismissed
as to the defendant who resided, or was summoned in that county ; nor
if judgment be rendered in his favor, unless a defendant summoned out
of that county make defence without objecting to the jurisdiction of the
court (a) : Provided, That a judgment for a defendant who resided or
was summoned in that county, upon a plea of his discharge as a bank
rupt, shall not prevent a judgment against any other defendant in an
action brought before the commencement of the proceedings in which
the discharge was obtained ; but, after such judgment upon a plea of
discharge in bankruptcy, a defendant not summoned in the county, nor
residing therein at the commencement of the action, may, by answer,
deny the liability of such bankrupt. The issue as to the original liability
of such bankrupt shall be tried as if he were still a party, and the
plaintiff shall not have judgment against the defendant not summoned
nor residing in the county, unless it be decided that the bankrupt was
originally liable.

§ 81. Prohibition as to summons in transitory actions. —In an action
brought pursuant to § 78, a defendant who is summoned out of the
county in which it is brought, and who did not reside therein when the
action was begun, can not be summoned in that or any other action of
the plaintiff whilst visiting such county for the sole purpose of defend
ing the first named action.
§ 82 [1 10]. Removal of defendant after action is commenced. —If, after
the commencement of an action in the county of the defendant's resi
dence, he move therefrom, the service of a summons upon him in any
other county shall have the same effect as if it had been made in the
county from which he moved.

§ 83 [ill]. Several causes of action may be united (a), if each affect
all parties to the action (6), may be brought in the same county, and
may be prosecuted by the same kind of action ; and if all of them be
brought—
1. Upon contracts, express or implied (c) ; or,
2. For the recovery of real property and the rents, profits, and
damages for withholding it (ti) ; or,
3. For the recovery of specific personal property, and damages for
the taking or withholding it ; or,
4. For partition of real or personal property, or both ; or,
5. For injuries to character (e) ; or,
6. For injuries to person and property 

§ 84 [1 12]. Striking out of cause of action by plaintiff. —A party may
strike from his petition, answer, or reply, any cause of action, before
the final submission of the case to the jury, or to the court, if the trial
be by the court.
§ 85 [113]. Striking out of cause of action on defendants motion—The
court, at any time before defence, shall, on motion of a party, require
the adverse party to elect which of two or more causes of action,
improperly joined, he will prosecute ; and, upon his refusal so to elect
shall strike out of the petition, answer, or reply, any cause of action
improperly joined with another.
§ 86 [114]. Objections to the misjoinder of causes of action are
waived, unless they are made pursuant to § 85.

§ 87 [115]. Pleadings are statements by parties to an action of their
causes of controversy.
§88 [116]. Forms and sufficiency of pleadings. —The forms of plead
ings, and the rules by which their sufficiency is to be determined, are
those prescribed by this Code.
§ 89 [117]. The pleadings allowed are—
1. Petitions, answers, and replies, and such additional pleadings, by
way of rejoinder and rebutter, as may be necessary to form a material
issue of fact.
2. Demurrers.
§ 90 [118]. The petition must state facts which constitute a cause
of action in favor of the plaintiff against the defendant, and must
demand the specific relief to which the plaintiff considers himself entitled ;
and may contain a general prayer for any other relief to which the
plaintiff may appear to be entitled. If no defence be made, the plaintiff
can not have judgment for any relief not specifically demanded ; but,
if defence be made, he may have judgment for other relief, under a
prayer therefor.

§ 91 [120, 121]. Demurrers are special or general.
§92 [120, 121]. Special demurrers. —A special demurrer* is an ob
jection to a pleading which shows (a) —
1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the defendant, or of the
subject of the action (b~)\ or,
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue (c); or,
3. That another action is pending, in this State, between the same
parties, for the same cause {d)\ or,
4. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant (/). Either
of said grounds of objection, shown to exist by a pleading, is waived,
unless distinctly specified by a demurrer thereto (/), except the objection
to the jurisdiction of the court of the subject of the action, which
objection is not waived by failing so to make it ; but a party failing so
to make it when or before he files a pleading, other than a demurrer, is
liable for all costs resulting from such failure.

§ 93 [121]. I. General Demurrers. —A general demurrer is an objection
to a pleading, because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action or a defence (a) ; or, because it does not state facts suf
ficient to support a cause of action or a defence.
2. Failure so to make such objection is not a waiver thereof, but a
party failing to make it when or before he files a pleading, other than a
demurrer, shall be liable for all costs resulting from such failure.

§ 94 [122]. Amendments after demurrer is sustained. —If the court
sustain the demurrer, the party may amend the pleading, with leave of
court ; but in all cases he shall pay the costs resulting from the demur
rer.

§ 95 [I25]- An answer may contain—
1. A traverse (a).
2. A statement of facts which constitute an estoppel against (b), or
avoidance of (c), a cause of action stated in the petition.
3. A statement of facts which constitute a set-off or counter-claim.
4. A cross-petition.

§ 96 [126, 128]. I. A counter-claim is a cause of action in favor of a
defendant against a plaintiff, or against him and another, which arises
out of the contract, or transaction, stated in the petition as the foun
dation of the plaintiff's claim, or which is connected with the subject
of the action (a).
2. A set-off is a cause of action arising upon a contract, judgment,
or award, in favor of a defendant against a plaintiff, or against him and
another ; and it can not be pleaded except in an action upon a contract,
judgment, or award (6).
3. A cross-petition is the commencement of an action by a defend
ant against a co-defendant, or a person who is not a party to the action,
or against both ; or, by a plaintiff against a co-plaintiff, or a person who
is not a party to the action, or against both ; and is not allowed to a
defendant, except upon a cause of action which affects, or is affected by,
the original cause of action ; nor to a plaintiff, except upon a cause of
action which affects, or is affected by, a set-off or counter-claim 

§ 97. I. The provisions of §90, concerning the demand and giving
of relief, apply to set-offs, counter-claims, and cross-petitions.
2. No summons is required upon a set-off or counter-claim against
a plaintiff.
3 [127, 129]. Proceedings upon cross-petitions, and upon set-offs
and counter-claims against new parties, shall be the same as those upon
petitions; but they shall not delay the trial of any issue in the original
action or upon a set-off or counter-claim, concerning which a judgment
can be rendered without prejudice to the rights of the defendants to the
cross-petition, or to the rights of new parties to a set-off or counter
claim.
4. A defendant shall not have judgment upon a set-off or counter
claim, unless the caption of the answer contain the words, answer and
set-off, or the words, answer and counter-claim ; but a misdescription in
the caption, of the nature of the defendant's claim, shall not prevent
him from having judgment : nor shall a plaintiff have judgment upon a
counter-claim unless the caption of his reply contain the words, reply
and counter-claim.

§ 98 [1 32, 1 33]. What the reply may contain. —A reply may contain —
1. A traverse (a).
2. A statement of facts which constitute an estoppel {b) against,
or avoidance of, a set-off, counter-claim (c), or defence stated in the
answer (d).
3. A counter-claim against a set-off (e).
4. A cross-petition.

§ 99. Rejoinders. —A rejoinder may contain —
1. A traverse.
2. A statement of facts which constitute an estoppel against, or
avoidance of—
a. Facts stated in the reply in support of the plaintiff's original
cause of action (a).
b. A defence stated in the reply to a set-off or counter-claim.
c. A counter-claim stated in the reply.

§ 100. Surrejoinders and subsequent pleadings. —Surrejoinders and sub
sequent pleadings may be of the same character as replies and rejoinders.
§ 101. Departure in pleading forbidden. —A party shall not, in a reply!
or subsequent pleading, depart from a cause of action or a ground of
defence, stated by him in a previous pleading (a) ; but the pleading of
equitable matter of avoidance or estoppel, in an ordinary action, or of
legal matter of avoidance or estoppel, in an equitable action, shall not,
of itself, constitute such departure.

§ 102 [87, 135, 137]. Time offiling defences. —Defence to an ordinary
action must be filed on the day on which the case is set for trial : and,
to an equitable action, on the third day of term, if the summons be
served in the county in which the action is brought ten days, or else
where in the State twenty days, or out of the State sixty days, before
the commencement of the term ; or, if the defendant be constructively
summoned thirty days before the commencement of the term.
As to the time of filing defence and time of trial in actions against defendants con
structively summoned, see \ 60 and note (b ) thereto.
§ 103 [136]. Time of filing other pleadings. —In an ordinary action, all
other pleadings must be filed on or before the calling of the case for trial.
§ 104 [138]. If the summons in an equitable action be served before
the commencement of the term, but not the length of time mentioned
in § 102, the defence shall be filed in thirty days after the service.
§ 105 [139]- In an equitable action, if the answer be due and be filed
on the third day of the term, the reply shall be filed within three days
thereafter, and the subsequent pleadings shall be filed within three days
after the filing of the reply.
§ 106. In an equitable action, if the answer be not due and filed on
the third day of the term, the reply shall be filed within ten days after
notice of the filing of the answer, and the subsequent pleadings shall be
filed within ten days after notice of the filing of the reply.
§ 107 [140]. The court may, for good cause shown (a), and at the
cost of the party applying therefor, extend the time for filing a pleading,
but not beyond the next succeeding term.
(fj) Affidavit for a continuance, stating that defendant has a good defence, but without
stating the nature of it, is insufficient. Engleman v. Nat. Bank of Lancaster, 2 Bush, 165.
§ 108 [141]- Filing pleadings during vacations. —The filing of an an
swer or subsequent pleading in the clerk's office, during vacation, with
in the time allowed, with notice thereof to the adverse party, or his at
torney, shall be equivalent to a filing in court.
§ 109. 1. A party who files an answer or subsequent pleading, du
ring vacation, may file a demurrer therewith.
2. The adverse party may, during that vacation, and after notice to
the party filing the demurrer, or his attorney, file an amended plead
ing to cure any defect suggested by the demurrer.
3. The failure of a party, who so files a special demurrer, to present
it for consideration, at the next succeeding term of the court, shall be a
waiver of any defect stated in the demurrer, except that to the juris
diction of the court of the subject of the action.

§ 1 10 [118, 125]. i. What captions of pleadings must contain. —The
caption of a pleading must state the name of the court in which the
action is brought or pending, and the names of the parties (a), desig
nating who are plaintiffs, and who are defendants, coupled with a word,
or short phrase, desdtibing the character of the pleading (d), with this
exception : if there be several parties on either side, a statement of the
name of the plaintiff, or defendant, first named in the petition, followed
by the phrase, "&c," shall suffice, except in petitions, cross-petitions,
and answers which make new parties to a set-off or counter-claim.
2. Petitions in ordinary actions shall be described by. the word,
"petition;" those in other actions shall be described by the words,
■"petition in equity.

§ 111. Pleadings which may contain cross-petitions, set-offs, and counter
claims. 1. No pleading, except an answer to an original petition, or
the plaintiff's reply to such answer, shall be made a cross-petition.
2. No pleading, except an answer to an original petition, shall pre
sent a set-off.
3. No pleading, except an answer to an original petition, or a reply
to a set-off, shall present a counter-claim.

§ 112. No reply, &c, except to affirmative allegations. —There shall
be no reply, nor additional pleading, except to affirmative allegations
of an adverse pleading.

§ 113. General provisions concerning pleadings. — i. [124]. A, party
may demur to part of a pleading, and present an issue of fact as to
another part (a).
2 [119]. A pleading may contain statements of as many causes of
action, legal or equitable, and of as many matters of estoppel, and of
avoidance, legal or equitable (b), total or partial ; and may make as many
traverses; and may present as many demurrers, as there may be grounds
for in behalf of the pleader.
3 [119, 125]. If there be more than one, each must be distinctly
stated in a separate, numbered, paragraph (c) ; and either, which is
intended to respond to part only of an adverse pleading, must show to
what part it is responsive. It is the duty of the court, upon or without
motion, to enforce these provisions ; and, for that purpose, to dismiss
an action without prejudice, or to strike a pleading, or any part thereof,
from the case, or to allow a new pleading.
4. If, however, a party file a pleading which contains inconsistent
statements, or statements inconsistent with those of a pleading previously
filed by him in the action, he shall, upon or without motion, be required
to elect which of them shall be stricken from his pleading (d). But a
party may allege, alternatively, the existence of one or another fact, if
he state that one of them is true, and that he does not know which of
them is true (e).
5. If a pleading be stricken from the record, re-formed, or amended,
the party in fault shall pay the cost resulting therefrom.
6. An express admission of a fact is not necessary to render valid a
pleading in avoidance or estoppel thereof.
7 [125]. A traverse is a denial, by a party, of facts alleged in an
adverse pleading, if they be presumptively within his knowledge {/) ; or
a denial of them, or a denial that he has sufficient knowledge or infor
mation to form a belief concerning them, if they be not presumptively
within his knowledge {g
8. Sham pleadings shall, upon or without motion, be stricken out by
the court, at the cost of the parties for whom they are filed and of their
attorneys 

§ 114. Material issues required. —Parties must, before trial, form a
material issue concerning each cause of controversy (a) ; and it is the
duty of the court, upon or without motion, to compel them to do so ;
and, for that purpose, they may be required to re-form their plead
ings, or the pleading of a party who is in fault may be stricken from
the case.
§ 115 [142]. What pleadings to be in writing, &e. —Pleadings must
be in the English language, and as concise as possible consistently with
clearness ; and, excepting those mentioned in § 705, must be in writing,
and be signed by the parties who file them, or by their attorneys.

§ 1 16 [142, 143,538]. Verification of Pleadings. —Every pleading (a),
which this Code requires to be written, must be verified by an affidavit
to the effect that the affiant believes that the statements of the pleading
are true, excepting {It) —
1. Demurrers.
2. Defensive (c) pleadings filed by a guardian ad litem, curator, or
committee, of a defendant who is under liability [disability], or by an
attorney for a defendant who has been constructively summoned and has
not appeared to the action.
3. A pleading which states a cause of action that is founded on a
written contract, or upon a written indorsement or assignment thereof,
if it be filed with the pleading.
4. A pleading which states a defence that is founded on a writing
executed by the adverse party, and filed with the pleading.
5. Allegations concerning value or damage, not accompanied by an
allegation of an express promise, or by a statement of facts showing an
implied promise, to pay such value or damage (d).
6. Pleadings in actions brought in the name of the Commonwealth,
pursuant to Chapter XIV of Title X.
7. When the admission of an allegation of a pleading might subject
a party to a criminal or penal prosecution 

§ 117 [142, 143]. By whom pleadings to be verified. —Pleadings, the
verification of which is required by this Code, must be verified as fol
lows :
1. Pleadings of the Commonwealth must be verified by the attorney
who brings the action, or by the officer, or agent, who is authorized by
law to have it brought.
2. That of a county, or of a municipal or private corporation, must
be verified by its chief officer or agent, upon whom a summons in the
action is lawfully served, or might be lawfully served if it were a defend
ant ; or, if it have no such officer nor agent residing in the county in
which the action is brought, or is pending, it may be verified by its
attorney.
3. That of any other party must be verified by him, with these
exceptions :
a. If he be absent from the county, or mentally incapable of taking
an oath, or physically unable to attend before an officer, it may be veri
fied by his agent or attorney.
b. If it be a joint pleading of several parties who are united in inter
est, it may be verified by either of them.
c. If the party be under disability, excepting coverture, or infancy
and coverture combined, it may be verified by the person who is author
ized to file it.
4. But, on motion of a party who files his affidavit, stating his belief
that an adverse party, whose pleading has been verified by a person
other than himself, knows that a statement thereof, in the affidavit
mentioned, is untrue, and that the motion is not made for delay, the
court, if such statement be material, shall require such adverse party to
verify the pleading ; and, if he fail to do so, within a reasonable time,
shall treat it, with regard to him, as if it had not been filed.
5. Verification of a pleading does not make other or greater proof
necessary on the side of the adverse party than would have been neces
sary if the pleading had not been verified (a).
(a) See note 4, ante, page 122.
§ 118 [123]. Answer may present grounds for special demurrer. —A
party may, by an answer or other proper pleading, make any of the
objections mentioned in §92, the existence of which is not shown by
the pleading of his adversary ; and failure so to do is a waiver of any
of said objections, except that to the jurisdiction of the court of the
subject of the action.

§ 119 [144] I. Neither the evidence relied on by a party (a), nor
presumptions of law (6), nor facts of which judicial notice is taken, ex
cepting private statutes (c), shall be stated in a pleading.
2. In pleading a private statute, it shall be sufficient to refer to it byg^jp
stating its title and the day on which it became a law.
§ 120 [145]. Writing on which action is founded to be filed. —If an
action, counter-claim, set-off, or cross-petition, be founded on a note,
bond, bill, or other writing, as evidence of indebtedness, it must be
filed as a part of the pleading, if in the power of the party to produce
it ; and if not filed, the reason for the failure must be stated in the
pleading : if upon an account, a copy thereof must be filed with the
pleading.

§ 121 [147]. Irrelevant or redundant matter. —Irrelevant or redundant
matter in a pleading shall be stricken out, upon or without motion, at
the cost of the party whose pleading contains it.

§ 122 [148]. How judgment may be pleaded. —In pleading a judg
ment or determination of a court or officer, it is not necessary to state
the facts conferring jurisdiction ; but it shall be sufficient to state that
the judgment or determination was duly given or made.

§ 123 [150]. Inactions for libel or slander, extrinsic facts need not be
stated. —In an action for libel or slander, it is not necessary to state anyextrinsic
facts for the purpose of showing the application to the plain
tiff of the alleged defamatory matter.
§ 124 [151]. What ansivcr may state in actions for libel or slander. —
^ In the actions mentioned in § 123, the defendant may state the truth of
to ^ the alleged libel or slander, and any mitigating circumstances ; and,
whether he prove the justification or not, he may prove the mitigating
circumstances to reduce the amount of damages.

§ 125 [152]. Describing land in action to recover or subject it. — I. A
petition for the recovery of land, or for its subjection to a demand of
the plaintiff, must describe it so that it may be identified.
2. In an action for the recovery of land, the answer of the defendant
must state whether or not he claims it, or any part of it; and, if he
claim part of it, his answer must so describe' such part that it may be
identified. The making of such statement, or of such statement and
description, shall not, of itself, throw on the defendant the burthen of
proving his right to the land claimed by him ; but, if the plaintiff recover
any part thereof, the defendant shall pay the costs of the action.

§ 126 [153]. What allegations to be taken as true unless traversed. —
Every material allegation of a pleading must, for the purposes of the
action, be taken as true, unless specifically traversed (a), excepting
these, which must be proved though not traversed :
1. Allegations of a petition, or cross-petition, against a defendant
who is under any disability except coverture.
2. Allegations of an answer, or reply, so far as it states a set-off or
counter-claim against a new party who is under any disability except
coverture.
3. Allegations against a defendant constructively summoned, who
has not appeared in the action (b).
4. Allegations concerning value or amount of damage, not accom
panied by an allegation of an express promise, or by a statement of
facts showing an implied promise, to pay such value or damage : such
allegations, so accompanied, need not be proved unless traversed (

§ 127 [154]. Material allegation defined. —A material allegation is
one which is necessary for the statement or support of a cause of action
or defence.
§ 128 [155]. Filing of zvritings relied on as evidence. — 1. In addition
to the writings which a party is required by § 120 to file as the foun
dation of his action or defence, he may file, as an exhibit, with his
pleading, or, with leave of court at any time pending the action, any
writing upon which he may intend to rely as evidence (a).
2. In an equitable action, such exhibits shall constitute part of the
record, unless it show that they were not used on the trial.
3. In an ordinary action, such exhibits shall not constitute part of
the record, unless it show that they were used on the trial.

§ 129 [156]. Variance between pleadings and proof. —No variance
between pleadings and proof is material, which does not mislead a party,
to his prejudice, in maintaining his action or defence upon the merits.
A party who claims to have been so misled must show that fact to the
satisfaction of the court ; and, thereupon, the court may order the plead
ing to be amended, upon such terms as may be just.

§ 131 [158]. Failure of proof. —If, however, the allegation of the
claim or defence, to which the proof is directed, be unproved, not in
some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope and mean
ing, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within the last two sections,
but a failure of proof.
[Amended by act of March 24, 1888, by adding tlie following words :
"In an action on a contract alleged to have been made by several
defendants, in the event the evidence shall show the contract to have
been made with less than all those defendants by whom it is alleged to
have been made, this shall not be deemed either a variance or failure of
proof, but judgment maybe rendered against the party or parties shown
to be bound, and in favor of those shown not to be bound.

§ 132 [159]. Amending petition before answer. —The plaintiff may, at
any time before answer, amend his petition without leave ; but, unless the
amendment be filed five days before the term at which the defendant is
summoned to answer, he shall give to the defendant notice, of one day,
of his intention to amend.

§ 133 [160]. Pleading upon overruling of demurrer. —Upon a demur
rer being overruled, the party demurring may file an answer, reply, or
additional pleading.
§ 134 [161]. General provisions as to amendments. —The court may,
at any time, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, cause or permit a pleading or proceeding to be amended, by
adding or striking out the name of party ; or, by correcting a mistake
in the name of a party (a), or a mistake in any other respect; or, by
inserting other allegations material to the case(^); or, if the amend-
ment do not change substantially the claim or defence, by conforming
the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved (c). And, if a pro
ceeding taken by a party fail to conform in any respect to the provisions
of this Code, the court may permit an amendment of such proceeding,
so as to make it conformable thereto. And, if the allegations of a
pleading be so indefinite or uncertain that the precise nature of the
claim or defence is not apparent, the court may require the pleading to
be made definite and certain by amendment (d). The court must, in
every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in the proceed
ings, which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party ;
and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such error
or defect 

§ 136 [163]. Continuance on amendment. —If a party amend a plead
ing or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or other
wise, that the adverse party can not be ready for trial in consequence
thereof, a continuance may be granted to some day in the same term or
to another term of the court.
§ 137 \l(>4]- Verification of petition before trial. —A petition filed
without verification shall not be dismissed for that reason, if the verifi
cation be made on or before the calling of the action for trial.

§ 138 [165]. Verification unnecessary after trial begins. —No objection
shall be taken, after the commencement of the trial, to any pleading
for the want of, or a defect in, the verification.

§ 139 [166]. Amending without verification. —Courts may, in their
discretion, permit the amendments authorized by this chapter to be
made without being verified, unless a new and distinct cause of action
or defence be thereby introduced.

§ 140 [167]. Interrogatories in equitable actions. —In equitable actions,
a party may annex to his pleading written interrogatories to the adverse
party, concerning any material allegation thereof (a) ; and answers
thereto, on oath, may be read by either party, as a deposition between
the party interrogating and the party answering 

§ 141 [168]. Party not confined to mere response. —The party answer
ing shall not be confined to responding merely to the interrogatories,
but may state any facts concerning the cause of action to which the
interrogatories refer, and they may likewise be read as a deposition.

§ 142 [169]. When interrogatories to be answered. —Interrogatories
annexed to a petition shall be answered when the party is required to
answer the petition ; if annexed to any other pleading, they shall be
answered in twenty days after notice of the filing thereof shall be given
to the adverse party or his attorney ; but if answered twenty days
before the term at which the action stands regularly for trial, the action
shall not be postponed on account of their not being sooner answered.

§ 143 [170]. Interrogatories in ordinary actions. —In ordinary actions,
a party may annex to his pleading written interrogatories to an adverse
party concerning any material allegation —
1. If the party interrogated do not reside within twenty miles from
the place where the action may be pending.
2. If the party interrogated be unable to attend court on account
of infirmity, or imprisonment, or be a female.
§ 144 [171]. When to be answered. —In ordinary actions, interroga
tories annexed to the petition shall be answered when the petition is
required to be answered ; if annexed to any other pleading, they shall
be answered at or before the calling of the cause for trial, if the party
interrogated had reasonable notice of their being filed.
§ 145 [172]. Wlien trial not postponed for failure to answer. —The
trial of an ordinary action shall not be postponed on account of the
failure to answer the interrogatories, if the party interrogated be present
in court at the trial, so that he may be orally examined ; nor, in case of
his absence, without an affidavit showing the facts which the party
believes will be proved by the answers thereto, and that the party has
not filed the interrogatories, nor omitted to file them, for the purposes
of delay; nor, if the party will consent that the facts stated in the affi
davit shall be considered as admitted by him.
§ 146 [173]. Party not confined to mere response. —The provisions of
§ 141 shall apply to the answers to interrogatories in ordinary actions.
§ 147 [174]. Answers must distinguish between knowledge and infor
mation. —A party, in answering such interrogatories, shall distinguish
clearly between what is stated from his personal knowledge and what is
stated from information or belief merely. An unqualified statement of
a fact shall be considered as made from his personal knowledge.
§ 148 [175]. Verification ofanswers. —Answers to such interrogatories
shall be verified by the affidavit of the party answering, to the effect
that the statements in them made of his personal knowledge are true,
and those made from the information of others he believes to be true.

§ 149 [176]. When party may be compelled to testify in court. —If a
party reside within twenty miles from the place in which the action may
be pending, he may be summoned by the adverse party, and be com
pelled to testify on the trial of an ordinary action as any other witness.
See (j) 606) Act February 23, 1898, subsec. 8.
§ 1 50 [177]. When claim sustained for failure to answer interrogatories.
If a party, filing interrogatories, file an affidavit that he verily believes
that any subject of the interrogatories is in the personal knowledge of
the adverse party, and that his answers thereto, if truly made, will sus
tain the affiant's claim or defence, or any part thereof, and the adverse
party shall fail, after reasonable time, to answer them, the claim or
defence, or the part thereof mentioned in such affidavit, shall be deemed
to be sustained.
§ 151 [178]. Court may compel ansxvers. —The court may compel
answers to interrogatories by process of contempt, and may, on the
failure of the party to answer them, after reasonable time, dismiss the
petition, or strike out the pleading of a party so failing.

§ 152 [179]. Defendant may be held to bail. —A defendant in a civil
action can be arrested and held to bail only upon the conditions and in
the manner prescribed in this chapter.

§ 153 [180]. Manner and grounds of obtaining order of arrest. —An
order for the arrest of the defendant shall be made by the clerk of the
court in which the action is brought or pending, at its commencement,
or any time before judgment, if an affidavit (a) of the plaintiff be filed
in his office showing—
1. The nature of the plaintiff's claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The sum or value, which the affiant believes the plaintiff ought to
recover.
4. That the affiant believes, either that the defendant is about to
depart from this Sate (b), and, with intent to defraud his creditors, has
concealed, or moved from this State, his property, or so much thereof
that the process of the court after judgment can not be executed ; or
that the defendant has money, or securities for money or evidences of
debt, in the possession of himself, or of others for his use, and is about
to depart from this State without leaving property therein sufficient to
satisfy the plaintiff's claim 

§ 154 [181]. Order not to issue until bond is given. —The order of
arrest shall not be issued by the clerk until a bond is executed in his
office with good sureties, to the effect that the plaintiff shall pay to
the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,
if the order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the amount of
the plaintiff's claim stated in the affidavit.
§ 155 [182]. Form and requisites of order. —The order of arrest shall
be addressed and delivered, with a copy thereof, to the sheriff. It shall
state the names of the parties to the action, the court in which the
action is brought or pending, and the amount of the plaintiff's claim
specified in the affidavit; and shall require the sheriff to arrest the
defendant, and hold him to bail in the sum of the plaintiff's claim, with
the probable costs of the action, not exceeding twenty-five dollars, and
to make return of the order on a day to be named therein, with the
bail-bond, if any be taken.
§ 156 [183]. Wlien order returnable. —The return day of the order of
arrest, if issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the same
as that of a summons ; if issued afterward, it may be another day in
term, at the option of the plaintiff.

§ 157 [184]. How order executed. —The sheriff shall execute the
order of arrest by arresting the defendant and delivering to him a copy
thereof.
In Phillips, GPc, v. Ronald, &C, 3 Bush, 244, a sheriff was held liable for refusing to
execute an order of arrest during the night.
§ 158 [185]. Defendant to be committed unless bailed. —The defendant,
when arrested, shall be committed by the sheriff to the jail of his county,
a copy of the order of arrest being delivered to the jailer ; and, unless
bailed, shall be kept in custody in the manner provided by law in the
case of a defendant taken in execution upon a judgment in a civil
action, until discharged in the mode and upon the conditions applying
to such defendant.
See Central Statutes, eh. 38, art. 3, and eh. 58 ; and \ 168 of Code.
% 159 [186]. Deposit of money in lieu of bail. —The defendant may,
before or after giving bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in
court, the sum of money mentioned in the order of arrest; whereupon,
he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any be given, shall be released.
§ 160 [187]. Deposit to be paid by sheriff into court. —The sheriff shall
pay into the court the money received by him in vacation, in lieu of
bail, on the first day of the next term. If it be received during a term,
he shall pay it into the court immediately.

§ 161 [188]. Court to make orders for keeping of. —The court shall make
proper orders for the safe keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail.
It may direct the sheriff to keep the money, and, after judgment in the
action, shall order it to be paid to the party entitled thereto, according
to the result.
§ 162 [189]. Liability of sheriff for deposits. —Money deposited in
the hands of the sheriff, in lieu of bail, or directed by the court to be
kept by him, shall be held upon his official responsibility ; and he and
his sureties shall be liable, and may be proceeded against, for any default
in relation thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.

§ 163 [190]. Bail-bond. —Bail may be given by the defendant on his
arrest, or at any time afterward before judgment, upon giving bond with
good surety to the plaintiff, in the presence of the sheriff, or of the
jailer if the defendant have been committed to jail, to the effect that,
if judgment shall be rendered in the action against the defendant, he
will render himself amenable to the process of the court thereupon [a).
The bond, when accepted, shall be returned to the clerk's office (b), and
the defendant shall be discharged 
§ 164 [191]. Qualifications of bail. —The bail must be a resident of
this State, and be worth double the sum specified in the order of arrest,
beyond the amount of his debts, and have property in this State, sub
ject to execution, at least equal in value to that sum. If two or more
become bail, they must, in the aggregate, possess those qualifications.
The bail, if so required by the sheriff, shall make affidavit of their
qualification before him.
§ 165 [192]. Objections to bail. —Objection to bail, for insufficiency,
may be made in court, during the term at which the bail-bond is returned,
and not afterward, unless the bond be returned within the last three days
of the term ; in which case, the motion may be made on the first day

of the succeeding term. The motion can not be made without notice
thereof to the officer who accepted the bond. And if the notice be
adjudged unreasonable, the court may continue the motion to some day
in the same or the next succeeding term.
§ 166 [193]. Exoneration of officer. —If the motion be not made, or
the bail be not thereupon adjudged insufficient, the officer shall be ex
onerated from liability by reason of the. insufficiency of the bail.
§ 167 [194]. Bail not released because adjudged insufficient. —Judg
ment that bail is insufficient shall not release them, but an order shall
forthwith be made to re-arrest the defendant ; and, thereupon, the same
proceedings may be had, and with the like effect, as are directed upon
an order of arrest.
§ 168 [195]. Discharge of debtor from execution. —Upon judgments in
actions in which the defendant has been arrested and held to bail, and
in which the order of arrest has not been vacated, an execution against
the body of the defendant may be issued, upon which the same pro
ceedings shall be had, and the defendant shall be dealt with in the
same manner, as is provided by law in the civil actions in which exe
cutions may be issued against the body of the defendant (a) ; except
that the oath of insolvency, upon reasonable notice, may be taken at
any time after the arrest, by delivering to the plaintiff, his agent,
or attorney, a schedule of the property intended to be surrendered,
although said schedule may not have been delivered ten days before the
taking of such oath. This exception shall also apply to § 158 of this
Code.
§ 169 [196]. Surrender of defendant by bail. —A surrender of the
defendant to the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, with a
delivery to him of a certified copy of the order of arrest and of the
bail-bond by the defendant, or by his bail, at any time before the liability
of the bail is fixed, shall discharge the bail. The sheriff shall give to
the bail a written acknowledgment of the surrender, and commit the
defendant to the jail of his county, with his order indorsed upon the
copy of the bail-bond delivered to the jailer
§ 170 [197]. Arrest of defendant by bail. —For the purpose of sur
rendering the defendant, the bail may, at any time or place, arrest him,
or authorize, in writing, indorsed upon a copy of the order of arrest
and bail-bond, the sheriff or any. constable to do so.
§ 171 [198] Fixing liability of bail. —A return of "not found " upon
an execution against the body of the defendant, placed in the hands of
the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested, within twenty days
after it might have issued upon the judgment, shall be necessary to fix
the liability of the bail, which shall be, to pay the amount of the judg
ment and costs.

§ 172 [199]. Action against bail. —The bail can be proceeded against
in a separate action only.
§ 173 [200]. Exoneration of bail. —He will be exonerated by the
death of the defendant, or his removal from this State under process of
law as a fugitive, before the return-day of the summons served upon
the bail in the action to enforce his liability ; or by the imprisonment of
the defendant in the penitentiary ; or his legal discharge from the obli
gations to render himself amenable to the process of the court ; or by
his surrender to the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested in
execution thereof, on or before the return-day of the summons in the
action against the bail, or within such further time as the court, in which
the action is pending, may allow. If the defendant be confined in any
jail of this State, the bail will be exonerated by delivering to the jailer
thereof, at any time before the return-day of the summons in the action
against the bail, a certified copy of the order of arrest and of the bailbond,
with a written order thereupon to detain the defendant in custody,
until discharged by law from the action in which the bond was given.
The jailer shall give a written acknowledgment of the receipt of the
order, which shall be filed with the original bond.
§ 174 [201]. Officer s liability for escape. —If, after being arrested,
the defendant, without fault on the part of the sheriff, be rescued, or
escape, or bail be not taken or be adjudged insufficient, or a deposit be
not made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail, unless he shall have com
mitted the defendant to jail, and obtained a written acknowledgment
thereof from the jailer ; in which case, the jailer shall be so liable.
Either officer may discharge himself from such liability by putting
in sufficient bail at any time before judgment.
§ 175 [202]. The liability of the officer, as bail, shall be fixed in the
manner provided in § 171, and can be enforced only in a separate action
against him or against him and his sureties in his official bond, as in
other cases of delinquency.
§ 176 [203]. Liability of bail to officer. —Bail, judged insufficient,
shall be liable to the officer for the damages he may sustain by reason
of such insufficiency.

§ 177 [204]. A defendant, against whom an order of arrest has been
obtained, may, at anytime before judgment in the action, and before a
decision of a motion on account of the insufficiency of the bail, apply to
the court, or, in vacation and before executing a bail-bond, to the judge
thereof, or to any circuit judge, or to the presiding judge of the county
court, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce the amount of bail.
Reasonable notice of the application shall be given to the plaintiff. If
satisfied that the bail ought not to have been required, or that the sum
for which it was demanded is too large, the court, or judge, may vacate
the order of arrest, or reduce the amount of bail. The decision of the
motion shall be final in the action, but shall not affect the rights of the
parties in any other action. Upon the vacation of the order of arrest,
the defendant shall be discharged, or the bail-bond, if any be given,
shall be canceled.
§ 178 [205]. If the motion be supported by affidavits or other evi
dence out of the record the plaintiff may oppose it by affidavits or other
evidence, in addition to that on which the order of arrest was obtained.
See \ 548, as to cross-examination of person on whose affidavit an order of arrest was issued.
§ 179 [206]. The writ of scire facias against bail is abolished

§ 180 [207]. Claim of immediate delivery. —The plaintiff in an action
to recover the possession of specific personal property, may, at the com
mencement of the action, or at any time before judgment, claim the
immediate delivery thereof, as is herein provided.

§ 181 [208]. Affidavit and order for immediate delivery. —An order
for the delivery of property to the plaintiff shall be made by the clerk,
when an affidavit of the plaintiff is filed in his office (a), showing—
1. A particular description of the property claimed (0).
2. Its actual value and the damages which the affiant believes the
plaintiff ought to recover for the detention thereof (c).
3. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property or has a special
ownership or interest therein —stating the facts in relation thereto —
and that he is entitled to the immediate possession of the property.
4. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
5. That it has not been taken for a tax or fine against the plaintiff,
or under any order or judgment of a court against him ; nor seized
under an execution, distress-warrant, or attachment against his property ;
or, if so seized, that it is, by statute, exempt from such seizure.
6. That the plaintiff's cause of action has accrued within one year.
If the action be brought to recover property taken under an execution
or distress-warrant or attachment, the affidavit must state the fact of the
taking and the nature of the process under which it was done.

§ 182 [209]. Value of each article to be stated. —If the delivery of
several articles of property be claimed, the affidavit must state the value
of each.

§ 183 [210]. Requisites of order 0/ delivery. —The order for the deliv
ery of the property to the plaintiff shall be addressed and delivered,
with a copy thereof, to the sheriff. It shall state the names of the
parties to the action, and the court in which it is brought or pending,
and direct the sheriff to take the property —describing it, and stating
its value, as in the affidavit of the plaintiff—and deliver it to him, and
to make return of the order on a day to be named therein. The order
shall be made returnable as an order of arrest is directed to be re
turned (a).
(rt) See ? 156.
§ 184 [211]. Bond for immediate delivery. —The order shall not be
complied with by the sheriff, until there has been executed in his pres
ence, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, a bond to the
defendant, to the effect that the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action,
and that he shall perform the judgment of the court therein, by return
ing the property, if a return thereof shall be adjudged, and by paying
such sums of money as may be adjudged against him in the action, not
exceeding double the value of the property and the costs of the action.
Any person establishing a claim to the property, pursuant to the pro
visions of § 29, shall be entitled to the benefit of the provisions of said
bond.
§ 185 [212]. Bondfor immediate delivery in action against officer. —If
the action be brought against a sheriff, or other officer, to recover the
possession of property taken by him under an attachment or execution
against a person other than the plaintiff, or under a distress-warrant,
the bond provided for in § 184 shall be to the effect that the plain
tiff shall duly prosecute the action, and that he shall perform the judg
ment of the court therein, by returning the property, if a return thereof
shall be adjudged, and by paying to the defendant, or to the plaintiff in
the attachment or execution, or party who sued out the distress- warrant,
as may be directed by the court, such sums of money as may be
adjudged against the plaintiff in the action, not exceeding double the
value of the property and the costs of the action.
§ 186 [213]. Execution of order of delivery . —The sheriff shall execute
the order by taking the property therein mentioned, if it be found in
the possession of the defendant or of his agent, or of any other person
who obtained possession thereof from the defendant, directly or indi
rectly, after the order was placed in the sheriff's hands. He shall also
deliver a copy of the order to the defendant, or to the person from whose
possession the property is taken ; or, if neither can be found, he shall
leave it at the usual place of abode of either, with some person of the
age of sixteen years or over.
§ 187 [214]. Disposition of property by sheriff. —If the affidavit of the
plaintiff state that the property was taken under an attachment, exe
cution, or distress-warrant, the sheriff shall deliver it to the plaintiff.
In every other case he shall retain the property for two days, unless
the bond mentioned in the succeeding section be sooner executed.
§ 188 [215]. Restoration of property to defendant. —Within two days
after the taking of the property by the sheriff, the defendant, or any
one for him, may, if the property was not taken under an attachment,
execution, or distress-warrant, cause a bond to be executed to the plain
tiff, in the presence of the sheriff, by one or more sufficient sureties, in
double the value of the property, to the effect that the defendant shall
perform the judgment of the court in the action (a) ; whereupon, the
sheriff shall restore the property to the defendant, or to the person in
whose possession it was found. If such bond be not executed within
the time above limited the sheriff shall deliver the property to the plain
tiff. He shall return the bonds with the order.

§ 189 [216]. Appraisement. —Before taking any bond, upon the sug
gestion of the plaintiff that the value of the property is not truly stated
in the order for its delivery, or upon such suggestion of the defendant,
and upon his producing the property to the sheriff, he shall select three
disinterested housekeepers to appraise the same, under oath to be ad
ministered by him —whose appraisement, indorsed upon the order, shall
be regarded as the value of the property, in taking the bond.
§ 190 [217]. Keeping of property by sheriff. —The sheriff shall safely
keep the property, and shall be allowed by the court the necessary
expenses of doing so, to be paid by the plaintiff and taxed in the costs.
§ 191 [218]. Indemnifying bond to sheriff. —If another person than
the defendant or his agent claim the property taken by the sheriff, and
deliver to the sheriff his affidavit that he is entitled to the possession
thereof (0), the sheriff shall not be bound to keep it, or deliver it to the
plaintiff, unless he shall, within two days after the delivery to him, or
to his agent or attorney, by the sheriff, of a copy of the affidavit, indem
nify the sheriff against the claim, by a bond executed by one or more
sufficient sureties, in double the value of the property. No claim to
such property by any other person than the defendant or his agent
shall be valid against the sheriff, unless so made. He shall return the
affidavit of the claimant, with his proceedings thereon, to the clerk's
office.

§ 192 [219]. Orders may issue to several counties. —An order may, at
anytime before judgment, be directed to any county for the delivery of
the property claimed. And several orders may issue at the same time,
or successively, at the option of the plaintiff; but only one of them
shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
§ I93 [220]. Disclosure of property by defendant. —If it appear from
the affidavit of the plaintiff, or the return of the order of delivery, that
the property claimed has been disposed of or concealed so that the
order can not be executed, the court may compel the attendance of the
defendant, examine him on oath as to the situation of the property, and
punish a disobedience of its orders in this respect as in cases of con
tempt.

§ 194 [221]. Grounds of attachment generally. —The plaintiff may, at
or after the commencement of an action (a), have an attachment (b)
against the property of the defendant (c), including garnishees as is pro
vided in § 227, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as
maybe recovered —
I. In an action for the recovery of money (d) against—
1. A defendant, who is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of
the State (e) ; or,
2. Who has been absent herefrom four months (/) ; or,
3. Has departed herefrom with intent to defraud his creditors ; or,
4. Has left the county of his residence to avoid the service of a sum
mons (g) ; or,
5. So conceals himself that a summons can not be served upon
him (//) ; or,
6. Is about to remove, or has removed, his property, or a material
part thereof, out of this State, not leaving enough therein to satisfy the
plaintiff's claim, or the claims of said defendant's creditors (/') ; or,
7. Has sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of, his property, or
suffered or permitted it to be sold, with the fraudulent intent to cheat,
hinder, or delay, his creditors (J) ; or,
8. Is about to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of his property,,
with such intent (k). But an attachment shall not be granted on the
ground that the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of
this State, for any claim other than a debt or demand arising upon a
contract, express or implied, or a judgment or award.
II. In an action for the recovery of money due upon a contract, judg
ment, or award, if the defendant have no property in this State subject
to execution, or not enough thereof to satisfy the plaintiff's demand,
and the collection of the demand will be endangered by delay in obtain
ing judgment or a return of no property found (/).
III. In an action to recover the possession of personal property
which has been ordered to be delivered to the plaintiff, and which prop
erty, or part whereof, has been disposed of, concealed, or removed, so
that the order for its delivery can not be executed by the sheriff.
§ 195. Attachments for rent. —The provisions of chapter 66, article
2, of the General Statutes, concerning attachments for rent, are adopted
as part of this Code, subject to any modifications herein contained.

§ 196 [222]. Affidavit for attachment. —An order of attachment shall
be made by the clerk of the court in which the action is brought or
pending, in any case mentioned in § 194, subsections 1 and 2, if an
affidavit of the plaintiff be filed in his office (a), showing—
1. The nature of the plaintiff's claim (b).
2. That it is just (c).
3. The sum which the affiant believes the plaintiff ought to re
cover (d) ; and
4. The existence of any of the grounds for an attachment men
tioned in subsections 1 and 2 of § 194; or, in the case mentioned in
subsection 3 of § 194, if it be shown by such affidavit, or by the return
of the sheriff upon the order for the delivery of the property claimed,
that the facts mentioned in that subdivision exist.

§ 197 [223]. Attachment authorized by sheriff's return. —A return by
the sheriff upon a summons against a defendant, that he has left the
county to avoid the service of the summons, or has concealed himself
therein for that purpose, is equivalent to the statement of the fact in the
plaintiff's affidavit.
§ 198 [224]. Bond for attachment. —The order of attachment shall
not be issued by the clerk, until a bond has been executed in his office
by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff to the effect that the
plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages which he may sustain
by reason of the attachment, if the order be wrongfully obtained, not
exceeding double the amount of the plaintiff's claim.
§ 199 [225]. Requisites of order of attachment. —The order of attach
ment shall be directed and delivered to the sheriff with as many
copies thereof as the plaintiff may direct. It shall require him to attach
and safely keep the property of the defendant in his county not exempt
from execution, or so much thereof as will satisfy the plaintiff's claim
specified in his affidavit, which shall be stated in the order, and the
probable costs of the action, not exceeding thirty dollars (/;) ; also, to
summon the garnishees to answer in the action on the return day of the
order, and to make due return thereof. The order shall be made re
turnable as an order of arrest is directed to be returned 

§ 200. Property exempt from attachment by statute. —The provisions
°f 5> 6, 7, and 8, of article XIII, of chapter 38, of the General
Statutes, are made applicable to attachments under this Code.
See A'y. Slat., ft 1697-1701.
[By an act of March 17, 1902 {Acts 1902, /. 52), it is provided:
That wages earned out of this State and payable out of this State
shall be exempt from attachment or garnishment in all cases, where the
cause of action arose out of this State, and it shall be the duty of
garnishees in such cases to plead such exemption unless the defendant
is actually served with process.]
§ 201 [-26]. Orders of attachment may issue to several counties. —Or
ders of attachment may be issued to the sheriff of any county; and sev
eral of them may, at the option of the plaintiff, be issued at the same time
or in succession. But such only as have been executed in whole or in
part shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the court.

§ 202 [227]. Precedence of attachments. —Several orders of attach
ment against a defendant shall have precedence according to the time
of their delivery to the sheriff, subject to the provisions of § 207.

§ 203 [228]. Levy of attachment. —The order of attachment shall be
executed by the sheriff without delay (a) in the following manner—
1. Upon real property, by leaving with the occupant thereof, or,
if there be no occupant, in a conspicuous place thereon, a copy of the
order (b).
2. Upon personal property capable of manual delivery, by taking
it into his custody and holding it subject to the order of the court (c) ;
or, if it be held by another officer under process or under a distress for
taxes, by delivering to him a copy of the order, with a notice speci
fying the property attached.
3. Upon other personal property, by delivering a copy of the order,
with a notice specifying the property attached, to the person holding
it; or, as to a debt or demand, to the person owing it(d); or, as to
stock in a corporation, or property held, or a debt or demand owing,
by it, to the officer or agent upon whom a summons may be served
according to the provisions of § 51, and by summoning the person or
corporation to answer as a garnishee in the action. The sheriff shall
deliver copies to, and summon, such persons as garnishees as the plain
tiff may direct.
[Amended, by act of May 15, 1886, by adding: " But no notice need
be given in any case describing or specifying the debt or demand
attached, but only a notice that the person or corporation to whom the
order of attachment is delivered is summoned to answer as a garnishee
on or before the day and time on which the case is set for trial."

§ 204. Duly of officer on whom attachment is served. —It shall be the
duty of every officer upon whom an order of attachment may be exe
cuted pursuant to § 203, subsection 2, to furnish an inventory and
appraisement of the attached property held by him, or copies thereof,
and a statement of the distress or process under which, and of the sum
for which, it is held, to the officer executing the attachment ; and to
hold so much of the attached property, or of its proceeds, as may not
be necessary to satisfy such process or distress, subject to the order of
the court from which the attachment issued ; and his failure to perform
either of those duties may be punished by the court as a contempt.
§ 205 [229]. Duty of garnishee. —It shall be the duty of every person
mentioned in subsection 3 of § 203, to whom the sheriff shall apply
therefor, to furnish him a certificate of the number of shares of the de
fendant in the stock of the corporation, or a description of the prop
erty held by such corporation or person for the benefit of the defendant,
or belonging to him, or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant,
by such corporation or person, whether due or not ; and a failure to
perform this duty may be punished by the court as a contempt.
See 223 to 227.
§ 206 [230]. Personalty to be first taken. —The defendant's personal
property shall be first taken under an attachment; if enough thereof be
not found, then his real property.
§ 207 [231]. Attachment of fund in court. —If the property to be
attached be a fund in court (a), the attachment shall be executed by
leaving with the clerk of the court a copy thereof, with a notice speci
fying the fund ; and if several orders of attachment be executed upon
such fund on the same day, they shall be satisfied out of it ratably.

§ 208 [232]. Attachment of interest in joint property. —The sheriff shall
not, in executing an attachment upon personal property held by the
defendant in the attachment jointly or in common with another person,
take possession of such property, until a bond be executed to such
other person, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to the
effect that he shall pay to such person the damages he may sustain by
the wrongful suing out of the order, not exceeding double the amount
of the plaintiff's claim.
§ 209. When property may be sold under attachment against one joint
owner. —In an action against joint debtors, in which an interest in joint
property is attached under an order of attachment against only part of
them, if judgment be rendered against all of the defendants, and the
attachment be sustained, the court may subject the whole of the joint
property, then undisposed of, to the satisfaction of the judgment.
See note (e) to \ 194.
§ 210. Attachments pending in different courts. —If attachments, levied
on the same property, in whole or in part, be pending in different
courts—
1. If the courts be of equal jurisdiction, either of them, or during
vacation the judge thereof, may order the removal of so many of said
attachments, and of the actions in which they may have been issued,
as may be necessary to have all of them in one of said courts (a).
2. If the courts be not of equal jurisdiction, one of said courts of
superior jurisdiction, or the judge thereof during vacation, may make
said order of removal to one of said courts of superior jurisdiction.
3. Such order may be made on the motion of any party to either of
said actions, after reasonable notice to all other parties to said actions or
to their attorneys; and affidavits may be read for or against the motion.
4. Clerks of courts shall, pursuant to such order, immediately remove
the papers in the case therein mentioned, accompanied by certified
copies of the orders made therein (/;) ; and, if the removal be to another
county, the clerk shall have the fees allowed by law for like services in
cases of change of venue—to be paid in advance by the applicant for
the removal, and to be taxed in the costs, and finally paid out of the
attached funds, or by such of the parties as the court may order.

§ 211. Bond of indemnity. —Kan officer who levies, or is required to
levy, an attachment upon personal property doubt whether it is subject
to the attachment, he may give to the plaintiff therein, or to his agent
or attorney, written notice that an indemnifying bond is required. If
the plaintiff cause a bond to be executed, with good surety, to be ap
proved by the officer, or the judge of the court from which the attach
ment issued, to the effect that the obligors will indemnify the officer
against any damage he may sustain by reason of the levy of the attach
ment, such officer shall proceed to execute the attachment. If the
attachment have not been levied the officer may refuse to levy it unless
bond be executed as above provided ; or, if the attachment have been
levied, the officer may release the property, unless such bond be exe
cuted within a reasonable time after the notice requiring it shall have
been given.
The taking of an indemnifying bond does not prevent a claimant of the property at
tached from suing the sheriff and his sureties on his official bond. 78 Ky., 460.
§ 212 [233]. Lien of attachment. —An attachment binds the defend
ant's property, in the county, which might be seized under an execution
against him, from the time of the delivery of the order to the sheriff (a),
in the same manner as an execution would bind it; and the lien of the
plaintiff is completed upon any property or demand of the defendant
by executing the order upon it in the manner directed in this article (
§ 213 [234]. Pursuit of property by sheriff. —If, after an order of
attachment has been placed in the hands of the sheriff, any property of
the defendant be removed from the county, the sheriff may pursue and
attach it in another county within twenty-four hours after the removal.
§ 2 1 4 [235]. Delivery of property to person in possession, on bond. —The
sheriff may deliver any attached property to the person in whose pos
session it is found, upon the execution, in the presence of the sheriff,
of a bond to the plaintiff, by such person, with one or more sufficient
sureties, to the effect that the obligors are bound, in double the value
of the property, that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the
court in the action, or that the property or its value shall be forthcoming
and subject to the order of the court.

§ 215 [236]. Appraisement of property. —For the purpose of taking
this bond, the sheriff shall cause the property to be appraised by three
disinterested housekeepers, to be selected and sworn by him to make a
fair appraisement, and who shall indorse their appraisement on the
order of attachment. f
§ 216 [237]. Property not subject to attachment is no defence in action
on bond. —In any proceeding on this bond it shall not be a defence that
the property was not subject to the attachment.

§ 217 [238]. Sheriff's return of attachment. —The sheriff shall return
upon every order of attachment what he has done under it. The return
must show the property attached (a), when it was attached, and the dis
position made of it. If garnishees be summoned, their names and the
time when each was summoned must be stated. And if real property
be attached, the sheriff shall describe it with sufficient certainty to
identify it, and, if he can do so, he shall refer to the deed or title under
which the defendant holds it. He shall return, with the order, all bonds
taken under it.

§ 218 [239]. Disposition of property by court or judge. —The court in
which the action is pending, or during vacation the judge thereof, or, if
he be absent from the county, the presiding judge of the county court,
shall make proper orders for the preservation and use of attached prop
erty; and for the sale of it, if, by reason of its perishable nature, or
the cost of keeping it, a sale of it would be beneficial to the parties ;
and for the collection and payment into court of attached funds and
choses in action ; and, for any of those purposes, may make an order
appointing a receiver, with authority to act as the court may direct—who
shall give bond with good surety, to be approved by the court or judge,
for the faithful performance of his duties : but neither of those orders
shall be made during vacation, except after reasonable notice, in writing,
of the time and place of the application therefor, to the opposite party
or his attorney, if either of them reside in the county in which the
action is pending. Such sale shall be made publicly, after advertise
ment, and upon such terms of credit, with good security, as the court
or judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action, may direct.
Moneys received by the sheriff upon sales of attached property, or from
garnishees, shall be held and paid by him under the same requirements
and responsibilities of himself and his sureties as are provided in respect
to money deposited in lieu of bail.

§ 2 1 9 [240]. Keeping of property by the sheriff or receiver. —The sheriff
or receiver shall be allowed by the court the necessary expenses of
keeping the attached property, to be paid by the plaintiff and taxed in
the costs. In the case of a steamboat attached, he may be allowed, for
his own superintendence thereof, riot exceeding one dollar per day, and
such sums as he may actually expend for the safe-keeping of the boat,
not to exceed, for the pay of persons employed, the usual wages of a
mate and a deck-hand, unless more than two persons have been em
ployed by the order of the court or of the judge thereof.
§ 220 [241]. Requirement of information as to property. —The court
may require the defendant, or the claimant of any attached property, to
appear before it, and give information, on oath, concerning the prop
erty: and if it appear from the plaintiff's affidavit, or the return of an
order of attachment, that no property, or not enough to satisfy the
plaintiff's claim, is( known to the plaintiff or the officer, on which the
attachment can be executed, the court may order the defendant to
attend before it and give information, on oath, respecting his property;
and if it also appear from the affidavit, that a person, other than the
defendant, has in his possession property of the defendant, or evidences
of debt, the court may require such person to appear before it, and give
information, on oath, respecting the same; and the court may enforce
those orders by process as in cases of contempt.
§ 221 [242]. Bond to discharge attachment. —If the defendant, before
judgment, cause a bond to be executed to the plaintiff by one or more
sufficient sureties, approved by the court (a), to the effect that the de
fendant shall perform the judgment of the court, the attachment shall
be discharged, and restitution be made of any property taken under it
or of the proceeds thereof 

§ 222 [243]- Taking of bond in vacation. —The bond mentioned in
the last section may, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the
sheriff having the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the return
of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect upon the attach
ment as if executed in court—the sureties, in either case, to be approved
by the officer.
§223 [244]. Payment of money by garnishee. —The garnishee may
pay the money owing to the defendant by him, not exceeding the plain
tiff's claim and costs, to the sheriff having in his hands the order of
attachment, or into the court; and to that extent he shall be discharged
from liability to the defendant. He shall not be subjected to costs
beyond those caused by his resistance of the claim against him ; and, if
he disclose the property of the defendant in his hands, or the true sum
owing by him, and deliver or pay the same to the sheriff, or according
to the order of the court, he shall be allowed his costs.

§ 224 [245]. Appearance by garnishee. —Each garnishee summoned
shall appear. The appearance, may be in person ; or by the affidavit of
the garnishee filed in court disclosing truly the sum owing by him to
the defendant, whether due or not, and the property of the defendant in
the possession or under the control of the garnishee ; and, in the case
of a corporation, any shares of stock therein, held by or for the benefit
of the defendant, at or after the service of the order of attachment.
§ 225 [246]. Liability of garnishee. —If a garnishee, or officer of a
corporation summoned as a garnishee, appear in person, he may be
examined on oath ; and, if it be discovered on such examination that,
at the service of the order of attachment upon him, he or the corpo
ration was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted
to him (a), the court may order the delivery of such property, and
the payment, or security for the payment of the sum owing by the
garnishee, into court, or to such person as it may direct—who shall
give bond, with security, for the same ; or the court may permit the
garnishee to retain the property or the sum owing, upon the execution
of a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the
sum shall be paid, or the property be forthcoming, as the court may
direct. Performance of such bonds, for the forthcoming of property,
may be enforced as in cases of contempt : upon such bonds for pay
ment of money, excution may be issued as upon replevin-bonds.
§ 226 [247]. Proceedings against garnishee who makes default. —If
such garnishee, or officer, make default, by not appearing, the court
may, on the motion of the plaintiff, compel him to appear in person for
examination, by process as in cases of contempt ; or it may hear proof
of any debt owing or property held by the garnishee to or for the de
fendant, and make such order in relation thereto, as if what is so proved
had appeared on the examination of the garnishee or officer.

§ 227 [248]. Actions and attachments against garnishees. —If a gar
nishee fail to make a disclosure, satisfactory to the plaintiff, the latter
may bring an action against him, by petition or amended petition, in
the same manner, and the proceedings therein shall be the same, as in
other actions (a) ; and the plaintiff may procure an order of attachment
in the same manner, and the proceedings thereupon shall be the same,
as is hereinbefore and hereinafter authorized concerning attachments,
except that the plaintiff's affidavit shall state, in addition to the facts
required to be stated in § 196, the sum which the defendant owes to the
plaintiff's debtor; and the plaintiff shall not be entitled to attach for or
recover more than that sum and costs, nor more than the amount of the
plaintiff's claim against his debtor and costs.
§ 228 [249]. Effect ofjudgtnetit for defendant in the action. —If judg
ment be rendered in the action for the defendant, or if the attachment
be discharged—
I. The property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him.
2. The proceedings against a garnishee shall be dismissed.
§ 229 [250]. Effect of judgment for plaintiff' in the action. —If judg
ment be rendered for the plaintiff, the court shall apply in satisfaction
thereof—
1. Moneys arising from property sold pending the litigation.
2. Proceeds of the debts and funds attached in the hands of the
garnishee (a).
If these be not sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's claim, the court
shall order a sale, by the sheriff, of any other attached property which
may be under its control, in the following order :
1. Personal property.
2. Real property, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the plaintiff's claim 

§ 230 [251]. Affidavit before selling real property. —No order for the
sale of real property seized under attachment shall be made in any
action in which the defendant has not appeared, or- been actually sum
moned, until an affidavit of the plaintiff, or of his agent or attorney,
have been filed, to the effect that the defendant has no personal prop
erty, or not enough to satisfy the claim of the plaintiff, in this State,
known to the affiant.

§ 231 [252]. Surplus to be returned to defendant. —Any surplus of the
attached property, or of its proceeds, shall be returned to the de
fendant.
§ 232 [254]. Enforcement of bond for attached property. —The court
may, by summary proceedings, compel the delivery to the sheriff, for
sale, of any attached property, for which a bond may have been given ;
or, for such sums of money as may be due upon such bonds, execution
may issue as upon replevin-bonds.
§233 [255]. Powers of court as to property, sales, &c. —The court
may, from time to time, make and enforce proper orders respecting
the property, sales, and the confirmation thereof; and the application
and payment of the moneys collected.
§ 234 [256]. Retaking of property by sheriff. —It may order the sheriff
to re-possess himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any attached prop
erty which may have passed out of his hands without having been sold
or converted into money ; and the sheriff shall, under such order, have
the same power to take the property as upon an order of attachment.
§ 235 [257]. Reference of attachments to commissioner. —If several at
tachments be executed on the same property, the court, on the motion
of any one of the attaching plaintiffs, may order a reference to a com
missioner, to ascertain and report the amounts and priorities of the
several attachments.
§ 236 [258]. Motion against plaintifffor additional security. —The de
fendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to
the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part of the
plaintiff; and if, on such motion, the court be satisfied that the surety
in the plaintiff's bond have died or removed from this State, or is not
sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of attachment
and direct restitution of any property taken under it, unless in a reason
able time, to be fixed by the court, sufficient security be given by the
plaintiff.

§ 237 [259]- Order of attachment or arrest before debt matures : grounds
of, &c. —Before a debt or liability, upon a contract, becomes due or
{■r)rjl matures, an equitable action, for indemnity, maybe brought by a
creditor against his debtor ; by a surety against his principal ; or by one
who is jointly liable with another, for such debt or liability, against the
latter—
1. If the defendant be about to depart from this State, and, with intent
to defraud his creditors, have concealed, or removed from this State, his
property, or so much thereof that the process of court, after judgment,
can not be executed.
2. If there exist against the defendant any of the grounds for an
attachment which are mentioned in subsections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8,
of § 194.
§ 238 [260]. Who to grant order. —In such action, if the petition,
J 5"^V» verified by the oath of the plaintiff, show the nature and amount of the
demand, and when it will mature, ^e court in which the action is pend
ing [or the clerk thereof (Act of April 5, 1888)], or any circuit judge,
or the presiding judge of the county court, may grant—
1. An order for the arrest of the defendant, if the petition also state
1 the facts mentioned in subsection 1 of § 237.
2. An attachment against the property of the defendant, if the
petition also show the existence of any of the grounds specified in sub
section 2 of § 237.
§ 239 [261]. Requisites of order. —The order of arrest, or attachment,
shall specify the sum for which it is allowed, not exceeding a sum suf
ficient to satisfy the plaintiff's claim and the probable costs of the
action.

§ 240 [262]. Bond for order. —Such order of arrest, or attachment,
shall not be issued by the clerk until, if it be an order of arrest, bond
be executed pursuant to § 154; nor, if it be an order of attachment,
until bond be executed pursuant to § 198.
§ 241 [263]. Certain provisions applicable to such arrests and attachments.
1. The provisions of Chapter I, of Title VIII, subsequent to § 154, shall,
so far as applicable, regulate arrests authorized by this article.
2. The provisions of the first article of this chapter subsequent to
§ 198, shall, so far as applicable, regulate attachments authorized by
this article.
§ 242. Judgment in action for indemnity. — 1. Judgment may be ren
dered, in an action brought pursuant to § 237, concerning the alleged
liability of the defendant, though it may not have matured.
2. Unless the creditor bring the action, he must be made defendant,
but shall not be liable for costs.
§ 243. Judgment in action by creditor. —If such action be brought by
the creditor, and judgment be rendered against the defendant, it shall
be, that he pay to the plaintiff the amount of the judgment ; or, if the
demand have not matured, that he pay said amount at the time of such
maturity: and the court shall apply, in satisfaction of the judgment,
moneys of the defendant under its control, though the demand have
not matured.
§ 244. Judgment in action by surety against principal. —If such action
be brought by a surety against his principal, and judgment be rendered
against such defendant, it shall be, that he pay to the creditor the
amount of the judgment; or, if the demand have not matured, that he
so pay said amount at the time of said maturity.
§245. Judgment in action by one*joint debtor against another. —If
such action be brought by one who is jointly liable with another, against
the latter, and judgment be rendered against such defendant, it shall be,
that he pay to the creditor so much of his demand as such defendant is
equitably liable for, as between him and the plaintiff; or, if the demand
have not matured, that he pay said amount at the time of said maturity.
§ 246. Moneys of defendant, how disposed of. —In actions mentioned
in § 244, or § 245, moneys of the defendant under control of the court
shall be applied in satisfaction of the judgment when the demand ma
tures, or, with the creditor's consent, before it matures ; and, until so
applied, such moneys, and property of the defendant attached in the
action, shall be under the control of the court.

§ 247. Judgments generally—enforcement of—costs—interest. —In every
action brought pursuant to § 237 —
1. A judgment against the defendant shall include a judgment for
costs in favor of the plaintiff.
2. Such judgments may be enforced as in equitable actions generally,
except that executions upon judgments rendered pursuant to § 244 or
§ 245, shall be in favor of the plaintiff for the benefit of the creditor,
and shall be so indorsed by the clerk.
3. In rendering judgment before maturity of the demand, the court
shall make an abatement, on account of interest ; and shall make the
judgment bear interest from the day of its rendition until it shall be sat
isfied, according to the rate of such abatement.
§ 248. Joint debtor must pay his sliare before getting judgment. —No
judgment shall be rendered pursuant to § 245, until the plaintiff
shall have paid into court money enough to satisfy the residue of the
creditor's demand ; or shall have filed in court the creditor's receipt
therefor, or his release or assignment to the plaintiff of his right to the
demand, or to said residue.
§ 249 [273]. Attachments of specific personal property. —In an action
\\J>1*» to enforce a mortgage of, or lien upon, personal property; or, for the
recovery, partition, or sale, of such property ; or, by a plaintiff having
a future estate or interest therein for the security of his rights, if it satis
factorily appear, from a verified petition, or from affidavits, or the
proofs in the cause, that the plaintiff has a just claim, and that the
property is about to be sold, concealed, or removed from the State ; or
if the plaintiff state on oath that he has reasonable cause to believe and
does believe that, unless prevented by the court, the property will be
sold, concealed, or removed from- the State, an attachment may be
granted against the property.
§ 250 [274]. In an action by a vendor of property fraudulently pur
chased, to vacate the contract and have a restoration of the property or
compensation therefor, if the petition show such fraudulent purchase,
and the amount of the plaintiff's claim, and be verified by his oath, an
attachment against the property may be granted.
§ 251 [275]. Granting and conditions of order. —The attachments in
the cases mentioned in §§ 249 and 250 may be granted by the court
in which the action is brought, or by the judge thereof, or any circuit
judge, or the presiding judge of the county court, upon such terms and
conditions as to security, on the part of the plaintiff, for the damages
which may be occasioned by them, and with such directions as to the
disposition to be made of the attached property, as may be just and
proper under the circumstances of each case.
§ 252 [276]. Plaintiff ' s bond: defendant's bond to retain possession.
In every case, the plaintiff shall be required to give bond, with surety,
for the damages to the defendant, in an adequate sum to be specified in
the order granting the attachment; and, if proper, the court or judge
may direct that the defendant, or person in possession of the attached
property, shall be permitted to retain it, upon giving such bond, with
surety, and for such sum, as the court or judge may prescribe 
§ 253 [277]- No order of attachment shall be issued by the clerk
until the bond on the part of the plaintiff, required by the order of the
court or judge, be executed in his office by one or more sufficient sure
ties of the plaintiff.
§ 254 [278]. Requisites and execution of order. —The order of attach
ment shall describe the specific property against which it is issued, and
the direction of the court or judge, as to the disposition to be made of
the attached property, shall be indorsed upon it. It shall be directed,
executed, and returned, as other orders of attachment.
§ 255 [279]. Sheriff's duties as to property. —The sheriff shall make
such disposition of the attached property as may be directed by the
•court or judge; or, if there be no direction upon the subject, he shall
safely keep the property subject to the order of the court.
§ 256 [28 1]. Pursuit of property by sheriff. —If, after an order of attach
ment against specific property has been placed in the hands of the
sheriff, such property be removed from the county, the sheriff may pur
sue and attach it in another county within twenty-four hours after such
removal.
§ 257 [282]. Power of court over defendant. —If it appear from the
return of the sheriff, or the affidavit of the plaintiff, that any specific
property, against which an order of attachment is issued, has been con
cealed or removed by the defendant, the court may require him to
attend and be examined on oath respecting such property, and may
enforce its orders in this respect as in cases of contempt.
§ 258 [283, 284]. General provisions applicable to specific attachments.
The provisions of the first article of this chapter, not inconsistent with,
nor inapplicable to, the foregoing sections of this article, shall regulate
the proceedings in cases of attachments against specific property.
§ 259 [285]. When attachments to be sustained or discharged—An at
tachment obtained at the commencement of an action shall be sustained
or discharged when judgment is rendered in the action, unless, for suf
ficient cause, the court extend the time of deciding upon it. An at
tachment obtained after the commencement of an action shall not be
sustained until the defendant has had the time for controverting it pro
vided in this chapter.
§ 260 [286]. Discharge of attachment on judgment for defendant. —If
judgment be rendered in favor of the defendant the attachment shall be
discharged.
§ 261 [287]. To be sustained on judgment for plaintiff unless contested.
If judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintiff, and no answer nor
affidavit of the defendant be filed, denying the statements of the affi
davit upon which the attachment was issued, nor motion made to dis
charge it, the court shall sustain the attachment.
§ 262 [288]. If sustained, property applied to payment. —Upon an
attachment being sustained, the property attached, or its proceeds, or
the securities taken upon the attachment, shall, by appropriate orders,
be applied in satisfaction of the judgment.
§ 263 [289]. Affidavits of parties constitute pleadings in attachments.
The defendant (a) may file his affidavit (b) denying all or any of the *^ ^
material statements of the affidavit on which the attachment is issued ;
and, thereupon, the attachment shall be considered as controverted,
and the affidavits of the plaintiff and defendant shall be regarded as the
pleadings concerning the attachment, and have no other effect (c). If
the attachment was obtained at the commencement of the action, the
defendant may file his affidavit at such time after the levy of the attach
ment as is given by this Code for filing his defense after the service of
the summons—which period may be extended by the court for sufficient
cause.

§ 264 [290]. Evidence on trial of attachtnents. —The trial of the at
tachment shall be by the court (a) ; and the witnesses shall be orally
examined, except in cases wherein depositions might be read in an
ordinary action 

§ 265 [291]. Motion to discharge attachment. —At any time before the
attachment is sustained (a) the defendant, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintiff or his attorney, may move for its discharge; and the hearing
of such motion may be postponed by the court, upon sufficient cause,
from time to time; and upon the hearing, if the court be of opinion
that the attachment was obtained without sufficient cause, or that the
grounds of the attachment, being controverted, are not sustained, it
shall be discharged 

§ 266 [292]. When order discharging or sustaining an attachment is
final. —An order for the discharge of an attachment, made at or after
the rendition of judgment in the action, shall be final ; and can not be
reinstated as is authorized by § 270 ; but shall be the subject of appeal,
if the amount in controversy be such as to authorize an appeal. An
order sustaining an attachment shall, in like manner, on the rendition
of judgment in the action, be the subject of appeal.
§ 267 [293]. The reinstatement of attachments, as provided in § 270,
shall only be binding on the inferior court until judgment; and when
judgment is rendered in the action the inferior court shall make a dis
position of the motion to discharge—which shall, in like manner, be
final.

§ 268 [294]. Discharge of attachment for irregularity—amendments.
1. The defendant, on reasonable notice to the plaintifT, may, at any time
before the term next after the levy of the attachment, move the judge
of the court, in vacation, to discharge the attachment, on the ground of
its having been issued contrary to the provisions of article one of this
chapter; and the judge, on an inspection of the papers in the action, or
of authenticated copies of them, shall have the same power of dis
charging the attachment, by his written order, filed by the clerk, as he
would have in court ; and shall have like power to permit amendments
by the plaintiff.
2. A plaintiff may, by an amended affidavit, conforming to § 196,
cure a defect in the affidavit upon which he obtained an attachment; or
may state a ground of attachment not mentioned in his first affidavit, ^'
whether it may have existed when he filed the first affidavit, or may
have arisen afterward ; and may thus acquire a lien upon the attached
property, if the proceedings conform to law in other respects ; but such
lien shall not affect a bona fide right to, or lien previously acquired upon,
the property, by attachment or otherwise.

§ 269 [295]. Reinstatement of attacliments. —A plaintiff who desires
a reinstatement of an attachment may have an entry made upon the
record of leave to apply therefor within a reasonable time, not ex
ceeding twenty days ; whereupon the order of discharge shall be made,
to take effect at the end of the period so limited, unless the attachment
be reinstated in the meantime.
§ 270 [296]. A Judge, of the Court of Appeals, if the piaintiff
have secured the right to apply for the reinstatement of an attach
ment, may, upon an inspection of a copy of the record, including the
evidence read upon the motion to discharge, reinstate the attachment;
and, if the order of reinstatement be filed in the clerk's office of the
court in which the action is pending, within the time limited as provided
in § 269, the execution of the order of attachment shall proceed ; other
wise, it shall stand discharged, and restitution shall be made of any
property taken under it.

§ 271 [298]. Injunction defined. —[An injunction may be the final
judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional remedy, and,
if so allowed, it shall be by order. When any mandatory injunction
shall be granted the order or judgment may affirmatively direct the
party enjoined to do the act or thing required to be done. The writ
of injunction is abolished. 

§ 272 [298]. Temporary injunctions. —If it appear from the petition
that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief, or
any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance
of an act which would produce great or irreparable injury to the plain
tiff («) '. or if> during the litigation, it appear that the defendant is doing,
or threatens or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done,
an act, in violation of the plaintiff's rights, respecting the subject of the
action and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a temporary in
junction may be granted to restrain such act. It may also be granted
in any case in which it is specially authorized by statute 

§ 273 [300, 301]. Who may grant injunctions. —[The injunction may
j Ai" be granted at the commencement of the action or at any time betore
judgment by the court (a), or by any circuit judge, or by the clerk of the
court, or the county judge if the judge of the court be absent from the
county, or by two justices of the peace if the judge and the clerk of the
court and the county judge be absent from the county. No injunction
shall be granted by any of the foregoing officers, unless it appear from
the affidavit of the party applying therefor that it has not been re
fused by the court ; nor shall such injunction be granted by a clerk,
or county judge, or justice, unless it appear from such affidavit that
it has not been refused by the court or any circuit judge. No injunc
tion or temporary restraining order shall be granted until after the
petition seeking the injunction shall be filed. No injunction or tem
porary restraining order shall be granted by any circuit or other judge
of similar jurisdiction, in any action pending outside of the circuit or
county wherein such judge shall preside, unless it shall appear from the
affidavit of the plaintiff that there is no circuit or other judge of simi
lar jurisdiction present at the time in the [judicial district (Act 1898, p.
28)] where the action is pending. 

§ 274 [302]. Temporary injunction subject to control of court. —Injunc
tions granted before judgment shall be subject to the further order of
the court.
§ 275 [304]. Notice of application for injunction. —An injunction shall
not be granted against a defendant who has answered, unless he have
had notice of the application therefor.
§ 276 [305]. Notice of application for injunction. — [An injunction
shall b>e granted only upon reasonable notice, in writing, to the party
sought to be enjoined, of the time and place of the application therefor,
and of the court or officer to whom the application is to be made.
Where the court or officer to whom the application for an injunction
is made shall be satisfied by the facts set forth in the affidavit of the ap
plicant, or by other evidence, that irreparable injury will result to the
applicant from the delay of giving notice, the court or officer may
enter a temporary order restraining the act or acts sought to be en
joined, or it may be mandatory in its nature, if the case so require,
except that no mandatory restraining order shall be entered by any
clerk, county judge, or two justices in any case. Such restraining
order shall, in no case, be granted until the applicant shall have given
bond, as prescribed by subsection 3 of § 278 of the Civil Code, and
a copy of the order shall be forthwith served upon the party or parties
sought to be enjoined. The restraining order, if made by the court,
or any circuit or other judge of similar jurisdiction, shall set forth a
reasonable place and time, not to exceed ten days from the day upon
which the order is made, at which the applicant shall move the court or
judge to grant the injunction, and the order shall remain in force until
the motion is heard and determined, but not for a greater length of time
than ten days after the day fixed in the order for hearing the applica
tion. Such motion for injunction shall be tried as provided in this Code
for the trial of applications for injunctions of which notice has been
given in the first instance. The restraining order, if made by the clerk
of the court, the county judge, or two justices of the peace, shall remain
in force until set aside or modified, or until the injunction is granted, as
provided in § 290 of the Civil Code, as amended by this act. (Act
1894, p. 201.)]
§ 277 [3°6]- When affidavits may be read. —On the hearing of an
application for an injunction, of which notice has been given, each
party may read affidavits.
§ 278 [307]. Injunction-bonds. — I. If an injunction be granted to
stay proceedings upon a levy made under an execution, and the party
applying for the injunction desire to discharge the levy, he shall exe
cute a bond to the effect that he will satisfy the execution to the extent
to which the injunction may be dissolved, not exceeding the value of
the property released ; and, upon the execution of such bond, and the
issuing of the injunction, the levy shall be discharged. If he do not
desire to release the levy, he may execute a bond to the effect that,
upon a dissolution of the injunction, in whole or in part, he will have
the property, or its value, forthcoming and subject to the order of the
court; and, upon the execution of such bond, and the issuing of the
injunction, the property levied on shall be delivered to him («). For
the purpose of ascertaining the value of the property, it shall be ap
praised as directed in §215.
2. If such injunction extend further than the stay of proceedings
upon the levy, the party shall give such additional bond as the court,
judge, or officer, granting the injunction may direct.
3. In all other cases, the court, judge, or officer granting the in
junction shall, in the order granting it, fix the amount of the bond to
be given, and may prescribe its terms. If the terms of the bond be
not so prescribed, it shall be to the effect that the party giving it will
pay to the party enjoined such damages as he may sustain, if it be finally
decided that the injunction ought not to have been granted (b).
4. If the injunction be to stay proceedings upon a judgment, the
amount of the bond shall be sufficient to cover, with other damages,
the sum of money for which judgment was rendered, with five years'
interest thereon, and the rent, hire, or value of the use, for two years,
of property for which judgment was given ; and, in case of personal
property, its value also.
§ 279 [308]. Bond, before order issues. — The order of injunction
shall not be issued by the clerk until a bond, as is required by § 278,
with good surety of the party obtaining the injunction, shall have been
executed in his office.
§ 280 [309]. Sureties in bonds. —Sureties in injunction bonds shall be
accepted by the clerk under the same responsibilities as in other cases
of sureties accepted by him.

§ 281 [310]. Requisites of order, &c. —The order of injunction shall
be addressed to the party enjoined ; shall state the injunction ; and, if
its effect be to discharge a levy under an execution, it shall so state;
and shall be dated and signed by the clerk. If it be issued at the com
mencement of an action, it shall be indorsed upon the summons, and a
copy thereof shall be delivered to the sheriff. If it be issued during
the litigation, it shall be delivered to him, with as many copies thereof
as there are parties enjoined. The sheriff shall forthwith serve it by de
livering a copy to each party enjoined, and make return thereof on the
order.
§ 282 [311]. Notice dispenses with service of order. —If notice of the
application for an injunction have been given to the party sought to be
enjoined, it shall not be necessary to serve the order upon him ; he is
bound by the injunction as soon as the bond required of the adverse
party is executed.
§ 283 [312]. An injunction binds the party from the time he is in
formed thereof.
§ 284 [313]. What judgmentscan notbe enjoined. —No injunction shall
be granted to stay proceedings upon a judgment of a justice of the
peace, or of a county court, if the value of the matter in dispute do
not exceed twenty-five dollars.
§ 285 [3 14]. Jurisdiction as to granting injunctions. —An injunction to
stay proceedings on a judgment shall not be granted, in an action
brought by the party seeking the injunction, in any other court than that
in which the judgment was rendered (a). Nor shall such injunction be
granted, unless the party applying therefor make affidavit that no in
junction has been previously granted to stay the proceedings on such
judgment.

§ 286 [316]. Disobedience of an injunction, how punished. —[Disobedi
ence of an injunction may be punished by the court or by the judge
thereof, or any circuit judge in vacation, as a contempt. Where the
case has been appealed, such disobedience may be punished by the
Court of Appeals, or by any judge thereof during a vacation, recess,
or adjournment of said court. Upon production of evidence by affi
davit of the breach of ah injunction, the court, or any judge thereof,
during vacation, may proceed by rule and attachment against the
party committing the breach, who may introduce like evidence in his
behalf. Should the party be held to be in contempt, unless he purge
the contempt, the judge in vacation may commit him to jail until the
sitting of the court, or take a bond with security for his appearance to
answer for the contempt at the next term of the court, and, in the
meantime, to obey the injunction. (Act 1894, p. 204.)]
§ 287 [317]- Affidavits read, to be filed. —Affidavits read upon an ap
plication for an injunction shall be filed with the papers of the case.
§ 288 [318]. Motion for additional security. —A party enjoined may,
at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the adverse
party, move the court for additional security ; and, if it appear on such
motion that the surety in the injunction bond has died or removed from
this State, or is insufficient, the court may vacate the order of injunc
tion, unless in a reasonable time sufficient security is given.

§ 289 [319]. Motion to dissolve, &c, on face of papers. —[Repealed.
(Act 1894, p. 202.)]
§ 290 [320]. Motion to dissolve or modify injunctions granted by justices,
&c. —[A motion to dissolve or modify an injunction, or to set aside
or modify a restraining order, granted by the clerk of the court, the
county judge, or two justices of the peace, may be made before the
court, or any circuit or other judge of similar jurisdiction who is com
petent to grant an injunction in the case under § 273 of the Civil Code,
as amended by this act, at any time after reasonable notice, in writing,
to the plaintiff or applicant for the injunction or restraining order of
the time and place of the motion and of the judge before whom it is to
be made. Upon the hearing of such motion, either party may read
affidavits, and the court or judge shall, within ten days from the hear
ing, sustain or overrule the motion to dissolve 'or modify the injunction,
or shall set aside or modify the restraining order, or grant an injunc
tion in lieu of the same, as the case may require, and shall try either
of such motions as if it were an application for an injunction de novo.
The order of the judge overruling the motion to dissolve or modify an
injunction, or dissolving or modifying an injunction, or setting aside
or modifying a restraining order, or granting an injunction, with the
notice, shall be returned to the office of the clerk of the court, and the
order obeyed as if made by the court. (Act 1894, p. 202.)]
§ 291 [321]. Motion to dissolve, &c, on the whole case. —After answer
filed by the party enjoined, he may give notice to the plaintiff of a
motion to be made to the court, in not less than ten days thereafter,
upon the whole case, to dissolve or modify the injunction. Upon such
motion, each party may read depositions and other competent evidence
in writing. The court shall not be bound to take the answer as true.
See Simra/l v. Grant, 79 Ky. , 435.
§ 292 [322]. Postponement of motion. —The motion, upon the whole
case, to dissolve or modify the injunction, may be postponed, on the
application of either party, to a subsequent day, or to the next term, if
the court be satisfied that, under the circumstances of the case, the
delay is proper. If delay be asked in order to obtain the testimony of
a witness, it must appear by affidavit what facts the witness is expected
to prove, that the affiant believes his testimony will be true, and that it
could not have been obtained by due diligence.
§ 293 [323]- How motion to be disposed of. —After hearing the motion,
the court or judge shall overrule it, or dissolve or modify the injunction,
according to the right of the case.

§ 294 [324]. Only one motion, on the whole case, allowed. —Only one
motion to dissolve or modify an injunction upon the whole case is al
lowed.
§ 295 [325]. Assessment of damages on dissolutions. —Upon the dis
solution, in whole or in part, of an injunction to stay proceedings upon
a judgment (a), the damages shall be assessed by the court; which may
hear the evidence and decide in a summary way, or may, at its dis
cretion, cause a jury to be empanneled to find the damages (b). If the
collection, payment, or use of money be enjoined, the damages may
be any rate per cent, on the sum released by the dissolution, which, in
the discretion of the court, may be proper, not exceeding ten per cent. (c).
And, if the delivery of property have been delayed by the injunction,
the value of the use, hire, or rent thereof shall be assessed ; judgment
shall be rendered against the party who obtained the injunction for the
damages assessed ; and the assessment shall be conclusive against the
surety of such party 

§ 296 [326.] Reinstatement of injunction. —[(i). If the plaintiff desire
to apply for a reinstatement of an injunction dissolved or modified, on
motion, the court or judge shall make the order of dissolution to take
effect in a reasonable time thereafter, not exceeding twenty days, and
shall express in the order that the plaintiff has leave to apply in the
meantime for a reinstatement of the injunction. (2). Where an injunc
tion has been granted or continued by any interlocutory order or de
cree, the party enjoined may, within twenty days from the entry of
such order or decree, apply to a judge of the Court of Appeals for a
dissolution or modification of the injunction. 

§ 297 [327]. Reinstatement of injunction. —[A judge of the Court of
Appeals, if the plaintiff have secured the right to apply for a rein
statement of an injunction, or if the party enjoined move to have the
injunction dissolved or modified, may, upon a presentation of a copy
of the record, including the evidence read or offered to be read upon
the motion to dissolve or modify the injunction, reinstate the same in
whole or in part, or may dissolve or modify the injunction. The plain
tiff in the application shall give reasonable notice in writing of the
time and place of the application for reinstatement of the injunction,
or of the motion to dissolve or modify, and of the judge to whom it
is to be made, to the party affected thereby. If the order of rein
statement be filed in the clerk's office in the time limited, as pro
vided in §296, subsection I, the injunction, as reinstated, shall be
obeyed ; otherwise, the order of dissolution or modification shall take
effect. And if the order dissolving or modifying the injunction be filed
in the clerk's office in the time limited, as provided in § 296, subsection
2, the order of dissolution or modification shall take effect ; otherwise,
the injunction shall remain in force. 

§ 298 [328]. Appointment of receiver and appeal from order concerning.
On the motion of any party to an action who shows (a) that he has,
or probably has, a right to, a lien upon (6), or an interest in, any prop
erty or fund, the right to which is involved in the action (c), and that
the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed, or mate
rially injured, the court, or the judge thereof during vacation, may (d)
appoint a receiver to take charge of the property or fund during the
pendency of the action, and may order and coerce the delivery of it
to him. The order of a court, or of the judge thereof, appointing or
refusing to appoint a receiver, shall be deemed a final order for the
purpose of an appeal to the Court of Appeals (c) : Provided, That such
order shall not be superseded.
§ 299 [329]. In an action by a mortgagee for the sale of the mort
gaged property, a receiver may be appointed, if it appear that the prop
erty is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured, or that
the condition of the mortgage has not been performed, and that the
property is probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt 

§ 3°° [33°]- Who shall not be appointed receiver. —Excepting per
sonal representatives, guardians, curators, and committees of persons
of unsound mind, neither a party to an action, nor his attorney, nor
any person interested therein, shall be appointed receiver.
§ 301 [33 Receiver's oath and bond. —Before entering upon his
duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully; and,
with one or more sureties approved by the court or judge, must exe
cute a bond to such person and in such sum as the court shall direct, to
the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the
action, and obey the orders of the court therein.
§ 302 [332] Pcnvers of receiver. —The receiver has, under the control
of the court, power to bring and defend actions, to take and keep pos
session of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, and generally to
do such acts respecting the property as the court may authorize.

§ 3°3 [333]- When deposit may be required. —If a party admit by his
pleading,' or upon examination, that he has in his possession, or under
his control, any money, or other thing capable of delivery, which, being
the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party,
or which belongs or is due to another party, the court may order the
same to be deposited in court, or to be delivered to the party who is
thus admitted to be entitled thereto, with or without security, subject
to the further order of the court.
§304 [334]- Enforcement of deposit. —If, in the exercise of its au
thority, a court order the deposit or delivery of money or other thing,
and the order be disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the dis
obedience, may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money
or thing, and deposit or deliver it in conformity with its direction.
§ 305 [335]- Siteriff may be directed to keep property or money. —The
court may direct the sheriff to keep safely any property delivered to
him pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and may allow him the
necessary expenses attending the same, to be paid by such part>r as the
court shall direct, and taxed in the costs of the action.
§ 306 [336]. It may confide to the sheriff money deposited or paid
into court—which shall be kept by him under the same requirements
and responsibilities of himself and his sureties as are provided by this
Code in respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.
§ 307 [337]- Deposits in bank. —A court sitting in a county in which,
or in any county adjoining which, there is a bank, or a branch of a
bank, created by the laws of this State, or of the United States, trans
acting regular banking business, may order money paid into court to be
deposited in such bank or branch, to the credit of the court in the
action or proceeding in which the money was paid. Money so de
posited shall be paid only upon the check of the clerk of the court,

annexed to its certified order for the payment, and in favor of the per
son to whom the order directs the payment to be made.
§ 308 [338]. Loans by court. —Money deposited or paid into court,
in an action, shall not be loaned by the court, unless with the consent
of all the parties having an interest therein or making claim thereto ; or
unless the party moving to have it loaned execute a bond to the Com
monwealth of Kentucky, with good surety, to be approved by the
court, for the benefit of the parties interested, conditioned that the bor
rower of the money will pay it according to the contract of loan.
§ 309 [339]. Issues arise on the pleadings when a fact, or conclusion
of law, is maintained by one party and controverted by the other. They
are—
1. Of law.
2. Of fact.
§ 310 [340]. An issue of fact arises—
1. Upon a traverse in an answer or other pleading of a material
allegation in a petition or other pleading (a).
2. Upon an allegation of a pleading which is controverted by
law(£).

§ 311 [341]. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues of law or
of fact in an action or proceeding.
§ 312 [342]. How issues shall be tried. — 1. Issues of law must be tried
by the court.
2. Issues of fact in ordinary actions, except for injuries to person or
character (a), shall be tried by the court, unless a jury trial be de
manded by a party (b).
§ 313 [343]. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the court, sub
ject to its power to order any issue to be tried by a jury 

§ 314 [344]. Order in which actions shall be tried. —The trial of each
action shall be according to the order in which it stands upon the docket,
unless for good reason appearing the court shall order otherwise.
§3'5 [345]- Postponement of trial. —A motion to postpone a trial on
account of the absence of evidence can be made only upon affidavit
showing the materiality of the evidence (a) expected to be obtained,
and that due diligence has been used to obtain it (b) ; and, if it be for
an absent witness, the affidavit must show what facts the affiant be
lieves (f) the witness will prove, and not merely the effect of such facts
in evidence ; and that the affiant believes them to be true. If, there
upon, the adverse party will consent that, on the trial, the affidavit
shall be read as the deposition of the absent witness, the trial shall not
be postponed on account of his absence.

§ 317 [347]- Order of proceeding in trial. —When the jury has been
sworn, the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the court,
for special reasons, otherwise direct :
1. The plaintiff must briefly state his claim and the evidence by
which he expects to sustain it.
2. The defendant must then briefly state his defence and the evidence
he expects to offer in support of it.
3. The party on whom rests the burthen of proof, in the whole
action (a), must first produce his evidence ; the adverse party will then
produce his evidence {b).
4. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the
court, for good reasons in furtherance of justice, permit them to offer
evidence in chief. .
5. When the evidence is concluded, but before the argument to the
jury, either party may require the court to direct the jury to find a
separate-general verdict with the general verdict, [or to find a special
verdict (r). If a special verdict be so required, the questions of law
may be reserved by the court until after verdict; but,] if a general ver
dict be required, either party may ask written instructions to the jury
on points of law, which shall be given or refused by the court before
the commencement of the argument to the jury 
6. The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury. In
the argument, the party having the burthen of proof shall have the con.
elusion and the adverse party the opening (e). If there be more than
one speech on either side, or if several defendants having separate de
fences appear by different counsel, the court shall arrange the relative
order of argument 

§318 [348]. View of property or place by jury. —Whenever, in the
opinion of the court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of real
property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any
material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body,
under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall be shown to
them by some person appointed by the court for that purpose. While
the jury are thus absent no person, other than the person so appointed,
shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.
§ 3 1 9 [349]- Duty ofjury and officer after submission of case. —When
the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide in court or
retire for deliberation. If they retire, they must be kept together in some
convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon
a verdict or are discharged by the court—subject to the discretion of the
court to permit them to separate temporarily at night and at their meals.
The officer having them under his charge shall not suffer any communi
cation to be made to them, nor make any himself, except to ask them
if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the court;
and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any
person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.
§ 320 [350]. Admonitions to jury upon separating. —If the jury be per
mitted to separate, either during the trial or after the case is submitted
to them, they must be admonished by the court that it is their duty not
to converse with, nor suffer themselves to be addressed by, any other
person on any subject of the trial ; and that, during the trial, it is their
duty not to form or express an opinion thereon, until the cause is finally
submitted to them.
§ 321 [35 Jury may a$k court for information. —After the jury have
retired for deliberation, if there be a disagreement between them as to
any part of the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any
point of law arising in the case, they may request the officer to conduct

them into court, where the information required shall be given in the
presence of, or after notice to, the parties or their counsel.

§ 322 [352]. Discharge ofjury. —The jury may be discharged by the
court on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity
requiring their discharge ; or, by consent of both parties ; or, after they
have been kept together Until it satisfactorily appears that there is no
probability of their agreeing.
§323 [353]. Retrial afterfailure to make verdict. —Cases in which
the jury are discharged without making a verdict shall be tried again at
such time as the court may direct.
§ 324 [354]- Rendition of verdict and polling ofjury. —When the jury
have agreed upon their verdict, their names shall be called by the clerk
and the verdict be rendered by their foreman. When the verdict is an
nounced, either party may require the jury to be polled—which is done
by the clerk or court asking each juror if it is his verdict. If any one
answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out for further de
liberation (a).
§ 325 [355]. The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman (b),
and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made, whether or
not it is their verdict. If any juror disagree, the jury must be sent out
for further deliberation ; but, if no disagreement be expressed, and
neither party require the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete and
the jury discharged from the case.
[That in all trials of civil actions in the circuit courts, three-fourths
or more of the jurors concurring, may return a verdict, which shall have
the same force and effect as if rendered by the entire panel. But where
a verdict is rendered by a less number than the whole jury, it shall be
signed by all the jurors who agree to it. 

§ 326 [356]. Verdicts described and defined. —The verdict of a jury is
general or separate-general [or special] :
1. A general verdict is that by which the jury pronounces generally,
upon all the issues, for the plaintiff, or for the defendant (a).
2. A separate-general verdict is the finding, upon any of the issues,
in favor of the plaintiff, or of the defendant (/>).
[3. A special verdict is the finding of facts by a jury, as shown in
their answers to questions submitted to them in writing 

§ 327 [357]- Kinds of verdict to be found. —Unless otherwise directed,
the jury may find a general, or a general and separate-general, verdict ;
[or a special verdict, with or without a general,] or a separate-general
verdict; but the court may without motion, or, upon the motion of a
party, shall, direct the jury to find—
1. A separate-general verdict, as to any issue; and with such find
ing the jury shall also return a general verdict; and, if the separategeneral
verdict be inconsistent with the general verdict, judgment shall
be rendered pursuant to the former; or,
2. [A special verdict; and, on such finding, the jury shall return a
special verdict only (a); and the court shall render judgment upon it.]
[That so much of chapter 2, title 9, of the Civil Code of Practice
as authorizes and provides for a separate-general, or special verdict (b)
be, and the same is hereby, repealed : Provided, That the court in its
discretion may djrect the jury to find a separate-general verdict 

§ 328 [358]. [Judgment upon inconsistent verdicts. —If a general and a
special verdict be inconsistent, judgment shall be rendered pursuant to
the latter

§ 329 [359]- When jury to assess amount of recovery. —If, by a general
verdict, either party be entitled to recover money of the adverse party,
the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of recovery.
§ 330 [360]. When jury to assess value of property and damages. —In
actions for the recovery of specific personal property (a), the jury must
assess its value, and the damages for the taking or detention of it, if
their verdict authorize a judgment for the recovery or return of the
property 

§331 [361]. When court to decide issues of fact in action for tort.*
1. In an action for an injury to the person or character of the plain
tiff (a), the parties may, with the consent of the court (6), waive a jurytrial,
by written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk ;
or, by oral consent in court, entered on the record.
2. If a jury-trial be not demanded, or be waived (c), the court shall
decide the issues, and make such assessments of value, damage, or
amount of recovery, as it would have been the duty of a jury to
make (d) ; and the finding of the court shall have the same effect as
that of the jury would have had (
§ 332 [362]. When court to state conclusions of facts found. —Upon
trials of questions of fact by the court, it shall not be necessary for the
court to state its finding, except, generally, for the plaintiff or defendant,
unless one of the parties request it, with the view of excepting to the
decision of the court upon the questions of law involved in the trial ;
in which case the court shall state in writing the conclusions of fact
found, separately from the conclusions of law.

§ 333 [363]- What is an exception, and how taken. — 1. An exception
is an objection taken to a decision of the court upon a matter of law (a).
2. A party may, without a previous objection, except to a decision
against him, unless it be made at the instance of the adverse party.
3. But a party can not except to a decision made at the instance of
the adverse party, unless objection shall have been made to the motion,
offer, or request, of the adverse party 

§ 334 [364]- When exception to be taken. —The party objecting must
except when the decision is made; and time may be given to prepare a
bill of exceptions, but not beyond a day in the succeeding term, to be
fixed by the court. ["If the judge of said court, for any cause, does not
preside at the said term of the court, or no court is held, then the party
offering the bill of exceptions shall have until the next term of the court
to perfect and prepare the bill of exceptions." 

§ 335 [3^5]- Statement of evidence in bill of exceptions. — i. No par
ticular form of exception, or bill of exceptions, is required. A party
must not, except as hereinafter provided, state the evidence, but must
state the material facts which the evidence conduced to prove (a) ; and,
if the exception be to a decision admitting or excluding testimony, or
concerning its meaning or effect, so much of the evidence as is neces
sary to explain the exception, and no more, shall be stated (b).
2. If the judge refuse to sign the bill of exceptions, as presented;
or if the party wish to appeal upon the ground that the verdict is not
sustained by the evidence, it shall be stated in full, and the bill of
exceptions be presented to the judge (c).
3. But if a number of instruments of substantially the same char
acter be used upon a trial it shall be sufficient to furnish a copy of one
of them in the bill of exceptions, accompanied by a statement showing
its resemblance to the others, and how many such others were used on
the trial ; and such copy and statement shall have the same effect as if
all of said instruments had been copied in the bill of exceptions.

§ 336 [366]. Exceptions to decisions of record. —If the decision objected
to be entered on the record, and the grounds of objection appear in the
entry, the exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at
the end of the decision, that he excepts.
§ 337 [367]- Taking other exceptions—bills of exceptions. — I. If the
decision be not entered on the record (a), or the grounds of objection
do not appear in the entry, the party must prepare his bill of exceptions
and present it to the judge for his signature.
2. Exceptions taken during the trial need not be noted of record,
nor reduced to writing, unless by order of court, until after the trial.
{During the term at which the judgment becomes final (
niary 27, 1878.]* The party excepting shall, unless further time be given
him, prepare his bill of exceptions, which shall include all the decisions
of the court excepted to, in consecutive order (c) ; and, if he except to
a decision of the court in granting or refusing any instruction, all the
instructions given and refused shall be also included (d ).
3. If the bill of exceptions be approved by the judge, he shall sign
it, and it shall be filed as part of the record, but not spread at large on
the order-book. If not approved, he shall correct it, or suggest the
correction to be made, and sign it. A party objecting to the judge's
correction of an exception which purports to state the evidence (<•) may,
within five days after the bill is signed, file the exception, as written by
him, if its truth be attested by the affidavits of two bystanders ; but its
truth may be controverted and maintained by other affidavits filed in
the clerk's office, not exceeding five on either side.
4. Affidavits controverting an exception not signed by the judge
must be filed in the clerk's office, and notice of the filing given, within
fifteen days after the filing of such exceptions; and affidavits sustaining
such exception must be filed within fifteen days after such notice.
5. If the judge who presided at the trial do not preside when a
motion for a new trial is overruled, the bill of exceptions may be certi
fied by bystanders (/), and be controverted and maintained, pursuant
to the provisions of subsections 3 and 4 of this section.

§ 338 [368]. Exception must relate to substantial rights. —No exception
shall be regarded, unless the decision to which it relates be prejudicial
to the substantial rights of the party excepting.
See note (e) to \ 134, and note to g 756.
§ 339- How judge to certify bill of exceptions. —In cases in which, by
subsection 2 of § 335, the evidence is required to be stated in full, the
judge shall certify in the bill of exceptions that it contains all the evi
dence (a). In all other cases, he shall certify that the bill of exceptions
is true.

§ 340 [369]. Neiu trial defined— for what eauses granted. —A new
trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue of fact after a
verdict by a jury or a decision by the court (a). The former verdict or *
decision may be vacated and a new trial be granted, on the application
of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes affecting mate
rially his substantial rights:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevailing
party, or any order of court, or abuse of discretion, by which the
party was prevented from having a fair trial {b).
2. Misconduct of the jury, of the prevailing party, or of his attor
ney (c).
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against (d).
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice (e).
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too
large or too small, in an action upon a contract (/), or for the injury (g)
or detention of property (/i).
6. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient evi
dence (/), or is contrary to law (J).
7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial (k).
8. Error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party
making the application (

§ 341 [370]. When new trials shall not be granted. —A new trial shall
not be granted on account of the smallness of damages in an action for
an injury to the person or reputation (a), nor in any other action in
which the damages equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained ; nor
shall more than two new trials be granted to a party upon the ground
that the verdict is not sustained by the evidence 

§ 342 [371]. When application for new trial to be made generally. —The
application for a new trial must be made at the term in which the ver
dict or decision is rendered ; and, except for the cause mentioned in
§ 340, subsection 7, shall be within three days after the verdict or
decision is rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.
["So amended as to allow the party applying for a new trial, where
there is a special verdict only, to make his motion within three days after
the court shall have rendered a judgment thereon.

§ 343 [372]- How application for new trial must be made generally.
The application must be by motion upon written grounds filed at the
time of making the motion (a). The grounds mentioned in § 340, sub
sections 2, 3, and 7, must be sustained by affidavits showing their
truth ; and may be controverted by affidavits (

§ 344 [373]. Grounds for new trial discovered after the term. —If
grounds for a new trial be discovered after the term at which the verdict &(Ll<
or decision is rendered, the application may be made by a petition
filed with the clerk (a) not later than the second term after the discov
ery—on which a summons shall issue, as on other petitions, requiring
the adverse party to appear and answer it on or before the first day of
the next term(£). The application shall stand for hearing at the term
to which the summons is returned executed, and shall be summarily
decided by the court. The evidence may be either by depositions or by
witnesses examined in court. But no such application shall be made
more than three years after the final judgment was rendered : nor do
the provisions of this section apply to divorce cases, so far as the judg
ment for divorce is concerned.

§ 345 [374]- I1 damages be recoverable, the plaintiff may claim and
recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for the cause
of action established.
§ 346 [375]. The provisions of this title, respecting trials by jury,
apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court.
§ 347 [376]-' Three dockets to be kept. —The clerk shall keep three
separate dockets, which shall be called the common docket, the equity
docket, and the motion docket.
§ 348 [377]- Ordinary docket—entries on. —On the common docket
shall be entered all ordinary actions in the order in which they are
brought.
§ 349 [378]. Hozv ordinary docket made out and arranged. —The com
mon docket shall be made out for each term of the court; and the
actions shall be set for particular days, and so arranged by the clerk
that the cases set for each day shall be tried, as nearly as may be, on
that day.
§ 350 [379]. When jury cases to be tried. —The trial of any issue of
fact or assessment of damages by a jury in any case shall be on or after
the day set on the docket for its trial.
§ 351 [380]. Equity docket—entries on. —On the equity docket shall
be entered all equitable actions in the order in which they are brought.
The dockets of the common law court and the equity court are, in law, separate and
distinct, even when they are presided over by the same judge ; and the writs issued by
each, and the acts of the ministerial officers under them, must be set aside or annulled by
the court from which they issued. 13 Bush, 141.
§ 352 [381]- Motion docket—entries on. —On the motion docket may
be entered any motion relating to proceedings in the court.

§ 353 [382]. Dockets must show names of parties and attorneys. —The
entry on all the dockets shall give the names of the plaintiff and defend
ant; or, if there be more than one, those of the first named in the
pleadings, with the words "and others" added thereto, and the names
of the attorneys.
§ 354 [383]- What ordinary docket must show. —The entry on the
common docket shall also show whether or not the summons has been
fully served in due time for trial, and whether or not the issues have
been formed.
§ 355 [384]- What motion docket must show. — The entry on the
motion-docket shall show the date of the entry and the object of the
motion.
§ 356 [385]. First hour each day for motions. —The first hour of each
day of the term shall be devoted to hearing motions —in which the
court shall first call the motion-docket ; and then, upon the attorneys
present, for motions.
§ 357 [386]. If hour not consumed, equity docket may be called. —If
the hour be not consumed in motions, the court may proceed, during
the remainder thereof, to call the equity docket.
§ 358 [387]. Proceedings after motion hour. —At the expiration of the
motion-hour, the court, except on the third day of the term, shall pro
ceed to the call of the common docket and the trial of. the issues until
the call be completed; and then to the call of the equity-docket.
§ 359 [388]. When cases set for a day to be called for pleading. —On
each day of the term, the court shall, immediately after the hearing of
motions, call all the cases on the common docket set for that day in
which the summons has been served in due time, as provided in § 102,
and in which no issue of fact has been formed; and, upon failure to
defend, may render judgment (a) ; and at the same time may hear and
determine all issues of law in such actions, and render judgment, or
give further time for hearing and deciding them.
§ 360 [389]. On third day equity docket to be called for pleadings.
On the third day of each term, the court shall call all cases on the
equity-docket in which the summons has been served as provided in
§ 102 ; and upon failure to defend, may give judgment.
§ 361 [390]. On third day, issues of law to be decided. —On the third
day, the court may hear and decide all issues of law in the actions, as
they are called ; and render judgment, or give further time for hearing
or deciding them.
§ 362 [391]. Entry on motion docket is a motion. —The entry of a
motion on the motion-docket shall be considered as making the motion.
§ 363 [392]. When ordinary actions stand for trial. —Ordinary actions
shall stand for trial at the first term after process has been served on the
defendant as specified in § 102. An action upon contract, wherein the
summons has been served in due time as provided in § 102 upon part
only of the defendants, shall stand for trial at the first term as to those
so summoned, and may be continued as to the others for further pro
ceedings (a). In other ordinary actions, the plaintiff can only demand
a trial at any term as to part of the defendants upon his discontinuing
his action on the first day of such term as to the others (/>). (See
S§37°- 373
§ 364 [393]- When equitable actions stand for trial. —Equitable actions
shall stand for trial at any term, if the pleadings have been, or, by the
provisions of §§ 102, 104, 105, and 106, should have been completed
[sixty (Act 1893, p. 1389)] days before the commencement of such term.
But, if they have not been so completed, though they should have been,
by those sections, the party in default as to time shall not be entitled
to demand a trial.
§ 365 [394]. When party must answer interrogatories to entitle himself
to trial. —If interrogatories be annexed to a pleading in an equitable
action, the party interrogated shall not be entitled to demand a trial,
unless he have answered the interrogatories either within twenty days
after they were filed, or twenty days before the term.
§ 366 [395]- When plaintiff in equity entitled to trial. The plaintiff
shall be entitled to a trial in an equitable action at the first term after
the summons has been served on all the defendants as provided in § 102,
if no issue of fact be made by the pleadings; or, if the plaintiff consent
that the statements of the answer may be taken as true.

§ 367 [396]. When plaintiffmay dismiss as to some and try as to others.
If the summons in an equitable action have been served in due time on
part only of the defendants, the plaintiff may dismiss his action as to those
not summoned, and proceed to trial as to the others, if he could have
maintained his action against them without joining those not summoned.
§ 368 [397]- Judgment defined. —A judgment is a final determination
of a right of a party in an action or proceeding.

§ 369 [398]. Judgment may be for o> against one or more. —Judgment
may be given for or against one or more of several parties.
§ 37° [399]- Judgment against some, leaving action to proceed against
others. —In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its
discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the
action to proceed against the others, if a several judgment be proper.

§ 37 1 [400]. Dismissal of action 'without prejudice. —An action, or any
cause of action, may be dismissed without prejudice (a) to a future
action —
1. By the plaintiff, before the final submission of the case to the jury,
or to the court, if the trial be by the court.
2. By the court—
a. If the plaintiff fail to appear at the trial.
b. For the want of necessary parties (b).
c. On the application of a defendant, if there be others whom the
plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence.
d. For disobedience by the plaintiff of an order concerning the pro
ceedings in the action. In all other cases upon the trial of the action,
the decision must be upon the merits.

§ 372 [401]. Trial of set-off or counter-claim after dismissal of action.
A defendant is entitled to a trial of a set-off or counter-claim, although
the plaintiff dismiss his action or fail to appear.
§ 373 [4°2]- Judgment against part of defendants summoned. —Though
several defendants are summoned, judgment may be rendered against
any of them, if the plaintiff would have been entitled to judgments
against them in an action against them alone.

§ 374 [403]. Mortgage enforceable ivithout giving time. —In an action
to enforce a mortgage or other lien, a sale of the property may be
ordered without giving time to pay money or do other act.

§ 375 [404] • Foreclosure forbidden. —Foreclosure of a mortgage is
forbidden.
§ 376 [406]. Judgment may be for sale and debt. —In an action to en
force a mortgage or lien, judgment may be rendered for the sale of the
property and for the recovery of the debt against the defendant person
ally

§ 377 [407]. Setting offjudgments. —Judgments for the recover}- of
money may be set off against each other, with due regard to the legal
and equitable rights of all persons interested therein. The set-off may
be ordered upon motion, after reasonable notice to the adverse party, if
both judgments are in the same court ; or, in an equitable action, in the
court which rendered the judgment sought to be annulled by the set-off.

§ 378 [408]. Enjoining judgment pendente lite. —During the pendency
of an action, the judgment in which when recovered could be used as a
set-off against a judgment in favor of the defendants or either of them,
the court, to prevent loss by insolvency, non-residence, or otherwise,
may enjoin the collection of the judgment in favor of such defendants,
according to the provisions of chapter IV of title VIIL

§ 379 [409]. If the taking of an account, or the proof of a fact, or
the assessment of damages, be necessary to enable the court to pro
nounce judgment upon a failure to plead, or after a decision of an issue
of law, the court may take the account, hear the proof, and assess the
damages ; or may cause them to be assessed by a commissioner or a
jury, on or after the day on which the action is set for trial

§ 380 [410]. Judgment for part of claim not controverted. —If only a
part of a claim be controverted, judgment may at any time be rendered
for the part not controverted.

§ 381 [4 1 1]. Any person may personally appear in a court of compe
tent jurisdiction and, with the assent of a person having a cause of action
against him, confess judgment therefor; whereupon, judgment shall be
entered accordingly.
§ 382 [412]. The cause of action shall be briefly stated in the judg
ment, or in a writing to be filed as pleadings in an action.
§ 383 [413]- Such judgment shall authorize the same proceedings as
judgments rendered in actions, and the confession shall operate as a
release of errors.
§ 384 [414]. Wlien judgment to conform to verdict. —After a jury-trial,
the clerk shall enter judgment in conformity to the verdict, [unless it be
special as to one or more questions of fact, or] unless the court reserve
the case for consideration.
§ 385 [415] Whenjudgment to conform to order of court. —After [such
special verdict, or] such reservation the clerk shall enter such judgment
or order as the court may direct.
Bracketed words impliedly repealed by Act May 15, 1886, p. 120.
§ 386 [416]. Judgment notwithstanding verdict. —Judgment shall be
given for the party whom the pleadings entitle thereto, though there
may have been a verdict against him

§ 387 [417]- Judgment on set-off or counter-claim. —If the defendant
establish a set off or counter-claim, and the plaintiff fail in his action;
or, if the set-off or counter-claim exceed the sum to which the plaintiff
is entitled, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant accordingly.

§ 388 [418]. Judgment in action for personal property. —In an action
for the possession of specific personal property (a), the plaintiff may
have judgment for its delivery, if it can be had ; and, if not, for its
value and for damages for its detention (b). If the property have been
delivered to the plaintiff, and the defendant claim a return thereof, judg
ment for the defendant may be for the return of the property, or its
value if a return can not be had, and damages for the taking and with
holding of the property 

§ 389 [419] Judgments for damages given by statute. —If a party is
entitled to damages given by a statute, the court shall render a judg
ment therefor after finding the amount thereof, or after causing them to
be found by a jury.

§ 390 [420]. Hmv judgment to be entered. —The judgment must be
entered on the order-book (a) and specify clearly the relief granted or
other determination of the action 

§ 391 [421]. Showing cause against judgment by infant. —An infant,
other than a married woman, may, within twelve months after attaining
the age of twenty-one years, show cause against a judgment, unless it
be for a tort done by, or for necessaries furnished to, the infant; or,
unless it be rendered upon a set-off or counter-claim stated in an answer;
but the vacation of such judgment shall not affect the title of a bona
fide purchaser under it.
§ 392 [422]. Judgments to be cross-indexed. —The clerk must keep a
record, called judgment book, in which all judgments shall be alpha
betically cross-indexed, according to the surnames of each plaintiff and
each defendant; and said book shall state the date of the judgment, the
order-book and page containing it, and satisfaction of it when satisfied.
§ 393 ^423]. Satisfaction to be entered. —Upon the return of an exe
cution, showing that a judgment has been satisfied, the clerk shall thus
enter satisfaction on the judgment-book: satisfied by execution. A
party or his attorney, receiving satisfaction of a judgment otherwise
than by execution, shall make, date, and sign this entry upon the
judgment-book: satisfied in full. The court may, on motion, after
notice, compel an entry of satisfaction to be made.

§ 394 [424]. When com'cyancc to be made. —Real property may be
conveyed by a commissioner appointed by the court—
1. If by the judgment in an action a party be ordered to convey
such property to another (a).
2. If such property have been sold under a judgment or order of the
court and the sale confirmed (b).
3. The death of a party, after a sale, does not prevent a conveyance.
It shall b^ made, and shall have the same effect, as if he were liv
ing 

§ 395 [425]. Commissioner' s deed must refer to judgment, &c. —The
deed of the commissioner shall refer to the judgment, orders, and pro
ceedings, authorizing the conveyance, so that the same may be readily
found.
§ 396 [426]. Title passed by commissiotier s deed. — A conveyance
made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass to the grantee the title of
the parties ordered to convey the land.
§ 397 [427]- A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale ordered by
the court shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties to the
action or proceeding.
§ 398 [428]. Approval of deed. —A conveyance by a commissioner
shall not pass any right, until it has been examined and approved by
the court —which approval shall be indorsed on the conveyance, and
recorded with it.
An approval by the court was necessary under the old practice. 14 B. M., J2.
§ 399 [429]. How deed to be signed, &c. —It shall be necessary for
the conveyance to be signed by the commissioner only, without affixing
the names of the parties whose title is conveyed; but the names of
such parties shall be recited in the conveyance.
§ 400 [430]. Recording of deed. —The conveyance shall be recorded
where, by law, it should have been recorded, had it been made by the
parties whose title is conveyed by it

§401 [431]. Within what time execution may issue. —An execution
may be issued upon a judgment at any time until the collection of it is
barred by the statute of limitations, although no execution may have
been previously issued within a year and a day.
§ 402 [432]. Issuing of execution after death of a' plaintiff. —The
death of a party, after recovering a judgment, shall not prevent the
issuing of an execution afterward : but—
1. Upon a judgment recovered by one party, execution issued after
his death must be in favor of his representative or successor who is
entitled to the property for which the judgment was rendered.
2. Upon a judgment recovered by several parties, execution issued
after the death of one must be in favor of the other.
3. Upon a judgment recovered by several parties, execution issued
after the death of all of them must be in favor of the last survivor's
representative or successor who would have been entitled to the prop
erty if the judgment had been recovered by such survivor only.
4. The clerk shall indorse on the execution the names of the decedent
and of such survivor, representative, or successor.
5. An execution issued in favor of a survivor, representative, or
successor, of a decedent, shall be subject to the control of the court
whence it issued for the protection of any person interested therein.

§ 403 [433]. Clerk' s indorsement binding on sheriff. —Upon such exe
cution, the person entitled thereto, according to the indorsement of the
clerk, shall be treated by the sheriff as the plaintiff therein.
§ 404 [434]- Requisites for clerk's indorsement. —The_ clerk, before
making the indorsements- required by subdivision 4 of § 402, shall require
the person claiming right thereto to file an affidavit showing his right.
If the affiant state that he is a personal representative or successor of a
decedent, the clerk shall also require him to file a copy, properly cer
tified, of his appointment as such, by a competent tribunal in the
United States ; and, unless the appointment was made in Kentucky, the
clerk shall also require of him a covenant, with good surety, that he
will dispose, according to law, of any property which he may receive
upon the execution. If the affiant state that he is a devisee of a dece
dent, the clerk shall require him to -file a copy of the will, certified by a
clerk of a county court in this State in which the will or a copy is
recorded.
§ 405 [435]- Execution against surviving defendant. —The death of a
defendant shall not prevent the issuing of an execution against a sur
viving defendant.

§ 406 [436]. Quashing, &c, of execution for error in indorsement.
The court may, after reasonable notice, quash an execution, on the ground
that the representative or successor of a deceased plaintiff is not prop
erly stated in the indorsement on the execution ; and during vacation
of the court the defendant may obtain an injunction, upon its being
made to appear that the persons named are not entitled to the judgment
on which the execution was issued.
§ 407 [437]- Proceedings after death of execution-defendant. — 1. The
death of a defendant after a sale of his property under execution shall
not prevent a conveyance of the property. It shall be conveyed in the
same manner, and with the same effect, as if he were living (a).
2. The levy of an execution is not discharged by the death of the
defendant; but is suspended, according to the provisions of the next
following subsection (b).
3. A judgment, or the levy of an execution, may be revived against
the personal representative or successor of a defendant after the lapse
of six months from the time of the qualification of his first representative;
and, against a real representative, after the lapse of twelve
months from the time of the death of the defendant. If, however,
owing to the perishable nature of the property levied on, or the cost of
keeping it, a sale of it would be beneficial, the court, or the judge in

vacation, may so order ; and the proceeds shall be held subject to the
order of the court on the rule for a revivor.
4. The revivor may be made upon a rule in the action, ten days'
notice of which shall be served in the same manner as a summons.
The motion for revivor shall be docketed and tried as other motions ;
the court may hear it during any day of the term ; and may cause exe
cution to issue without delay 
§ 408 [438]. Appearance and defence by absent defendants. —A defend
ant constructively summoned shall be allowed at any time before judg
ment to appear and defend the action ; and, upon a substantial defence
being disclosed, time may be given on reasonable terms to prepare for
trial.

§ 409 [439]- What allegations against absent defendants shall be taken
as true. —In an action against a defendant constructively summoned, if
the plaintiff file with the petition his own affidavit (a) stating that any
of the allegations thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and known
to be so by the defendant, and that they can not be proved or shown
otherwise than by his answer, so far as the affiant knows or believes,
such allegations, unless denied by the answer, shall be taken as true 

§ 410 [440]. Refunding bond before judgment. —Before judgment is
rendered against a defendant constructively summoned and who has not
appeared (a), a bond shall be executed, with good surety approved by
the court, to the effect that, if the defendant shall procure a vacation or
modification of the judgment, the person in whose favor it was rendered
shall restore to the defendant any property or money obtained under
such judgment, restoration of which shall be adjudged (b). If the judg
ment be in favor of persons having distinct interests, such bond may be
executed for each, according to his interest

§411 [442]. Retention of case, if bond not given. —If the bond men
tioned in § 410 be not given, the court may enter a judgment ascertain
ing the rights of the parties ; but shall retain control over and preserve
any money or property, or the proceeds thereof, which may have been
attached in the action, until the expiration of the period allowed to the
defendant to appear and make defence—when, if no defence be made,
such money or property or its proceeds shall be delivered according to
the judgment.
["That §§410 and 41 1 shall not apply in actions in which the Com
monwealth is a party plaintiff, and is the beneficial owner of the demand
sought to be collected." Amendment, May 3, 1888.]
§ 412 [443]. Examination of plaintiff as to claim. —Before rendering
judgment against a defendant constructively summoned and who has
not appeared, the court may cause the plaintiff to appear personally in
court, or before a commissioner, and answer under oath interrogatories
concerning the statements of the petition, or any defence thereto,
including set-offs or counter-claims, and may order the examination to
be reduced to writing and filed with the papers of the action.
§413 [444]. Allowance of set-off or counter-claim against plaintiff.
If, upon such examination, any set-off or counter-claim be disclosed, it
may be adjusted and allowed in the judgment.
§ 414 [445]. Within Zi'/iat time new trial may be granted. —A defend
ant against whom a judgment may have been rendered upon constructive
service of a summons, and who did not appear (a), may, at any time
within five years after the rendition of the judgment, move to have the
action re-tried (t>) ; and, security for the costs being given (c), shall be
admitted to make defence ; and, thereupon, the action shall be re-tried,
as if there had been no judgment (d); and, upon the new trial, the
court may confirm the judgment, or modify or set it aside; and may
order the plaintiff to restore any money of such defendant paid to him
under it, or any property of the defendant obtained by the plaintiff
under it and yet remaining in his possession, and pay to the defendant
the value of any property which may have been taken under an attach
ment in the action, or under the judgment, and not restored. But this
section does not apply to judgments for divorce, so far as the divorce is
concerned (e).
[That § 414, said chapter and title, be so amended as that when the
Commonwealth shall have received money under a judgment which may
thereafter be modified, or set aside under the provisions of said section
upon a re-trial, the court, in making the order for the restoration of such
money, shall direct the Auditor of Public Accounts to draw his warrant
upon the Treasurer for the proper amount in favor of the party in whose
favor the order of restoration may be made, and it shall thereupon
become the duty of the Auditor to draw his warrant in obedience to
such order. Amendment, May l, 1888.]
55 41 5 [446]. The plaintiff may, after the judgment, cause a certified
copy thereof to be served on a defendant constructively summoned,
excepting infants—other than married women —and persons of unsound
mind and prisoners ; whereupon, the period in which such defendant is
allowed to appear and have a new trial shall be reduced to one year after
such service.
§416 [447]. Service of the copy of a judgment in this State shall be
made and proved in the same manner as the service of a summons ; and,
if out of this State, in the manner prescribed in § 56 as to the service
of a copy of the petition and summons and proof thereof.

§ 417 [448]. Title of purchaser. —The title of purchasers in good
faith to any property sold under an attachment or judgment shall not be
affected by the new trial permitted by §414, except the title of property
obtained by the plaintiff and not bought of him in good faith by others.

§ 418 [449]. Lien on defendant's property. —No lien on the property
of a defendant constructively summoned shall be created otherwise than
by an attachment as is provided in chapter 3 of title 8 or by judgment ;
nor shall any person be restrained from paying or delivering any money
or property in his hands belonging or due to such defendant, by notice
indorsed on the summons, or otherwise than by attachment or judgment.

§ 419 [450]. Personaljudgments against absent defendants forbidden.
No personal judgment shall be rendered against a defendant con
structively summoned (a), or summoned out of this State as provided
in § 56 {b), and who has not appeared in the action 

§ 420 [457]. Action to be in equity. —An action for alimony or divorce
shall be in equity.

§421 [458]. As to verification, &c. —The pleadings are not required
to be verified. But either party may file interrogatories to the other,
in regard to questions of property involved in the action, which shall
be answered on oath, as interrogatories in other actions, and have the
same effect.
§ 422 [459]- Statements of petition must be proved: proof of residence.
The statements of a petition for a divorce shall not be taken as true
because of the defendant's failure to answer, or admission of their
truth (a) ; and the facts as to residence of the parties must be proved
by [one or more credible witnesses. (Act of 1892, Session Acts, p.
86.)
§ 423 [460]. Facts to be stated and proved besides cause for divorce.
The plaintiff, to obtain a divorce, must allege and prove, in addition to
a legal cause of divorce —
1. A residence in this State foe one year next before the commence
ment of the action (a).
2. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed in this State, or,
if out of the State, either that it was a legal cause of divorce in the
State where it occurred or existed, or that the plaintiff's residence was
then in this State (b).
3. That the cause of divorce occurred or existed within five years
next before the commencement of the action.

§424 [461]. Maintenance pendente lite. —During the pendency of an
action for divorce or alimony, the court may allow the wife mainte
nance (a), and enforce the payment thereof by orders and executions
and proceedings as in cases of contempt 

§425 [462]. Requisites ofjudgment of divorce from bond of matrimony.
Every judgment for a divorce from the bond of matrimony (a) shall
contain an order (d) restoring any property, not disposed of at the com
mencement of the action, which either party may have obtained, directly
or indirectly, from or through the other, during marriage, in consider
ation or by reason thereof; and any property so obtained, without
valuable consideration, shall be deemed to have been obtained by reason
of marriage (c). The proceedings to enforce this order may be by
petition of either party, specifying the property which the other has
failed to restore ; and the court may hear and determine the same in a
summary manner, after ten days' notice to the party so failing

§ 426 [463]. Annulling judgments for divorce. —A judgment of divorce
from the bond of matrimony may be annulled by the court which ren
dered it, upon a petition verified by the parties in person so requesting.
§427 [464]. A judgment of divorce from bed and board maybe
annulled by the court which rendered it, at the instance of either party
showing just cause therefor in an equitable action.

§ 428 [465]. Parties to action to settle decedents' estate. — I. A repre
sentative (a), legatee, distributee, or creditor (b), of a deceased person
may bring an action in equity for the settlement of his estate.
2. The representatives of the decedent and all persons having a lien
upon, or an interest in, the property left by the decedent, or any part
thereof, and the creditors of the decedent, so far as known to the plain
tiff, must be parties to the action as plaintiffs or defendant

§ 429 [466]. Statements of petition : Sale of realty. —In such an action,
the petition must state the amount of the debts, and the nature and value
of the property, real and personal, of the decedent, so far as known to
the plaintiff; and, if it shall appear that the personal estate is insufficient
for the payment of all debts, the court may order the real property
descended or devised to the heirs or devisees who may be parties to the
action, or so much thereof as shall be necessary (a), to be sold for the
payment of the residue of such debts.

§ 430 [467]. Reference to commissioner, &c. —In all actions, the
court shall make an order for the creditors of the decedent to appear
•before a commissioner, to be appointed by the court (a), and prove
their claims before a certain day to be named in the order (b), notice of
which shall be given by advertisement in a newspaper; or, if none be
published in the county, then by such other modes as the court may
judge best calculated to give such creditors actual notice of the order ;
and, in addition to the advertisement in a newspaper, the court may
direct publication in other modes.

§ 431. Reference by clerk in vacation. —The clerk of the court shall,
during vacation (a), have the powers conferred on the court by § 430,
except that the creditors shall be required to appear before the master
commissioner in chancery for the county ; and, if no newspaper be pub
lished in the county, the clerk shall cause the notice to be posted at the
court-house door and at two or more other public places in the county.
§ 432 [468]. Creditor becomes party by presenting claim. —A creditor
appearing before -the commissioner and presenting his claim becomes
thereby a party to the action, and is concluded by the final judgment of
the court allowing or rejecting his claim.
§ 433 [469]. Creditor's loss of claim against personal representatives.
Creditors falling to appear and prove their claims, agreeably to such
order, shall have no claim against the executor or administrator who
has actually paid out the estate in expenses of administration, and
to creditors, legatees, or distributees.
§ 434 [470]. Creditor's claims against legatees and distributees. —Lega^
tees ar|d distributees shall be liable to a direct action by a creditor to
the extent of estate received by each of them, notwithstanding the fail
ure of the creditor to appear and the discharge of the personal repre
sentative as prescribed in the preceding section ; and that liability shall
continue during the same period that the liability of the personal repre
sentative would have continued but for said discharge.

§ 435 [47 Refunding bonds of legatees and distributees. — "The
court may, in its discretion, without motion, and shall, on motion of
any party in interest" [act of April 13, 1880], require the distributee or
legatee, before receiving his distributive share or legacy, if received
within five years after the grant of administration, to execute bond,
with good surety, to the Commonwealth, conditioned to pay his pro
portion, not exceeding the amount received by him, of any debt which
may appear against the estate of the decedent within said period.
§ 436 [472]. Injunction against other actions. —Upon the institution
of the action mentioned in this chapter, an order may be made enjoin
ing the prosecution of actions against the representatives of a decedent,
by creditors, for their demands (a). But such enjoining shall not be
made, unless the action for the settlement of the estate be commenced
within three years after the qualification of the personal representative.
§ 437 [473]- Demand, &c, before suit. —The provisions of §§ 35 to
39, both inclusive, of article 2, chapter 39, of the General Statutes,
concerning decedents' estates, are adopted as part of this Code, except
that the demand therein mentioned need not be made, if the personal
representative of the decedent be a non-resident of this State or shall
have been absent therefrom four months.

§ 438. Provisions as to trust-estates. —The foregoing provisions of this
chapter shall, so far as applicable, regulate proceedings for the sale of
property held in trust, by virtue of the provisions of article 2, of chap
ter 44, of the General Statutes (a), or assigned by a debtor for the
payment of debts generally (b) : but subsection 2 of § 428 shall not be
so construed as to require all creditors holding liens upon the property
by virtue of the statute, or under the' deed of assignment, to be made
parties.

§ 439 [474]. Action on return of no property found. —After an execu
tion of fieri facias, directed to the county in which the judgment was
rendered, or to the county of the defendant's residence, is returned by
the proper officer, either as to the whole or part thereof, in substance,
no property found to satisfy the same (a), the plaintiff in the execution
may institute an equitable action (/;) for the discovery (r) of any money,
chose in action, equitable or legal (d) interest, and all other property to
which the defendant is entitled, and for subjecting the same to the
satisfaction of the judgment (e) ; and in such actions, persons indebted
to the defendant, or holding money or property in which he has an
interest, or holding evidences or securities for the same, may be also
made defendants 

§ 440 [475]. Verification of answer. —The answer of each defendant
shall be verified by his oath, and not by that of an agent or attorney,
and the court shall, if necessary, enforce full and explicit discoveries in
such answers by process of contempt.
§441 [476]. Attachment without affidavit or bond. —In such action,
the plaintiff may have an attachment (a) against the property of the
defendant in the execution, similar to the general attachments pro
vided for in chapter 3, of title 8, without either the affidavit (i) or bond
therein require

§ 442 [477]. Creation of lien. —A lien shall be created on the prop
erty of the defendant by the levy of the attachment ; or by service
of the summons, with the object of the action indorsed thereon, on the
person holding or controlling his property.

§443 [478]. Summary proceedings for surrender of money, &c. — The
court shall enforce the surrender of the money or securities therefor, or
of any other property of the defendant in the execution, which may be
discovered in the action ; and for this purpose may commit to jail any
defendant or garnishee failing or refusing to make such surrender, until
it shall be done, or until the court be satisfied that it is out of his
power to do so.

§444 [479]. Who may have judgment on motion. —A judgment may
be obtained, on motion, by a surety against his principal or co-surety
for money paid (a) ; by a client against his attorney for money collected
or property received ; by a party or officer against a surety for costs (b) ;
and by a party against an officer for money collected or property
received, and for the damages which such party is entitled to recover ;
and in all other cases specially authorized by statute (r) ; and the service
of the notice shall be regarded as the commencement of the proceeding.

§ 445 [480]. Notice of motion. —Notice of such motion shall be
served on the party against whom the judgment is sought, at least ten
days before the motion is made.
As to the service of such motion, see 624 to 633.
§ 446 [481]. Requisites 0/ notice. —The notice shall state the nature
and grounds of the motion (a), and the day on which it will be made.
§ 447 [482]. Unless the motion be made or entered on the motion
docket on the day specified in the notice, it shall be considered as
abandoned.

§ 448 [483]. When motion may be made. —Such motion mentioned in
this chapter may be made on any day of the term of the court.
§ 449 [484]. Motion may be made with or without written pleadings.
The motion may be heard and determined upon or without written
pleadings (a), and judgment shall be given according to law and the
rules of equit

§ 450 [485 to 498]. The provisions of chapter 92, article II, of the
General Statutes are adopted as paft of this Code.

§451 [499]. 1. Submission of controversy. —Any controversy which
is or might be the subject of an action may, at the request of those inter
ested therein, be submitted (a) to the decision of one or more arbitra
tors (b), or two and their umpire (c), by the order of any court having
jurisdiction of the subject. The parties making such submission shall,
if there be no action pending, by written agreement filed and noted on
the record, or by an entry on the record, state what question is sub
mitted (d). The order of court shall state the time in which the award
is to be made and returned, but the court may enlarge the time 
2. Oath of arbitrators and umpire. —Arbitrators and the umpire, if
there be one, before they proceed to act shall take an oath to decide the
controversy to them submitted according to law and evidence and the
equity of the case, to the best of their judgment, without favor or affec
tion ; and a certificate of such oath shall be returned to the court with
the award.
. Power of arbitrators to subpoena witnesses, &c. —Any one of the
arbitrators shall have power to issue subpoenas for witnesses (a) to attend
their sittings and give evidence touching the questions referred to them,
to which all sheriffs and other like officers shall give obedience. Wit
nesses failing to attend before arbitrators at the time and place desig
nated, or who shall refuse to give evidence when they do attend,
shall be reported to the court by the arbitrators, and be proceeded
against and punished as if the case had been pending in court 
. Submission by fiduciaries —The personal representative of a dece
dent (a), the guardian (b), committee, or curator, of a person under
disability, or any trustee, may agree to such submission. Upon such
submission, made in good faith, the award shall be binding, and be
entered as the judgment of the court. No such fiduciary shall be
responsible for any loss resulting from an award adverse to the interest
he represents, unless caused by his fault or neglect.
5. Court to fill vacancy, if arbitrator refuses to act, &c. —If any arbi
trator fail or refuse to act, the court may appoint another, or set
aside the order of reference.
6. Powers and duties of arbitrators. —The arbitrators and umpire, if
there be one, shall meet at such convenient times and places as may be
necessary, of which the parties shall have reasonable notice (a), and
hear such evidence as either party may adduce (b). They shall have
power to administer oaths. They shall make their award in writing (c),
stating therein when it is made, and sign it; and shall deliver a copy of
it to each of the contending parties, and return the original to the
court with indorsements showing the time of delivering a copy to each
party 
7. Award to be entered as judgment. —The award shall be entered as
the judgment of the court at the first term, ten days before which copies
of the award are delivered to the parties (a), unless, on exceptions
filed ({>), it be set aside by the court 
. Arbitrations in justices' courts. —Controversies within the juris
diction of a justice of the peace may be submitted for arbitration in the
same manner, and the proceedings shall be the same as are above
authorized and required. Either party may appeal to the circuit court
from the judgment of the justice on the award, as in other cases.
§ 452 [500}. I. To what the 'words "possession," Grc, refer. —The
words "possession," "entry," "detainer," in this chapter, refer to
lands and tenements.
II. What is a forcible enttj'. —A forcible entry is —
1. An entry without the consent of the person having the actual
possession {a).
2. As to a landlord, an entry upon the possession of his tenant at
will or by sufferance, whether with or without the tenant's consent 
II. What is a forcible detainer. —A forcible detainer is—
1. The refusal of a tenant to give possession to his landlord after
the expiration of his term ; or of a tenant at will or by sufferance to
give possession to the landlord after the determination of his will (a).
2. The refusal of a tenant of a person who has made a forcible
entry to give possession, on demand, to the person upon whose posses
sion the forcible entry was made.
3. The refusal of a person who has made a forcible entry upon the
possession of one who acquired it by a forcible entry to give possession,
on demand, to him upon whose possession the first forcible entry was
made.
4. The refusal of a person who has made a forcible entry upon the
possession of a tenant for a term to deliver possession to the landlord
upon demand, after the term expires ; and, if the term expire whilst a
writ of forcible entry sued out by the tenant is pending, the land
lord may, at his cost and for his benefit, prosecute it in the name of the
tenant 

§ 453 [5OIl- Becoming tenant after obtaining possession. —It is not
material whether the tenant shall have received possession from his land
lord, or have become his tenant after obtaining possession.
See note (a) (2) to subs. Ill of §452.
§ 454 [502]. Writ offorcible entry or detainer. —Upon complaint by
a person aggrieved by a forcible entry or detainer (a) to a justice of the
peace (b) or county judge of the county in which the land or tenement,
or a principal part thereof, lies, he shall issue his warrant to the sheriff,
or any constable, in substance as follows :
' ' Tlie Commonwealth of Kentucky to tlie Sheriff [or any Constable'] ofcounty : Whereas, A B hath made complaint to me, J S, a jus
tice of the peace [or county judge] for said county, that C D and E F
did, on the day of , forcibly enter into [or forcibly detain
from the said A B] (c) one house and field on the waters of , in
the county aforesaid [or other general description of the lands or tene
ments] (d), which were in the peaceable possession of A B [or which
the said C D and E F, tenants of the said A B, now hold against him]:
You are, therefore, commanded to summon a good and lawful jury of
your county to meet on the premises, or at a place convenient thereto,
on the day of , to inquire into the forcible entry [or forcible
detainer] aforesaid ; and give to the said C D and E F at least three
days' notice of the time and place of the meeting of the jury, and have
then there this writ. Witness, &c. "
[Amendment of April 30, 1888. —§ I. In the trial of writs of forcible
entry, forcible detainer, or forcible entry and detainer, if neither party,
in person or by agent or attorney, demand a jury, the trial thereof shall
be by the judge or justice presiding ; and in such event the judge or jus
tice shall try all questions arising, whether of law or of fact. No such
writ shall hereafter direct the summoning of a jury; and the sheriff or
other officer to whose hands such writ may come to do execution
thereof shall not summon a jury in such proceeding, unless he be by
either party notified in writing that a jury is demanded. After calling
of the cause for trial either party may demand a jury.
§ 2. The right to traverse the finding of the judge or justice shall be
the same as if a verdict had been rendered by a jury

§455 [503]. Notice of wan-ant. —The officer shall give to each de
fendant notice, according to the directions of the warrant, and no
inquiry shall be made against any defendant who has not been notified
as aforesaid. If, however, the notice have been given to a defendant, but
not three days before the day of the meeting of the jury, the inquest
shall, on his motion, be adjourned until the expiration of the three days.

§ 456 [504]. Trial of case. —At the time for holding the inquisition,
the officer shall return the warrant to any justice who may attend, or
to the county judge, if in attendance, with an indorsement stating
when and upon whom it was executed and the place designated by the
officer for holding the inquisition, together with a panel of the jury;
whereupon the justice or judge, whether the defendant is present or
not, shall administer an oath to the jurors in substance as follows:
"You, and each of you, shall well and truly inquire into and return
whether or not the defendant [or defendants] is [or are] guilty of the
forcible entry [or detainer] complained of in the warrant in this cause:
so help you God."
§ 457 [5°5]- Such justice or judge shall superintend the taking of
the inquisition, swear witnesses, decide legal questions which may arise,
preserve the peace, enforce the rules of decorum, and punish, according
to law, contempts of his authority.

§ 458 [506]. Coercing witnesses to attend, &c. —The judge or any
justice of the peace may issue subpoenas for witnesses at the request
of either party, and their attendance and testifying may be coerced by
the justice or judge who presides at the inquest.

§ 459 [507]. Inquest and judgment. —The jurors, after hearing the
evidence, shall, by their inquest, say whether the defendants, or either
of them, be guilty or not guilty of the forcible entry or detainer com
plained of ; ar.d shall return their inquest, signed by one of their body,
to the justice of the peace or judge who presides. If the jury do not
agree, it may be discharged and another be ordered to be summoned
to meet, either immediately, or at some future day to be then and
there fixed and indorsed on the warrant ; and this proceeding shall be
continued until a jury agree.
§ 460 [508]. Upon the return of the inquest, the judge or justice
shall enter a judgment according to the inquisition, either for the
plaintiff, in substance, that he have restitution of the premises aforesaid,
and recover of the defendants his costs in this behalf expended ; or for
the defendants, in substance, that they recover of the plaintiff their
costs in this behalf expended ; or for the plaintiff against some of the
defendants, and for the other defendants against the plaintiff, if some be
found guilty and others not guilty.

§ 461 [509]. Restitution or execution for costs. —If the party against
whom the inquisition is found fail to file a traverse of the inquisition
with the judge or justice who presided, on or before the third day after
the finding of the inquest, the judge or justice shall, on request, issue
his execution for the costs ; and, if the inquisition be in favor of the
plaintiff, he shall also issue his warrant of restitution in substance as
follows : ' ' County. To the Sheriff [or any Constable^ of
county: Whereas, C D and E F have, by an inquisition taken before
me, J P, a justice of the peace for said county, been found guilty of a
forcible entry in [or detainer of] one house and field, lying on the
waters of , in the county aforesaid [or other general description
of the possessions], to the injury of A B: You are, therefore, in the
name of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, commanded that, with the
power of the county if necessary, you put the said A B in the possession
of said premises ; and make return within days to me
how you have executed this warrant. Given under my hand this —
day , , J. P."

§ 462 [510]. Preservation, &c, of papers. —The judge or justice of
the peace shall carefully preserve all papers, records, and proceedings,
relating to the cause, unless he transmit them to the clerk as hereinafter
directed; and shall deliver to any person requiring it a transcript
thereof, such person paying him therefor two cents for every twenty
words in such transcript.
§463 [511]. Traverse and bond. —If either party conceive himself
aggrieved by the finding of the jury (a), he may file a traverse (6) thereol
with the judge or justice, within three days next after the finding afore
said, in substance as follows: "A B against C D, on a writ of forailt
entry [or detainer]. The plaintiff [or the defendant] says that the in
quisition returned in this cause is not true ; wherefore, he prays that
proceedings thereon maybe stayed until the same can be tried according
to law. A B; " and shall also, within the same time, before said judge
or justice, give bond with sufficient surety (c), to be approved by the
judge or justice, to his adversary, in substance as follows: "ABs.
CD, on a writ offorcible entry [or detainer]. Whereas, upon a writ of
forcible entry [or detainer] in favor of A B against C D, tried before
, a justice of the peace of county, a verdict was rendered for
the said A B, on the day of , which the said C D has
traversed (d) ; the said C D and E F, his surety, covenant to pay to
the said A B the costs of said proceeding and all damages (e) caused
to him by said traverse, if not prosecuted with effect: " whereupon, the
judge or justice shall stay all further proceedings -on the inquisition,
and return the whole of the papers and proceedings, or a fair transcript
thereof (/), to the office of the circuit court for said county, within ten
days thereafter (

§ 464 [512]. Liability on travcrsed-bond. — Upon this bond, if the
traverser fail to prosecute his traverse with effect, he and his surety shall
be liable for the damages for withholding the possession which the
traversee may be entitled to recover against the traverser, during the
pendency of the traverse, either in the circuit court or Court of Ap
peals, as well as the reasonable expenses of the traversee in defending
the traverse.
§465 [513]. Trial of traverse. —The clerk shall docket the traverse
as other actions ; it shall stand for trial as docketed (a) ; the traversee
shall join issue on the traverse (b) ; and it shall be tried by a jury, and
judgment given on the verdict (c), as in other cases : Provided, however,
that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the court
from giving judgment against either party for default, nor from deciding
any question of law as in other cases 

§ 466 [514]- Execution from circuit court. —After a cause is returned to
the circuit court, execution for cost, or for restitution, shall issue from
the office of that court, according to the judgment in the cause.
An order restraining restitution should not be made because the defendant has re
covered a judgment in ejectment against the prosecutor. Dedman v. Smith, 2 Mar., 200.
§ 467 [515]. Restraining waste, &c. —The court before whom such
cause may be depending, or any judge thereof in vacation, may restrain
waste or destruction of the premises, and may enforce its order by fine
and imprisonment or either.
§ 468 [516]. Proceeding docs not bar action for trespass, &c. —The pro
ceedings under a writ of forcible entry or detainer shall not bar an action
for trespass or waste or rent or mesne profits.
§ 469 [5 1 7]. Limitation. —No inquisition of forcible entry or forcible
detainer shall be taken at any time after two years from the forcible
entry or detainer complained of.
 470 [519]. The provisions of §§ 26 to 42, both inclusive, of chap.
113 of the General Statutes [§§ 4849-4866, Ky. Stat.], regulating the
probate of wills, are adopted as part of this Code.
CHAPTER X.
SETTLEMENT OF THE ACCOUNTS OF FIDUCIARIES BY THE COUNTY COURT.
{ 471. Provisions of General Statutes adopted as to personal representatives and guard
ians.
§ 472. Said provisions made applicable to committees and trustees.
§ 471 [520]. The provisions of art. 14, chap. 28, of the General Statutes
[§§ 1062-1067, Ky. Stat.], regulating the settlement of the accounts of
personal representatives and guardians, are adopted as part of this Code.
1. A guardian may maintain an action in equity against a former guardian for settle
ment of his accounts, notwithstanding a reference of them to a commissioner by the county
court. Commonwealth for Hooper v. Ilenshav), 2 Bush, 286.
2. The clerk having certified that a copy of a settlement was a true copy of settlement
made "with the Mercer county court, which is 011 file in this office," the copy was held to
lie competent evidence, though the settlement purported to have been made with the pre
siding judge of said court. McAfee v. Balden, 6 Bush, 537.
§472 [521]. Settling accounts of committees and trustees. —The ac
counts of committees and trustees may be settled in the same manner,
and the settlements shall have the same effect, as prescribed by § 471.
The county court of the county in which the committee is appointed,
or in which the deed or will creating the trusts is recorded, shall have
the jurisdiction of making the settlements.
[That hereafter, when the court may so direct, settlements of the ac
counts of personal representatives, trustees, guardians, or other fidu
ciary, made before a commissioner of any chancery, common plens, or
circuit court of this State, and reported by such commissioner, and all
reports of estates or funds received or disbursed, under order of the
court, by its receiver, after the same shall have been confirmed by the
court, shall be recorded by the clerk of such court in a book to be pro
vided for that purpose. The vouchers accompanying such settlements
or reports shall not be recorded.
The clerk of such court shall be entitled to the same fees allowed by
law to clerks of the county courts for similar services.
The commissioner or receiver of the court making such settlement or
report shall allow, and state on the face thereof, the amount of fees that
will be due to the clerk for recording. 

 473 [522]. i. If any person obtain a survey of land to which another
claims a better right, such other may enter a caveat with the Register to
prevent the issuing of a grant until the right be determined (a). The
caveat shall state the plaintiff's claim and the reasons why the grant
should not issue (b). It shall be verified by his affidavit, or by that of
his agent (c), and declare that it is entered in good faith, with the in
tention of procuring the land for the plaintiff, and not for the benefit of
the person against whom it is entered.
2. A copy of the caveat, certified by the Register, shall, within
sixty days from the time it is entered, be lodged with the clerk of the
circuit court of the county where the land or the greater part thereof
lies. Failure so to lodge such copy shall be deemed an abandonment of
the caveat ; and it may be disregarded by the Register, upon the clerk's
certificate of such failure being filed in his office.
3. If such copy be lodged within said period, it shall be treated as a
petition, and the proceedings upon it shall be the same, including an
appeal to the Court of Appeals, as those in an ordinary action (d).
4. If the summons be not returned in due time, or be returned not
executed, the caveat shall be dismissed, if it be shown that the nonexecution
or non-return was procured by the plaintiff or resulted from
his neglect.
5. A copy of the judgment, if in favor of the defendant, must be
delivered into the Land Office within three months from the time it is
rendered ; or a new caveat may, for that cause, be entered against the
grant. If the judgment be for the plaintiff, and a copy thereof be not
delivered into the Land Office within six months from the time it was
rendered, any other person may, for that cause, enter another caveat
against the grant.
6. No grant shall issue, to the land in contest, to the plaintiff in
the caveat, or to another for his use, until the caveat be dismissed or de
cided (V) ; and any such grant, to the extent of such land, shall be void.
7. If the plaintiff do not prosecute his caveat as herein required, or
if the same be dismissed or decided against him, neither he nor any
other for his use shall have another caveat against the same grant.
8. The court may, in its discretion, require the plaintiff to give
security for costs ; and upon his failure to do so may dismiss the pro
ceeding.

§474 [523]. How writs obtained and prosecuted. — Writs of man
damus (a), except those used by a court for enforcing its judgments or
orders, and writs of prohibition (b), shall be obtained by motion (e), and
prosecuted in the manner provided in Title X, chapter 5, except that
the applicant shall file a petition, wherein he shall state the cause and
ground of his application before giving notice of his motion ; to which
the party against whom the mandamus or prohibition is sought shall
file a demurrer or an answer, at or before the time fixed for making
the motion 

§ 475 [5 24]. Court to decide all questions: order final. —The court
shall hear and decide all questions of law or fact arising on the motion,
and the granting or refusing of the writ shall be the final order on the
motion.
§ 476 [525]. Preventive orders. —During the pendency of the motion,
the court or judge, in vacation, may make temporary orders for
venting damage or injury to the applicant until the motion is decided.
§ 477 [526]. Mandamus defined. —The writ of mandamus, as treated
of in this chapter, is an order of a court of competent and original juris
diction (a), commanding an executive or ministerial officer to perform
an act, or omit to do an act, the performance or omission of which is
enjoined by law (b) ; and is granted on the motion of the party aggrieved,
or of the Commonwealth when the public interest is affected.

§ 478 [527]. Appeal by the Commonwealth. —If an interest, right, or
claim, of the Commonwealth be affected by the final order on an appli
cation for a writ of mandamus, .the Attorney General may prosecute an
appeal without security.
§ 479 [528]. Prohibition defined. —The writ of prohibition is an order
of the circuit court to an inferior court of limited jurisdiction, pro
hibiting it from proceeding in a matter out of its jurisdiction.


§ 480 [529]. Ordinary action lies. —In lieu of the writs of scire facias
and quo warranto, or of any information in the nature of a quo warranto,
ordinary actions may be brought to vacate or repeal charters, and to
prevent the usurpation of an office or franchise.
§ 481 [53o] Actions to repeal or vacate charters, how brought. —The ac
tion to repeal or vacate a charter shall be in the name of the Common
wealth, and be brought and prosecuted by the Attorney-General, or
under his sanction and direction by an attorney for the Commonwealth.
§ 482 [531]. What actions must be authorised by the legislature. —Ac
tions to repeal or vacate the charters of municipal corporations ; banks;
railroad, turnpike road, and internal improvement companies, shall only
be instituted by order of the legislature, unless otherwise expressly pro
vided


§ 338 [368]. Exception must relate to substantial rights. —No exception
shall be regarded, unless the decision to which it relates be prejudicial
to the substantial rights of the party excepting.
See note (e) to \ 134, and note to g 756.
§ 339- How judge to certify bill of exceptions. —In cases in which, by
subsection 2 of § 335, the evidence is required to be stated in full, the
judge shall certify in the bill of exceptions that it contains all the evi
dence (a). In all other cases, he shall certify that the bill of exceptions
is true.

§ 340 [369]. Neiu trial defined— for what eauses granted. —A new
trial is a re-examination in the same court of an issue of fact after a
verdict by a jury or a decision by the court (a). The former verdict or *
decision may be vacated and a new trial be granted, on the application
of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes affecting mate
rially his substantial rights:
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or prevailing
party, or any order of court, or abuse of discretion, by which the
party was prevented from having a fair trial {b).
2. Misconduct of the jury, of the prevailing party, or of his attor
ney (c).
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against (d).
4. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion or prejudice (e).
5. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too
large or too small, in an action upon a contract (/), or for the injury (g)
or detention of property (/i).
6. That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient evi
dence (/), or is contrary to law (J).
7. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party applying,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and
produced at the trial (k).
8. Error of law occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party
making the application (

§ 341 [370]. When new trials shall not be granted. —A new trial shall
not be granted on account of the smallness of damages in an action for
an injury to the person or reputation (a), nor in any other action in
which the damages equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained ; nor
shall more than two new trials be granted to a party upon the ground
that the verdict is not sustained by the evidence 

§ 342 [371]. When application for new trial to be made generally. —The
application for a new trial must be made at the term in which the ver
dict or decision is rendered ; and, except for the cause mentioned in
§ 340, subsection 7, shall be within three days after the verdict or
decision is rendered, unless unavoidably prevented.
["So amended as to allow the party applying for a new trial, where
there is a special verdict only, to make his motion within three days after
the court shall have rendered a judgment thereon.

§ 343 [372]- How application for new trial must be made generally.
The application must be by motion upon written grounds filed at the
time of making the motion (a). The grounds mentioned in § 340, sub
sections 2, 3, and 7, must be sustained by affidavits showing their
truth ; and may be controverted by affidavits (

§ 344 [373]. Grounds for new trial discovered after the term. —If
grounds for a new trial be discovered after the term at which the verdict &(Ll<
or decision is rendered, the application may be made by a petition
filed with the clerk (a) not later than the second term after the discov
ery—on which a summons shall issue, as on other petitions, requiring
the adverse party to appear and answer it on or before the first day of
the next term(£). The application shall stand for hearing at the term
to which the summons is returned executed, and shall be summarily
decided by the court. The evidence may be either by depositions or by
witnesses examined in court. But no such application shall be made
more than three years after the final judgment was rendered : nor do
the provisions of this section apply to divorce cases, so far as the judg
ment for divorce is concerned.

§ 345 [374]- I1 damages be recoverable, the plaintiff may claim and
recover any rate of damages to which he may be entitled for the cause
of action established.
§ 346 [375]. The provisions of this title, respecting trials by jury,
apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court.







§ 309 [339]. Issues arise on the pleadings when a fact, or conclusion
of law, is maintained by one party and controverted by the other. They
are—
1. Of law.
2. Of fact.
§ 310 [340]. An issue of fact arises—
1. Upon a traverse in an answer or other pleading of a material
allegation in a petition or other pleading (a).
2. Upon an allegation of a pleading which is controverted by
law(£).
§ 483 [532]. Who may sue to prevent usurpation of office or franchise.
If a person usurp an office or franchise, the person entitled thereto, or
the Commonwealth, may prevent the usurpation by an ordinary action.


§ 484 [533]. Wliat actions Commonwealth' s attorneys must prosecute.
It shall be the duty of the several Commonwealth attorneys to institute
the actions mentioned in this chapter against usurpers of county offices
or franchises, if no other person be entitled thereto, or if the person en
titled fail to institute the same during three months after the usurpation.
§ 4^5 [534]- What actions the Attorney General must prosecute. —For
usurpation of other than county offices or franchises, the action by the
Commonwealth shall be instituted and prosecuted by the Attorney
General.
§ 486 [535]. Holding office after forfeiture is usurpation. —A person
who continues to exercise an office after having committed an act, or
omitted to do an act, the commission or omission of which, by law,
creates a forfeiture of his office, may be proceeded against for usur
pation thereof.
§ 487 [536]. Judgment against usurper. —A person adjudged to have
usurped an office or franchise shall be deprived thereof by the judgment
of the court, and the person adjudged entitled thereto shall be placed
in possession thereof ; but no one shall be adjudged entitled thereto,
unless the action be instituted by him. And the court shall have power
to enforce its judgment by causing the books and papers, and all other
things pertaining to the office or franchise, to be surrendered by the
usurper; and by preventing him from further exercising or using the
same ; and may enforce its orders by fine and imprisonment until
obeyed.

§ 488 [537]- Provisions as to fees of usurper. —If the usurper have
received fees and emoluments arising from the office or franchise, he
shall be liable therefor to the person entitled thereto, who may claim
the same in the action brought to deprive him of the office or fran
chise, or in a separate action. If no one be entitled to them, they
may be recovered by the Commonwealth, and shall be paid into the
public treasury.
 489. Sales of real property of infants and persons of unsound mind.
A vested estate of an infant or of a person of unsound mind, in real
property, may be sold by order of a court of equity —
1 . For the payment of any debt or liability of his ancestor or devisor
with which he may be legally chargeable, in an action brought against
him pursuant to § 428 ; or in an action brought against him by a
creditor of the ancestor or devisor, unless it be enjoined pursuant to
§ 426 [436] (a).
2. For the payment of his debt or liability, in an action brought
against him by his creditor (b).
3. In an action by a guardian against his ward, for a sale of the estate
for the maintenance and education of the ward (V).
4. In an action by a committee of a person of unsound mind against
him, for a sale of the estate for his maintenance, or for the main
tenance of himself and his family, including the education of his infant
children (d).
5. In an action against a person of unsound mind by his committee;
or against an infant by his guardian ; or, if the infant be a married
woman, by her husband, if he be twenty-one years of age, if not, by
her next friend, for a sale of the estate and investment in other prop
erty 

§ 490 [542, 543].* When real property, of joint owners may be sold.
A vested estate (a) in real property jointly owned (6) by two or more
persons may be sold by order of a court of equity, in an action brought
by either of them, though the plaintiff or defendant be of unsound
mind or an infant (c) —
1. If the share of each owner be worth less than one hundred dol
lars (d).
2. If the estate be in possession (e) and the property can not be
divided without materially impairing its value, or the value of the plain
tiff's interest therein 

§ 49 1 When a reversion or remainder may be sold or mortgaged for
investment. —In an equitable action by the owner of a particular estate
of freehold in possession, or by his guardian or committee, if he be an
infant or of unsound mind, against the owner of the reversion or remain- e_ ^
der, though h.e be an infant or of unsound mind, and against the owner
of the particular estate, if he be an infant or of unsound mind ; or, if
the remainder be contingent, against the person, if in being, in whom it
would have vested, if the contingency had happened before commence
ment of the action, though he be an infant or of unsound mind, and
against the' owner of' the particular estate, if he be an infant or of
unsound mind, —real property may be sold for investment of the pro
ceeds in other real property (a),
[Amendments of April I $th and April 24, 1882, the latter having made
the former a general act.
^M4V That when lands are held in trust by one person for the life of
another, with remainder over to a class of persons, or to any person not
ascertained or to be ascertained until the death of the person upon
a whose life such estate for life is made to depend, or with power on the
* part of such person for whose life such life-estate is held by the trustee,
to dispose by a last will and testament, or by an instrument in the nature
of a last will and testament, it shall be competent for the circuit courts
or courts of like jurisdiction in the county in which such land or a part
thereof is situate, in an action to which all persons having a present or
vested interest in such land are parties, to direct the trustee to either
■J f« sell or mortgage such land ; but in all actions it must be averred and
proven to the court that such sale or mortgage would be beneficial to
all the parties concerned, and facts showing such benefits must be
alleged and proven. Any deed or mortgage executed under authority,
or in pursuance of any judgment rendered in any such action, shall be
held and construed and have the same effect as if executed by every
person having a vested or contingent interest in or ownership of such
land, and as if executed by all persons and classes who could take under
the limitations or provisions of said deed, or as devisees under the
exercise of such power to devise or appoint, and as if every claimant,
present or future, under such deed or power, was under no disability
whatever. The proceeds of the sales authorized by this section shall be
paid into court, and shall be reinvested by the court after first having, by
appropriate order, provided for the payment of the costs and taxes, if
any, in other property to be conveyed and held subject to the same
limitations and trusts as the land sold was held. The proceeds of all
mortgages of such lands as are mentioned in this section shall be paid
into court, and shall be appropriated, under the order of the court, in
the construction of permanent improvements on the land mortgaged;
but before appropriating such money in the construction of such im
provements, the court shall provide for the payment of all unpaid taxes
on said land, and the costs of the action. The court shall require the
life-tenant, out of the rents, to pay the taxes and insurance on such
improvements, and the residue of the rents to be paid into court for
disposition by the court until such mortgage debt is fully paid off; and
such court may provide for semi-annual reports to be made by such lifetenant;
and in the event of the disobedience of any order of suc
court by such life-tenant, it shall be the duty of the court to appoint a
receiver, who shall take possession of such land, and hold the same as
the court may direct, and collect and receive all the rents and profits of
such land, and pay the same into court for such disposition thereof as
the court may make.

§ 492 [541]- Requirements as to sales under §§489 and 49i.^In the
actions mentioned in subsections 3, 4, and 5 of §489, and in §491 —
1 [§ 544]. No sale shall be ordered if forbidden by the deed, will,
or contract, under which the property is held (a).
2. The title papers, or copies of them, under which the property is
held, must be filed with the petition.
3 [§ 54']- The wife and children, if any, of the person of unsound
mind must be made defendants to the action.
4. Facts must be stated in the petition, and must be proved, showing
that the sale will benefit the defendant ; or, in the action mentioned in
§ 491, facts must be stated in the petition, and must be proved, showing
that the sale will benefit the parties interested in the property.


§ 493. When bond to be given by guardians, &c. —infant marriti
women to answer. —Subject to the provisions of §§ [491, (Act 1892,
page 57)], 496 and 497, and excepting the cases mentioned in subsec
tions 1 and 2 of § 489—
1. The guardian of each infant, the committee of each person of
unsound mind, and the husband or next friend of each married woman,
must, before the sale is ordered (a), execute a bond to the infant, infant
married woman, or person of unsound mind, with at least two sureties,
worth not less than double the value of the estate to be sold (b). in sub
stance as follows: "We, , principal, and , sureties, bind our
selves to that the said , as guardian [or committee or husband
or next friend], will faithfully discharge all his duties as such, and will
comply with the judgments and orders of the court in the action, and
will account for, pay, and deliver, to the said all money or prop
erty due or belonging to him (or her) when required "(c).
2. The court shall indorse its approval on said bond (d), which shall
be recorded with the order of sale, and certified by the clerk of said
court, who shall deliver it to the clerk of the county court; and it shall,
by him, be recorded and properly indexed.
3. If the bond be not given, any order of sale, and any sale or convey,
ance made under such order, shall be absolutely void and of no effect (/).
4. In an action against an infant married woman, no order of sale
shall be made until she file an answer consenting to the sale and
acknowledge it, on privy examination, before the court, or the judge
thereof, or a commissioner appointed by the court.
[5. In the case mentioned in §491, the court ordering the sale
shall, by its commissioner, retain the custody and control of the fund
realized by the sale until the same is reinvested in real estate, or in such
other property as the funds of persons under disability may be invested
by authority of law, and the court shall order the money to be paid, by
its commissioner, directly to the person from whom the purchase for
reinvestment is made, and to no other person, and in which case no
bond shall be required. 

§494. Sale and conveyance of property. — 1. The court shall appoint
a suitable person, as commissioner, to execute its judgment (a).
2. The court shall cause the title of the property to be conveyed by
a commissioner to the purchaser, without warranty.
3. The conveyance must be acknowledged before and approved by
the court, and be certified by its clerk to the clerk of the county court
for record.
4. Investment of proceeds. —In the actions for investment authorized
by § 489, the court shall order the proceeds of sales to be invested,
subject to its approval, in real estate in or out of this State, or in bonds
of the United States or of this State, or in the stock of a bank of this
State, subject to the same uses, trusts, and limitations, as the estate sold
was subject to.
5. Preservation and disbursement of proceeds. —In the actions men
tioned in subsections 3 and 4 of § 489, the court shall make proper
orders for the preservation and disbursement of the proceeds of the
sale.
6. Proi'isions as to death of owner during infancy, &c. —If the owner
of real estate which may have been sold under the provisions of this
chapter die during infancy; or, being of unsound mind, die intestate;
or, being an adult married woman, die without having received the
proceeds of sale upon her written request, and upon privy exami
ation as is authorized by this chapter, or without disposing in the
manner authorized by law of the property in which the proceeds may
have been invested, the person who would have been entitled to the
property, if it had not been sold, shall be entitled to the proceeds, or
to the property in which they may have been invested.
7. Provisions as to share of joint owner. —All persons interested in
the property must be made parties ; and, if objection to the sale be
made by a defendant having a joint interest, his share shall not be
sold (b), but the property may be divided, and a sale of the shares of
those desiring it may be ordered, if such division and sale can be made
without materially impairing the value of the property or of the plaintiff's
interest therein.
8. When consent of trustee necessaty. —If a deed or will give to a trus
tee a discretionary power to sell the property, the court shall not have
power to order a sale of it without the consent of the trustee.

§ 495. Compensation for dower. —If a woman have a vested or con
tingent right to dower in land ordered to be sold pursuant to the pro
visions of this chapter, the court, with her consent, to be taken upon
privy examination if she be married and of sound mind, or without her
consent if she be of unsound mind, may order a sale of the land free
from her right ; and shall provide for reasonable compensation to her
out of the proceeds of sale, or that she shall have the same right in
property purchased with the proceeds as she had in the property sold.
[By act of March 17, 1902 [Acts 1902, p. 48), § 495 was amended by
adding the following section :
If a woman have a vested or contingent right to dower in land sought
to be sold, under section 490, she shall be made a party to the action,
brought to sell such land, and the court may, with or without her
consent, order a sale of the land free from her right ; and shall provide
for a reasonable compensation to her out of the proceeds of sale, or
that she shall have the same right in property purchased with the
proceeds as she had in the property sold.

§496. I. When bond, &c, dispensed with. —In the action mentioned
• in subsection i of § 490 neither the bond nor the privy examination
provided for in this chapter shall be required.
2. Sale of a joint owner s share. —If the share of a joint owner be
of less probable value than one hundred dollars, a sale of it may be
ordered, though the owner of a share worth more than one hundred
dollars may not consent to a sale.
This provision, as well as the next preceding one, obviously refers to §490, subs. 1.
§ 497 [543]- When pitrcltase-money to remain lien on land until dis
abilities are removed, &c. — I. In the action mentioned in subsection 2
of § 490, the share of an infant, or of a person of unsound mind, shall
not be paid by the purchaser; but shall remain a lien on the land
bearing interest until the infant become of age, or the person of un
sound mind become of sound mind, or until the guardian of the infant,
or the committee of the person of unsound mind, execute bond as is
required by § 493 (a)
2. The infant upon becoming of age, or the person of unsound mind
upon becoming of sound mind, or the guardian or committee of the
infant or person of unsound mind upon executing bond, may receive
the proceeds; but, if the infant be a married woman, the provisions of
subsection 6 of § 494 must be complied with.
3. The proceeds when received by a married woman shall be her
separate property.
4. The court may permit the guardian or committee, without ex
ecuting the bond above mentioned, or the married woman, though she
be an infant, to receive the interest on the money until it is paid.

§ 498. Who mayjoin in action for sale and investment. —Two or more
persons, either of whom can bring the action mentioned in subsection 5
of § 489, may join therein against defendants who jointly own the prop
erty mentioned in the petition.

§499 [546 to 556]. I. By circuit or county court, on petition. — A
person desiring a division of land held jointly (a) with others, or an allot
ment of dower(^), may file in the circuit court or county court of the
county in which the land or the greater part thereof lies a petition con
taining a description of the land, a statement of the names of those
having an interest in it, and the amount of such interest, with a prayer
for the division or allotment ; and, thereupon, all persons interested in
the property who have not united in the petition shall be summoned to
answer on the first day of the next term of the court (c). The written
evidences of the title to the land, or copies thereof, if there be any,
must be filed with the petition.

2. Provisions as to persons under disability. —The statutory guardian
of an infant, committee of a person of unsound mind, and husband of
a married woman, may file or unite in the petition, in the names of, and
in conjunction with, such infant, person of unsound mind, or married
woman; and, if the petition be against an infant, person of unsound
mind, or married woman, the guardian, committee, or husband may
appear and defend for them : if they fail to do so, the court shall appoint
a discreet person for that purpose.
3. When court may make order. —Upon such a petition by all inter
ested in the property ; or upon the service of a summons on all who
have an interest in the property and have not united in the petition, ten
days before the commencement of the term, the court may order the
division, or allotment of dower, according to the rights of the parties.
4. Commissioners to divide, &c. —The court shall appoint three com
petent persons to make the partition, or allotment of dower, or both,
having a due regard to the rights of all parties interested. Before pro
ceeding to act, the commissioners shall take an oath to discharge their
duty impartially.
5. The order of appointment shall fix a time and place for the
meeting of the commissioners, who shall meet accordingly; but, if pre
vented from meeting at the time and place so fixed, they may meet as
soon thereafter as convenient ; and may adjourn to such other time and
place as they may agree upon, until their duty shall be performed.
6. They shall survey and allot to the parties their respective interests
in the land, and make report thereof to the court ; which may either
confirm, set aside, or remand the report to the commissioners for cor
rection 
7. Commissioner to convey or divide. —If the report be confirmed, a
commissioner to be appointed for the purpose shall, by deed, convey to
each party the land allotted to him.
8. Said report and deed shall be recorded in the clerk's office of the
county court, in proper books to be kept for that purpose ; and, if the
report be confirmed by the circuit court, it and the deed shall be cer
tified by the clerk of that court to the clerk of the county court, for
record.
9. Two of the commissioners [to divide, &c.,] may act, if one refuses
or fail to do so.
10. How case to be tried. —A party summoned may, by answer, con
trovert the allegations of the petition or contest the rights claimed
therein ; and, thereupon, the case shall be tried and decided as an
ordinary action, but without the intervention of a jury 
11. Removal of case to circuit court. —If the action be pending in the
county court when such answer is filed, it maybe removed, on motion
of either party, to the circuit court, for trial ; and the clerk shall, there
upon, deliver the papers pertaining to the case to the clerk of the circuit
court.
12. Appeal. —An appeal maybe taken to the Court of Appeals from
a final judgment, whether rendered by the circuit court or county court.
1 3. Apportionment of costs. —The costs of the action shall be ap
portioned among the parties in the ratio of their interests, except that
the costs arising from a contest of fact or law shall be adjudged against
the unsuccessful party.
14. No verification of the pleadings shall be required.
15. Pay of commissioners. —The commissioners shall be paid a reason
able compensation, to be taxed as costs.
16. Equity-jurisdiction not affected. —This section does not affect the
jurisdiction of courts of equity to make partition or allot dower.
§ 1. That where land is held under deed or will, vesting a life estate
in two or more persons, or in trust for their benefit, with remainder as
to the share of each to his or her children or descendants, it shall be lawful
for a court of equity, on the petition of one of such life tenants and his
or her children or descendants who would then be entitled to such
remainder, all persons having interests in such lands being made parties,
to partition such land so as to set apart to such life tenants and children
or descendants so much of said land to which they shall be entitled
in severalty ; and to that alone shall attach the title or interest of afterborn
children or descendants in whom, by the terms of said deed or
will, such remainder would vest.
§ 2. Where part of the land so held shall be situated in this State,
and part in another State, the court may, in making partition, take into
consideration the value of all of said land, and set apart to those resident
in this State land in this State equal to their full share of all of said
land, securing, by proper deeds and orders to the non-residents, release
of the interest of such residents in the lands in the other State or Ter
ritory

§ 500 [557 to 560]. W/ien revivor is unnecessary. —Upon the death
of a party to an action, or the cessation of his power as a personal rep
resentative or other fiduciary—
1. If the right of action survive to or against the remaining parties,
the action may proceed, without revivor, after statement, on the record,
of such death or cessation of power (a).
2. Though the right of action do not survive to or against the remain
ing parties, the court may render judgment, as between them, if it can
do so without prejudice to others 
 When revivor to be made. —If the right of action survive or pass to
or against a person who is not a party to the action (a) ; or pass, other
wise than by survivorship, to or against a person who is a party to
the action (l>), the action may be revived, by an order of the court,
for or against such person.

§ 501 [561]. Revivor on motion or amended pleading. —[The order may
be made on the motion of any party to the action, or of his representa
tive or successor, suggesting the death or cessation of power, which,
with the name and capacity of the representative or successor, shall be
stated in the order. Or any party to the action, or his representative
or successor, may file in the action a petition against the other parties,
stating facts necessary to authorize a revivor, with a prayer therefor,
upon which summons may be issued and served, or a warning order
may be made under like restrictions, and with the like effect as if issued
or made upon original petition. (Act 1894, p. 172.)]
The act of 1894 seems merely declaratory of what was the law before. See I Bush,
496.
§ 502 [562]. Service of order of revivor, &c. —If the order be made
by consent of the parties, the action shall forthwith stand revived ; and,
if not made by consent (a), the order shall be served, in the same man
ner as a summons, upon the party adverse to the one making the
motion. And, at the first term commencing not less than ten days
after such service, the party upon whom it is made may show cause
against the revivor ; and, if sufficient cause be not then shown, the action
shall stand revived 
§ 5°3 [5^3]- Notice of motion. —If ten days' notice have been given
to the representative or successor of the party who died, or whose
powers ceased, of the motion by the adverse party for an order to revive
the action in his name ; or to the adverse party, if the motion be by
such representative or successor; and due return be made of the service
of the notice, the court may, if sufficient cause be not shown to the
contrary, make an order reviving the action in the name of such
party : whereupon, the action shall stand revived.
§ 504 [564]. Affidavit for revivor against non-residents, &c. —If it be
shown by the affidavit of the person applying for an order of revivor,
that the person against whom it is asked is a non-resident of this State;
or has been absent from it four months ; or has left it to avoid the service
of the order; or so conceals himself that it can not be served upon
him ; or that his name and place of residence are unknown to the
affiant, the court may make an order warning him to appear on the first
day of its next term, commencing not less than sixty days after the
making of the order ; and the action shall then stand revived against
such person, unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary.
§ 505 [566]. Revivor of personal actions against heirs or deinsees. —If
a year elapse after the death of a defendant, and no person qualify as
his personal representative, the action may be revived against his real
representatives or any of them.

§ 506 [567]. Revivor of real actions against heirs or devisees. —Upon
the death of a defendant in an action for the recovery of real property
only, or which concerns only his rights or claims to such property, the
action may be revived against his real representatives or any of them,
and an order therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in
the preceding sections of this title.
This section does not apply to an action to enforce a vendor's lien on land. 14
Bush, 683-84.
§ 507 [568]. When order can not be made within six months. —An order
to revive an action against the personal representative of a defendant (a),
or against him and the real representatives of the defendant (d), can not
be made, unless by consent, within six months after the qualification of
the personal representative.

§ 508 [569]. Limitation of revivor against representatives or successors.
An order to revive an action against the representative or successor of
a defendant shall not be made, without his consent, unless within one
year after the time when it could have been first made

§ 509 [570]. Limitation of revivor by representatives or successors.
An order to revive an action in the name of the representative or suc
cessor of a plaintiff may be made forthwith, but shall not be made
without the consent of the defendant after the expiration of one year
from the time the order might have been first made ; except that, if
the defendant shall also have died, or his powers have ceased, in the
meantime, the order of revivor on both sides may be made in the
period limited in the last section.

§ 510 [571]. When case to be stricken from docket. —If it appear to
the court, by affidavit, that either party to an action has been dead, or,
if he sue or be sued as a personal representative, that his powers have
ceased, for a period so long that the action can not be revived in the
name of his representative or successor without the consent of both
parties, it shall order the action to be stricken from the docket

§ 511 [572]. Revivor by plaintiff's representatives maybe required
forthwith. —At any term of the court succeeding the death of the
plaintiff, whilst the action remains on the docket, the defendant, having
given to th: plaintiff's proper representatives, in whose names the
action might be revived, ten days' notice of the application therefor,
may have an order to strike the action from the docket, and for costs
against the estate of the plaintiff, unless the action be forthwith revived
§ 5 12 [573]- Revivor shall not postpone trial. —When, by the pro
visions of the preceding sections, an action stands revived, the trial
thereof shall not be postponed by reason of the revivor.

§ 513 [574]. What court may reverse, vacate, or modify judgment.
A judgment (a) rendered in the circuit court may be reversed, vacated,
or modified, either by it or by the Court of Appeals 
§ 514 [575]. Reversal by Court of Appeals. —A judgment may be
reversed or modified by the Court of Appeals for errors appearing in
the record.
§ 5 1 5 [576]. Reversal to be by appeal. —The proceedings to obtain such
reversal or modification shall be by appeal prosecuted as prescribed by law.
§516 [577]. When clerical misprision is ground for appeal —A mis
prision of the clerk (a) shall not be a ground for an appeal, until the
same shall have been presented and acted upon in the circuit court 
§ 5 17 [578]. What shall be deemed a clerical misprision. —It shall be
deemed a clerical misprision (a) —
1 . To render judgment before the action stood for trial pursuant to
the provisions of this Code (b).
2. To render judgment against an infant — excepting married
women —or persons of unsound mind, until a defence or report is filed
pursuant to the provisions of § 36, subsection 

§ 518 [579]. Power of court over judgment after term. —The court in
which a judgment has been rendered shall have power, after the expi
ration of the term, to vacate or modify it (a) —
1. By granting a new trial for the cause and in the manner pre
scribed in § 344 {b).
2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants con,
1 structively summoned, as is prescribed in chapter i of title 10 (c).
3. For misprisions of the clerk (d).
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the
judgment (e).
5. For erroneous proceedings against a person under disability,
except coverture, if the condition of such defendant do not appear in
the record, nor the error in the proceedings (/).
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the
action (g).
7. For unavoidable casualty or misfortune, preventing the party
^/ 1 from appearing or defending (// ).
8. For errors in a judgment, shown by an infant within twelve
months after arriving at full age, as is prescribed in § 391 

§ 519 [580]. How and when clerical misprisions to be corrected. —The
proceedings to correct misprisions of the clerk (a) shall be by motion (t/),
upon reasonable notice to the adverse party or his attorney in the
■2-*^ action (c). The motion to vacate a judgment because of its rendition
before the action regularly stood for trial can not be made after the
expiration of the first three days of the succeeding term 

§ 520 [581]. Action to correct error after term. —The proceedings to
vacate or modify the judgment on the grounds mentioned in subsections
4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, of § 518 shall be by petition, verified by affidavit, set
ting forth the judgment, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the
defence to the action if the party applying was defendant. On the
petition the proceedings shall be the same as those in the action in
which the judgment was rendered.

§521 [582]. Conditions on which error may be corrected. —A judg
ment shall not be vacated on motion or petition, until it be adjudged
that there is a valid defence to the action in which the judgment is
rendered (a) ; or, if the plaintiff seek its vacation, that there is a valid
cause of action ; and, if a judgment be modified, all liens and securities
obtained under it shall be preserved to the modified judgment.

§ 522 [583]. Grounds for opening case may be first decided. —The
court may decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify a judgment
before deciding upon the validity of the defence or cause of action.

§ 523 [584]- When injunction may be granted. —The party seeking to
vacate or modify a judgment may obtain an injunction suspending pro
ceedings on the whole or part thereof, upon its being rendered probable,
by affidavit or by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to
have such judgment or order vacated or modified.

§ 524 [585]. Injunction against premature judgment. —If the judgment
was rendered before the action stood for trial, the suspension may be
granted as provided in the last section, although no valid defence to the
action is shown ; and the court shall make such orders concerning the
executions to be issued on the judgment, or on any replevy or forth
coming bond taken under it, as shall give to the defendant the same
rights of delay that he would have had if the judgment had been ren
dered at the proper time.

§ 525 [586]. Affirmative must be prozwd. — The party holding the £0 / *?
affirmative of an issue must produce the evidence to prove it.
§ 526 [587]. Burt/ien of proof. —The burthen of proof in the whole
action lies on the party who would be defeated if no evidence were
given on either side.

§ 527 [588]. When alleged writing may be read against a party. —A
writing purporting to have been made (a) by a party, if referred to in
and filed with a pleading of his adversary, may be read as genuine
against him, unless he deny its genuineness by affidavit before the trial
is begun 

§ 528 [589]. Subpeena defined. —The process by. which the attend
ance of a witness is required is a subpoena. It is a writ directed to
the sheriff, requiring him to summon the person named therein to attend
at a particular time and place, to testify as a witness. It may, when
the court or the judge thereof so directs, require the witness to bring
with him any book, writing, or other thing, under his control, which he
is bound by law to produce in evidence.
§ 529 [590]. When subpeena to be issued by clerk. —If the attendance
of the witness be required before the court, or on the trial of an issue
ordered by it, the subpoena shall be issued by the clerk on the request
of either party.
§ 530. Other officers who may issue snbpcenas. —If the attendance of
a witness be required before a commissioner of the court, the subpeena
shall be issued by the commissioner.
§ 531 [591]- If the attendance of the witness be required for the
purpose of giving his deposition, the subpeena shall be issued by an
officer authorized to take the deposition.
§ 532 [592]- How subpoena to be scn>ed. —The service of a subpoena
is made by showing the original and delivering a copy or a ticket con
taining the substance thereof to the witness.

§ 533 [593]- Who may serve subpoena. —A subpoena may be served
by any officer by whom a summons might be served, and his return
thereon shall be proof of the service. It may also be served by any
person of full age —whose affidavit indorsed thereon shall be proof of
the service ; or the witness may acknowledge service in writing on the
subpoena.
§ 5 34 [594]- When witness not bound to attend court or give a depo
sition. —Subject to the provisions of § 556, a witness shall not be com
pelled to attend for examination upon the trial of a civil action, if he
reside more than twenty miles from the place where the court sits in
which the action is pending ; nor to attend to give his deposition out of
the county in which he resides, or in which the subpoena is served on
him.
§ 535 [595]- Punishment for disobedience. —Disobedience of a sub
poena ; intentional evasion of a service of it, by concealment, or oth
erwise ; concealment or removal of a minor to prevent service of a
subpoena upon him, or preventing his attendance as a witness, by a
person having control of him ; or a refusal to be sworn or to answer as
a witness, or to subscribe an affidavit or deposition when lawfully
ordered, may be punished as a contempt of the court or officer by
whom the attendance or testimony of the witness is required.
§ 536 [596]. Liability of witness for costs and damages. —When a
witness is brought before a court for contempt by disobedience of a
subpoena, and it is shown that the legal fees for travel and one day's
attendance were paid or tendered to him when the subpoena was served,
and that he failed to attend without reasonable cause, the court may
summarily order him to pay the party, on whose behalf he was sum
moned, the costs occasioned to him by the disobedience of the subpoena,
not exceeding twenty dollars ; and he shall also be liable for any dam
ages occasioned by the failure to attend.
§ 537 [597]- Arrest of witness for disobedience. —If a witness fail to
attend in obedience to a subpoena, the court or officer before whom his
attendance was required may issue a warrant for arresting and bringing
him before the court or officer, at a time and place to be fixed in the
warrant, to give his testimony, and answer for the contempt. If the
warrant be not for immediately bringing the witness before the court or
officer, a sum shall be fixed in which the witness may give bond, with
surety, for his appearance ; and, if no sum be fixed by the court or
officer, it shall be one hundred dollars.
§ 538 [598, 599]- Extent ofpunishment for disobedience. —The punish
ment for the contempt mentioned in § 535 shall be by fine, not ex
ceeding thirty dollars, and imprisonment, not exceeding twenty-four
hours ; but an officer imposing such punishment shall promptly report
his action, and the reasons therefor, to the court in which the action is
pending ; and the court may vacate or modify the order of the officer,
and shall render judgment for the fine imposed by the officer, or so much
thereof as is approved by the court. If a witness refuse to testify, or
to be sworn, or to give a deposition, he shall be imprisoned so long as
he refuses ; and, if the court finally adjourn before he submits, he shall
remain in prison until the next term, or until he testifies before an
officer who is authorized to take his testimony. The final disposition
of the case in which he so refuses shall discharge him from imprison
ment.
§ 539 [600]. Warrant of commitment: who to serve warrants. —
Every warrant of commitment to prison issued by a court or officer,
pursuant to this chapter, must specify particularly the cause of the
commitment; and, if it be for refusing to answer a question, such
question must be stated in the warrant. And every warrant to arrest
or commit a witness must be directed to the sheriff of the county where
he may be, and be executed in the same manner as process from the
court.
§ 540 [601]. Testimony of witness confined in jail, &c. —A person con
fined in any jail, work-house, or house of correction, in this State, may,
by order of court, be required to be produced for oral examination in
the county where he is confined ; but in all other cases his testimony
must be taken by deposition.
§ 541 [602]. While his deposition is being taken, he shall remain
under the control of the officer having him in custody, who shall afford
reasonable facilities for the taking of the deposition.
§ 542 [603]. Actions against witnesses. —A witness shall not be liable
to be sued in a county in which he does not reside, by being served
with a summons in such county while going, returning, or attending in
obedience to a subpoena.

§ 543 [604]. Hcnv testimony may be taken. —The testimony of wit
nesses may be taken by affidavit, deposition, or oral examination.
In a wife's action for divorce, oral testimony is admissible as to allowance of support
ftndenle lile. 78 Ay., 469.
§ 544 [605]. Affidavit defined. —An affidavit is a written declaration,
under oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
§ 545 [606]. Deposition defined. —A deposition is a written decla
ration, under oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for the pur
pose of enabling him to attend and cross-examine ; or, upon written
interrogatories.
§ 546 [607]. Oral examination defined. —An oral examination is an
examination in the presence of the tribunal which is to decide the fact
or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the tribunal from the lips
of the witness.
§ 547 [608]. Afiidavits, for what purposes used. —An affidavit may
be read to verify a pleading; to prove the service of a summons, notice,
or other process, in an action ; to obtain a provisional remedy, an ex
amination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or a warning order; or
upon a motion ; and in any other case permitted by law.

§ 548 [609]. Cross-examination of person making affidavit for pro
visional remedy . —If a provisional remedy be granted upon an affidavit,
and a motion be made to discharge or vacate it, the party making
the motion may, by written notice to the adverse party, or by order or
rule of court, require the production of the affiant for cross-exam
ination ; whereupon, the party notified shall produce the affiant, within
ten days, before an officer authorized to take depositions, at a time and
place of which he shall give the adverse party three days' notice. I!
the affiant be not produced, his affidavit shall be suppressed; and, if
produced, he may be examined by either party.
§ 549 [610]. Before whom affidavits to be made. —An affidavit may
be made—
1. In this State, before a judge of a court, a justice of the peace,
notary public, examiner, clerk of a court, or master-commissioner.
2. Out of this State, before any -officer or person who may be
authorized, pursuant to § 564, to take depositions.
§ 5 50 [6 1 1 ] . By whom affidavits may be made. — 1 . Any affidavit which
this Code requires or authorizes a party to make may, unless otherwise
expressed, be made by his agent or attorney, if he be absent from the
county (a).
2. [If an action be brought by two or more plaintiffs, an affidavit for
a warning order may be made by any one of them who may be in the
county : Provided, That the affidavit shall state the affiant's belief that
the other plaintiffs who reside in the county are also ignorant of such
of the facts as are unknown to the affiant. Act April 14, 1880].
3. Every other affidavit in behalf of two or more parties united in
interest may, unless otherwise expressed (b), be made by one of them,
subject, with reference to pleadings, to subsection 4 of § 117.
4. No affidavit in behalf of two or more parties united in interest
shall, unless otherwise expressed, be made by an agent or attorney,
unless all of them be absent from the county.
5. The affidavit of an agent or attorney must state the absence from
the county of the party or parties for whom it is made, and the fact
that the affiant is agent or attorney 
§ 5 5 1 [612]. How affidavits to be subscribed and certified. —Every affi
davit shall be subscribed by the affiant ; and the certificate of the officer
or person before whom it is made shall be written separately, following
the signature of the affiant, and shall be proof of the time and manner
of the affidavit being made.

§ 552 [613]. When depositions may, and when they must be used. — 1.
Depositions or certified copies thereof, if they be lost, may be used
upon the trial of any issue of fact in an equitable action, unless such
issue be transferred pursuant to Title II ; and upon the trial of any
issue in an ordinary action, if such issue be transferred pursuant to said
title ; and upon any motion, or upon a reference to a commissioner of
any question relating to such issue (a).
2. Subject to the provisions of § 708, upon any issue of fact which
arises upon the pleadings in an equitable action, unless such issue be
transferred pursuant to Title II, or upon the pleadings in an ordinary
action, if such issue be transferred pursuant to said title, proof must be
made by depositions or exhibits : Provided, that the genuineness of
exhibits may be proved orally in court as heretofore allowed by law (b),
and that the court may require oral testimony upon a trial by jury (V)

§ 553. Retaking of depositions. —The deposition of a witness shall
not be retaken without leave of the court [except in rebuttal. 

§ 554 [614]. Whose deposition may be used in any case. —A deposition
may be read upon the trial of an issue in any action, if, at the time of
the trial, the witness reside twenty miles or more from the place where
the court sits in which the action is pending ; or be absent from this
State; or be its Governor, Secretary, Register, Auditor, or Treasurer;
or a judge or clerk of a court ; or a postmaster ; or a president, cashier,
teller, or clerk of a bank ; or a practicing physician, surgeon, or
lawyer ; or a keeper, officer, or guard of the penitentiary ; or be dead ;
or be of unsound mind, having been of sound mind when his depo
sition was taken ; or be prevented from attending the trial by infirmity
or imprisonment ; or be in the military service of the United States or
of this State.
§ 5 5 5 1 5]- When witness not bound to attend court. —A witness whose
deposition might be used shall not be compelled to attend in court for
oral examination, unless he failed, when duly summoned, to give his
deposition.
§ 556 [616]. Upon the affidavit of a party, and the written state
ment of his attorney, that the testimony of a witness is important, and
that the just and proper effect of his testimony can not in a reasonable
degree be obtained without an oral examination in court, the court may,
-at its discretion, order the personal attendance of the witness to be
•coerced, although such witness may otherwise be exempt from personal
attendance by the provisions of this Code.
§ 557 [617]. W/ten parties may commence taking depositions. —The
plaintiff may commence taking depositions immediately after the service
of the summons (a) ; and the defendant, immediately after filing his
answer.

§ 558 [618]. Depositions de bene esse. —A party may take the depo
sition of any witness de bene esse, and it may be used under the circum
stances prescribed in § 554.

§ 559 [619]- Appointment of examiners. —The circuit judges shall
appoint two or more examiners in each county of their respective dis
tricts, who, before acting, shall be sworn in open court to discharge
faithfully and impartially the duties of their office; and who shall hold
their offices at the pleasure of the court.
§ 560 [620]. Where examiners to keep office. —An examiner's office
shall be kept in or near the county scat ; and, if there be more than one,
the others at such place as the court may direct.
§ 561 [622]. Examiners may administer oaths, &c. —Examiners may
administer oaths and give certificates thereof in all cases in which jus
tices of the peace may do so.
§ 562 [623 to 626]. Other officers who may take depositions. —Depo
sitions taken in this State, to be used in its courts, shall be taken before
an examiner, a judge or clerk of a court, a justice of the peace, or a
notary public ; and the laws relating to examiners shall apply to each
of these officers.
§ 563 [627). Officer not bound to leave office to take. —It shall not be
the duty of an officer to go out of his office to take depositions, but he
may take them at any place in the county for which he is appointed.
§ 564 [628]. Who may take depositions out of this State. —Depositions,
may be taken, out of this State, before a commissioner appointed by
the Governor thereof ; or any other person empowered by a commission
directed to him by consent of the parties or by order of the court; or
before a judge of a court, a justice of the peace, mayor of a city, or
notary public.

§ 565 [629]. Depositions to be taken on notice or interrogatories. —
Depositions shall be taken upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party (a) or upon interrogatories.

§ 566 [630]. Requisites of notiee, —The notice must be in writing,
signed by the party giving it, or his attorney ; must be addressed to the
party on whom it is to be served, and specify the time (a) and place (b)
of taking the deposition, and the action or proceeding in which it is to
be used (e) ; and must also state the name of the proposed witness, if
the deposition be taken out of the county where the court sits, unless
it be taken to prove a law, custom, or usage.

§ 567 [632]. What is reasonable time. —A notice shall be deemed
reasonable that allows one day for each thirty miles which the party
will have to travel, and one day for preparation, if the distance be less
than one hundred miles, and two days, if it be more. If the distance
exceed fifty miles, and the usual mode of travel, for the whole or a part
of the distance, be by steamboat, railroad cars, or other public con
veyance, the time ordinarily required by such mode of travel, with the
days given for preparation, shall be deemed sufficient in the notice. If
the distance be less than thirty miles, a notice which gives to the party
a reasonable opportunity to be present shall be sufficient (a).

§ 568 [633]. Adjournment to another time and place. —If a notice be given
to take a deposition, and the attendance of the witness can not be procured
at the place specified in the notice, owing to his infirmity or imprison
ment, the taking of the deposition may be adjourned to the next day,
and to some other convenient place ; and a written notice of the adjourn
ment shall be conspicuously posted, at the place specified in the notice,
before noon of the day on which the deposition was to have been taken.

§ 569 [634]. Adjournment to anotlicr place. —If a notice be given to
take a deposition, but from any cause not mentioned in the last section
the deposition can not be taken at the place specified in the notice, an
adjournment to the nearest convenient place shall be made; and a writ
ten notice of the adjournment shall be conspicuously posted, at the
place specified in the notice, for one hour before the deposition is com
menced at the place to which the adjournment is made.
§ 570 [635]. Explanation of cause of adjournment. — 1. A deposition
taken pursuant to § 568 shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
party taking it or of his attorney, stating the cause of the non-attend
ance of the witness (a), and by the officer's certificate that notice of the
adjournment was posted as is required by said section.
2. A deposition taken pursuant to § 569 shall be accompanied by
the officer's certificate stating the cause of the adjournment and that
notice thereof was posted as is required by said section.

§ 57 1 [636]. When parly notified may require taking on interrogatories.
If more than three days' notice to take a deposition be required by
§ 567, the party to whom the notice is given may, by notice to the
adverse party or his attorney, served on the day when the first notice is
given, or on the following day, require the deposition to be taken upon
interrogatories.
§ 572 [637]. Taking on interrogatories by consent. —Depositions may
be taken upon interrogatories with the consent of parties who are free
from disability ; or the consent of the guardian, curator, committee, [or
husband,] of a party who is under disability.

§ 573. When court may permit or require taking on interrogatories. —
The court, on motion of either party, may permit or require depositions
to be taken upon interrogatories—
1. If the ascertainment of a fact or the stating of an account be re
ferred to a commisioner.
2. If any of the parties against whom a deposition is to be read be
defendants who may have been constructively summoned and have not
appeared ; or be under any disability other than coverture, or infancy
and coverture combined.
3. If the parties against whom the deposition is to be read be
numerous, and have not appointed an agent or attorney residing in
this State known to the party taking the deposition.
§ 574. Wlien law requires taking on interrogatories. —If all of the parties
against whom a deposition is to be read have been constructively sum
moned and have not appeared, or be defendants and under disability,
other than coverture or infancy and coverture combined, the deposition
must be taken upon interrogatories [except in actions and proceedings
for divorce and alimony, and the custody of children when involved in
such a suit. Act May 18, 1886].
§575 [638]. Filing and caption of intet rogatories—notice of filing—
cross-interrogatories. —I. In the cases mentioned in §§571, 573, and
574, the interrogatories shall be filed in the clerk's office; the caption
thereof shall state the name and place of residence of the witness;
notice of the filing thereof shall be given pursuant to §§ 624 to 633,
both inclusive, and shall be filed in the office of the clerk ; and, until a
commission to take the deposition be issued, the party notified may
file cross-interrogatories.
II. If no cross-interrogatories be filed, the clerk shall file the following :
1. What is your age, occupation, and place of residence?
2. Are all of your statements in the foregoing answers made from
your personal knowledge? If not, which of them are made from
information or belief, and what is the source of your information, or
the foundation of your belief?
3. Have you any interest in this action direct or indirect? If any,
what is it ?
4. Have you stated all you know concerning this action? If not,
state what you have omitted ?
§ 576 [639]- Commissions to take depositions. —No commission shall
issue until ten days shall have elapsed after the giving of notice pur
suant to $ 575, unless cross-interrogatories be sooner filed.
§ 577 [640]. After the interrogatories have remained the due length
of time in the clerk's office, one or more commissions, at the request of
the party, shall be issued by the clerk, with copies of the interrogatories
and cross-interrogatories annexed, authorizing the person to whom the
commission is directed to examine witnesses on them ; and the commis
sion may be directed generally " to any officer authorized to take depo
sitions in or out of this State.

§ 578 [641). Subpoena for witness. —Upon filing with an officer
authorized to take depositions a notice duly served, or a commission
with interrogatories to take a deposition, it shall be the duty of the
officer to issue his subpcena requiring the witness, whose deposition is
desired, to appear, at a time and place to be named in the subpcena, for
examination.
§ 579 [642J. Powers and duties of officer taking deposition. —The officer
before whom the deposition is taken shall decide, summarily, all objec
tions to questions (a) ; or, if in doubt, shall permit the questions to be
answered, noting the objection in the deposition. He shall have power
to prevent insulting questions being put to a witness, and to stop a
course of interrogation pursued unreasonably long and for mere vex
ation and delay.

§ 580 [643]. Writing witness' statements. — The statements of the
witness shall be written by him in the presence of the officer taking the
deposition, or by the officer in the presence of the witness.
§ 581 [644]. Parties not to be present. If a deposition be taken upon
interrogatories, neither party nor his agent or attorney shall be present
at the examination of the witness.
§ 582 [645]. How depositions to be certified. —The officer's certificate
shall state when and where the deposition was taken (a) ; that the wit
ness was duly sworn before giving it, and that it was written and sub
scribed by him in the officer's presence, or was written by the officer in
presence of the witness and read to and subscribed by the witness in
presence of the officer; and shall also state whether or not either of the
parties, and, if either, which of them, was present in person or by
agent or attorney during examination of the witness 

§ 583 [646] Hoiv depositions to be sent to clerk. —Excepting depo
sitions taken by a guardian ad litem and by persons suing in fon/ia
pauperis—which shall be delivered or sent without prepayment of fees
or postage—the officer, upon payment of his fees and necessary postage,
shall deliver the depositions to the clerk of the court in which, or the
justice before whom, the action is pending ; or shall send them by mail
or private conveyance (a), in a sealed envelope, directed to such clerk
or justice, with an indorsement showing the style of the action and
that it contains depositions; but, if sent by private conveyance, the
person by whom they are sent must make oath before the clerk or
justice to whom they are delivered that they have not been opened by
him or any person in their transit. The clerk or justice shall indorse on
the depositions the time and mode of their reception, and the affidavit,
if any, of the person delivering them.

§ 584 [648]. Fees for subpeena, &c. —For issuing a subpoena or war
rant of arrest, and for summoning or arresting a witness, the same fees
shall be paid as are allowed to clerks and sheriffs for similar services.

§ 585 [649]. Time offiling depositions. —No deposition shall be read
on a trial, unless before the commencement thereof, it be filed with the
papers of the case.
As to the former practice, see Cravens v. Harrison, 3 Lilt., 92.
§ 586 [650]. Exceptions to depositions. —Exceptions to depositions
shall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, filed with the
papers of the case, and noted on the record.

§ 587 [65 1]. When exceptions to be taken. — i . No exception, other than
to the competency of the witness, or to the relevancy or competency
of the testimony, shall be regarded, unless it be filed and noted on the
record before the commencement of the trial (a) and before or during
the first term of the court after the filing of the deposition.
2. Exceptions to the competency of the witness, or to the com
petency or relevancy of the testimony, may be made before or during
the trial 

§ 588 [652]. Decisions on exceptions before trial — 'withdrawal of
depositions for re-certificate. —The court, on the motion of either party,
shall decide upon exceptions, other than those for incompetency or
irrelevancy, before the commencement of the trial ; and, if the ex
amining officer's certificate be defective, whether exceptions have been
sustained or filed or not—
1. The party for whom the deposition was taken, upon tendering to
the clerk or justice, having custody of the deposition, money enough,
if any be necessary, to pay postage upon it to and from the examining
officer, may require the clerk or justice to deliver the deposition, or
mail it, under seal, with half of the sum of money so tendered, to the
examining officer.
2. The clerk or justice shall indorse upon the deposition the time of
delivering or mailing it, and the examining officer shall indorse upon it
the time and mode of its reception.
3. The examining officer shall amend his certificate, if he can do so
truthfully; and, whether he amend it or not, he shall return the depo
sition to the officer who sent it to him, and such officer shall act with
reference to it as is required by § 583.
§ 589 [653]. Waiving error in decisions upon exceptions. —Errors of
the court, in its decisions upon exceptions to depositions, are waived
unless excepted to.

§ 590 [654]. What is commencement of trial. —If the trial be by jury,
the swearing of the jury shall be deemed the commencement thereof.
SUBDIVISION V.
DEPOSITIONS TO BE USED IN OTHER STATES.
J 591. Provisions concerning.
§ 591 [655]. A party desiring to take depositions in this State, to be
used in judicial proceedings in other States, may produce to a judge of
the county court of the county where the witnesses reside a commission
authorizing the taking of such depositions or a notice duly served ;
whereupon, it shall be the duty of the judge to issue a subpoena requiring
the witnesses to attend at a specified time and place for examination ;
and, in case of their failure to attend or refusal to be sworn or to testify,
they may be punished as is provided in § 538.
[By similar proceedings before an examiner, justice of the peace, or
a notary public, depositions may be taken by such officers in this State,
to be used in judicial proceedings in other States; and the officer so
taking such depositions shall have the same powers in taking the same
as judges of the county courts now have ; but in cases of contempt and
the infliction of punishment for the same, or a failure upon the part of
the officer to punish for contempt, then it shall be the duty of the
officer, upon the motion of the witness or either party to the suit, to
promptly, in writing, report his actions and the reason therefor to the
judge of the county court for the county in which the deposition is
being taken ; and the court may change, modify, or vacate the order
of the officer, and shall render judgment for the fine imposed by the
officer or by himself, and he shall, in accordance with the judgment ren
dered, certify to the officer what further steps shall be taken. 

§ 592 [656]. Order in which proof is made on trial. —The party who
begins the case must, ordinarily, exhaust his evidence before the other
4 begins. But the order of proof shall be regulated by the court, so as
to expedite the trial, and enable the tribunal to obtain a clear view of
the whole evidence.
As to the order of proof see, further, g 3 1 7, subs. 3.
§ 593 [657]- Control of court over mode of interrogation. —The court
shall exercise a reasonable control over the mode of interrogation, so
as to make it rapid, distinct, as little annoying to the witness, and as
effective for the extraction of the truth, as may be; but, subject to this
control, the parties may put such legal and pertinent questions as they
may see fit. The court, however, may stop the production of further
evidence on a particular point, if the evidence upon it be already so
full as to preclude reasonable doubt.
§ 594 [658]. Direct and cross-examination. —The examination of a
witness by the party producing him is the direct examination ; his
examination, upon the same matter, by the adverse party is the crossexamination.
The direct examination must be completed before the
cross-examination begins, unless the court otherwise direct.
§ 595 [659]- Leading questions. —A question that suggests to the
witness the answer which the examining party desires is a leading ques
tion. On the direct examination, leading questions are not allowed,
except under special circumstances making it appear that the interests
of justice require it. On cross-examination, the adverse party may put
leading questions ; but, if he examine the witness on new matters, such
•examination is subject to the same rules as the direct examination.

§ 596 [660]. Impeachment or contradiction by a party of his witness. —
The party producing a witness is not allowed to impeach his credit by
evidence of bad character (a), unless it was indispensable that the party
should produce him ; but he may contradict him by other evidence,
and by showing that he has made statements different from his present
testimony (b).
§ 597 [661]. Impeachment of witness by adverse party. —A witness
may be impeached by the party against whom he is produced, by con- ,
tradictory evidence (a), by showing that he has made statements different
from his present testimony (/>), or by evidence that his general j- /
reputation for untruthfulness or immorality renders him unworthy of
belief (c) ; but not by evidence of particular wrongful acts (d), except
that it may be shown by the examination of a witness, or record of a
judgment, that he has been convicted of felony

§ 598 [662]. Proof of contradictory statements. —Before other evidence
can be offered of the witness having made at another time a different
statement, he must be inquired of concerning it, with the circumstances
of time, place, and persons present, as correctly as the examining party
can present them ; and, if it be in writing, it must be shown to the
witness, with opportunity to explain it

§ 599 [663]. Evidence of good cluuacter of witness. — Evidence of the
good character of a witness is inadmissible^ until his general reputation
has been impeached.

§ 600 [664]. Re examination of witness. —A witness once examined
can not be re-examined as to the same matter without leave of the
court. But he may be re-examined as to any new matter upon which
he has been examined by the adverse party. After the examination on
both sides is concluded, the witness can not be recalled without leave
of the court.
§601 [665]. Separating witnesses. —If either party require it, the £0^(7
judge may exclude from the court-room any witness of the adverse
party not at the time under examination, so that he may not hear the
testimony of the other witnesses (a). [But this rule shall not apply to
the parties to the action or the officers of the court. 

§ 602 [666]. Persons present may be compelled to testify. —A person
present before a court or before a judicial officer may be compelled to
testify in the same manner as if he were served with a subpoena.
§ 603 [667]. Calling judge orjuror as witness. —The judge or a juror
may be called as a witness ; but, in such case, it is in the discretion of
the court to suspend the trial and order it to take place before another
judge or jury; and, if a party know, when the jury are sworn, that a
juror is to be called by him as a witness, he shall then disclose it, and
the juror shall be excluded from the jury.
§ 604 [668]. Proof writing by witness. —A writing shown to a witness
may be inspected by the adverse party, and, if proved by the witness, (W <
it must be read to the jury before his testimony is closed ; otherwise, it
can not be read, unless the witness be recalled.

§ 605 [669]. Competency of witnesses generally. —Subject to the ex
ceptions and modifications contained in § 606, every person is com
petent to testify for himself or another (a), unless he be found by the
court incapable of understanding the facts concerning which his tes
timony is offered 
§ 606 [6/oj. Competency of husband and wife. —[1. Neither a husband
nor his wife shall testily, while the marriage exists or afterwards, con
cerning any communication between them during marriage (a). Nor
shall either of them testify against the other (£). Nor shall cither of them
testify for the other, except in an action for lost baggage or its value
against a common carrier, an innkeeper, or a wrong doer, and in such £./
action either or both of them may testify ; and, except in actions which
might have been brought by or against the wife, if she had been un
married, and in such actions either, but not both, of them may testifyf/).
And except that when a husband or a wife is acting as agent for his or
her consort, either of them may testify as to any matter connected with
such an agency.
2 Competency of witness against decedents, &c. —Subject to the pro
visions of subsection seven of this section, no person shall testify for
himself (d) concerning any verbal statement of, or any transaction with, J/ (ft
or any act done or omitted to be done by, an infant under fourteen
years of age, or by one who is of unsound mind or dead when the testi
mony is offered to be given (e), except for the purpose and to the extent
of affecting one who is living, and who, when over fourteen years of
age and of sound mind, heard such statement, or was present when such
transaction took place, or when such act was done or omitted, unless:
a. The infant or his guardian shall have testified against such person,
with reference to such statement, transaction, or act ; or,
b. That the person of unsound mind shall, when of sound mind,
have testified against such person with reference thereto ; or,
c. The decedent, or a representative of, or some one interested in
his estate, shall have testified against such person with reference there
to (/); or,
d. An agent of the decedent or person of unsound mind, with ref
erence to such act or transaction, shall have testified against such per
son, with reference thereto (g), or be living when such person offers to
testify with reference thereto.
3. Parly can not testify after taking testimony. —No person shall testify
for himself, in chief, in an ordinary action, after introducing other testi
mony for himself, in chief; nor, in an equitable action, after taking other
testimony for himself, in chief.
4. Testimony of attorneys and priests as to communications and confes
sions —No attorney shall testify concerning a communication made to
him. in his professional character by his client, or his advice thereon,
without the client's consent (A) ; nor shall a clergyman or priest testify
concerning any confession made to him in his professional character in
the court [course] of discipline enjoined by the church to which he be
longs, without the consent of the person, confessing.
5. Testimony against decedent or lunatic who has testified. —If the right
of a person to testify for himself be founded upon the fact that one
who is dead or of unsound mind has testified against him, the testimony
of such person shall be confined to the facts or transaction to which
the adverse testimony related (k).
6. Testimony as to entries in account books. —A person may testify for
himself as to the correctness of original entries made by him against
persons who are under no disability, other than infancy, in an account
ing according to the usual course of business, though the person against
whom they are made may have died or have become of unsound
mind (/) ; but no person shall testify for himself concerning entries in a
book, or the contents or purport of any writing, under the control of
himself, or of himself and others jointly, if he refuse or fail to pro
duce such book or writing, and to make it subject to the order of the
court for the purposes of the action, if required to do so by the party
against whom he offers to testify.
7. Incompetency of assignor. —The assignment of a claim by a person
who is incompetent to testify for himself shall not make him competent
to testify for another (m).
8. Party may be examined by adverse parly. —A party may be exam
ined as if under cross-examination at the instance of the adverse party,
either orally or by deposition, as any other witness; but the party call
ing for such examination shall not be concluded thereby, but may rebut
it by counter testimony.
9. Competency 0/ attesting witnesses, &c., not affected. —None of the
preceding provisions of this section apply to affidavits for provisional
remedies, or to affidavits of claimants against the estate of deceased
or insolvent persons, or affect the competency of witnesses of instru
ments which are required by law to be attested («).
10. All laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. 

§ 607 [671]. Other objections go to credibility of witness. —All other
objections to witnesses shall go to their credit alone, and be weighed by
the jury or tribunal to which their evidence is offered.
§ 608 [672]. Interrogator' s testimony as to new matter. —In equitable
actions, if a party, in answering interrogatories, state new matters not
responsive to the inquiries, the party interrogating may, before the
trial, file his written statement, under oath, concerning such new mat
ters, which shall be read as a deposition, though the party so answering
may have died or have become a prisoner or of unsound mind.
§ 609 [673]. In ordinary actions, if a party, in answering interroga
tories, or when introduced as a witness, state new matters not respon
sive to the inquiries of the adverse party, the latter shall be allowed to
testify orally concerning such new matter, though the party so answering
may have died or have become a prisoner or of usound mind.


§ 610 [676]. Who may perpetuate evidence. —A person who resides in
this State and expects to be a party to an action in a court hereof; or
who, being a non-resident of this State, has an interest in real property
herein, concerning which he expects to be a party to an action in a
court hereof; and who desires to perpetuate the testimony of witnesses,
may file, in the circuit court of the county in which he resides, or in
which the property is situated, a petition in equity, verified by his
affidavit, stating—
1. That he expects to be a party to an action in a court of this
State, and the nature of the expected controversy.
2. The name, age, and place of residence, of the expected adverse
party, if known by the petitioner; or his ignorance thereof, if not
known by him.
3. That the evidence of witnesses—whose names and the facts, gen
erally, expected to be proved, shall be stated —is believed by the
petitioner to be material to him.
4. The obstacles preventing the commencement of the action or
proceeding, if he expects to commence the same.
§ 611 [677, 679]. Proceedings against expected adverse party. — I.
The expected adverse party shall be summoned and proceeded against
in the same manner as a defendant to an action.
2. After such expected party is brought before the court, actually or
constructively, the court may, in its discretion, make an order for the
examination of the witnesses.
§ 612 [678, 680]. How depositions to be taken. — 1. If the examin
ation of the witnesses be permitted by the court, their depositions shall
be taken, certified, and delivered or sent to the clerk of the court, and
be kept by him, as depositions in equitable actions.
2. The petitioner shall pay all costs incurred.
§ 613 [681]. Circumstances under which they may be read. —Upon a
trial of the controversy in the petition mentioned, between the persons
therein named as expected parties or their representatives or successors,
such depositions, subject to exceptions as if they had been taken
pending the action, may be read by either party under the circum
stances prescribed in § 554.
§ 614 [682]. Upon trial in another county, copies may be read. —If the
trial be not in the court in which the deposition is filed, it and the
affidavit, order, notice, and proof of service, or certified copies thereof,
may be read as evidence.
§ 615 [683]. Evidence heretofore perpetuated. —Evidence which has
been or may be perpetuated, agreeably to laws heretofore in force, may
be read on the trial of any action or suit which has been or may be com
menced in any court of this State, subject to exceptions as if they had
been taken pending such suit or action.

§ 616 [684]. Who must give security for costs. —A plaintiff who is a
non-resident of this State, or a corporation other . than a bank created by
the laws of this State, before commencing an action, shall file in the
clerk's office a bond of a sufficient surety, to be approved by the
clerk (a), for the payment of all costs which may accrue in the action
in the court in which it is brought, or in any other to which it may be
carried, either to the defendant or to the officers of the courts.

§ 617 [685]. Dismissal of action for failure to give bond for costs.—
An action in which a bond for costs is not given, as is required by §616,
shall be dismissed on the motion of the defendant at any time before
judgment, unless in a reasonable time, to be allowed by the court, after
the motion is made therefor, such bond be filed, securing all past and
future costs; and the action shall not be dismissed or abated, if a bond
for costs be given in such time as the court may allow.
§ 618 [686]. Bond by plaintiff becoming non resident. —If the plaintiff
in an action, after its institution, become a non-resident of this State,
he shall give security for costs in the manner and under the restrictions
provided in the preceding sections of this chapter.

§ 619 [687]. Bond by insolvent guardians, &c. —A guardian, curator,
committee, or next friend, suing for a person under disability ; and
every plaintiff suing as an assignee, except an indorsee of a bill of
exchange or a promissory note placed upon the footing of a bill of
exchange, when insolvent, may be required to give security for costs;
and on failure to do so in a reasonable time after it is directed by the
court, upon the motion of the defendant his action shall be dismissed.

§ 620 [688]. Motion for additional surety for costs. —In an action in
which a bond for costs has been given, the defendant may at any time
before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court
for additional security on the part of the plaintiff ; and, if, on such
motion, the court be satisfied that the surety in the plaintiff's bond has
removed from this State, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it
may dismiss the action, unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the
court, sufficient security be given by the plaintiff.
§ 621 [689]. Liability of attorneys for costs. —If process be issued in
an action by the direction of an attorney for a plaintiff who is required
by the first section of this chapter to give security for costs, but who
has failed to do so, the attorney shall be liable as surety for the costs in
the action, until a bond is given ; and his liability may be enforced by
orders of court, and by proceedings as for contempt, if they be not
obeyed.
§ 622 [690]. Order defined. —A direction or decision of a court or
judge entered upon the order-book or made in writing, in an action,
and not final, is an order.
§623 [691]. Motion defined. — An application for an order is a
motion.
See \ 444 and note (c) thereto, as to statutory motions and motions not authorized by
statute ; and see J? 444 to 449, and notes, as to proceedings on motions.
§ 624 [692]. Requisites of 7iotice, and by whom to be served. — I. The
notices mentioned in this Code must be in writing, must concisely state
the purport thereof [a), and may be served by an officer who is author
ized to serve a summons, or by any person who is over the age of
sixteen years and not a party to, nor interested in, the action.
2. The person who serves a notice must, by an indorsement on it,
state when and how it was served; and, if a copy of it be not delivered
to the person to whom it is directed, the indorsement must state the
facts authorizing the manner of service pursued.
3. If the person who serves a notice be an officer, his indorsement
must show his official position ; if he be not an officer, he must make
an affidavit that his indorsement is true, that he is over sixteen years of
age, and that he is not a party to, nor interested in, the action.
4. Such indorsement of an officer, and such indorsement and affidav it
of one who is not an officer, shall be proof of the service.

§ 625 [693]. Henv notice to be served generally. —A notice may be
served by delivering a copy of it to the person to whom it is directed,
or by offering to deliver it to him ; or, if he can not be found at his
usual place of abode, by leaving a copy there with a person over the
age of sixteen years residing in the same family with him ; or, if no
such person be there, by affixing such copy to the front door of such
place of abode ; or, if the person to whom the notice is directed can
not be found and has no known place of abode in this State, the notice
may be served by delivering a copy to his agent or attorney.


§ 626 [694]. When court may direct mode of serving notice. —If the
person to whom a notice is directed have no known place of abode in
this State and no known attorney residing in this State; or, if the
persons to be notified be numerous, the court may direct the mode of
serving the notices, and to what persons, if any, they shall be given.
A certified copy of the order must be returned with the service of the
notice.
§ 627 [695]. Serz'icc of persons under disability . —A notice to a person
who is under any disability, excepting coverture, or infancy and cov
erture combined, shall be served on his guardian, guardian ad litem,
curator, committee, or next friend, if he have one, who represents him
in the action.
§ 628 [696]. Service on corporations. — A notice to a corporation
may be served on its chief officer or agent, or on its attorney.
§ 629 [697] Service on married women. —If husband and wife unite in
bringing or defending an action, the service of a notice on the husband
shall be deemed a service on the wife.
§ 630 [698]. Service on absent defendants. —A notice to a person con
structively summoned and not appearing shall be served on the attorney
appointed to defend for him.
§631 [699]. Service on attorney. —Unless it be otherwise specially
provided in this Code, a notice to a party in an action of any motion
or proceeding to be made or taken therein, in court or before a judge,
may be served upon such party or his attorney ; but the service upon
the attorney must be by delivering to him a copy of the notice.
§ 632 [700]. Notice to attorney to take depositions. —If a party to an
action, or his [guardian,] guardian ad litem, curator, committee, or next
friend, do not reside in the county in which it is pending, a notice to
him to take depositions may be served by delivering a copy thereof to
his attorney.

§ 633 [701]. Punishment of officer failing to serve notice. —An officer
to whom any notice in an action is properly delivered for service within
his county shall serve and return it to the party who delivered it to him.
A failure to perform this duty may be punished as a disobedience of
the process of the court.

§ 634 [702]. Offer of defendant to let judgment go for certain sum.—
The defendant in an action for the recovery of money, only, may. at
any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney an
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum
specified therein. If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice
thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five days after the offer
was served, the offer, and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was
delivered in the time limited, may be filed by the plaintiff ; or the
defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the offer verified by
affidavit; and, in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted
upon the record, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the
notice of acceptance be not given in the period limited, the offer shall
be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence nor mentioned
on the trial. If the plaintiff fail to obtain judgment for more than was
offered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's cost from the
time of the offer.

§ 635 [703]. Offer of defendant, if his defence fail, to let judgment go
for a specified sum. —In an action for the recovery of money only, the
defendant, having answered, may serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney
an offer in writing that, if he fail in his defence, the amount of the
recovery shall be assessed at a specified sum. If the plaintiff accept
the offer and give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney,
within five days after it was served, and the defendant fail in his defence,
the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed upon. If the plaintiff
do not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to be recovered, as
if the offer had not been made. The offer shall not be given in evi
dence nor mentioned on the trial. And, if the amount recovered by the
plaintiff do not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant
shall recover his costs incurred in the defence in respect to the question
of amount, to be taxed under the direction of the court.

§ 636 [704]. Offer shall not postpone trial. —The making of any offer,
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall not be a cause for a
continuance of an action or a postponement of a trial.
CHAPTER IV.
SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY.
\ 637. Agreed case, submission of, to court.
I 638. what constitutes record of.
\ 639. judgment in.
§ 637 [705]. Submission to court of agreed case. —Parties to a question
which might be the subject of a civil action may, without action, state
the question and the facts upon which it depends, and present a sub
mission thereof to any court which would have jurisdiction, if an action
had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit that the contro
versy is real, and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights
of the parties. The court shall, thereupon, hear and determine the
case, and render judgment as if an action were pending.

§ 638 [706]. What constitutes record of agreed case. —The case, the
submission, and the judgment shall constitute the record.
§ 639 [707]. Judgment in agreed case. —The judgment shall be with
costs, and may be enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the
same manner as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise
provided in the submission.
CHAPTER V.
OFFER TO CONFESS JUDGMENT.
\ 640. Effect of offer to confess judgment for part of plaintiff's demand.
§ 640 [708]. After an action for the recovery of money is brought,
the defendant may offer, in court, to confess judgment for part of the
amount claimed or part of the causes involved in the action. Where
upon, if the plaintiff, being present, refuse to accept such confession of
judgment in full of his demands; or, having had reasonable notice that
the offer would be made, of its amount, and of the time of making it,
fail to attend, and on the trial do not recover more than was so offered
to be confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the defendant
incurred after the offer. The offer shall not be deemed to be an admis
sion of the cause of action or amount to which the plaintiff is entitled,
nor be given in evidence upon the trial.


§641 [709]. Indcmnifying-bond may be taken by officer. —If an officer,
who levies or is required to levy an execution * upqn personal prop
erty, doubt (a) whether it is subject to the execution, he may give to
the plaintiff therein, or his agent or attorney, notice that an indem
nifying bond is required. Bond may, thereupon, be given by or for
the plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by
the officer, to the effect that the obligors therein will indemnify him
against the damages which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure
or sale of the property ; and will pay to any claimant thereof the
damages he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale ; and will
warrant to any purchaser of the property such estate or interest therein
as is sold ; and, thereupon, the officer shall proceed to subject the
property to the execution (b), and, subject to the provisions of §651,
shall return the indemnifying bond to the circuit court of the county
in which the levy is made (
§642 [710]. Officers may refuse to proceed, if bond not given. —If the
bond mentioned in the last section be not given, the officer may refuse
to levy the execution ; or, if it have been levied, and the bond be not
given in a reasonable time after it is required by the officer, he may re
store the property to the person from whose possession it was taken,
and the levy shall stand discharged.

§ 643 [711].* Claimant or purchaser must look to indtmnifying-boiui. —
The claimant or purchaser of any property, for the seizure or sale of
which an indemnifying-bond has been taken and returned by the officer,
shall be barred of any action against the officer levying on the property,
if the surety in the bond was good when it was taken (a). And such
claimant (b) or purchaser may maintain an action upon the bond and
recover such damages as he may be entitled to.
§ 644 [712]. How surplus-proceeds of sale to be disposed of, if indemni
fying bond be given. —If property, for the sale of which the officer is
indemnified, be sold for more than enough to satisfy the execution under
which it was taken, the surplus shall be paid into the court to which the
indemnifying bond is directed to be returned. That court may order
such disposition or payment of the money to be made, temporarily or
absolutely, as may be proper, in respect to the rights of the parties
interested.
§ 645 [713]- Bond of claimant to suspend execution-sale. —The sale of
personal property upon which an execution is levied, shall be suspended
at the instance of any person —other than the defendant in the exe
cution—claiming the property, who shall execute, with one or more
sureties sufficient for double its value, a bond to the plaintiff (a) in the
execution, to the effect that, if it shall be adjudged that the property
or any part of it is subject to the execution, he will pay to the plaintiff
the value of the property so subject, and ten per cent, thereon, not
exceeding the amount due on the execution, and ten percent, thereon 
§646 [714]. Appraisement before taking claimants bond. —For the
purpose of taking the bond mentioned in the last section, the officer
shall select three disinterested houskeeepers, and administer to them an
oath to make a fair appraisement of each article of the property—whose
appraisement, in writing, shall be recited in the bond.
§647 [715]- To what court bond to be returned. —Subject to the pro
visions of §651, the bond, with the appraisement annexed thereto,
shall be returned to the circuit court of the county in which the levy
was made.
§ 648 [716]. Motion on bond. —The party to whom the bond is exe
cuted may move the court to which it is returned for a judgment thereon
against all or any of the obligors or their representatives, having given
to them ten days notice of the motion (a). The court shall direct a
jury to be empanncled, and may cause such issues to be tried as it may
prescribe, and direct which party shall be considered plaintiff in the
issues. If the property, or any part of it, be found subject to the exe
cution, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the plaintiff therein for
the value of the property so subject and ten per cent, thereon, not ex
ceeding the amount due on the execution and ten per cent, thereon.
An execution may be issued upon the judgment forthwith, on which
the same indorsement shall be made as on the execution in virtue of
which the property had been seized.

§ 649 [717]. Objectio7i to appraisement of property. —Upon the trial
of the motion, either party may object that the property was not fairly
appraised; and, thereupon, the jury trying the facts shall hear evidence
respecting, and find, the value of the property.
§ 650 [718]. Bond does not discharge levy—obligor's motion to dis
charge bond and release levy. i. —The giving of the bond mentioned in
§ 645 shall not discharge the levy of the execution upon the property
claimed. But the officer may leave it, subject to the lien of the levy,
with the person in whose possession it was found, pending the pro
ceeding on the bond ; and may, in the meantime, proceed with the
execution against any other property of the defendant.
2. The obligor in such bond may, however, on ten days's notice to
the plaintiff in the execution, move the court to which the bond is
returned to discharge the same and release the levy under the execution.
The provisions of §§ 648 and 649 shall, so far as applicable, govern the
proceedings upon such motion.
§ 65 1 [719]- Application 0/ preceding provisions to quarterly andjustices'
courts, and distress warrants. —The foregoing provisions of this chapter
shall apply to proceedings upon executions issued by judges of quar
terly courts or by justices of the peace, with these exceptions :
1. Indemnifying bonds shall be returned with the executions under
which they are taken.
2. Claimants' bonds shall be returned to any justice of the peace of
the county, and motion thereon may be made before him, on five days'
notice. He shall cause a jury to be empanneled to find whether the
property is subject to the execution, subject to an appeal if the value
of the property exceed ten dollars.
§ 652 [720]. The preceding provisions of this chapter shall also
apply to proceedings upon distress warrants levied or about to be levied
upon personal property claimed by any person other than the tenant,
his assignee, or under-tenant ; except that in such case the bond of the
claimant of the property, if it exceed the value of fifty dollars, shall be
returned to the circuit court of the county, and the motion thereon
shall be made in that court; and, if the value of the property do not
exceed fifty dollars, the bond shall be returned to some justice of the
peace of the county, and the motion may be made before him. Indem
nifying bonds in such cases shall be returned with the warrants under
which they were taken.
§ 653 [721]. Tenant's bond to discharge levy of distress-warrant. —If
an officer levy or be about to levy a distress-warrant upon any property,
the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant, may execute, with one or
more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the officer, a bond to the
party in whose favor the warrant issued, to the effect that he will pay
to such party the amount of the rent specified in the' warrant, with ten
per cetit. thereon, if the property be of the value of the rent so speci
fied ; or, if it be of less value, that he will pay to such party the value
thereof, and ten per cent, thereon. For the purpose of taking this bond
the officer shall cause the property to be appraised as is provided in
§ 646. The appraisement shall be annexed and referred to in the bond.
Upon the giving of the bond, the levy, if one have been made, shall
be discharged, and the bond and warrant shall be returned to some
justice of the peace of the county, if the amount claimed do not ex
ceed fifty dollars ; and, if it exceed that sum, to the clerk's office of the
circuit court of the county.

§ 654 [722]. Motion for judgment on tenant's bond. —The party to
whom the bond is executed may move the justice of the peace or the
court for a judgment thereon against all or any of the obligors or their
representatives, having given to them five days' notice of the motion (a).
The defendants may make defence upon the ground that the distress
was for rent not due in whole or in part, or was otherwise illegal ; or,
if property was levied upon, that it was by statute exempt from the
levy ; and may make any defence, by way of set-off or counter-claim,
that is allowed by the Code in actions.
§ 655 [723]. Trial of motion. —If the motion be made before a jus
tice of the peace, he shall cause a jury to find the facts, subject to an
appeal if the amount exceed ten dollars.
§ 656 [724]. If the motion be made in court, it shall direct a jury to
find the facts.
§ 657 [725]. Judgment against defendants and execution. — If the
judgment be against the defendants, it shall be for the rent due and ten
per cent, thereon, not exceeding the amount secured by the bond. An
execution may be issued forthwith

§ 658 [726]. Bondfor partial suspension of distress for rent not due. —
If the tenant, his assignee, or under-tenant, contend that a part of the
rent is not due, he may suspend the distress-warrant for such part, by
giving bond, with good surety, for it —upon which proceedings may be
taken as is prescribed in the preceding sections.
§ 659 [727]. fury-trial of right of property abolished. —Trials by juries
summoned by sheriffs or other officers, of the right of property taken
by them under execution or distress-warrant, are abolished.
§ 660. Levy of execution on interest in joint property. —If an officer
levy an execution upon personal property held by the execution-debtor
jointly with another person —
1. The officer shall not deprive such person, without his consent in
writing, of the possession of the property, except for the purpose of
having it inventoried and appraised, which he shall cause to be done
pursuant to the provisions of § 646.
2. The officer shall return the inventory and appraisement, with the
execution, to the office from which it issued ; and shall state in his
return the facts connected with the levy, and the claim of the joint
owner.
3. The execution-creditor shall have a lien upon the property levied
011, such as is given by law to an execution in the hands of an officer;
and, upon the aforesaid return, the creditor may enforce said lien by
an action in equity.
4 If such creditor, at the commencement of his action or afterward,
shall file an affidavit that he verily believes the property levied upon
will be removed from the county or sold or otherwise disposed of, with
intent fraudulently to defeat his lien, the court, or the circuit judge
thereof in vacation, or the presiding judge of the county court, may
make an order directing the officer to possess himself of the property
so levied upon, unless bond, with approved security, shall be executed
to the plaintiff in the execution, binding the obligors in said bond to
have the same forthcoming in obedience to any order or judgment of
the court in the action —which bond shall be taken by the officer and
returned by him to the court in which the action is pending.

§ 661 [728]. Surety's action against principal after debt is due. —After
the maturity of a debt (a) or liability, an equitable action maybe
brought by a surety against his principal (b) to compel payment of it,
or by one who is jointly liable therefor with another to compel him to
pay so much of it as he may be equitably liable for as between him and
the plaintiff 
§ 662 [730]. Provisional remedies of sureties. — I. The creditor must
be made defendant to an action brought pursuant to §661, but shall not
be liable for costs.
2. The provisions of chapter I, and of articles 1 and 4 of chapter 3, of
Title VIII, shallapplyto such action, except so far as they are modified
by § 244, § 245, subsections 1 and 2 of § 247, and § 248, which are also
made applicable to such action ; and except, also, that the affidavits
mentioned in § 153 and § 196, instead of stating the sum which the
affiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover, shall state the sum which
the affiant believes the defendant ought to pay.

§ 663 [731]. Process not to issue before petition is filed. —No summons,
nor order for a provisional remedy, shall be issued by the clerk in any
action, before the plaintiff's petition therein is filed in his office.
§ 664 [732]. Issuing of process and giving bond on holiday. —It shall
be no objection to any process, writ, summons, affidavit, or order for a
provisional remedy that it was issued, made, or dated, on a holiday;
nor shall it be an objection to any bond given by or for any party to an
action, or taken by an officer in the course of the same, that it was
made or dated on any such day.
§ 665 [733, 734, 735]. Service of process on holiday or Sunday. —A
sumrrions, subpoena, notice, or order for a provisional remedy, may be
issued, given, or executed, on a holiday or Sunday, if the officer or
person having the notice or process believe, or, if the plaintiff or some
other person make affidavit to the effect that the affiant believes that
the notice can not be given, or that the process can not be executed,
after such holiday or Sunday.

§ 666 [736]. Seri'ice of process at muster, election, &c. —Subject to
the provisions of § 542, the defendant shall have no privilege of exemp
tion from the service of the process mentioned in § 665, except from an
arrest, by reason of his attendance at any muster, election, or order of
survey, or as a witness at any court or other place.
§ 667 [66, 737]. To whom process shall be directed. — 1. Every pro
cess in an action or proceeding shall be directed to the sheriff of the
county ; or, if he be a party, or be interested, to the coroner ; or, if he
be interested, to the jailer ; or, if all these officers be interested, to any
constable (a).
2. The summons (7;) or an order for a provisional remedy (r), in an
action or proceeding, may, at the request of the party in whose behalf
it is issued, be directed to any of the officers named in the first sub
section who is not a party to nor interested in the action 

§ 668 [738]. Court may appoint person to serine process or oider. —The
court, for good cause, may appoint a person to serve a particular process
or order, and he shall have the same power to execute it which a sheriff
has. His return must be verified by his affidavit. He shall be entitled
to the fees allowed to sheriffs for similar services.
§669. [739]- Clerks to indorse time offiling papers, &c. —The clerk
shall indorse, upon every paper filed in an action, the day of filing it;
and, upon every order for a provisional remedy, and every bond taken
thereunder, the day of its return to his office.
As to deputy-clerks, see \ 678 and notes.
§ 670 [740]. To enter return of summons on docket. —He shall, upon
the return of a summons served, enter in full upon the docket the
return of the officer executing the summons. The entry shall be evi
dence of the service of the summons, if it should be lost.

§671 [741]. Clerks may administer oatlis and make orders of survey.
He may administer any oath or take any affidavit required or permitted
in the progress of an action ; and shall make orders of survey, during
vacation, upon the application of any party, after service of process,
and shall indorse the same on the petition, noting the date thereof and
the party for whom it was made ; and said orders of survey shall have
the same effect as if made by the court, if the party obtaining the order
give to his adversary notice that the order has been made and of the
time when it is to be executed.
§ 672 [742]. Clerks to prepare bonds. —He shall prepare in a proper
manner every bond to be taken by or given before him or his court.

§ 673 [743]. Shall refuse insufficient surety. —He shall refuse any
surety offered in a bond to be taken by him who is, in his opinion,
insufficient.

§ 674 [744]- Sheriff to indorse on process time of reception. — The
sheriff shall indorse upon every summons, order of arrest, or for the
delivery of property, or of attachment, or injunction, in his hands, the
day and hour of its reception by him.
§ 675 [745]- When sheriff authorized to break building. —A sheriff
having an order of attachment, or for the delivery of property, may
enter any building or inclosure containing the property, to take it; and,
if necessary for this purpose, may break the building or inclosure,
having first publicly demanded the property.
§ 676 [746]. A sheriff having an order of arrest may enter any
house or inclosure in which the party to be arrested may be, to arrest
him ; and, if necessary for this purpose, may break the house or inclos
ure, after having informed any person therein of his object ; or, if no
person appear to whom such information can be given, after having
publicly demanded the person to be arrested ; and, in either case, after
having given sufficient time for the house or inclosure to be opened.

§ 677 [747]- Prnvntion by force not a sufficient return. —It shall not be
a sufficient return of any process, that the officer was prevented by
force from executing it

§ 678 [749] Ministerial officers may act by deputy. —Any duty enjoined
by this Code upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be
done by him, may be performed by his lawful deputy.

§ 679 [750]. Majority may act. — An authority conferred by law
upon three or more persons may be exercised by a majority of them
concurring ; and an act directed by law to be done by three or more
persons may be done by a majority of them concurring.
§ 680 [751]. Affirmation instead of oath. —An oath required by this
Code may be substituted by the affirmation of a person who is con
scientiously opposed to taking an oath.
§ 681 [752]. Mode of computing days between acts. —If a certain num
ber of days be required to intervene between two acts, the day of one
only of the acts may be counted.

§682 [753]. Valid may be substituted for defective bond. —If a bond
provided for by this Code be adjudged to be defective, a new and suf
ficient one may be executed in such reasonable time as the court may
fix, with the same effect as if originally executed

§ 683 [754]. Surety maybe required to make affidavit of qualifications.
An officer whose duty it is to take a surety in any bond provided for
by this Code may require the person offered as surety to make affidavit
of his qualifications, which affidavit may be made before such officer.
The taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any
liability to which he might otherwise be subject for taking insufficient
security.
§684 [755]- Qualifications of surety. — The surety in every bond
provided for by this Code must be a resident of this State, and be
worth double the sum to be secured beyond the amount of his debts,
and have property liable to execution in this State equal to the sum to
be secured. If there be two or more sureties in the same bond they
must, in the aggregate, have the qualifications prescribed in this section.

§ 685 [756]. Action for discovery when allowed. —No action for a dis
covery shall be brought (a), except that, if any person be liable, jointly
or severally with others, upon the same contract, an action may be
brought against any of them to obtain discovery of the names and resi
dences of the others who are also liable. The petition must be verified,
and must state that the plaintiff has used due diligence to obtain the
information asked to be discovered, and that he does not believe that
the persons liable upon the contract, who are known to him, have prop
erty sufficient to satisfy his claim. The plaintiff must pay the cost,
unless the discovery be resisted.
(a) But see \ 439 as to actions for discovery after a return of nulla bona.
§ 686 [757]- Successive actions on contract or transaction. —Successive
actions may be maintained upon the same contract or transaction, if,
after the former action, a new cause of action have arisen therefrom.
§ 687. Costs of actions unnecessarily multiplied. —In actions which are
unnecessarily multiplied by the plaintiff against one or more persons,
the plaintiff, though successful, must pay the costs.
§ 688 [758]. Writ of ne exeat abolished. —The writ of ne exeat, as a
remedy in a civil action, is abolished.
§689 [759]. When two justices may grant provisional remedy. —If,
pursuant to this Code, a provisional remedy may be granted by the
judge of the court in which the action is brought, or the presiding
judge of the county court, it may be granted by any two justices of the
peace of the county, if said judges be absent therefrom and such
absence appear by affidavit.
§ 690 [761]. Appearance to action by executing bond to discharge attach
ment, &c. —In an action in which an attachment has been granted, the
execution by or for the defendant of a bond whereby the attachment is
discharged, or the possession of the attached property is obtained or
retained by him, shall be an appearance of such defendant in the action.
As to other mode of making appearance by a defendant constructively summoned, see
notes to ? 410.
§ 691. Unknown defendants, how to be described in petition, &c. —In
an action against a person whose name is unknown to the plaintiff—
1. He shall be described in the petition and process as unknown
defendant.
2. If his name and place of residence, or either, be discovered by the
plaintiff, pending the action, the petition shall be amended accordingly.
3. If his name and place of residence be unknown to the plaintiff,
he shall be subject to, and be entitled to the benefit of, the provisions
of this Code concerning non-residents of this State.

§ 692. Action to enforce lien of defendant as well as plaintiff. —The
plaintiff in an action for enforcing a lien (a) on property shall state in his
petition the liens held thereon by others, making them defendants; and
may ask for and obtain a judgment for a sale of the property to satisfy all
of said liens which are shown to exist, though the defendants fail to
assert their claims. Such defendants shall not, however, be allowed to
withdraw or receive any of the proceeds of such sale, until they have
shown their right thereto by answer and cross-petition. But, unless a
personal judgment be prayed for in such cross-petition, there need not
be any summons thereon ; and it shall be treated with reference to the
time of answering thereto as a set-off or counter-claim (b)
§ 693. Proceedings against surety after bankruptcy of principal. —In an
action for the recovery of money in which the defendant may have given
bond with sureties, or for whom sureties may have given bond, pursuant
to the provisions of §§ 14, 214, 221, or 258; or in which an appellant may
have given bond with sureties, or for whom sureties may have given bond,
pursuant to the provisions of § 724 or § 748 —if such defendant or appel
lant have thereafter become a bankrupt under the laws of the United
States, upon notice thereof from his adversary being served on the sure
ties, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of Title IV, concerning the
service of a summons, the court shall decide whether or not anything,
and, if anything, how much, should have been adjudged against the
defendant or appellant, but for the bankruptcy ; and such decision shall
be conclusive as to the liability of the sureties ; but they shall not be
liable upon a bond given pursuant to § 214, if property released from
an attachment by reason thereof, or its proceeds, have lawfully come to
the defendant's or appellant's assignee in bankruptcy.
§ 694 [253, 405]. Sale of real property for debts generally —for Ua
debts—division of property before sale. —I. Before ordering a sale of real
property for the payment of debt (a), the court must be satisfied by
the pleadings (/>), by an agreement of the parties, by affidavits filed, or
by a report of a commissioner or commissioners, whether or not the
property can be divided without materially impairing its value ; and
may cause it to be divided, with suitable avenues, streets, lanes, or
alleys ; or without any of them.
2. If it be necessary to sell, for the payment of debt, a parcel 

real property which can not be divided without materially impairing its
value, the officer shall sell the whole of it, though it bring more than
the sum to be raised ; and the court shall make proper orders for the
distribution of the proceeds.
3. The plaintiff, in an action to enforce a lien on real property, shall
state in his petition the liens, if any, which are held thereon by others,
and make the holders defendants ; and no sale of the property shall be
ordered by the court prejudicial to the rights of the holders of any of
the liens ; and when it appears from the petition or otherwise, that
several debts are secured by one lien, or by liens of equal rank, and
they are all due at the commencement of the action, or become so be
fore judgment, the court shall order the sale for the pro rata satisfac
tion of all of them ; but if, in such case, the debts be owned by different
persons and be not all due, the court shall not order a sale of the prop
erty until they all mature. If all such liens be held by the same party,
the court may order a sale of enough of the property to pay the debts
then due, unless it appear that it is not susceptible of advantageous
division (c) ; or, that, for some other reason, the sale would cause a
sacrifice thereof, or seriously prejudice the interests of the defendants 

§ 695. Sale ofpersonalty for more than enough to pay debt. —If it be
necessary to sell, for payment of debt, one or more parcels of personal
property which, in the opinion of the officer making the sale, can not
be divided without materially impairing the value thereof, he shall sell
the whole of such property, though it bring more than the sum to be
raised ; but he shall have no commission on the excess. The excess
shall be paid to the defendant, or the bond therefor shall be payable to
him.
§ 696. Credits, time, place, &c. , of sales by order of court—Ever)' sale
made under an order of court (a) must be public, upon reasonable
credits to be fixed by the court, not less, however, than three months
for personal, nor six months for real property (b) ; and shall be made
after such notice of the time, place (c), and terms, of sale as the order
may direct ; and, unless the order direct otherwise, shall be made at the
door of the court-house of the county in which the property, or the
greater part thereof, may be situated ; and the notice of sale must state
for what sum of money it is to be made 

§ 697. Bonds of purchasers. — i. The purchaser of property sold
under an order of court shall give bond for the price, with good surety
approved by the officer (a) making the sale, payable to him or to the
person entitled to receive the money, as the court may direct ; or, if the
court make no order on the subject, they shall be made payable to the
officer.

2. They shall bear interest from date at the rate the judgment bears.
3. They shall have the force of judgments; and on executions
issued upon them no replevy shall be allowed, and sales shall be for
cash.

§698. When purchaser entitled to possession of personalty. —The pur
chaser of personal property sold under an order of court shall be
entitled to it, upon complying with the terms of sale.

§ 699. Lien on real property for purchase-money. —A lien shall exist on
real property sold under an order of court, as security for the purchasemoney
; and, upon payment thereof, the clerk shall release the lien on
the margin of the record of the deed in the office of the clerk of the
county court

§ 700 [822]. Code applies to justices' courts, &c. —The provisions of
this Code shall regulate the proceedings in civil actions in quarterly
courts, county courts, police courts, city courts, mayors' courts, and
courts of justices of the peace, except as is provided in this chapter
Section 266, concerning appeals in attachment-cases, applies to the judgment of a
justice sustaining an attachment. 10 Bush, 624.
§ 701 [823]. To whom process shall be directed. —A summons, order
for a provisional remedy, and other process, from quarterly courts or
county courts, shall be directed to the sheriff, coroner, or a constable,
at the option of the plaintiff; those from police, city, and mayors'
courts, shall be directed to the marshal or a constable ; and those from
courts of justices of the peace shall be directed to a constable; or to a
special agent appointed by the justice, by an indorsement on the pro
cess, upon an affidavit of the plaintiff or his agent being filed before
the justice, to the effect that the process can not be executed, according
to the belief of the affiant, unless such special agent be appointed ; but
such process may be served by any officer or person who is authorized
by this Code to serve a summons.

§ 702 [824]. Duties and powers ofjudge orjustice as* clerk. —The duties
and powers enjoined and conferred by this Code upon 'clerks shall
devolve on the judges or justices who are by law required to act as
clerks of their courts.
§ 703 [825]. Clerks of quarterly courts. — 1. The presiding judge of
the quarterly court shall be the clerk of such court.
2. The county judge may, by an order entered of record in the
quarterly court, empower the county clerk to act as clerk of the
quarterly court ; and, upon such order being entered, the clerk shall be
authorized to issue any process of the quarterly court, as fully as the
judge might do, acting as clerk of such court. And the county clerk
issuing such process shall be entitled to the same fees, and subject to
the same responsibilities, as the judge would have been.
3. Such order shall not prevent the judge from acting as clerk of the
quarterly court in any case in which he may choose so to act.
4. If no such order be made, the county clerk shall, in the absence
of the county judge from his office, act as clerk of the quarterly court,
in the same manner as if such order had been made.
5. The county clerk shall, at the commencement of each term of
the quarterly court, deliver to the presiding judge all process of such
court returned to him, and all papers filed with him relating to actions
pending in such court.
§ 704 [826]. Dockets of quarterly courts, justices' courts, &c. — Only
one docket is required to be kept —on which shall be entered all the
actions and motions as they shall be returned.
§ 705 [827]. When pleadings may be oral. —If the matter in contro
versy do not exceed fifty dollars, the pleadings in the action may be oral
and without verification. But before the summons is issued the plaintiff
shall file in the court the account, or the written contract, or a short
written statement of the facts, on which the action is founded.

§ 706 [828]. Time of trial. —In the actions named in the last section,
the service of the summons five days before the time of trial shall
authorize a trial and judgment. If the matter in controversy exceed
fifty dollars, the service of the summons ten days before its return day
shall authorize a trial and judgment, whether the proceedings are
ordinary or equitable.
§ 707 [829]. Upon the calling of an action for trial, if the sum
mons have been served in due time, the parties must proceed forthwith
to form an issue and try the case, unless the court give further time, or
grant a continuance.
§ 708 [830]. Testimony in equitable actions. —In equitable actions, the
parties may either take the depositions of witnesses, or examine them
orally in court.
§ 709 [831]. Service of subpecnas. —A subpoena may be served by
showing it to the witness and informing him of the substance of it,
without delivering to him a copy or ticket.
§ 710 [832]. District in which summons of resident defendants to be re
turned —If the defendant reside in the county in which the summons is is
sued, it shall be returned for trial in the district of his residence, unless he
otherwise consent in writing, signed by him and indorsed on the sum
mons; or, unless the justices in such district be interested or refuse to
act, in which case it shall be returned in an adjoining district. If it be is
sued by the judge of the quarterly court, it shall be returned before him
[unless the defendant, or defendants, all reside in one district and there
be an acting justice of the peace and an acting constable in such district],
§711 [833]. If there be two or more defendants residing in the
county, but in different districts, the summons shall be returnable in
either district.
§ 712 [834]. District in which summons of transient defendant to be
returned. —If a defendant transiently in a county be served with a sum
mons issuing in said county, it shall be returned in the district in which
he is served, unless he otherwise consent in writing signed by him.
§713 [835]. Jury-lrials. —The parties shall not be entitled to a trial *
by jury, unless the matter in controversy exceed in value twenty dollars.
Upon a jury-trial being claimed, if it be allowable, the presiding judge
or justice shall order a jury to be forthwith empanneled to try the
action. The jurors shall be qualified as is required in the circuit courts.
As to number of jurors, see \ 248 of new Constitution.
§ 7 14 [836J. New trials. —A new trial may be granted in the quarterly
courts or courts of justices of the peace, upon' motion made within ten
days after a judgment has been rendered, of which motion reasonable
notice shall be given to the adverse party.
§ 715 [837]. Record-books. —Each presiding judge and justice of the
peace shall, in a book provided for that purpose, keep a full and fair
record of judicial proceedings in his court; and keep a good cross-index
of the names of the litigants, referring to the pages of the book of
every entry in each case.
§ 716 [839]. Interrogatories to adverse party. —Either party may file
with the judge, justice, or clerk of the court in which the case is to be
tried, written interrogatories, to be answered by an adverse party who
resides out of the county where the court sits, or who is unable to
attend court on account of infirmity or imprisonment, or who is a
female ; and may cause a certified copy of such interrogatories to be
delivered to the party who is required to answer them ; and such party
shall file with the clerk, on or before the day of trial, a plain and direct
response to the interrogatories, sworn to by him. Such response may
be read as a deposition by either party.
§ 717 [840]. Time of answering interrogatories —The court shall
render judgment against the party who refuses to attend and be ex
amined when summoned, as is authorized by this Code, two days before
the trial; or to make proper responses to interrogatories, a copy of
which shall have been delivered to him three days before the trial, if he
reside within fifty miles of the place of trial, and one additional day for
every additional thirty miles he may reside therefrom : but the court
may grant further time for attending or answering.
§ 718 [841]. Provisions as to appeals. —The last two sections shall
apply to appeals from judgments of quarterly, justices', city, police,
and mayors' courts.
§ 719 [842]. Judgment on lost record of. —If the record of a judg-
ent of a quarterly, city, police, mayor's, or justice's court be lost or
destroyed, such court may, on motion of the plaintiff, made within five
years after the rendition of the judgment, and after five days' notice,
render a new judgment for what may remain due thereon.
§ 720 [843 J. Judgment on set-off or counter claim. —A set-off or coun
ter-claim, though exceeding, in amount, the jurisdiction of the court,
may be used to bar and extinguish the demand of the plaintiff; but no
judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant for the excess, un
less such excess be within the limits of the court's jurisdiction as to
amount. The judgment shall ascertain the amount due to the plaintiff
and give him a credit therefor on the claim used as a set-off or counter
claim: {Provided, That when the amount of the counter-claim or set-off
exceeds the jurisdiction of the court trying the cause, the court shall,
on motion of either party to the action, or by their attorneys, transfer
the cause to the court having jurisdiction. (Act 1893, p. 448.)]
§ 721 [844]. When provisional remedies to be disposed of. —If an order
for a provisional remedy, made by a judge or justice, in an action within
the jurisdiction of his court, be served or levied, the trial of the action
and disposition of the order may take place at any time after five days'
notice given to the defendant by the officer who serves or levies such
order; or after five days' notice given by the defendant to the plaintiff,
upon a counter affidavit filed by the defendant; and, if the judge or
justice, before whom the trial should regularly be had, be absent or
unable to act, the officer may return the case for trial before the most
convenient justice.
§ 722 [845] Subjection of land, &c, after returns of no property found
on executions from justices' courts, 6rc. —Land shall not be sold nor levied
on under execution from a quarterly or justice's court, or any court of
similar jurisdiction.
§ 723 [846]. When an execution upon a judgment of a court men
tioned in § 722 is returned by a proper officer, in whole or in part, in
substance, no property found to satisfy it, the judge or justice of the
court shall, upon application of the plaintiff or his attorney, furnish a
certified copy of the judgment, execution, and return; which, on being
filed in the office of the clerk of the circuit court of the county in which
the judgment was rendered, shall be recorded by him in a book kept
for that purpose ; and, thereupon, the plaintiff shall be entitled to the
same remedies for the amount of his judgment and costs, including the
costs of said copy and of recording it, as if the judgment had been
rendered in the circuit court.
§ 724 [847]. How and to what courts appeals to be taken from courts of
justices. &c. —Appeals may be taken in the manner following:
1. The party appealing shall produce to the clerk of the court to
which the appeal is taken a certified copy of the j'udgment and amount
of costs, and cause to be executed before him, by one or more sufficient
sureties to be approved by him, a bond to the effect that the appellant
will satisfy and perform the judgment that shall be rendered upon the
appeal (a) ; whereupon, the clerk shall issue an order to the judge,
mayor, or justice, rendering the judgment, to stay proceedings thereon ;
and to transmit to the office of said clerk all the original papers in the
case; and the appellee shall be summoned, actually or constructively,
as is provided in chapter 2 of title 4, to appear and defend the appeal.
The provisions of this section, in regard to clerks, apply to a judge who
acts as clerk of his own court.
2. [This subsection has been superseded by —
I. An act of May 9, 1884, which is as follows:
§ 1. That in any action or proceeding in the county court in which
a judgment has been or may be rendered, wherein the amount in con
troversy (b) is twenty five dollars or more, exclusive of interest and
costs, an appeal may be had to the circuit or common pleas court by
either party, in the manner that appeals from judgments of the circuit
courts are now taken, excepting that the original papers and copies of
the order and judgments shall be delivered by the judge of the county
court to the clerk of the court appealed to, and no assignment of errors
shall be required.
§ 2. That all appeals under this act shall be taken within sixty days
from the day upon which judgment shall be rendered.
II. An act of May 15, 1886, which is as follows:
§ [. Appeals shall be to the circuit courts and courts of similar
jurisdiction from the orders and judgments of quarterly courts in civil
actions, when the amount in controversy (b), exclusive of interest and
cost, is twenty-five dollars or over.
§ 2. Appeals shall be to the circuit courts and courts of similar
jurisdiction from the judgments and orders of justices of the peace and
police courts, where the amount in controversy (b), exclusive of interest
and cost, is over fifty dollars.
§ 3. Appeals shall be to the quarterly courts from the orders and
judgments of justices of the peace and police courts in civil cases,
where the amount in controversy (b), exclusive of interest and cost, is
ten dollars and not more than fifty.
§ 4. The manner and time of taking appeals from said courts shall
be governed by the provisions of the Civil Code of Practice regulating
appeals from said courts.
§ 5. All laws or parts of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.

§ 6. This act shall take effect from and after its passage ; but the
provisions of this act shall not apply to the city of Louisville.
III. An act of June 10, 1893, page 1030, el seq., which contains
sections as follows:
§ 29. Appeals may be taken to the circuit court from all orders and
judgments of the fiscal court or quarterly court in civil cases where the
value in controversy, exclusive of interest and costs, is over twenty-five
dollars, and from all judgments of the county court where the amount
in controversy is over fifty dollars, exclusive of interest and cost; and
from all judgments and orders of said court in cases of bastardy, or in
the settlement of the accounts of personal representatives, assignees,
guardians, trustees, curators, and other fiduciaries, and from orders
granting, revoking, or refusing letters testamentary or of administra
tion, or appointing or refusing to appoint, or removing curators, guard
ians, trustees, or committees of estates, or granting or refusing to grant
druggist, tavern, or liquor license, and from judgments in proceedings
to condemn land for any purpose, and in all other cases allowed by law.
§ 34. Appeals may be taken to the quarterly court from all judg
ments and orders of justices, fiscal, city, or police courts, when the value
in controversy is over ten dollars, exclusive of interest and costs.
§ 725 [848]. Original papers to be transmitted. —The judge, mayor,
or justice, on being served with said order, shall, in ten days thereafter,
transmit all the original papers in the action to the clerk's office of the
court to which the appeal is taken.
§ 726 [849]. Trial of appeals. —Appeals shall be docketed and stand
for trial as ordinary actions, and shall be tried anew, as if no judgment
had been rendered.
§ 727 [850]. Costs upon appeals. —Unless the judgment on the
appeal be more favorable to the appellant than the original judgment,
he shall pay the costs of the appeal. If he merely succeed in reducing
the amount of a judgment rendered against him, it shall be at the dis
cretion of the court to allow him costs or not.
§ 728 [851]. The costs in the inferior court shall be adjudged in
favor of the plaintiff, if he succeed in obtaining, on the appeal, a judg
ment for any amount ; otherwise, in favor of the defendant.

§ 729 [852]. W/ien appeals to be taken.. —No appeal shall be taken
pursuant to this article, except within sixty days from the rendering of
the judgment.

§ 730 [853]. Option of appellee concerning trial of appeal. —If the
appellant move to dismiss or fail to prosecute his appeal, it shall be at
the option of the appellee, either to proceed to trial on the appeal, or
to have judgment rendered for the amount of the original judgment and
costs, if it was in his favor, or in bar of the original judgment, if it was
against him.

§ 73 1 [854]- Appellant entitled to copy of judgment, &c. —If a party
wish to take an appeal, the mayor, judge, or justice, before whom the
case was tried, shall deliver to him, upon application, a copy of the
judgment and amount of costs certified by him.

§ 732 [855 to 873]. In construing the provisions of this Code, these
rules shall prevail, unless a different intention be expressed, or be shown
by the context :
1. The words "title," "chapter," "article," "section," and the
figure §, refer to provisions of this Code.

2. Each tense includes every tense.
3. Each gender includes every gender.
4. The singular includes the plural, and the plural the singular
number.
5. The word "person " includes a corporation.
6. The word " writing " includes printing and printed paper.
7. The words "signature," "subscription," and words of likt
import, include a mark by, or for, a. person who can not write, if his
name be subscribed to an instrument and witnessed by a person who,
near thereto, writes his own name as a witness (a).
8. An action for money includes an action for the recovery of
damages as well as of money due by contract.
9. The words "real property" mean lands, tenements and here
ditaments.
10. The words "personal property" mean money, goods, chattels,
things in action and evidences of debt.
11. The word " property " includes any vested interest, legal or
equitable, in real or personal property.
12. The word "court" refers to the court in which an action or
proceeding is pending, or maybe brought; and the words "judge,"
"justice," "clerk," refer to officers of such court.
13. The words "justice's courts " or "quarterly courts " embrace
courts having similar jurisdiction, in whole or in part, to that of justice's
courts or quarterly courts; and the words "justice" or "presiding
judge," and words of like import, embrace judges of either of said
courts.
14. Excepting criminal courts and judges thereof, the words "circuit
court " embrace courts having similar jurisdiction, in whole or in part,
to that of circuit courts; and the words "circuit judge" embrace
judges of either of said courts.
15. The word "sheriff" means the sheriff of the county in which
the action or proceeding referred to is pending, or the sheriff of another
county to which process is directed ; and it means, also, any officer or
person who is or may be authorized by law to act as, or in place of, a
sheriff.
16. The words "coroner," "justice," "jailer," "constable," mean
officers of the county in which the action or proceeding referred to
is pending, or may be brought, or to which the process referred to is
directed.
17. The words "personal representative " mean the executor or
administrator or other person appointed to take charge of the estate
of a deceased person.

18. The words "real representative" mean the heir or devisee of
real property of a deceased person.
19. The word "representative" includes personal and real repre
sentatives.
20. The word "successor" means a person who takes the place of
another as personal representative, curator, guardian, receiver, trustee,
or committee.
21. The words " other country, " "foreign corporation," and words
of like import, refer to any part of the world out of this State.
22. The words "United States" embrace the States and Territories
thereof and the District of Columbia.
23. The word "oath" includes affirmation, in any case in which it
maybe substituted for an oath, and in like cases the word "sworn"
includes affirmed.
24. The word "verification" includes oath and affirmation, and the
word " verified " includes sworn and affirmed.
25. The word "month"- means calendar month, and the word
"year" means calendar year.
26. The word "process" means a writ or summons issued in the
course of judicial proceedings (b).
27. The word "writ" means an order or precept in writing, issued
by a court, clerk, or judicial officer.
28. The words "joint tenants," and words of like import, embrace
tenants in common and in coparcenary.
29. The words "joint property," and words of like import, em
brace property held jointly or in partnership or in' coparcenary or in
common.
30. The words "joint debtors," and words of like import, embrace
all persons who may be sued in one action upon the plaintiff's demand.
31. The word "disability" means coverture, infancy, unsoundness
of mind, or imprisonment in a penitentiary of this State, or of any
other country.
32. The words "residence," " reside, " mean, with reference to a
corporation, its chief office, or place of business.
33. The chief officer or agent of a corporation which has any of the
officers or agents herein mentioned is, 1, its president; 2, its vice presi
dent; 3, its secretary or librarian; 4, its cashier or treasurer; 5, its
clerk ; 6, its managing agent.
34. The word "action " embraces a demand for a set-off or counter
claim (c) ; and also embraces special proceedings, so far as the provisions
of this Code concerning actions are properly applicable to such pro
ceedings.

35. The word "party" means a plaintiff or defendant in an action,
and embraces any person who has a right and seeks to become a part)
to an action (d).
36. The word "plaintiff" embraces a defendant who demands a set
off or counter-claim ; the word "defendant" embraces a plaintiff against
whom such demand is made; and the word "petition" embraces an
answer or reply in which such demand is made, and also embraces cross-
petitions.
37. The word "sue " refers to an action or special proceeding.
38. The word "examiner" embraces any person authorized to take
a deposition.
39. The word "clerk " embraces justices and judges of courts which
have no clerk.
40. The words "person of unsound mind" include persons who are
destitute of mind.
§ 733 [874]- The rule of the common law, that statutes in derogation
thereof are to be strictly construed, shall not be applied to this Code

§ 734 [876]. Who may take appeals, and how. —The mode of bringing
the judgment of an. inferior court to the Court of Appeals, for reversal
/or modification, shall be by an appeal, which shall be granted, as mat
ter of right, to a party or privy against a party or privy, by the court
rendering the judgment, on motion made during the term at which it is
rendered, or thereafter by the clerk of the Court of Appeals, on appli
cation of either party or his privy, upon filing in the office of said clerk
a copy of the judgment from which he appeals.
No appeal shall be taken to the Court of Appeals from a judgment
for the recovery of money or personal property, if the value in contro
versy^) be less than [two—Act March 14, 1898] hundred dollars, ex
clusive of interest and costs, nor to reverse a judgment granting a di
vorce or punishing contempt (i>), nor from any order or judgment of a
county court, except in actions for the division of land and allotment
of dower, nor from any order or judgment of a quarterly, city, police,
fiscal, or justice's court, nor from a bond having the force of a judg
ment^). In all other civil cases the Court of Appeals shall have
appellate jurisdiction over the final (d) orders and judgments (e) of all
courts.

§ 735 P77]- Designation of parties to appeals. —The party taking the
appeal shall be called the appellant ; and the adverse party, the appellee.
§ 736 [878]. 1. Summons of appellee, when necessary and how to be
made. —No summons of appellees shall be necessary, if the appeal be
granted by the-inferior court (a) ; or, if the appellees enter their appear
ance in the Court of Appeals.
2. In all other cases, the appellees shall be summoned actually or
constructively, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 2 of Title IV, to
appear and answer the appeal. «
3. For an appellee who is constructively summoned in the Court of
Appeals [the clerk of (Act 1893, p. 433)] that court shall appoint an
attorney, whose duty it shall be to inform the appellee of the pendency
of the appeal ; and the court may allow him a reasonable compensation
for his services, to be paid by the appellant and taxed as costs.

§ 737 [879]. Transcripts upon appeals, preparation and filing of. —
Concerning transcripts of records to be used in the Court of Appeals —
I. a. The clerk of the court which renders a judgment shall copy
the entire record, or parts thereof (a), according to the directions [of the
judge of the court, or(£)] of the parties to the appeal; and the filing
of a schedule, as hereinafter authorized, shall be deemed a direction to
copy the parts of the record therein mentioned.
b. The clerk shall be governed by the provisions of subsections 8
and 9 of this section, in making any transcript to which those pro
visions apply.
[2. In cases to which the provisions of chapter 3 of Title X apply,
the appellant, whether the appeal be granted by the inferior court or
by the clerk of the Court of Appeals, shall present to the judge of the
inferior court his assignment of errors ; the judge shall, by directions
indorsed on, or annexed to, the assignment, order the clerk of the
inferior court to copy such specified parts of the record as, in view of
the alleged errors, may be material ; and the appellant shall file said
assignment and directions in the office of said last mentioned clerk.]
3. In all [other] cases in which the appeal is granted by the inferior
court, if the appellees shall have been defendants in the action, and if
any of them shall have been only constructively summoned, and have
not appeared, in the action, and be not actually summoned to answer
the appeal, the appellant shall order a transcript of the entire record.
4. In all other cases in which the appeal is granted by the inferior
court—
The appellant, within ninety days after the granting of the appeal,
shall file in the office of the clerk of the inferior court [his assignment
of errors, and] a schedule showing concisely what parts of the record
he wishes to have copied (c). His failure to file said [assignment and]
schedule within the time prescribed shall be cause for the dismissal of
his appeal (d).
b. After filing said [assignment and] schedule, the appellant may
cause notice of the filing thereof to be served on the appellee, and to
be returned to said office, as a summons is directed to be served and
returned ; and, within twenty days after such service ; or, if such notice
be not served, within one hundred and twenty days after the granting
of the appeal ; or, whether such notice be served or not, at any time
before completion of the transcript ordered by the appellant, and not
afterward, the appellee may file in said office a schedule similar to that
above described ; [and, if he wish to take a cross-appeal, he shall file
with said schedule his assignment of cross-errors.]
[c. If the appellee file an assignment of cross-errors, the appellant,
within forty days after service of notice upon the appellee as aforesaid :
or, if notice be not served, within one hundred and thirty days after
the granting of the appeal ; or, whether such notice be served or not,
at any time before completion of the transcript ordered by the appellee,
and not afterward, may, with reference to the cross-appeal, file an
additional schedule similar to that above described.]
5. [Excepting the cases provided for by subsection 2 of this sec
tion], if an appeal be granted by the clerk of the Court of Appeals,
and if the appellees be actually summoned to appear to the appeal ; or,
if, being femes coz>ert or free from disability, they enter their appear
ance to the appeal, the appellant may order a transcript of the entire
record or of parts thereof.
6. In all other cases in which an appeal is granted by the clerk
of the Court of Appeals, the appellant shall order a transcript of the
entire record.
7. If the appellant, to whom an appeal is granted by the clerk of
the Court of Appeals, choose to file a transcript of a part only of the
record—
a. He shall file in the office of the clerk of the inferior court [his
assignment of errors, and] a schedule similar to that above described ;
and shall cause notice of the filing thereof to be served on the appellees,
and to be returned to said office, as a summons is directed to be served
and returned.
b. Within twenty days after service of such notice, or at any sub
sequent time before completion of the transcript ordered by the appel
lant, and not afterward, the appellee may file in said office a schedule
similar to that above described, [and an assignment of cross-errors, if
he wish to take a cross-appeal.]
c. [If the appellee file cross-errors, the appellant, within forty days
after service of the notice mentioned in subdivision a of this subsection,
or at any subsequent time before completion of the copy ordered by
the appellee, and not afterward, may file, with reference to the crossappeal,
an additional schedule similar to that above described.]
8. The provisions of subsection 3 of § 335 shall apply to all trans
cripts made by clerks.
9. If a subpceua duces tecum, issued pursuant to § 743, subsection 2,
be delivered to the clerk of the inferior court before he shall have copied
the part of the record therein mentioned, he shall transmit such part
instead of a copy thereof, though a copy thereof may have been ordered
[by the judge of the inferior court, or] by a party to the appeal.
10. The above mentioned [directions of the judge, assignments of
error], schedules, and notices and returns thereon, shall, when filed in
the office of the clerk of the inferior court, constitute part of the
record ; but shall not be spread at large on the order-book ; and shall
be copied in the transcript.
11. A clerk who copies papers which do not constitute part of a
record, unless required to do so by [a judge or] a party; and a party
who requires a clerk to copy such papers, or immaterial parts of a
record, shall pay the costs resulting therefrom, to be adjudged by the
Court of Appeals upon or without motion (e).
12. At the close of the transcript, the clerk shall certify, in sub
stance, that it contains a true and complete copy of the record, or
of such parts thereof as he may have been required to copy, accord
ing to the truth ; and shall append an index referring, consecutively,
to the pages on which the copy of each pleading, or other separate
part of the record, commences ; and describing briefly the exhibits,
if any.
13. Subject to the provisions of §§ 742 and 743, transcripts and
transmissions of parts of records, made pursuant to the foregoing pro
visions of this section, shall constitute complete records for the purposes
of appeals 
§ I. That so much of chapters 1, 2, and 3 of an act entitled "An
act regulating practice in civil cases " as relates to assignment of errors
and cross-errors by parties prosecuting appeals or cross-appeals be, and
the same is, hereby repealed.

§ 738. When transcripts to be filed. —The appellant shall file the tran
script in the office of the clerk of the Court of Appeals at least twenty
days before the first day of the second term of said court next after
the granting of the appeal, unless the court extend the time ; as, for
cause shown, the court may do.

§ 739- Wliat to be filed with transcript. —It shall be the duty of the
appellant to file with the transcript (a) —
1 . A statement showing—
a. The names of the appellants, accompanied by the word ' ' appel
lants. "
b. The names of the appellees, accompanied by the word ' ' appel
lees;" or the words "unknown appellees," if their names be unknown.
c. The term, or day, when the judgment appealed from was ren
dered, and the page of the record on which it may be found.
d. Whether or not the appellant wishes to have a summons issued,
or a warning order made ; and, if any, for whom, and to what county,
the summons shall be issued ; and against whom the warning order
shall be made.
2. An affidavit conforming to §§ 57 and 58, if a warning order be
desired (b).
[3. The appellant's assignment of errors, unless he shall have filed it in
the clerk's office of the inferior court pursuant to the provisions of § 737.]

§ 740. Docketing and dismissal of appeals. —■ No appeal shall be
docketed by the clerk until the appellant complies with the provisions
of § 739(a) ; and if he fail to file the transcript within the time allowed
by § 738, or by the court pursuant thereto, his appeal shall be dis
missed (b).

§741 [880]. Filing of transcript by appellee. — The appellee may file
an authenticated copy of the record in the clerk's office of the Court
of Appeals with the same effect as if filed by the appellant.
§ 742 [881]. Issuing of certiorari by clerk. —If any party to an appeal
file in the clerk's office of the Court of Appeals [his affidavit, or that
of his attorney, that the judge of the inferior court has refused or
failed to order the clerk, as is authorized by subsection 2 of § 737, to
copy a material part of the record, —which shall, in general terms, be
described in the affidavit; — or shall file in said office] a statement of
himself, or of his attorney, that the clerk of the inferior court has
refused or failed to copy a part of the record [which a judge pursuant
to subsection 2 of § 737, or] which a party pursuant to subsections 3,
4, 5, 6, or 7, of §737, may have ordered to be copied —which parts
of the record shall, in general terms, be described in the statement, —the
clerk of the Court of Appeals shall, upon the application of such party,
issue a writ of certiorari, describing, in general terms, such omitted
parts of the record, and commanding the clerk of the inferior court,
forthwith, to transmit copies thereof to the Court of Appeals.
§ 743 [882]. Issuing ofcertiorari or subpoena duces tecum by court. — I. If
the appellees, having been defendants in the original action in the inferior
court, be under any disability, other than coverture, or infancy and
coverture combined, the Court of Appeals may, by writ of certiorari
directed to the clerk of the inferior court, require him to transmit a
transcript of such parts of the record as the parties may have failed to
require him to copy.
2. The Court of Appeals, if satisfied that a view of any part of a
record may be important to a correct decision of an appeal ; or that the
copying of any part of a record would cause great and unnecessary
cost or delay, may, by a writ of subpcena duces tecum directed to the
clerk of the inferior court, cause him to transmit such part of the record
to the clerk of the Court of Appeals (a). It shall be identified by the
clerk of the inferior court, by his certificate indorsed thereon or ap
pended thereto ; and, after the cause shall have been decided by the
Court of Appeals, shall be returned by its clerk to the clerk of the
inferior court, and be kept by him subject to the order of the inferior
court. The cost of such transmission and return shall be paid by the
party at whose instance the transmission is made, and be taxed as part
of the costs.

§ 744 [883]. Security for costs—The appellant may be required to
give security for costs as plaintiffs in civil actions may be so required.

§ 745 [884J. Limitation of appeals. —An appeal shall not be granted
except within two years next after the right to appeal first accrued,
unless the party applying therefor was then a defendant in the action,
and an infant not under coverture ; or of unsound mind ; or a prisoner
who did not appear by his attorney—in which cases an appeal may be
granted to such parties, or their representatives, within one year next
after their deaths or the removal of their disabilities, whichever may
first happen.

§ 746 [885]. Tax on appeals. —The tax on an appeal shall be one
dollar.

§ 747 [886]. Supersedeas necessary to stay proceedings. — An appeal
shall not stay proceedings on the judgment, unless a supersedeas be
issued (a). [The provisions of the Civil Code concerning supersedeas
on appeals shall not apply to judgments granting, modifying, perpetu
ating, or dissolving injunctions. When an appeal shall be taken from
any judgment granting, modifying, perpetuating, or dissolving any in
junction, the court which rendered the judgment may, in its discretion,
if the ends of justice so require, at the time the appeal is taken, make an
order suspending, modifying, or continuing the injunction during the
pendency of the appeal, upon such terms as to bond or otherwise as may
be proper for the security of the rights of the opposite party. Either
party, within twenty days after the entry of such order, may take a tran
script of the record, or all parts thereof appertaining to the injunction,
and upon reasonable notice in writing to the opposite party, move the
Court of Appeals, or, if in vacation, any judge thereof, to revise the order
of the lower court, and finally determine how far the injunction shall be
suspended, modified, or continued, pending the appeal. Pending such
application to the Court of Appeals or judge thereof, but not longer than
for twenty days, the status existing immediately before the entry of the
judgment appealed from shall be maintained, and the lower court shall
so provide in the judgment upon the request of either party. If, at any
time, upon reasonable notice to the party affected, it may be made to
appear that the sureties upon the bond required in the court below are
insufficient, the Court of Appeals, or a judge thereof in vacation, may
set aside the order suspending, modifying, or continuing the injunction
pending the appeal, unless sufficient surety be furnished by a day fixed
by the court or judge. 

§748 [887]. Sitpersedcas-bond. —A supersedeas shall not be issued, SL0f{ 13'
until the appellant cause to be executed before the clerk of the court
which rendered the judgment, or the clerk of the Court of Appeals,
by one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by such clerk, a
bond (a) to the effect that the appellant shall pay to appellee all costs
and damages that shall be adjudged against the appellant on the appeal;
also, that he will satisfy and perform the judgment appealed from, if it
should be affirmed, and any judgment, or order, which the Court of
Appeals may render, or order to be rendered by the inferior court, not
exceeding in amount, or value, the original judgment, and all rents, or
hire, or damages to property, during the pendency of the appeal, of
which the appellee is kept out of possession by reason of the ap
peal 

§ 749 [888, 889]. Who to take bond and who to issue supersedeas. — I.
The bond must be executed before the clerk of the court rendering the
judgment, if the appeal be granted by that court. In other cases, it
must be executed before the clerk of the Court of Appeals.
2. The clerk of the court rendering the judgment shall issue the
supersedeas (a), if the bond be executed before him before the expira
tion of the time for filing a copy of the record in the clerk's office of
the Court of Appeals pursuant to § 738. In other cases, it must be
issued by the clerk of the Court of Appeals 
§ 750 [890]. Discharge of supersedeas for insufficiency of bond. — The
appellee may move the Court of Appeals, if in session ; or, on reason
able notice to the appellant, may move a judge of said court, in vacation,
to discharge the supersedeas ; and, if the court or judge shall consider
the sureties insufficient, or the bond substantially defective in securing
the rights of the appellee, the court or judge shall make an order
discharging the supersedeas, unless a good bond with sufficient sureties
be forthwith executed. The order, if made by a judge, shall be in
writing and signed by him ; upon the filing of which, or of a certified
copy of the order, if made by the court, in the clerk's office of the
inferior court, executions and other proceedings for enforcing the judg
ment may be immediately taken, as if no supersedeas had been issued.
But another supersedeas may be issued by the clerk of the Court of
Appeals upon the execution of a new and lawful bond, with sufficient
sureties, as hereinbefore provided.
§751 [891]. Bond and supersedeas to stay part of judgment. — The
supersedeas may be issued to stay proceedings on a part of a judgment,
and in such case the bond shall be varied so as to secure the part
superseded.
§ 752 [892]. Supersedeas defined. — The supersedeas is a written
order, signed by the clerk, commanding the appellee and all others to
stay proceedings on the judgment or order.

§ 753 [893]- Time of trial of appeals. —Appeals shall stand for trial
during the first term twenty days before which the transcript is filed in
the clerk's office, if—
1 . The appeal be granted by the inferior court ; or,
2. The appearance of the appellee be entered five days before the
day on which the case is set for trial on the docket ; or,
3. The appellee be summoned actually twenty days, or construct
ively thirty days, before said day.
§ 754 [894]- Docket of appeals—printing of, &c. — 1. The clerk shall
arrange the appeals upon the docket, setting a proper number for each
day of the term ; and in arranging them may have due regard to the
convenience of litigants, in placing together the appeals from the
several judicial districts.
2. He shall, at least fifteen days before each term, furnish a copy of
the docket to the Public Printer ; who shall immediately print not less
than five hundred copies thereof, and send one of said copies to the
clerk of each circuit court, chancery court, and court of common
pleas, for public use ; and the claim of the printer shall be approved
and certified by the court, and be paid as other claims upon the
treasury.
§ 755 [895]- Cross-appeal, how taken — kow barred, &c. — 1. The
appellee, [if he have filed an assignment of errors in the clerk's office

of the inferior court, pursuant to the provisions of subsections 4 and 7
of § 737 ; or, in any case, upon filing such assignment in the Court of
Appeals,] may obtain a cross-appeal, at any time before trial, by an
entry on the records of the Court of Appeals (a).
[2. The failure of the appellee to take a cross-appeal after assigning
cross-errors pursuant to the provisions of subsections 4 or 7 of § 737,
and not otherwise, shall bar his right to an appeal.]
3. The failure of an appellant to prosecute an appeal ; or his dis
missal of it [after the appellee shall have assigned cross-errors pursuant
to the provisions of subsections 4 or 7 of § 737, or subsection 1 of this
section,] shall not prevent the appellee from prosecuting a cross-
appeal 
§ 756 [896]. Assignment of errors —grounds for reversal —filing ad
ditional transcript. — 1. [Every appellant or cross-appellant must, by his
assignment of errors, specify the particular errors on which he means
to rely; and no others shall be alleged by the party or examined into
by the court;] nor shall a judgment be reversed or modified, except for
an error to the prejudice of the substantial rights of the party com
plaining thereof (a). [But the Court of Appeals may, on motion,
after ten days' notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, allow a
party to file a transcript of an additional portion of the record. Act
May 5, 1880].
[2. But the Court of Appeals may allow a party, having been a
defendant in the original action in the inferior court, and being under
any disability, excepting coverture, or infancy and coverture combined,
to amend an assignment of errors or cross-errors, after reasonable notice
to the adverse party.

§ 757 [^97]- Motion to dismiss appeal on face of record. —If it appear
from the record that an appeal was improperly granted, or that the ap
pellant's right to prosecute it further has ceased, the appellee may, upon
stating the grounds in writing, move the court to dismiss the appeal {a).
The motion shall not be heard, without the appellant's consent, before
the day on which the case is set for trial on the docket, [except upon
five days' notice served upon the appellant, or upon his attorney of
record. Act May 5, 1880].
[But when a party recovers judgment for only part of the demand
or property he sues for, the enforcement of such judgment shall not
prevent him from prosecuting an appeal therefrom as to so much of
the demand or property sued for that he did not recover (b). Act
March 24, 1888.]

§ 758 [898]. Dismissal of apfeal on plea. —If the facts mentioned in
§ 757 be not shown by the record, the appellee may plead them by a
verified answer, to which the appellant may file a verified reply ; and
the questions of law or fact thereon shall be heard and determined by
the court on or after the day on which the case is set for trial on the
docket.

§ 759 [899]- Delay-cases. —If an appeal with a supersedeas be taken
for delay merely, the appellee may at any time move the court to affirm
the judgment as a delay case (a) ; before making which motion, he or
his counsel shall indorse on the record, in substance, that he has care
fully examined the record and believes the appeal is prosecuted for
elay merely; whereupon, the court shall examine the record, and if
they find no error in the proceedings, and believe the appeal was prose
cuted for delay merely, they shall affirm the judgment.

§ 760 [900]. Power of court to make rules: time of issuing mandates.
I. The Court of Appeals may make rules for the convenient dispatch
of business, the preservation of order, the argument of cases or motions,
and the manner and time of presenting motions or petitions for rehear
ing (a), therein ; and the time for issuing its mandates and decisions,
and the mode of enforcing its mandates and orders, and may change
the same : Provided, that no mandate shall issue, nor decision become
final, until after thirty days, excluding Sundays, from the day on which
the decision is rendered, unless the court, in delay cases, otherwise
direct ; and, if said thirty days expire during a vacation or recess of the
court, a written order of one of its judges, filed in its clerk's office,
within said thirty days, shall have the same effect to suspend the
mandate, by allowing a petition for a rehearing to be filed, or by allowing
time to file such petition, as if such order were made by the court.
2. The rules of said court in force when this Code takes effect, and
consistent with its provisions, shall continue in force until changed by
the court.
§ 761 [901]. Proceedings in the court below upon affirmance or rei ersal.
1. Upon the affirmance of, or the dismissal of an appeal from, a judgment
for the payment of money, or delivery of personal property, the ap
pellee may file in the clerk's office of the inferior court a copy of the
mandate of affirmance, or order of dismissal —upon which the clerk
shall indorse the time of its being filed ; and, thereupon, such writs of
execution may be issued as if the mandate or order had been entered
in the court.
2. If a judgment be reversed, and the case remanded for a trial, or
other proceedings, it shall stand for trial, or for such other proceedings,
n the court whence the appeal was taken, at the next succeeding term
thereof : Provided, that the mandate of the Court of Appeals be filed
in the clerk's office of the lower court, and notice thereof given to the
adverse party (a), if he be in the county, or, if he be absent from the
county, to his attorney, ten days before the commencement of such
term. Such case shall have the same position on the docket of such
court as if no appeal had been taken ; and, at any time after the man
date is filed and notice thereof given, as aforesaid, either party maytake
depositions, as in other cases.

§ 762 [902]. Enforcement of mandates : original jurisdiction of Court
of Appeals. — The Court of Appeals may enforce its mandates upon
inferior courts and officers by fine and imprisonment, which imprison
ment may be continued until the mandates are obeyed.

§ 763 [903]. Reversal for errors ivhich may be corrected in court below.
Neither a void judgment ; nor a judgment against a defendant who shall
have been only constructively summoned, and shall not have appeared
in the action ; nor any judgment which can be set aside or modified by
the court which rendered it, upon motion made after the term during
which it was rendered, shall be reversed or modified by the Court of
Appeals, until a motion to set aside or modify the judgment shall have
been made in* the inferior court and overruled

§ 764 [904]. Damages on affirmance or dismissal of appeal. — Upon
the affirmance of, or the dismissal (a) of an appeal from, a judgment for
the payment of money (J>), the collection of which, in whole or part,
has been superseded (c), as provided in chapter 2 of this title, ten per
cent, damages on the amount superseded shall be awarded against the
appellant (d). [And upon the affirmance of, or the dismissal of an
appeal from, a judgment for money rendered against any insurance or
railroad corporation or company, or against any corporation not created
by or organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
ten per centum damages on the amount of the judgment appealed from
shall be awarded against the appellant, although such judgment be not
superseded 

§ 765 [925]- The court to deliver written opinions. — The court must
deliver written opinions in all cases.
§ 766 [906]. Reporter s duties. —The reporter of the decisions of the
Court of Appeals shall make a brief statement of the facts involved in
the decisions, unless they be stated in the opinion of the court, and a
brief statement of the legal propositions of counsel on both sides, and
a statement of the authorities cited by counsel in support of each prop
osition.
§ 767 [907]. Revivor of appeals. — The provisions of Title XI shall,
so far as applicable, regulate cases in the Court of Appeals.

§ 837 [748, 763]. The provisions of §§ 333 to 339, both inclusive,
of § 605, § 606, and of §§ 734 to 767, both inclusive, shall regulate
future proceedings in civil cases now pending (a) ; and, subject to those
provisions, such cases shall be governed by laws heretofore in force.

§ 838 [748, 766, 875]. The provisions of this Code shall regulate
pleadings and practice in civil cases commenced hereafter in courts
which now exist, or may hereafter be created; and, as to such cases,
laws within the purview of those provisions are repealed (a) ; and this
repeal does not revive any law which may have been repealed by laws
which are hereby repealed 






