SEC. 1. The practice, proceedings and pleadings in teh several courts of law, shall be the same that were used an dpracticed in teh courts of law of this state at the time of the adoption of the present Constitution, except so far as the same
may be altered and changed by this code.

SEC. 2. Whatever facts are necessary to constitute the ground of
action, defense, or reply, as the case may be, shall be stated
in the pleading and nothing more; and facts only shall be
stated, and not arguments, or inferences, or matter of law or
of evidence, or of which the court takes notice ex oflicio.

SEC. 3. Any declaration which contains a plain statement of the
facts necessary to constitute a ground of action shall be suHicient, and any plea necessary to form a legal defense shall be
suiiicient without reference to mere form ; this to apply to
replications, rejoinders and all subsequent pleadings.

SEC. 4. It shall not be necessary to state any formal commencement or conclusion to any declaration or other plea.

SEC. 5. It shall not be necessary to state time or place in any
declaration or plea, except in cases where time or place forms
a part of the cause of action or ground of defense.

SEC. 6. No special demurrer shall be allowed in any civil case.

SEC. 7. No general demurrer shall be allowed for a mere informal
statement of a cause of action or defense; Provided, such
statement is sufficient in substance.

SEC. 8. No judgment shall be arrested or set aside for any omission of mere matter of form, nor because one or more of the
counts in the declaration may be bad, if there be one count
suilicient in substance.

SEC. 9. Where there is any im erfection, or omission whatever,
in any pleading, which won d be a fatal objection on demurrer, yet if the issue joined be such as necessarily required on
the trial proof of the facts so imperfectly stated or omitted,
such imperfection or omission shall be cured by the verdict.

SEC. 10. The plaintiff in any action may plead, in answer to
the plea or any subsequent pleading of the defendant, as
many several matters as he shall think necessary to sustain

his action; and the defendant in any action may plead, in
answer to the declaration, or other subsequent pleading of
the plaintiff, as many several matters as he shall think necessary for his defense; Provided, the pleading of the party be
consistent with his previous allegation, and not a departure
therefrom, and that no one plea contain distinct matters of
defense or reply.

SEC. 11. No plea of “non est factum” shall be received in any
action, un ess the party for whom such plea be tendered verify
the same by aflidavit, or unless the defendant being heir, executor or administrator of the person alleged to have made
the deed, obtained leave from the court upon showing just
cause to put in such plea.

SEC. 12. In any suit brought on any judgment, bond or other
writing sealed by the party, if the defendant shall have any
demand or claim against the plaintiff upon judgment, bond,
or other instrument under seal, or upon note, agreement, assumpsit or account roved, he shall be at liberty to file his
account in bar, or p ead discount to the plaintiff’s claim, and
judgment shall be given for the plaintiff for the sum only
which remains due after just discount made; Provided, the
sum which shall remain due after such discount be sufficient
to support a judgment in the court where the cause may be
tried, according to its established jurisdiction.

SEC. 13. In any suit upon simple contract, the defendant may
file an account in bar or plead discount of any claim he may
have against the plaintiff, proved according to law, which
may be of an equa or superior nature to the plaintiff’s claim,
and judgment shall be given as aforesaid.

SEC. 14. In case any person shall be prosecuted by indictment
or any other criminal prosecution for a libel, the party so
prosecuted, shall be entitled to give the truth of the matter
charged in the said indictment or other prosecution in evidence under the general issue, by way of justification.

SEC. 15. In any suit on the bond of any clerk or register, it
shall not be necessary to suggest the breaches in the replication, and if plea of performance is pleaded by defendants, it
shall be suilicient to reply generally that the obligor has not
performed the condition of his bond, and give the special
matter in evidence.

SEC. 16. The plea of non damnificatus shall not be received to
any suit on the bond of a clerk or register.

SEC. 17. Whenever any recognizance taken for the appearance
of any person to answer, or of any person to testify, shall be
forfeited in any court of record, the State's Attorney may

order a writ of execution to be issued for the sum or sums
thereon due.

SEC. 18. Where any execution has issued on a forfeited recognizance against a person for not appearing according to the
tenor of the recognizance, such person on the return of the
execution, may appear and plead in discharge thereof, any
plea which would have been good and suflicient to a scire facias on said recognizance, if a scire facias had issued thereon ;
and upon such plea being determined in favor of the person
pleading the same, he shall be discharged from the said forfeiture ; Provided, such person shall not be discharged from
such execution until the trial of the plea, unless he shall pay
and satisfy the execution, or give bond payable to the State,
before the sheriff, or enter into recognizance in court with
one good and suflicient security in double the forfeiture and
costs due upon such execution, conditioned to appear and plead
in discharge of the said execution, and to abide by and fulfil
the judgment of the court thereupon.

SEC. 19. It shall be lawful for the defendant, or for one or more
of several defendants in all actions (except actions for assault
and battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious arrest or prosecution, criminal conversation, or debauching of
the pla1ntiif’s daughter or servant,) to pay into court a sum
of money by way of compensation or amends.

SEC. 20. The plaintiff, after payment of money into court, shall
be at liberty to re ly to the same, by accepting the sum so
paid into court in ull satisfaction and discharge of the action,
and he shall be at liberty in such case to have his costs taxed,
and if they be not immediately paid, he shall have judgment
for the costs so taxed; or, the plaintiff may reply that the
sum paid into court is not enough to satisfy the claim of the
plaintiff in respect of the matter to which the plea is pleaded;
and in the event of an issue thereon being found for the defendant, the defendant shall be entitled to his costs of suit,

and the plaintiff to so much of the sum paid into court as
shall be found for him.

SEC. 21. It shall not be necessary to state the name by which
lands may have, been patented, in declarations in actions of
ejectment, dower, trespass or case, but the same may be described by abuttals, course and distance, by any name it may
have acquired by reputation, or by any other description certain enough to identify the same.

SEC. 22. The forms of pleadings which follow, shall be suf1icient; and the like forms may be used, with such modifications as may be necessary to meet the facts of the case; but
nothin herein contained shall render it erroneous or irregular to epart from said forms, so long as substance is expressed.

COMMENCEMENT OF DECLARATIONS.

“A. B., by S. T., his attorney, (or in person, as the case
may be,) sues C. D. for (here state the cause of action.)

CONCLUSION OF DECLARATIONS.

“And the plaintiff claims therefor 3 ,” (or if the action
is brought to recover specific goods,) “the plaintiff claims a
return of the said goods, or their value, and $——, for their
detention.

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION ON CONTRACTS.

The following statements of causes of actions for the common counts shall be sufficient, and the plaintiff may include
two or more of them in one count, but after the statement of
the first cause of action, each subsequent statement should
begin with the words “ and for.”

1st. County, ss: A. B., by S. T., his attorney, sues C. D. for
goods sold by the plaintiff to the defendant, and the plaintiff
claims therefor the sum of 3

S. T., Plaintiff's Attorney.

2d. Money payable by the defendant to the plaintiff for
(these words “money payable, &c.,” should precede money
counts like the 1st to the 12th inclusive, but need only be inserted in the first,) goods bargained and sold by the plaintiE
to the defendant. '

3d. Work done and materials provided by the plaintiff for
the defendant at his request.

4th. Money lent by the plaintiff to the defendant.

5th. Money paid by the plaintiff for the defendant at his
request.

6th. Money received by the defendant for the use of the
plaintiff.

7th. Money found to be due from the defendant to the plainti&' on accounts stated between them.

8th. A messuage and lands sold and conveyed by the plaintiff to the defendant.

—9th. The good will of a business of the plaintid, sold and
given up by the plaintiff to the defendant.

10th. The defendant's use, by the plaintiff ’s permission, of
messuages and lands of the plaintiff.

11th. The hire of (as the case may be,) by the plaintiff let
to hire to the defendant.

12th. Freight for the conveyance by the plaintiff for the
defendant at his request of goods in ships.

‘* 13th. The demurrage of a ship of the plaintiff kept on demurrage by the defendant.

The following forms with the commencement and conclusion before stated shall be suilicient:

14th. That the defendant on the day of by
his promissory note, now over-due, promised to pay to the
plaintiff $ sixty days after date, but did not pay the
same.

15th. That one A. on &c. (date,) by his promissory note,
now over-due, romised to pay to the defendant, or order,
3 sixty d)ays after date; and the defendant endorsed
the same to the plaintiff; and the said note was duly presented for payment, and was dishonored, whereof the defendant had due notice, but did not pay the same.

16th. That the plaintiff, on &c. (date,) by his bill of exchange now over-due, directed to the defendants, required the
defendant to pay to the plaintiff $ sixty days after date;
and the defendant accepted the said bill, but did not pay the
same.

17th. That the defendant, on &c. (date,) by his bill of exchahge directed to A., required A. to pay to the laintiif $——sixty days after date; and the said bill was uly presented
for acceptance, and was dishonored, of which the defendant
had due notice, but did not pay the same.

 

18th. That theplaintiif and defendant agreed to marry one
another, and a reasonable time for such marriage has elapsed,
and the plaintiff has always been ready and willing to marry
the defendant, yet the defendant has neglected and refused to
marry the plaintiff.

19th. That the plaintiff and defendant agreed by charterparty that the plaintiff ’s ship called the “Daniel Webster,”
should with all convenient speed sail to L., or so near thereto
as she could safely get, and that the defendant should there
load her with a full cargo of coffee, or other lawful merchandize, which she should carry to B., and there deliver on ayment of freight $ per ton, and that the defen ant
should be allowed ten days for loading ; and ten days for discharge, and ten days for demurrage, if required, at $
per day; and that the laintiff did all things necessary on his
part to entitle him to ave the agreed cargo loaded on board
the said ship at L., and that the time for so doing has elapsed,
yet the defendant made default in loading the agreed cargo.

20th. That the defendant, by warranting a horse to be then
sound and uiet to ride, sold the said horse to the plaintiff,
yet the said orse was not then sound and quiet to ride.

21st. That the plaintiff let to the defendant a house, N o. 200
Market street in the city of Baltimore, for four years, to hold
from day of at $ a year payable quarterly,
of which rent quarters are due and unpaid.

22d. That the plaintiff by deed let to the defendant a house

on Patrick street, Frederick, in county, seven years
from the day of , and the defendant, by the said

deed, covenanted with the plaintiff well and substantially to

repair the said house during the said term (according to the
covenant,) yet the said house was during the said term out of
good and substantial repair.

23d. That the plaintiff and defendant, by their agreement in
writing, referred the matters therein mentioned to arbitrators;
and the arbitrators have made their award in writing, that the
defendant pay the plaintzf the sum qf $ , which the defendant has failed to do.

[Where the award is not for the mere payment of money as
above, but for the performance of some act by the defendant,
that act must be stated in place of the italic line; andwhere
the plaintiff also is to perform some act, either ‘precedent or
concurrent, a general averment “that he has per ormed (or is
ready to perform) all on his part,” after the statement of nonperformance by the defendant, as above, shall be suHicient.]

24th. That one W. T. owed the plaintiff the sum of ,
and the plaintiff was about to sue him to recover the same.
And in consideration that the plaintiff would forbear to sue
the said W. T., the defendant agreed to pay the same to the
plaintiif, and the plaintiff did forbear to sue the said W. T.,
and the defendant has not paid the said sum of $

25th. That the plaintiff purchased of the defendant a. thousand bushels qf wheat for the sum of fifteen hundred dollars,
to be paid for on delivery thereof; and the defendant promised
to deliver the same on the day of at the defendant’s warehouse in the city of Baltimore; and on said day,
the plaintiff demanded said wheat at said warehouse, and tendered to the defendant said sum of fifteen hundred dollars in
payment for the same ; and the defendant refused to deliver
the said wheat to the plaintiff.

FOR WRONGS INDEPENDENT OF CONTRACT.

26th. That the defendant broke and entered certain land of
the plaintiff, called “The Orchard,” in county, and
depastured the same with cattle.

 

27th. That the defendant assaulted and beat the plaintiff,
gave him into the custody of a constable and caused him to
be imprisoned in the jail of ——— county, (or city.)

28th. That the defendant debauched and carnally knew the
plaintiff's wife.

29th. That the defendant converted to his own use, or
wrongfully deprived the plaintiE of the use and possession of
the plaint'iff’s goods; that is to say, wheat, rye, household furn-iture, (or as the case may be.)

30th. That the plaintiff was possessed of a mill, called
“Linganore Mill,” in county, and by reason thereof
was entitled to the flow of a stream for working the same,

and the defendant, by cutting the bank of said stream, diverted

the water thereof away from the said mill.

31st. That the plaintiff was possessed of land, called “Idlewild,” in county, and was entitled to a way from said
land, over the land of the defendant, to a public highway,
for himself and his servants, with horses and wagons, to go
and return at all times, at his and their free will, for the more
convenient occupation of the said land of the plaintiE; and
that the defendant deprived him of the use of said way.

 

32d. That the defendant falsely and maliciously spoke and
published of the plaintiff the words following, that is to say:
“he is a thief ;” (if there be any special damage, ‘here state it
with such reasonable particularity as to give notice to the defendant of the particular injury complained of, for instance,)
whereby the plaintiff lost his situation of book-keeper in the
Bank of Washington.

33d. That defendant falsely and maliciously printed and’

published of the plaintiff in a newspaper called “The Examiner,” the words following, that is to say: “he foreswore himself.”

34th. That the defendant is a corporation, owning a railroad
between B. and (3.; that the plaintiff was a passenger on said
railroad, and by reason of the insufficiency of an axle of the
car in which he was riding, the plaintiff was hurt; and the
defendant did not use due care in reference to said axle, but the
plaintif did use due care.

[This form may be varied so as to adapt it to many cases,

by merely changing the allegation as to the cause of the accident.) ’

35th. That the defendant is an incorporated city and is
bound to keep its streets in repair; that one of its streets
called street, was negligently suffered by the defendant to be out of repair, whereby the plaintid in travelling on
said street and using due care was hurt.

36th. That the defendant hired from the laintiff a horse,
to ride from Frederick to Hagerstown, anti’ thence back to
Frederick, in a proper manner; and the defendant rode said
horse so immoderately that he became lame and injured in

value.

FORM ON BILL OBLIGATORY, OR BOND.

37th. County, ss: A. B., by S. T., his attorney, sues C. D. for
that the said defendant by his writing obligatory, dated
day of , in the year eighteen hundred and , promised to pay the plaintiff the sum of $ , and hath not
paid the same or any part thereof, and the plaintiff claims
therefor the sum of $

 

   

 

S. T., Plaintiff's Attorney.

38th. County, ss: A. B., by S. T., his attorney, sues C. D. for
that the said defendant was indebted to one E. F., for goods sold
and delivered, (or for whatever he was indebted, whether
money lent, or other thin , or if by bond or bill obligatory,
state the date of the bond or bill obligatory, and the sum
thereon due,) which the said E. F. assigned to the plaintiff,
and the plaintiff claims therefor $

S. T., Plaintiff ’s Attorney.

COMMENCEMENTS OF PLEAS.

39th. The defendant, by S. T., his attorney, (or .in person,)
says (here state the substance of the plea.)

40th. And for a second plea the defendant says (here state
the second plea.)

PLEAS IN ACTIONS ON SIMPLE CONTRACT.

41st. That he never was indebted as alleged, or that he
never promised as alleged.

The following forms with the commencement aforesaid,
shall he sufficient'in actions on deeds or other contracts:

42d. That the alleged deed is not his deed.

43d. That at the time of the making of the alleged deed,
the defendant was and still is within twenty-one years of age.

44th. That at the time of the making of the alleged deed
the defendant was and still is the wife of one W. T.

45th. That the defendant was unlawfully imprisoned by
the plaintiff, and others in collusion with him, until by duress
of imprisonment he made the alleged deed.

46th. That the alleged deed was procured by the fraud of

the plaintiff.

47th. That the plaintiff threatened the life of the defendant unless he would make the alleged deed; and that from
fear of the threats he made the same.

48th. That after the sealing and delivery of the alleged
deed, it was without the consent of the defendant altered, and
the words (insert them,) were inserted and substituted therein,
for the words (insert them.)

49th. That the defendant delivered the alleged deed to one
A. F., as an escrow, on condition that (state the condition,)
then the said A. F. should deliver the alleged deed to the
plaintiff as the deed of the defendant. And the plaintiff has

not performed the condition.

50th. That the alleged cause of action did not accrue within
years, (state the period of limitation applicable to the
case,) before this suit. '

51st. That before this action, he satisfied and discharged
the plaintiff's claim by payment.

52d. That the plaintiff is indebted to the defendant in an
amount equal to the plaintiff '3 claim, for (insert the cause of
set-off as in a declaration,) which amount the defendant is
willing to set-off against the plaintiff's claim.

53d. That after the alleged claims accrued, and before suit,
the plaintiff, by deed, released the defendant therefrom.

 

54th. That at the Circuit Court for -——— county,
term, the plaintiff recovered judgment against the defendant

for the sum of —— dollars and —— cents, and —— dollars
for costs ; and that said judgment was rendered on the same
cause of action mentioned in the plaintiff ’s declaration, and
is still a subsisting judgment.

55th. That he was discharged as an insolvent debtor by the
Circuit Court for county, (or Court of Common Pleas for
the cit of Baltimore,) on the -——- day of ——-, and that the
allege claim accrued before the filing of his petition.

56th. That he apfplied by petition as an insolvent debtor to
the Circuit Court or county, (or Court of Common
Pleas for the city of Baltimore,) on the day of ,
and the proceedings under the tition are still pending; and
that the alleged claim accrued fore the filing of his petition.

57th. A defendant m_ay plead, as in the above form, that he
has applied by etition _as an insolvent debtor to the proper
court, and that t e proceedings under his petition are still
pending, and that the alleged claim accrued before the filing
of his petition. And upon proof of the facts so pleaded,
judgment shall only be entered subject to the result of _the
proceedings under the petition.

FORMS OF PLEAS IN ACTIONS FOR WRONGS.

58th. That he did not commit the wrong alleged.

59th. That he did what is complained of by the defendant's
leave,

60th. That the plaintiff was not entitled to the said way
over the defendant's land as the plaintiff has alleged.

61st. That the plaintiff first assaulted him; and he committed the alleged assault in his own defense.

62d. That the defendant, at the time of the alleged trespass, was ossessed of land called “Idlewild,” in
county, an was entitled to a way from said land over the
land of the plaintiff, to a public highway, for himself and his
servants with horses and wagons, to go and return at all times,
at his and their free will, for the more convenient occu tion
of the said land of the defendant; and that the alleg trespass was a use by the defendant of said way.

FORMS OF REPLICATIONS.

63d. The plaintiff as to the defendant's plea says (here state
the matter of reply.)

64th. The laintiff as to the second plea says (state the answer to the p ea as in the following form.)

65th. That the alleged release is not the plaintiff's deed.

66th. That the alleged release was procured by the fraud of
the defendant.

67th. That the alle ed set-off did not accrue within .

years (state the erio of limitation applicable to the case,)
before the plea p eaded. .

68th. That the plaintiff's claim is ugonan account concerning trade between himself and defen ant, as merchant and
merchant, not residing in this State.

69th. That the plaintiff was possessed of land called “Midsummer,” in county, whereon the defendant was trespassing and doin damage, whereupon the plaintiE requested
the defendant to leave the said land, which the defendant refused to do; and thereupon the plaintiff gently laid his hands

on the defendant in order to remove him, doing no more than I

was necessary for that purpose, which is the alleged first assault by the plaintiff.

70th. That the defendant was not entitled to the said way
over the plaintiff's land, as the defendant has alleged.

71st. That the alleged trespass was not a use by the defendant of the said way.

72d. That the defendant was not within the age of twentyone years, as alleged.

73d. That the alleged deed was not delivered as an escrow,
as alleged.

74th. That the defendant was not, and is not now, the wife
of one W. T., as alleged.

75th. That the defendant did not make the alleged deed by
duress, as alleged.

76th. That the alleged deed was not procured by the fraud
of the plaintiff.

77th. That the defendant did not commit the alleged assault
in his own defense.

NEW ASSIGNMENT.

78th. The plaintiff, as to the and pleas, says, that
he sues not for the trespasses therein admitted, but for trespasses committed by the defendant in excess of the alleged
rights, and also in other parts of the said land and on other
occasions, and for other purposes than those referred to in the
said pleas.

(If the plaintiff replies and new assigns, the new assignment may be as follows :)

79th. And the plaintiff, as to the and pleas, further says, that he sues not only for the trespasses in these pleas

admitted, but also for, &c.

(If the plaintiff replies and new assi us to some of the pleas,
and new assigns only to the others, t e form may be as follows :)

80th. And the plaintiff, as to the and pleas, further says, that he sues n_ot for the trespasses in the pleas
(the pleas not replied to,) admitted, but for the trespasses in
the ——- pleas (the pleas replied to,) admitted, and also for, &c.

PLEAS IN ABATEMENT.

81st. That the plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons
in this case, was and still is the wife of one R. B.

82d. That the plaintiff is within twenty-one years of age;
and has declared by attorney, when he should have declared
by next friend or guardian.

83d. That the said contract in the declaration mentioned,
was made by the defendant jointly with one W. P., who is
still living, and is residing in the county (or the city,) aforesaid ; and was not made by the defendant alone, and therefore,

the said VV. P. should have been sued also. ’

(This form shall be sufficient, whether the contract be by
parol or by deed.)

FORM OF AFFIDAVIT TO PLEAS IN ABATEMENT.

84th. cou_nty.

M. R., (the defendant in the cause,) makes oath and says,

that the plea, hereunto annexed, is true in substance and in
fact.
Sworn before

FORM OF DECLARATION WHEN THE SUMMONS IS RETURNED AS TO
SOME OF THE DEFENDANTS NON EST.

85th. R. G., by S. T., his attorney (or in person,) sues J. T.
and M. B., (but M. B. has been returned non est by the sheriff,)
for (here state the cause of action, and the plaintiff claims
from J. T., (the person summoned, $

COMMENCEMENTS OF DECLARATIONS BY PERSONS SUEING IN SPECIAL CHARACTERS.

 

86th. A. B., executor of the last will (or administrator of
the goods, &c.,) of O. H. deceased, by S. T. his attorney, (or
in person,) sues D. E. for (here state the cause of action.)

87th. J. T., who is within age, by S. T. his next friend (or
guardiau,) sues W. B. for (here state the cause of action.)

88th. G. H., who was the husband of L. K. deceased, formerly L. B., who has survived his said wife, by S. T., his attorney, (or in person,) sues C. P. for (here state the cause of
action.)

89th. B. H. and F. W., survivin%partners of T. K. and I.
M., (trading under the name of B. ., F. W. & Co.,) by S. T.,
their attorney, (or in person,) sue T. H., surviving partner of
M. S. (trading under the name of T. H. and M. S.,) for (here
state the cause of action.)

(The words “trading under the name of, &c.,” may he omitted, unless the name of the firm be contained in the contract
sued on.)

(The conclusion of declarations, by persons sueing in special
characters, shall be the same with that of declarations, by persons sueing in their proper characters.)

CONCLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS BY EXECUTORS A'ND ADMINISTRATORS.

90th. And the plaintid claims $ (or if the action is
brought to recover specific goods,) the plaintiff claims a return
of the goods or their value, and $ for their detention.

 

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION BY EXECUTORS AND ADIINISTRATORS.

91st. Money payable by the defendant to the plaintiff for

goods bargained and sold by O. H., in his life time, to the defendant.

92d. Work done and materials provided by O. H. in his
life time, for the defendant, at his request.

93d. And the form may be the same as between the original
parties, adding proper words, to show that the transaction
occurred with the decedent.

cosmnncsnsnrs or DECLARATIONS AGAINST sxscnrons AND ADnrnrsrruross.

94th. A. B., by his attorney, (or in person, as the case may
be,) sues C. D. executor of the last Wlll. (or administrator of

the goods, chattels, &c.) of P. S. deceased, for (here state the
cause of action.)

CONCLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

95th. And the plaintiff claims 3 (or if the action be
to recover specific goods,) the plaintiff claims a return of the
said goods or their value, and $ for their detention.

STATEMENT OF CAUSES OF ACTION AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADHINISTRATORS.

96th. Causes of action may be stated against executors and
administrators, in the same manner as if the were the original parties thereto, except that proper wor s must be used,

to show that the claim was against the deceased in his lifetime.

COEIMENCEMENT OF‘ PLEAS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

97th. The defendant, executor of the last will (or administor of the goods and chattels,) of P. S., deceased, by S. T., his

attorney, (or in person,) says, (here state the substance of the
plea.)

98th. And for a second plea the defendant says, (here ‘state
the second plea.)

PLEAS IN ACTION BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

99th. That the defendant has fully administered the goods

and chattels, rights and credits, of the said P. S., deceased;
and had done so before this suit.

100th. That before this suit, and after the lapse of one year
from the date of his letters testamentary (or of administration,) the defendant paid away in discharge of just claims, all
the assets of the said P. S., deceased, which had come to his
hands ; and that more than six months before he so paid, he
gave notice to the creditors of P. S., to brin in their claims.
And that at the time of such payment, be ad no notice or
knowledge of the alleged claim ; and that since said payment,
no further assets have come to his hands.

101st. That before this suit, and after the lapse of one year
from the date of his letters testamentary (or of administration,) the defendant paid away in discharge of just claims a
large amount of assets of P. S., deceased ; and that more’ than
six months before said payments, he gave notice to the creditors of P. S., to bring in their claims. And at the time of
said payments, he had no notice or knowledge of the alleged
claim. And there are other just debts still due from P. S.,
of which the defendant had no notice or knowledge at the
time of the said payments; and he has not, and never has
had, assets sufficient to pay but a proportion of the alleged
claim, regard being bad to the debts still due from P. S..

102d. Other pleas may be in similar form.

COMMENCEMENTS AND CONCLUSIONS OF DECLARATIONS BY EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS AGAINST EXECUTORS AND ADMl N ISTRATORS.

103d. county, A. B., executor of the last will (or
administrator of the goods and chattels, &c.) of W. H., deceased, _by S. T., his attorney, (or in person,) sues T. K., executor of the last will (or administrator of the goods and
chattels, &c.) of W. K., deceased, for (here state cause of action.)

104th. And the‘ plaintiff claims 3 (or if the action is
brought to recover specific goods,) the laint1E claims a return
of the said goods or their value, and g for their detention.

 

105th. Declarations by executors and administrators against
executors and administrators, may be in the same form as if
the parties sued in their own right, if proper words are used
to show the cause of action occurred between the persons they
respectively represent.

' 106th. It shall not be necessary in any case to make profert
in a declaration or plea, but the opposite party shall be entitled to oyer in the same manner as if profert were made.

107th. Either party may use the common law forms, or the
forms hereinbefore given at his election, and either party may
require a bill of articnlars where the pleading is so general
as not to give su cient notice to the opposite party of the
evidence to be offered in support of it.


SEC. 23. In all suits and actions at law, any of the proceedings,
including the writ or summons, may be amended so that such
case may be tried on its real merits and the purposes of justice subserved; writs may be amended from one form of action to another, when the ends of justice require it; and any
amendment may be made at any time before the jury retire
to make up their verdict, in cases of jury trial, and in cases
of demurrer and other trials before the court, at any time before judgment is entered.

SEC. 24. No continuance shall be granted, upon amendments of
the plots, writs or any of the proceedings, but the case shall
proceed as if no amendment had been made, unless the court
shall be satisiied that the ends of justice require a continuance.

SEC. 25. No writ or actioh shall abate or be discontinued because
of the misnomer of any defendant named therein, but the

court, on suggestion supported by the affidavit of the plantiff,
or other proof to the satlsfaction of the court that the party
summoned in virtue of such writ or action is in fact the party
intended to be sued by such writ or in such action, may at any
time before judgment, direct the writ or any of the proceedings to be amended by inserting therein the true name of any
de endant, at the discretion of the court. This section to apply to foreign attachments, cases against corporations, and
all other suits and actions.

SEC. 26. If there be a non-joinder or misjoinder of plaintiffs, the
court may allow an amendment by which a plaintiff may be
added or stricken out, as the case may require.

SEC. 27. If there be a misjoinder or non-joinder of defendants,
the court may allow a defendant to be stricken out or added,
as the case may require, but if a new defendant be added, he
shall be summoned and have the same time to plead as if a
new action were brought against him.

SEC. 28. Amendments for misjoinder or non-joinder of either
plaintiff or defendants may be made at any time before the
Jury retire, to make up their verdict, or before judgment given
on demurrer, as the case may be, and the court may grant
such continuances, and may award such costs against the party

zxgking the amendment as may be deemed Just and reasona e.

SEC. 29. In amendments for non-joinder or misjoinder entire,
new parties, either plaintiE or defendants, cannot be introduced, but some one of the original plaintiffs and some one of
the original defendants must remain parties to the action,
and in no case of amendment can entire new parties, either
plaintiffs or defendants, be made.

SEC. 30. Where an heir at law or devisee has been omitted as a
defendant, the plaintiff may amend by making such heir or
devisee a party, and such proceedings shall be had as will
produce a fair trial.

SEC. 31. Nothing in the preceding sections of ‘this article relating to amendments, shall affect any_plea of limitations, in
abatement, to the jurisdiction or other dilatory plea.

SEC. 32. Where an amendment is allowed after the jury is sworn,
and the court shall consider a continuance necessar to a fair
trial of the cause, a juror shall be withdrawn, buti the court
considers that a continuance is not necessary to a fair administration of justice, the jury may proceed and try the case after
the amendment.

SEC. 33. In all cases of amendment, the allowance of costs shall
be in the discretion of the court.

SEC. 34. No cause shall be continued beyond the second term
after process has been served on the defendant, unless by

consent of parties, or upon good cause shown by the party
asking the continuance.

SEC. 35. Upon suggestion, supported by the affidavit of the party
or some other credible person, that the evidence of a witness
is wanting who resides in some place beyond the limits of
this State, or the evidence of a witness residing within this
State, the court shall continue the cause for such time as may
be deemed necessary to enable the party to procure the attendance or obtain the testimony of such absent witness ; Provided, the party applying for the continuance shall comply
with the provisions of the two following sections.

SEC. 36. The party applying for a continuance under the preceding section, shall prove by his aiiidavit, or the afiidavit of
some other credible person, to be filed in the cause, that the
testimony of the absent witness (naming him,) is material,
competent and proper in such suit; that he believes that the
cause cannot be tried with justice to the party without such
evidence; that he has used his proper and reasonable endeavors to procure the same, and that he has a reasonable expectation and belief that the same can thereafter be procured
in some reasonable time.

SEC. 37. The court may examine, on oath, a party making the
afiidavit under the preceding section as it regards the materiality of the testimony, the probability of procuring the attendance of the witness in a reasonable time, and on what information or knowledge he believes the witness- will prove
what he alleges, and if on such examination the court is satisfied of the truth of the afiidavit, and that the testimony is
material, a continuance shall be granted unless the adverse

party will admit the truth of the facts which it is so alleged
the absent witness will prove.

SEC. 38. Where a new trial is granted, or a commission shall
issue for the taking of testimony, or where a judgment shall
be set aside for fraud or irregularity, the court may continue

the cause so long as they shall deem necessary for a trial of
the same onits merits.

SEC. 39. Where a arty to a suit dies, and new parties are made
or to be made, the court may continue the case so long as may
be deemed necessary for the due administration of justice, not
exceeding the end of the fourth court after the death is suggested, unless by consent of parties, or testimohy or platts
are wanting.

SEC. 40. Where a party in any action brought to recover lands,
or in which the title thereof is involved, shall die, and the
pro r person to be made a party in the place of the person

0 ying, shall be an infant, such action shall not be tried
during such infancy unless the guardian or next friend of
such infant satisfy the court that it will be for the benefit of
the infant to have the action tried during his infancy, but the
action may be continued until the infant arrives at age.

SEC. 41. If any infant is entitled to lands by purchase, he shall
not be obliged to answer any suit or action, except in cases
where the eir would be bound by law to answer.

SEC. 42. In any case where the attendance of a witness residing
within this State to a material fact cannot be procured, the
case may be continued as long as the court thinks proper, if
the adverse party will not admit the facts, or consent to the
taking the deposition of such witness on interrogatories, before some justice of the peace where the witness resides.

SEC. 43. On a special verdict, or case stated, the court shall not

continue any case on a curia advisari vult longer than two
terms.

SEC. 44. If plots returned in any cause are defective, and cannot
be amended at bar, or if plots are not returned from the neglect of the surveyor, his sickness, or other accident, and the
court shall think a continuance necessary for a fair trial of

the cause, the same may be continued for such reasonable time
as the court may determine.

SEC. 45. In all cases where a continuance is granted the party
applying for the same shall pay the costs of the term, unless
the court shall otherwise direct.

SEC. 46. Where a tract of land, or contiguous tracts, lie partly
in one county and partly in another, an action of ejectment
may be brought for the whole land in the Circuit Court of
one of the counties; Provided, if one person is in possession
of the whole of the land, and resides in either of the counties where the land lies, the action shall be brought in the
county where such person resides, and if the person in possession does not reside in either of the counties, the action
shall be brought in the county where the greater part of the
land lies.

SEC. 47. In actions brought under the preceding section, the
court shall have the same ower to try the same, to order
writs of re-survey and awar writs of possession for the whole
land, as if the whole land lay in the county where the court
is held, the writs of possession to go to the sheriffs of the respective counties, and be by them returned to the court issuing
the same, and the survey shall be made by the surveyor of
the county where the action is brought.

SEC. 48. In any action of ejectment against two or more defendants, they may sever in their defense; but if plats be necessary, there shall be but one set returned, which shall show
the claims and pretensions of all the parties. '

SEC. 49. Where defendants in ejectment sever in their distance,
the court shall apportion the costs in such manner as may
seem reasonable and just.

SEC. 50. In all cases of a joint holding by two or more persons,
they may declare on a joint demise whether they hold as joint
tenants, tenants in common, or in any other manner.

SEC. 51. If, on the trial of an ejectment, title be shown in any
of the lessors of the plaintiff, it shall be suliicient to authorize
him to recover to the extent of such title, though other lessors may be joined who have no interest, or may have parted
with their interest.

SEC. 52. In all actions at law where the title to land is in question, it shall not be necessary for any party to any such action to prove that the lands in controversy have been patented ;
but a patent shall in all cases be presumed in favor of the
party showing a title otherwise good; and actual enclosure
shall not be necessary to prove possession, but acts of exclusive user and ownership other than enclosure may be given
in evidence to the jury, to prove possession; Provided, that
nothing contained in this section shall effect for the period of
fifteen years any previously existing laws relating to the title
to lands held in any part of the State, which were granted
for military service.

SEC. 53. No warrant of re-survey shall issue in any action of
ejectment, unless the court shall be satisfied that there is a
dispute about the location of the lands claimed in said action,
nor shall any issue in other actions, unless there is a dis ute
about the location of the lands for the injury of which amages are claimed, or unless the court shall be satisfied that
plats are necessary for illustration.

SEC. 54. In any action where the parties hold or claim under
the same title the lands in dispute, no warrant of re-survey
shall issue, except in cases where the parties claim different
parcels under the same title, and it ap ears to the court there
is a dispute about the location of the ivisional line or lines.

SEC. 55. Where the court shall consider a warrant of re-survey
necessary, if the same be had at the instance of the defendant, or is made necessary by the defense taken in such case,
the defendant shall first make his survey; and if the warrant
be had at the instance of the plantiff, he shall first make his
survey; and if it shall appear to the court at the trial of the
cause that a survey was not necessary, then the party requiring the same shall pay all the costs of the surveys.

SEC. 56. Where surveys and late are necessary, the line or lines
(the location of which is isputed,) may be located without
locating the whole tract; so where lines of a neighboring
tract are necessary for proof or illustration, such line or lines
may be located without locating the whole tract.

SEC. 57. The late and certificates of survey in every case may
be amend at bar; where the locations do not correspond

with the variation the same may be amended at bar to correspond therewith; objects to which the proof applies may be
placed on the plate, and witnesses may be examined who
were not sworn on the survey, and a witness may be shown
to be interested without locating his interest on the plats;
Provided, the court shall be satisfied the ends of justice will
be attained by such amendment of plats, and admission of
witnesses.

SEC. 58. In no action shall lats be considered as leadings or
evidence per se; nor shall any counter location necessary
to put the party locating any tract, line or object, on the proof
of such location; and the opposite party may controvert the
same without any counter location.

SEC. 59. The court upon return of any writ of replevin shall
have power, upon motion being made by the defendant for a
return of the property taken under the writ, to inquire into
the circumstances and manner of the defendant's obtaining
possession of such property, and if it shall appear that such
possession was forcibly or fraudulently obtained, or that the
possession being first in the plaintiff was got or retained by
the defendant without proper authority or right derived from
the plaintiff, the court may refuse to order a return to the defendant until a judgment is given in the action.

SEC. 60. If the defendant in replevin shall be returned “summoned,” and shall not appear in person or by attorney, on
or before the fourth day of the term next succeeding that to
which such return shall be made, the court shall on motion
enter judgment for the plaintiff for the property replevied,
and for nominal damages and costs ; and the same proceedings shall be had upon the return of two “non est” as upon
a return of “ summoned.”

SEC. 61. Upon the allowance of any writ of certiorari for the
removal of the proceedings by a justice of the peace, between
landlords and tenants, and also in all cases of inquest for a
forcible entry and detainer, or a forcible detainer, the party
obtaining the said writ of certiorari, shall ive bond with security to the opposite party, to be approve by the judge or
clerk of the court allowing the writ, in such penalty as the
said judge or clerk shall direct, conditioned for the ayment
of all costs and damages that may be incurred or sugared by

the delay of the proceedings, if the matter in controversy
upon such writ shall be decided against the person obtaining
the same.

SEC. 62. When an interlocutory judgment is entered in any of
the courts of this State, whereby the right of the plaintiff is
established, but the damages sustained by him cannot be ascertained without the intervention of a jury, the court where
judgment is given shall, on motion of the plaintiff or of his
attorney, make an order in the nature of a writ of inquiry,
to charge the jury attending at the same or at the next term,
to inquire of the damages and costs sustained by the plaintiff
in such action; which said inquiry shall be made, and the
evidence given in open court, in the same manner and under
the same regulations as in other jury trials; and after the
said jury charged as aforesaid shall have considered thereof,
they shall forthwith return their inquisition under their hands
and seals, and thereupon the court shall proceed to judgment,

as upon inquisitions of that kind returned by the sheriff.

SEC. 63. In all cases of actions brought for the penalty of any
bond, bill, covenant or contract with penalty, the jury may,
under the direction of the court, upon the plea of payment or
performance of the conditions or terms of the contract, ascertain and by their verdict find what sum of money is really
and justly due to the plaintiff-—and upon such finding judgment shall be entered by the court for the penalty, to be released upon payment of the sum of money so found to be due,
and interest on the same till paid and costs of suit; and the
sum really due as aforesaid, or in any other manner ascertained, upon bonds and other instruments of writing, with
penalty, shall be considered in law as the true debt, and shall
be so pleaded by and allowed to administrators and others.

SEC. 64. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be sold by any
sheriff, coroner, or elisor, by virtue of any recess of execution from any court of this State, and the ebtor named in
such execution, or any other person holding under said debtor
named in such execution, or any other person holding under
said debtor by title subsequent to the date of the judgment or decree, shall be in actual possession of the lands or
tenements so sold, and shall fail or refuse to deliver possession of the same to the purchaser thereof, the court to which
the said process is returnable, on the application of the purchaser, his agent or attorney, may, unless good cause to the
contrary be shown by the debtor, his agent or attorney, or
other person concerned within the first four days of the term
next succeeding that to which such process was returnable,
issue a writ in the nature of a writ of habere facias possessionem, reciting therein the proceedings which may have been
had on said process, thereby commanding the said sheriff,
coroner, or elisor, to deliver possession of the said lands or
tenements to the purchaser thereof.

SEC. 65. The said sheriff, coroner, or elisor, shall have all the
powers in the execution of said writ that he may have in the
execution of any writ of habere facias possessionem, to him

directed.

SEC. 66. If the said sherili‘, coroner, or elisor, shall die, resign,
or be removed from or disqualified for otlice, or have his authority otherwise terminated after such sale, and before the
writ in the nature of a writ of habere facias possessionem
shall have been issued and executed, the court shall issue said
writ to any succeeding sheriff, coroner, or elisor ; and if any
such oilicer, to whom said writ is directed, or who is charged
with, or on whom may devolve the execution of such writ,
shall die, resign, be removed from or disqualified for office, or
have his authority otherwise terminated before such writ shall
be finally executed and returned, said writ shall be delivered
to and executed, and returned by any succeeding sheriff, coroner, or elisor.

SEC. 67. The provisions of the three last preeceding sections
shall apply to sales made by constables or sheriffs, upon executions issued by justices of the peace, after such sale is connrmed by the court, and the said writ may be issued by the
court to which the proceedings as to such sales shall be returned, as if the execution under which such sales shall have
been made had issued from such court on a judgment therein
recovered.

SEC. 68. No application for a writ of habere under this article,
shall abate by reason of the death of the purchaser, before
obtaining possession of the lands and tenements; but his
heir or devisee shall have all the rights and remedies therein
given to the purchaser.


SEC. 69. The court shall have power in the trial of actions at
law, on motion made at the first court after the appearance
court, supported by aflidavit that the same is not intended for
delay, and due notice thereof being given, to require the
parties to produce copies, certified by a justice of the peace,
of all such parts of all books or writings in their possession
or power as contain evidence pertinent to the issue, or to
answer any bill of discovery only which may be filed by the

- second court after the appearance court, in cases and under

circumstances where they might be compelled to produce said
original books or writings or answer such bill of discovery
by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chaneery; and if a
plaintiff shall fail to comply with any such order to produce
such books or writings, or answer such bill of discovery, it
shall be lawful for the said courts on motion to give the like
judgment for the defendant as in cases of non suit; and if a

' defendant shall fail to comply with such order to produce
books or writings, or‘to answer any bill for discovery only, it
shall be lawful for the court on motion as aforesaid, give judgment against him by default; Provided, that any plaintiff
or defendant may, in compliance with any rule for producing
extracts of such books or papers bring into court the original
books or papers.

SEC. 70. At the trial of any suit instituted upon the bond of any
clerk or register for neglect of duty, it shall be the duty of
the clerk or register, when required, to exhibit to the court his
dockets, records and fee books, and the measure of damages
shall be the sum or sums he has charged for services he has
not performed, unless special damage has been suffered by
some person, and if so the jury shall in addition allow for
such special damage.

SEC. 71. In all suits or actions at law, issues from the Orphans’
Court, or any court sitting in equity in petitions for freedom,
and in all presentments and indictments instituted in any of
the Courts of Law of this State, the judge thereof, upon suggestion in writing if made by the State’s Attorney or the prosecutor for the State, or upon suggestion in writing, supported

by afiidavit made by any of the parties thereto, or other

roper evidence that a fair and impartial trial cannot be had
In the court where such suit or action at law, issues, petition
or presentment and indictment is pending, shall order and
direct the record of proceedings therein to be transmitted to
the court of any adjoining county, whether such adjoining
county be within the judicial circuit or not, for trial, which
court shall hear and determine the same in like manner as if
it had been originally instituted therein.

SEC. 72. Such suggestion shall be made before or during the
term in which the issue or issues may be joined in said suit
or action, issues or petition, presentment or indictment, unless the party applying for such removal shall, in addition to
such afiidavit, further state he had come tosuch belief, or had
been convinced of that fact since the issues had been made
up; on which additional statement being made and filed, the

cause shall be removed, notwithstanding the issueshad been
made up.

SEC. 73. When any suit or action, issues, petition, presentment
or indictment shall be removed to an adjoining county according the provisions of the two last preceding sections, it shall
be lawful for the party at whose instance the same was not
removed, if he shall think that justice cannot be done him in
the county to which the cause has been removed, to file an
affidavit as before required in the court to which the removal
is ordered, suggesting that he cannot have justice in such
county, whereupon the said court shall remove said cause to
such adjoining county as the said court shall think will best
tend to justice between the parties thereto.

SEC. 74. If it shall appear to any court to which any civil or
criminal case has been removed, that the transcript of the
record in said case is not a true transcript of the record or

rocecdings had in the court from which the said case has
been removed, it shall be the duty of the court to which the
case has been removed forthwith to order and direct that
the said imperfect transcript °" all be delivered to the clerk of
the court from which the san. was sent, and it shall be the
duty of . said clerk receiving sue; transcript so to him returned to correct the same forthwith, noting at the end thereof
the corrections so made, or to prepare a new transcript of the
said record, which shallbe correct in all its parts.

SEC. 75. The court to which any imperfect transcript is sent
shall have power to order the delivery thereof to the clerk of
the court from which the case was removed as often as may
be necessary to the perfection of said transcript as a true copy
of the record in the case, and the court to which such case is
removed shall proceed with the trial thereof at as early a day
as may be ; and all recognizances and other proceedings had
in the court to which the case is removed, shall be as good
and valid as if the transcript of the record originally transmitted had been correct in all its parts.

SEC. 76. In all civil cases which may be removed to another
county under the provisions of this article, and in which a
dual judgment may be obtained, the clerk of the court in
which such judgment may be obtained, shall, on application
of the plaintiff therein, issue execution on said judgment or
decree against the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,
rights and credits of any defendant, lying in the county or
city in which said case shall have been originally instituted,
or if the judgment is for the defendant he may have the same
remedy.

SEC. 77. Any such execution shall be directed to and served by
the sheriff or coroner, as the case may be, of the county or
city in which the case was originally instituted, and returned
to the Circuit Court for the county of which he is sheriff, or
the Superior Court of Baltimore city, if in said city, and it
shall be suilicient for the plaintiff to entitle himself to the
benefit of such execution, to produce before the court to which
the same shall be returnable, a short copy of the judgment
by him obtained, attested by the clerk of the court before
which the same is had.

SEC. 78. Every court to which any cause may be removed shall
have power to issue a warrant of re-survey, order, or other
process to the sheriff, surveyor or other oiiicer of the county
from which such caue has been removed, to the sheriff or
other oiiicer of any other county; and the sheriff, surveyor,
or other otlicer shall be bound to execute and obey the same,
in the same manner as if issued from the Circuit Court of the
county from which such cause was removed, or of the county
in which such sheriff, surveyor or other oilicer may reside;
and upon neglect of any sheriff, surveyor or other officer to
execute and obey such warrant of re-survey, order, or other

process, the court in which such cause is pending, and to
which such warrant of re-survey, order, or other process is
returnable, shall, on motion and proof of delivery thereof,
amerce such sheriff, surveyor or other ofiicer not exceeding
two hundred dollars, and enter judgment against him in the
name of the State, but for the use of the_ party aggrieved by
such neglect, who may issue execution thereon as upon other
judgments.


SEC. 79. In all civil suits or actions in the Circuit Courts where
capies ad respondendem formerly issued, a writ of summons
shall be issued for the defendant, in which shall be stated the
purpose for which he is summoned ; and the said summons
shall be returnable on the first day of the term next after
issuing the same.

SEC. 80. If the summons is returned “summoned,” and the defendant returned “summoned” shall fail to appear, the court
shall on the second day of the term to which the summons is
returnable, enter the appearance of any defendant so summoned and failing to appear, and the action shall proceed in
the same manner as if the party had appeared in person.

SEC. 81. Where there is more than one defendant, and some
shall appear, and some who have been summoned shall fail
to appear, the court shall have an appearance entered for those
who fail to appear, and the same proceedings shall be pursued
as if all had appeared.

SEC. 82. No person shall be sued out of the county in which he
resides, until the sheriff or coroner of the county in which
he resides shall have returned a non est on a summons issued
in such county; Provided, that nothing herein contained shall
apply to any person who shall abscond from justice in the
county where he lives, but such person may be sued in any
county where he may be found; this section not to apply to
ejectment, dower, replevin, scire facias on judgment or decree,
nor to heirs, devisees or terre-tenants against whom process
may be issued to another county.

SEC. 83. If any trespass shall be committed on any real property,
and the person committing the same shall remove from the

county where such property may lie, or cannot be found in
such county, such trespasser may be sued in any county where
he may be found, and an executor may be sued either in the
county where he resides or where he obtained administration.

SEC. 84. Every county lying on any navigable river in this State,
shall extend its jurisdiction from the shore to the channel of
the river that divides the counties, except where a dividing
line has been fixed in such river by law; and where any ship
or other vessel shall be in said river, process may be served on
board the said ship or vessel by the oiiicers of either county
that can first serve it; but if she is moored or fastened to the
land on either side of said river, then she shall be considered
as in the county to whose shore she is fastened.

SEC. 85. If any person shall commit any crime or offense in any
county of which he is not an inhabitant, or if any person shall
commit any crime or offense in the county of which he is an
inhabitant and shall remove after the commission thereof and
shall be presented or indicted in the county where the crime
or offense shall have been committed, the court before which
such presentment or indictment shall be found, may issue process against such person directed to the sheriff of the county
where such person may reside, and the sheriff shall serve and
return such process as if issued by a court of his county, and
upon neglect or delay, may be fined by the court issuing the
same.

SEC. 86. Where a testator devises lands and dies in debt, any of
his creditors may sue his devisees without making his heirs at
law arties, unless such heirs are known to the plaintiif and
resi e in this State.

SEC. 87. It shall not be necessary for any oihcer, in serving any
writ of scire facias, or attachment with clause of scire facias,
to serve the same in the presence of witnesses.

SEC. 88. In cases of writs of scire facias against heirs and terre
tenants, where any of the heirs or terre tenants reside in
another county than that in which the judgment on which
such scire facias is issued was obtained, duplicates of such writ
may issue directed to the sheriff of each county wherein any
of the heirs or terre tenants reside, and shall be served by the
sheriff and returned to the court from which they issued, and

the party so summoned by means of such duplicates shall he
proceeded against in the same manner as if they were residents
of the county in which the judgment was obtained.

SEC. 89. In all cases where a joint action is instituted against
heirs and devisees, and any of such heirs or devisees shall be
residents of another county, a duplicate writ may issue to the
county where any of said heirs or devisees reside, directed to
the sheriff thereof, who shall serve and return the same to the
court from which it issued, and the same proceedings shall be
had as if such heirs or devisees resided in the county where
the suit was brought; Provided, all such actions shall be instituted in the county in which the deceased died, if any of
his heirs reside there, and if not, in the county in which his
real estate or some part thereof is situated.

SEC. 90. An execution or attachment may issue on any judgment
or decree to the sheriff of any other county, if an execution
or attachment has been issued to the sheriff of the county
where the judgment or decree was obtained and returned
“nulls. bona,” or if a defendant in a judgment shall remove
from the county in which the judgment was rendered to any
other county, an execution may issue from the court in which
the judgment was rendered to the sheriff of the county in
which the defendant shall reside, and such execution or attachment shall be made returnable to the Circuit Court of the
county to which it is sent, and the court to which the same is
returned shall upon the production of a short copy of the
judgment, proceed in the same manner by renewal or otherwise as if the said execution or attachment had been issued
by such court on a judgment or decree therein.

SEC. 91. A summons for witnesses residing in a different county
to testify in trials to be had before the Circuit Court, may issue,
and shall be directed to the sheriff of the county where the
witnesses reside, and all witnesses upon whom such summons
shall he served shall be liable to attachment and fine in like

manner as if such witnesses resided in the county where the
trial is had.

SEC. 92. If a witness residing in a different county from that in
which the trial is to be had shall be summoned, or has removed
from such county ‘after being summoned, and shall fail to appear after being so summoned, an attachment may issue for

such witness to the sheriff of the county where said witness
resides, returnable to the court issuing the same, and if the
sheriff take such witness, he shall produce him before the
said court to abide its sentence thereupon.

SEC. 93. Process issued by any court of this State, against a corporation holding and exercising franchises within this State,
may be served upon the president, or any director or manager
or other oflicer of such corporation.

SEC. 94. If a suit shall be instituted against any corporation not
chartered by this State, but deemed to hold and exercise franchises therein, in the county or city where the ofiice of such
corporation is kept, the process in such suit may be served on

the president or any director, or upon any agent of such corporation.

SEC. 95. But in a suit against ‘such corporation in any other
county or city than that in which its oflice is located, the
plaintiff in such suit shall have the writ or summons, or a copy
thereof, served on the clerk of the corporation, or in case of his
absence, left at the otlice of such corporation, at least fifteen
days before the return day of such writ or summons, and shall
file the ailidavit of some disinterested person that the same
had been duly served or left at the oilice aforesaid.

SEC. 96. If any of the corporations embraced in the last two sections shall, after any liability shall occur within this State,
withdraw its agents from this State, or shall revoke the authority of any agent, and shall not appoint another, and no
president or director of such corporation can be found in this
State, service of any writ or process on the person last the
agent of such corporation shall be deemed sufficient service,
i a copy of such process be served on the president or two
directors of such corporation in the State where the same was
incorporated, and an aflidavit of such service be made before
any person authorized by the laws of this State to take the
acknowledgment of deeds.

SEC. 97. If any corporation whatever upon which process has
been served as herein prescribed shall fail to appear during
the term to which such process shall be returned, or by the"
second day of the succeeding term, judgment by default shall
be entered against such corporation, and the amount of the

claim of the plaintiff ascertained by a jury of inquiry or
otherwise, as in other cases on judgments by default.

SEC. 98. When any of the clerks of any of the courts within this
State shall be required to issue any writ or process whatever,
to be served in any other county than that in which he is clerk,
he shall issue the same directed to the sheriff, coroner, or
other proper oiiicer of such other county to whom the same
ought to be directed, and shall immediately enclose such process in a letter or cover, sealed up and addressed to the clerk
of the Circuit Court of such other county, or the clerk of the
Superior Court of Baltimore city, and on the back thereof
shall endorse his name as clerk of the court from which it
issues, and shall forthwith deposit the same in the next post

‘oflice, to be conveyed by the ensuing mail to the post oflice at

or nearest to which the clerk of such other court shall reside:
and in such letter or cover shall be written the usual docket
entry of such process, so as to show the parties concerned,
and the nature and purpose thereof. '

SEC. 99. Each clerk of the Circuit Courts for the several counties,
and the clerk of the Superior Court of Baltimore city, shall
send to the post omce nearest his residence daily, (if mails
arrive at said odice daily,) and if not, as often as they arrive,
and enquire for letters and covers addressed to him; and if
he receive any writ or process, he shall immediately endorse
the time when he receives the same, and with all convenient
s eed deliver the same to the sheriif or other omcer to whom
t e same may be directed, and shall also endorse thereon the
time of such delivery.

SEC. 100. Every clerk who shall receive and deliver any writ or
process as directed in the preceding section, shall transmit by
the mail, and in due time before the session of the court to
which such process shall be returnable, a certificate under his
hand and seal of oilice, setting forth the receipt of such process, (which he shall describe in the manner in which it is
written in the letter or cover which contained the same,) the
time when he received the same, the delivery thereof to the
officer to whom it was directed, and the time of such delivery;
which certificate he shall seal up and address to the clerk of
the court to which the roces is made returnable, and deposit
it in the nearest post 0 cc, to be conveyed to such clerk, endorsing his name thereon as hereinbefore directed ; and such

certificate in all proceedings relating to the sheriff or other
ofiieer to whom any such writ or process was directed, shall
be competent and suiheient evidence to prove the delivery of
such process to such oiiieer; the provisions of this and the
preceding section to apply to writs of fieri facias and attachments sent from one county to another.

SEC. 101. Every clerk who shall neglect or delay to perform the
duties required by the three preceding sections, shall forfeit
and pay a sum not exceeding fifty dollars for every refusal or
neglect, for the use of the State.

SEC. 102. The expense of postage incurred by the respective
clerks, and a reasonable compensation for their services in the
transmission, delivery, and receipt of process from one county.
to another, shall be allowed to them by the county commissioners of their respective counties, and Mayor and City Council
of Baltimore.

SEC. 103. Any process directed to another county instead of being
sent by mail as hereinbefore directed, may be sent by any
person, and upon &proof of the delivery of the same to the
sheriff or other e cer to the satisfaction of the court from
which the same issued, such delivery shall have the same
effect to charge the sheriff or other oflieer as if delivered under
the provisions of the preceding sections.

SEC. 104. In all cases where there is no coroner in a county, the
plaintiff may file his declaration against the sheriff and his
securities, or against the person who is for the time the sheriff,
.when the suit is against him on his individual account, and
have a copy thereof set up at the Court House door at least
ten days before the sitting of the court in which the suit is
brought, and if no appearance by the defendant before the
first three days of the term, judgment shall be entered up
against them ; Provided, that the plaintiff shall make afiidavit
of the truth of the demand, and if the State shall be plaintiff
in its own right, then a statement of the Comptroller in his
own hand writing shall be evidence of the amount due the
State; but no execution shall issue on such judgment until
twelve months after said third day of the term.

SEC. 105. When the sheriff is a party to or interested in any suit
or proceeding in any court so as to be disqualified from serving

process, and there is no coroner duly qualified to serve such
process, the judge of the court in which such suit or proceeding
is to be instituted or is pending, shall on application of any
party interested, supported by aflidavit or other proof of such
disqualication, appoint an elisor to serve any rocess in such
suit or proceeding, which ap ointment shall e in writing,
signed by the judge, and file with the clerk issuing the process, and may be made either in court or during the recess.

SEC. 106. Every elisor appointed as aforesaid shall have the same
power to serve any writ or process directed to him asthe
sheriff has to serve similar process, and shall be entitled to
the same fees therefor.

SEC. 107. If any elisor dies or refuses to act, the judge may
appoint another in his place.

SEC. 108. The city of Baltimore shall be regarded as a county,
so far as relates to the sending of process of any kind from
one county to another, and each of its courts within its respective jurisdiction, shall have all the powers of the Circuit
Court for a county in relation to such process, but all executions or attachments on judgments or decrees sent from
another county shall be made returnable to the Superior
Court of said city.

