Sec. 1. The practice, proceedings and pleadings in the several
courts of law, shall be the same that were nsed and practised in
the courts of law of this State at the time of the adoption of the
constitution of 1851, except so far as the same are altered and
changed by this code.

Sec. 2. Whatever facts are necessary to constitute the ground of
action, defence, or reply, as the case may be, shall be stated in
the pleading and nothing more ; and facts only shall be stated,,
and not arguments, or inferences, or matter of law or of evidence,,
or of which the court takes notice ex-qfficio.

Sec. 3. Any declaration which contains a plain statement of the
facts necessary to constitute a ground of action shall be sufficient,
and any plea necessary to form a legal defence shall be sufficient,
without reference to mere form ; this to apply to replications, re
joinders and all subsequent pleadings.

Sec. 4. It shall not be necessary to state any formal commencement
 or conclusion to any declaration or other plea.

Sec. 5. It shall not be necessary to state time or place in any declaration or plea, except in cases where time or place forms a part
of the cause of action or ground of defence.

Sec. 6. No special demurrer shall be allowed in any civil case.

Sec. 7. No general demurrer shall be allowed for a mere informal
statement of a cause of action or defence ; provided, such statement is sufficient in substance.

Sec. 8. In all cases, civil and criminal, in which any or either party
shall demur to any indictment, declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder, sur-rejoinder, or other plea of any description, of the
opposite party, and the said demurrer shall be overruled, the
party demurring shall have the right to plead over to the facts of
the case by way of traverse or otherwise, without withdrawing his
demurrer, and upon appeal or writ of error, shall have the questions of law arising upon the demurrer decided and determined,
as fully to every intent as if the party demurring had not pleaded
over.

Sec. 9. No judgment shall be arrested or set aside for any omission
of mere matter of form, nor because one or more of the counts in
the declaration may be bad, if there be one count sufficient in sub
stance, nor because of any misjoiner of forms of actions or of
counts, nor for any other matter or cause which might have been
subject of general demurrer to the declaration or other pleadings.

Sec. 10. The plaintiff in any action may plead in answer to the
plea, or any subsequent pleading of the defendant, as many several
matters as he shall think necessary to sustain his action ; and the
defendant in any action may plead, in answer to the declaration
or other subsequent pleading of the plaintiff, as many several
matters as he shall think necessary for his defence ; provided, that
the pleading of the party be consistent with his previous allega
tion, and not a departure therefrom.

Sec. 11. No plea of "non est factum" shall be received in any
action, unless the party for whom such plea be tendered verify
the same by affidavit, or unless the defendant being heir, executor
or administrator of the person alleged to have made the deed, ob
tain leave from the court upon showing just cause to put in such
plea.

Sec. 12. In any suit brought on any judgment or bond or other
writing sealed by the party, if the defendant shall have any de
mand or claim against the plaintiff, upon judgment, bond or other
instrument under seal, or upon bill of exchange, check, order for
payment of money, promissory note, agreement, assumpsit or ac
count proved, he shall be at liberty to file such demand or claim
in bar, or plead the same in discount of the plaintiffs claim and
judgment for the excess of the one claim over the other, as each
is proved, with costs of suit shall be given for the plaintiff or the
defendant, according as such excess is found in favor of the one
or the other of these parties, if such excess be sufficient to support
a judgment in the court where the cause is tried according to its
established jurisdiction, otherwise the finding of such excess to be
due shall be sufficient primafa«yie evidence of the fact of indeb
tedness for such excess, as upon an award of arbitrators in a suit
in a court having jurisdiction to try and determine the same.

Sec. 13. In any suit upon simple contract the defendant may file in
bar, or plead in discount, any claim he may have against the
plaintiff, proved according to law, which may be of equal or
superior nature to the plaintiff's claim, and judgment shall be
given for the difference found, or other consequence follow
thereon, as in the preceding section is provided.

Sec. 14. No party, otherwise entitled to sue and recover in any suit
at law upon or under any promissory note, bill of exchange, bill
of lading, warehouse or storage receipt, or other negotiable instrument, shall be precluded from so recovering by reason of his
inability from any cause to produce such instrument in evidence
at the trial, or surrender the same to the defendant; provided,
always, that the absence of such instrument shall be sufficiently
accounted for, under the ordinary rules of evidence, to allow the
introduction of secondary proof of the contents thereof at the
trial, and that no judgment thereupon shall be entered for the
plaintiff in such suit until a good and sufficient bond shall have
been first filed therein by the plaintiff, or on his behalf, in such
penalty and with such surety or sureties as the court shall approve,
conditioned to hold and keep the defendant harmless, upon satisfaction of the judgment by him, to the same effect and intent as
if said missing instrument were then and there produced and surrendered to him ; and the costs in all such cases shall be adjudged
by the court, in its discretion, as may be equitable.

Sec. 15. In case any person shall be prosecuted by indictment or
any other criminal prosecution for a libel, the party so prosecuted
shall be entitled to give the truth of the matter charged in the
said indictment or other prosecution, in evidence under the
general issue by way of justification.

Sec. 16. In any suit on the bond of any clerk or register it shall
not be necessary to suggest the breaches in the replication ; and
if plea of performance is pleaded by defendants it shall be sufficient to reply generally that the obligor has not performed the
condition of his bond and give the special matter in evidence,
and in this event the defendant shall be entitled to a bill of particulars of the plaintiffs claim.

Sec. 17. The plea of non damnificatus shall not be received to any
suit on the bond of a clerk or register.

Sec. 18. Whenever any recognizance taken for the appearance of
any person to answer, or of any person to testify, shall be forfeited in any court of record, the State's attorney may order a
writ of execution to be issued for the sum or sums thereon due.

Sec. 19. Whenever any execution has issued on a forfeited recognizance against a person for not appearing according to the tenor
of the recognizance, such person, on the return of the execution,
may appear and plead in discharge thereof, any plea which would
have been good and sufficient to a scire facias on said recognizance, if a scire facias had issued thereon ; and upon such plea
being determined in favor of the person pleading the same, he
shall be discharged from the said forfeiture ; provided, such per
son shall not be discharged from such execution until the trial of
the plea, unless he shall pay and satisfy the execution, or give
bond payable to the State, before the sheriff, or enter into recog
nizance in court, with one good and sufficient security in double
the forfeiture and costs due upon such execution, conditioned to
appear and plead in discharge of the said execution, and to abide
by and fulfil the judgment of the court thereupon.

Sec. 20. It shall be lawful for the defendant, or for one or more of
several defendants, in all actions (except actions for assault and
battery, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious arrest or
prosecutions for criminal conversation, or debauching of the
plaintiffs daughter or servant,) to pay into court a sum of money
by way of compensation or amends; and when two or more
causes of action are joined in one suit or action, it shall be lawful for the defendants or for one or more of several defendants,
to pay into court a sum of money by way of compensation or
amends, for and on account of either or all of said causes of
action.

Sec. 21. The plaintiff after payment of money into court for and
on account of any cause of action in any suit or action in which
said payment shall be lawful under the provisions of the preced
ing section, shall be at liberty to reply to the same by accepting
the sum so paid into court in full satisfaction and discharge of
the cause of action for and on account of which said payment
shall have been made, and he shall be at liberty in such case to
have his costs taxed, and if they are not immediately paid he
shall have judgment for the costs so taxed ; provided, however,
that when two or more causes of action are joined in one suit,
and payment shall be made on account of one or more of said
causes of action, the costs shall be apportioned by the court ; and
when any cause or causes of action upon account of which the
plaintiff shall have paid money into court by way of compensation, and amends shall have been added, by way of amendments,
the defendants shall be entitled to tax the costs which shall have
accrued after said amendment only, or the plaintiff may reply
that the sum paid into court is not enough to satisfy the claim of
the plaintiff in respect of the matter to which the plea is pleaded,
and in the event of an issue thereon being found for the defend
ant, the defendant shall be entitled to his costs, the same to be
apportioned by the court where there are two or more causes of
action joined as aforesaid, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to so
much of the sum paid into court as shall be found for him.

Sec. 22. It shall not be necessary to state the name by which land
may have been patented, in declarations in actions of ejectment,
dower, trespass or case, but the same may be described by abuttals,
course and distance, by any name it may have acquired by reputation, or by any other description certain enough to identify the
same.

Sec. 23. The forms of pleadings which follow shall be sufficient;
and the like forms may be used, with such modifications as may
be necessary to meet the facts of the case ; but nothing herein
contained shall render it erroneous or irregular to depart from
said forms, so long as substance is expressed.

Sec. Commencement of Declarations.
A. B., by S. T., his attorney (or in person, as the case may be),
sues C. D. for (here state the cause of action).
Conclusions of Declarations.
" And the plaintiff claims therefor " %
, (or if the action is
detinue, brought to recover specific goods,) " the plaintiff claims
a return of the said goods, or their value, and %
, for their
detention;" (or if the action is replevin,) "the plaintiff claims
the return of the said goods," (when they have not been replevied
and delivered,) "and %
for their detention;" (or in cases
where they have been delivered,) "the plaintiff claims said goods
and %
for their detention."
Stirling e. Garritee, 18 Md. 468.
Statement of Causes of Action on Contracts.
The following statements" of causes of actions for the common
counts shall be sufficient, and the plaintiff may include two or
more of them in one count, but after the statement of the first
cause of action, each subsequent statement should begin with the
words " and for."

Sec. county, ss : A. B., by S. T., his attorney, sues C.
for money payable by the defendant to the plaintiff for goods sold
and delivered by the plaintiff to the defendant, and the plaintiff
claims therefor the sum of %
.
S. T., Plaintiffs Attorney.
Hewes v. Jordan, 39 Md. 472.
2. Money payable by the defendant to the plaintiff for goods
bargained and sold by the plaintiff to the defendant. (These
words "money payable, &c.," should precede money counts like
the 1st to the 13th, inclusive, but need only be inserted in the 1st.)
Merryman v. Rider, 34 Md. 98. Scott e. Leary, 34 Md. 398.
3. "Work done and materials provided by the plaintiff for the
defendant at his request.
4. Money lent by the plaintiff to the defendant.
5. Money paid by the plaintiff for the defendant at his request.
6. Money received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.
7. Money found to be due from the defendant to the plaintiff
on accounts stated between them.
Dyson v. West, lH.tJ. 567. Turner v. Jenkins, 1 H. & G. 163. Scott t>.
Leary, 34 Md. 398.
8. A messuage and lands sold and conveyed by the plaintiff
to the defendant.
9. The good will of a business of the plaintiff, sold and given
up by the plaintiff to the defendant.
10. The defendant's use, by the plaintiffs permission, of mes
suages and lands of the plaintiff.
11. The hire of (as the case may be) by the plaintiff let to
hire to the defendant.
12. Freight for the conveyance by the plaintiff for the de
fendant, at his request, of goods in a ship.
13. The demurrage of a ship of the plaintiff kept on demur
rage by the defendant.
The following forms, with the commencement and conclusion
before stated, shall be sufficient :
14. That the defendant, on the day of , by his
promissory note, now overdue, promised to pay to the plaintiff
$
sixty days after date, but did not pay the same.
15. That one A. on, &c. (date), by his promissory note, now
overdue, promised to pay to the defendant, or order, $
sixty
days after date; and the defendant endorsed the same to the
plaiutiff ; and the said note was duly presented for payment and
was dishonored, whereof the defendant had due notice, but did
not pay the same.
16. That the plaintiff, on, &c. (date), by his bill of exchange,
now overdue, directed to the defendants, required the defendant
to pay to the plaintiff $——- sixty days after date ; and the de
fendant accepted the said bill, but did not pay the same.
17. That the defendant, on, &c., (date,) by his bill of ex
change directed to A., required A. to pay to the plaiutiff $
sixty days after date ; and the said bill was duly presented for
acceptance, and was dishonored, of which the defendant had due
notice, but did not pay the same.
18. That the plaintiff and defendant agreed to marry one
another, and a reasonable time for such marriage has elapsed, and
the plaintiff has always been ready and willing to marry the de
fendant, yet the defendant has neglected and refused to marry
the plaintiff.
Saner e. Schulenberg, 33 Md. 288.
19. That the plaintiff and defendant agreed by charter-party
that the plaintiffs ship called the "Daniel Webster," should with
all convenient speed sail to L., or so near thereto as she could
safely get, and that the defendant should there load her with a
full cargo of coffee, or other lawful merchandise, which she
should carry to B., and there deliver on payment of freight $
per ton, and that the defendant should be allowed ten days for
loading, and ten days for discharge, and ten days for demurrage,
if required, at $
per day; and that the plaintiff did all
things necessary on his part to entitle him to have the agreed
cargo loaded on board the ship at L., and that the time for so
doing has elapsed, yet the defendant made default in loading the
agreed cargo.
20. That the defendant warranted a horse to be then sound"
and quiet to ride, and thereby sold the said horse to the plaintiff,
yet the 6aid horse was not then sound and quiet to ride.
21. That the plaintiff let to the defendant a house, No. 200
Market street, in the city of Baltimore, for four years, to hold
from
day of
, at $
a year, payable quarterly,
of which rent
quarters are due and unpaid.
22. That the plaintiff by deed let to the defendant a house on
Patrick street, Frederick, in
county, for seven years, from
the
day of
, and the defendant, by the said deed,
covenanted with the plaintiff, well and substantially to repair the
said house during the said term, (according to the covenant,) yet
the said house was, during the said term, out of good and substantial repair.
23. That the plaintiff and defendant, by their agreement in
writing, referred the matters therein mentioned to arbitrators;
and the arbitrators have made their award in writing, that the defendant pay the plaintiff the sum of %
, which the defendant
has failed to do.
[Where the award is not for the mere payment of money as
above, but for the performance of some act by the defendant,
that act must be stated in place of the italic line ; and where the
plaintiff also is to perform some act, either precedent or concur
rent, a general averment "that he has performed (or is ready to
perform) all on his part," after the statement of non-performance
by the defendant, as above, shall be sufficient.]
24. That one W. T. owed the plaintiff the sum of $
, and
the plaintiff was about to sue him to recover the same. And in
consideration that the plaintiff would forbear to sue the said W.
T., the defendant agreed to pay the same to the plaintiff, and the
plaintiff did forbear to sue the said W. T., and the defendant has
not paid the said sum of $
.
Bushy e. (Jonoway, 8 Md. 55. Bowen e. Tipton, 64 Md. 285.
25. That the plaintiff purchased of the defendant a thousand
bushels of wheat for the sum of fifteen hundred dollars, to be
paid for on delivery thereof ; and the defendant promised to deliver
the same on the
day of
, at the defendant's ware
house, in the city of Baltimore ; and on said day, the plaintiff de
manded said wheat at said warehouse, and tendered to the de
fendant said sum of fifteen hundred dollars, in payment for the
same ; and the defendant refused to deliver the said wheat to the
plaintiff.
Form on Bill Obligatory, or Bond.
26.
County, ss : A. B., by S. T., his attorney, sues C. D.
for that the said defendant by Ids writing obligatory, dated
day of
, in the year eighteen hundred and
, prom
ised to pay the plaintiff the sum of $
, and hath not paid the
same or any part thereof, and the plaintiff claims therefor the
sum of $
.
S. T., Plaintiff's Attorney.
Form by Assignee of Chose in Action.
27.
county, ss : A. B., by S. T., his attorney, sues C. D.
for that the said defendant was indebted to one E. F. for goods
sold and delivered, (or for whatever he was indebted, whether
money lent or other things, or if by bond or bill obligatory, state
the date of the bond or bill obligatory, and the sum thereon due,)
which the said E. F. assigned to the plaintiff, and the plaintiff
-claims therefor, $
.
S. T., Plaintiffs Attorney.
Union Bank v. Tillard, 26 Md. 446.
For Wrongs Independent of Contract.
28. That the defendant broke and entered certain land of the
plaintiff, called " The Orchard," in
county, and depastured
the same with cattle.
29. That the defendant assaulted and beat the plaintiff, gave
him into the custody of a constable, and caused him to be impris
oned in the jail of
county (or city).
Gaithcr c. Blowers, 11 Md. 555. Mitchell v. Lemmon, 34 Md. 176. Roddy
v. Finnegan, 43 Md. 490. P., W. & B. R. R. Co. v. Larkin, 47 Md. 155.
30. That the defendant debauched and carnally knew the
plaintiff 's wife; or that the defendant debauched and carnally
knew the plaintiffs daughter and servant, whereby he lost her
service,
31. That the defendant converted to his own use, or wrong
fully deprived the plaintiff of the use and possession of the
plaintiff's goods; that is to say, wheat. rye, householdfut>niture,
(or as the case may be).
Meixsell v. Carr, 25 Md. 46. Streeks v. Dyer, 39 Md., 427. Manning t>.
Brown, 47 Md. 507.
32. That the plaintiff was possessed of a mill, called " Linganore mill," in
county, and as such possessor was entitled
to the flow of a stream for working the same, and the defendant,
by cutting the bank of said stream, diverted the water thereof
away from the said mill.
33. That the plaintiff was possessed of land, called " Idlewild,"
county, and was entitled to a way from said land, over
the land of the defendant, to a public highway, for himself and
his servants, with horses and wagons, to go and return at all times,
at his and their free will, for the more convenient occupation of
the said land of the plaintiff ; and that the defendant deprived
him of the use of said way.
34. That the defendant falsely and maliciously spoke and pub
lished of the plaintiff the words following, that is to say; "he is a
thief ; " (if there be any special damage, here state it with such
reasonable particularity as to give notice to the defendant of the
particular injury complained of, for instance,) whereby the plain
tiff lost his situation of book-keeper in the bank of Washington.
35. That defendant falsely and maliciously printed and pub
lished of the plaintiff in a newspaper called " The Examiner,"
the words following, that is to say : " he forswore himself."
36. That the defendant is a corporation, owning a railroad
between B. and C. ; that the plaintiff was a passenger on said
railroad, and by reason of the insufficiency of an axle of the car
in which he was riding the plaintiff was hurt ; and the defendant
did not use due care in reference to said axle, but the plaintiff did
use due care.
[This form may be varied so as to adapt it to many cases, by
merely changing the allegation as to the cause of the accident.]
37. That the defendant is an incorporated city, and is bound
to keep its streets in repair ; that one of its streets, called
street, was negligently suffered by the defendant to be out of
repair, whereby the plaintiff in travelling on said street and using
due care was hurt.
38. That the defendant hired from the plaintiff a horse toride from Frederick to Hagerstown, and thence back to Frederick,
in a proper manner ; and the defendant rode said horse 60 immod
erately that he became lame and injured in value.
Commencements of Pleas.
39. The defendant, by S. T., his attorney, or in person, says
(here state the substance of the plea.)
40. And for a second plea the defendant says (here state the
second plea.)
Pleas in Actions on Simple Contract.
41. That he never was indebted as alleged, or that he never
promised as alleged.
The following forms with the commencement aforesaid shall be
sufficient in actions on deeds or other contracts :
42. That the alleged deed is not his deed.
43. That at the time of the making of the alleged deed, the
defendant was and still is within twenty-one years of age.
44. That at the time of the making of the alleged deed the
defendant was and still is the wife of one W. T.
45. That the defendant was unlawfully imprisoned by the
plaintiff, and others in collusion with him, until by duress of
imprisonment he made the alleged deed.
46. That the alleged deed was procured by the fraud of the
plaintiff.
47. That the plaintiff threatened the life of the defendant
unless he would make the alleged deed ; and that from fear of the
threats he made the same.
48. That after the sealing and delivery of the alleged deed,
it was, without the consent of the defendant, altered, and the
words (insert them,) were inserted and substituted therein for
the words (insert them.)
49. That the defendant delivered the alleged deed to one
A. F., as an escrow, on condition that (state the condition,) then
the said A. F. should deliver the alleged deed to the plaintiff as
the deed of the defendant. And the plaintiff has not performed
the condition.
50. That the alleged cause of action did not accrue within
years, (state the period of limitation applicable to the case,)
before this suit.
51. That before this action, he satisfied and discharged the
plaintiff's claim by payment.
Geiser v. Kershner, 4 G. & J. 305. Hardy v. Coe, 5 Gill, 189. Jones v. Ricketts, 7 Md. 116. Campbell t. Booth, 8 Md. 107. Booth t>. Campbell, 15 Md.
569. Brown «. Rowles, 21 Md. 11. Oberndorf t. Union Bank, 31 Md. 132.
Maddux v. Bevan, 39 Md. 485. Loney v. Bailey, 43 Md. 10. Ibid. 45 Md. 447.
Anderson v. Rohr, 51 Md. 205. Ingersoll v. Martin, 58 Md. 74.
52. That the plaintiff is indebted to the defendant in an
amount equal to (or greater than) the plaintiffs claim, for (insert
the cause of set-off as in a declaration,) which amount the defen
dant is willing to set-off against the plaintiffs claim.
53. That after the alleged claims accrued, and before suit, the
plaintiff, by deed, released the defendant therefrom.
Patapsco Co. e. Smith, 6 H. & J. 166. Bowers v. State, 7 H. & J. 32. Clopper c. Union Bk., 7 H. & J. 103. Wyman v. Gray, 7 H. & J. 409. Glenn e.
Smith, 2 G. A J. 493. Moale v. Hollins, 11 G. & J. 11. Jones e. Ricketts, 7
Md. 117. State v. Gott, 44 Md. 341. Ingersoll e. Martin, 58 Md. 74.
54. That at the circuit court for
county,
term,
the plaintiff recovered judgment against the defendant for the
sum of
dollars and
cents, and
dollars for
costs ; and that said judgment was rendered on the same cause of
action mentioned in the plaintiffs declaration, and is still a sub
sisting judgment.
Shafer c. Stonebraker, 4G.AJ. 360. Whitehurst c. Rogers, 38 Md. 518.
55. That he was discharged as an insolvent debtor by the
circuit court for
county, (or court of common pleas for
the city of Baltimore,) on the
day of
, and that the
alleged claim accrued before the filing of his petition.
56. That he applied by petition as an insolvent debtor to
circuit court for
county, (or court of common pleas
the city of Baltimore,) on the
day of
, and
proceedings under the petition are still pending; and that
alleged claim accrued before the filing of his petition.  the for the the 
57. A defendant may plead, as in the above form, that he
has applied, by petition as an insolvent debtor, to the proper
court, and that the proceedings under his petition are still pending,
and that the alleged claim accrued before the filing of his petition.
And upon proof of the facts so pleaded, judgment shall only be
entered subject to the result of the proceedings under the petition.
Farms of Pleas in Actions far Wrongs.
58. That he did not commit the wrong alleged.
59. That he did what is complained of by the defendant's
leave.
Hays v. Richardson, 1 G. & J. 366. Addison t>. Hack, 2 Gill, 22!). Carter v.
Harlan, 6 Md. 26. Hamilton v. Windolf, 36 Md. 301. B. & 0. R. R. Co. c.
Pot. Coal Co., 51 Md. 343. Vogler c. Geiss, 51 Md. 411.
60. That the plaintiff was not entitled to the said way over
the defendant's land as the plaintiff has alleged.
61. That the plaintiff first assaulted him ; and he committed
the alleged assault in his own defence.
62. That the defendant, at the time of the alleged trespass,
was possessed of land called " Idlewild, " in
county, and
was entitled to a way from said land over the land of the plain
tiff, to a public highway, for himself and his servants with horses
and wagons, to go and return at all times, at his and their free will,
for the more convenient occupation of the said land of the defendant ; and that the alleged trespass was a use by the defendant of
said way.
63. The plaintiff, as to the defendant's plea, says : (here state
the matter of reply.)
64. The plaintiff, as to the second plea, says: (state the
answer to the plea, as in the following form.)
65. That the alleged release is not the plaintiffs deed.
66. That the alleged release was procured by the fraud of
the defendant.
67. That the alleged set-off did not accrue within
years,
(state the period of limitation applicable to the case,) before the
plea pleaded.
68. That the plaintiffs claim is upon an account concerning
trade between himself and defendant as merchant and merchant,,
not residing in this State.
69. That the plaintiff was possessed of land called "Mid
summer," in
county, whereon the defendant was tres
passing and doing damage, whereupon the plaintiff requested the
defendant to leave the said land, which the defendant refused to'
do; and thereupon the plaintiff gently laid his hands on the
defendant in order to remove him, doing no more than wasnecessary for that purpose, which is the alleged first assault by
the plaintiff.
70. That the defendant was not entitled to the said way over
the plaintiffs land, as the defendant has alleged.
71. That the alleged trespass was not a use by the defenaant
of the said way.
72. That the defendant was not within the age of twenty-one
yeai-s, as alleged.
73. That the alleged deed was not delivered as an escrow, as
alleged.
74. That the defendant was not, and is not now, the wife of
one W. T., as alleged.
75. That the defendant did not make the alleged deed by
duress, as alleged.
76. That the alleged deed was not procured by the fraud of
Hxe plaintiff.
77. That the defendant did not commit the alleged assault
iin his own defence.
New Assignment.
(If the plaintiff replies and new assigns, the new assignment
may be as follows) :
78. The plaintiff, as to the
and "
pleas, says, that
he sues not for the trespasses therein admitted, but for trespasses
committed by the defendant in excess of the alleged rights, and
 also in other parts of the said land and on other occasions, and
for other purposes than those referred to in the said pleas.
Day e. Allender, 22 Md. 511.
79. And the plaintiff, as to the
and
pleas, further
 says, that he sues not only for the trespasses in these pleas
admitted, but also for, &c.
(If the plaintiff replies and new assigns to some of the pleas,
and new assigns only to the others, the form may be as follows):
80. And the plaintiff, as to the
and
pleas, further
says, that he sues not for the trespasses in the
pleas (the pleas
not replied to,) admitted, but for the trespasses in the
pleas
{the pleas replied to,) admitted, and also for, &c.
Pleas in Abatement.
81. That the plaintiff, at the time of issuing the summons in
this case, was and still is the wife of one R. B.
82. That the plaintiff is within twenty-one years of age ; and
lias declared by attorney, when he should hare declared by next
friend or guardian.
83. That the said contract in the declaration mentioned was
made by the defendant jointly with one W. P., who is still
living, and is residing in the county (or the city) aforesaid ; and
was not made by the defendant alone.
[This form shall be sufficient, whether the contract be by
parol or by deed.]
Forms of Affidavit to Pleas in Abatement.
84.
county.
M. K., (the defendant in the cause,) makes oath and says, that
the plea, hereunto annexed, is true in substance and in fact.1
Sworn before
.
Form of Declaration when the summons is reformed as to some
of the Defendants non est.
85. R. G., by S. T., his attorney (or in person,) sues J. T.
and M. B., (but M. B. has been returned non est by the sheriff,)
for (here state the cause of action,) and the plaintiff claims from
J. T., (the person summoned,) $
.
Commencements of Declarations by Persons Suing in Special
Characters.
86. A. B., executor of the last will (or administrator of the
goods, «fec.,) of O. H., deceased, by S. T., his attorney, (or in per
son,) sues D. E. for (here state the cause of action.)
87. J. T., who is within age, by S. T., his next friend, (or
guardian,) 6ues W. B. for (here state the cause of action.)
88. G. H., who was the husband of L. K., deceased, for
merly L. B., who has survived his said wife, by S. T., his attor
ney, (or in person,) sues 0. P. for (here state the cause of action.)
3 The affidavit should also contain the averment in the form prescribed by
any special law. Such, e. g., as "that the affiant verily believes that the de fendant will be able to produce cufficient evidence to support the same."
89. B. H. and F. W., surviving partners of T. K. and L M.,
(trading under the name of B. EL, F. W. & Co.,) by S. T., their
attorney, (or in person,) sue T. IL, surviving partner of M. S.,
(trading under the name of T. II. and M. S.,) for (here state the
cause of action.)
(The words " trading under the name of, >fec.," may be omitted,
unless the name of the firm be contained in the contract sued on.)
(The conclusion of declarations, by persons suing in special
characters, shall be the same with that of declarations by lxjrsous
suing in their proper characters.)
Conclusions of Declarations by Executors and Administrators.
90. "And the plaintiff claims therefor" $
, (or if the action
is detinue, brought to recover specific goods,) " the plaintiff claims
a return of the said goods, or their value, and $
for their
detention;" (or if the action is replevin,) "the plaintiff claims
the return of the said goods," (when they have not been replevied
and delivered,) "and $
for their detention;" (or in cases
where they have been delivered,) " the plaintiff claims said goods
and $
for their detention."
Stirling v. Garitee, 18 Md. 468.
Statement of Causes of Action by Executors and
A dministrators.
91. Money payable by the defendant to the plaintiff for
goods bargained and sold by O. H., in his lifetime, to the de
fendant.
92. "Work done and materials provided by O. II. in his life
time, for the defendant, at his request.
93. And the form may be the same as between the original
parties, adding proper words, to show that the transaction occurred
with the decedent.
Commencements of Declarations against Executors and
Administrators.
94. A. B., by his attorney, (or in person, as the case may
be,) sues C. D., executor of the last will (or administrator of the
goods, chattels, &c.,) of P. S., deceased, for (here state the cause
of action.)
Conclusions of Declarations against Executors and
Administrators.
95. "And the plaintiff claims therefor " %
(or if the action
is detinue, brought to recover 6pecific goods,) " the plaintiff claims
a return of the said goods, or their value, and %
for their
detention;" (or if the action is replevin,) "the plaintiff claims
the return of the said goods," (when they have not been replevied
and delivered,) "and $
for their detention;" (or in cases
where they have been delivered,) "the plaintiff claims said goods
and $
for their detention."
Stirling e. Garitce, 18 Md. 468.
Statement of Causes of Action against Executot>s and
Administrators.
96. Causes of action may be stated against executors and
administrators, in the same manner as if they were the original
parties thereto, except that proper words must be used to shovr
that the claim was against the deceased in his lifetime.
Commencement of Pleas by Executot>s and Administrators.
97. The defendant, executor of the last will (or administra
tor of the goods and chattels,) of P. S., deceased, by S. T., his
attorney, (or in person,) says, (here state the substance of the
plea.)
98. And for a second plea the defendant says, (here state
the second plea.)
Pleas by Executors and Administrators.
99. That the defendant has fully administered the goods and
chattels, rights and credits of the said P. S., deceased ; and had
done 60 before this suit.
100. That before the suit and after the lapse of six months
from the date of his letters testamentary (or of administration,)
the defendant paid away in discharge of just claims all the
assets of the said P. S., deceased, which had come to his hands;
and that more than six months before he so paid he gave notice
to the creditors of P. S. to bring in their claims, and that at the
time of said payment he had no notice or knowledge of the
alleged claim, and that since said payment no further assets hare
come to his hands.
101. That before this suit, and after the lapse of six months
from the date of his letters testamentary, (or of administration,)
the defendant paid away, in discharge of just claims, a large
amount of assets of P. S., deceased; and that more than six
months before said payments, he gave notice to the creditors of
P. S. to bring in their claims. And at the time of said pay
ments he had no notice or knowledge of the alleged claim. And
that there are other just debts still due from P. S., of which the
defendant had no notice or knowledge at the time of the said
payments ; and he has not, and never has had, assets sufficient to
pay but a portion of the alleged claim, regard being had to the
■debts still due from P. S.
' 102. Other pleas may be in similar form.
Commencements and Conclusions of Declarations by Executors
and Administrators against Executors and Administrators.
103.
county, A. B., executor of the last will, (or
■administrator of the goods and chattels, &c.,) of W. K., deceased,
by S. T., his attorney, (or in person,) sues T. K., executor of the
last will, (or administrator of the goods and chattels, &c.,) of W.
JL, deceased, for (here state cause of action.)
104. "And the plaintiff claims therefor" $
, (or if the
action is detinue, brought to recover specific goods,) " the plain
tiff claims a return of the said goods, or their value, and $
for their detention ;" (or if the action is replevin,) " the plaintiff
claims the return of the said goods," (when they have not been
replevied and delivered,) " and %
for their detention ;" (or in
cases where they have been delivered,) " the plaintiff claims said
goods and %—— for their detention."
Stirling e. Garitee, 18 lid. 468.
105. Declarations by executors and administrators against
executors and administrators, may be in the same form as if the
parties sued in their own right, if proper words are used to show
that the cause of action occurred between the persons they re
spectively represent.
106. It shall not be necessary in any case to make profert in
a declaration or plea, but the opposite party shall be entitled to
oyer in the same manner as if profert were made.
Birekhead v. Saunders, 2 H. & G. 82. Boteler e. State, 5 G. A J. 511. Young
v. State, 7 G. & J. 253. Brown v. Jones, 10 G. & J. 335. Tucker c. State, 11
Md. 322.
107. Either party may use the common law forms, or the
forms hereinbefore given, at his election ; and either party may
require a bill of particulars where the pleading is so general as
not to give sufficient notice to the opposite party, of the evidence
to be offered in support of it.
Randall «. Glenn, 2 Gill, 430. Carter v. Tuck, 3 Gill, 248. Hall v. Sewell, 9
Gill, 147. Scott t>. Leary, 34 Md. 389. Black e. Woodrow, 39 Md. 194. School
Com'rs e. Adams, 43 Md. 349. Weber c. Fickey, 47 Md. 200. Wilson v.
Merryman, 48 Md. 336. Smith v. State, 66 Md. 219.
108. Whenever the partnership of any parties, or the incor
poration of any alleged corporation,' or the execution of any
written instrument filed in the case, is alleged in the pleadings
in any action or matter at law, the same shall be taken as ad
mitted for the purpose of said action or matter, unless the same
shall be denied by the next succeeding pleading of the opposite
party or parties.
II.
PRACTICE.
Abatement and Revivor.
P. G. L., (I860,) art. 2, sec. 1. 1785, ch. 80. 1801, ch. 74. 1815, ch. 149.
1849, ch. 517.

Sec. 24. No action of ejectment, waste, partition, dower, replevin,
or any personal action, including appeals from judgments ren
dered by justices of the peace, in any court of law in this State,
shall abate by the death of either or any of the parties to such
action ; but upon the death of any defendant, the action shall be
continued, and the heir or executor of the defendant, or other
person interested on the part of the defendant, may appear to
such action ; and in case the proper person to defend doth not
appear at the court at which the death is suggested, the plaintiff
may issue a summons, returnable to the next court, directed to
the proper person to defend such action ; and upon such summons
being served, the person summoned shall appear. This not to
apply to actions for injuries to the person where the defendant
dies, nor to actions for slander.

Sec. 25. No action hereafter brought to recover damages for
injuries to the person by negligence or default, shall abate by
reason of the death of the plaintiff, but the personal representatives of the deceased may be substituted as plaintiff and prosecute
the suit to final judgment and satisfaction.

Sec. 26. If such person shall fail to appear upon being summoned
as aforesaid, the court shall issue an attachment of contempt
against him, and compel him to appear to such action ; and if any
person being summoned as aforesaid shall refuse or neglect to
appear to such action by the fourth day of the court next after
the court to which he may be summoned to appear, then the
court may cause his appearance to be entered, and there shall be
the same proceedings therein as if he had voluntarily appeared,
and all the proceedings had before the death of the party shall be
considered as proceedings in the action, and such further proceedings shall be had to bring the cause fairly to trial as the court
may deem proper.

Sec. 27. If the plaintiff in any action mentioned herein shall die
before judgment is given, the heir, executor or other proper
person to prosecute such action may appear and prosecute the
same, but if such person does not appear to prosecute such action
at the court at which the death is suggested, then the defendant
may issue a summons returnable to the next court, directed to
the proper person to prosecute such action ; and if such person
upon being summoned shall fail to appear, the court upon
being satisfied that the person so summoned is the proper person
to prosecute such action, shall issue an attachment of contempt to
compel the appearance of such person ; and if the person so summoned do not appear to prosecute such action by the fourth day
of the court next after the court to which such summons may be
returned served, judgment of non-suit shall be entered, and such
judgment shall be as valid and have the same legal consequences
and effect as if the same had been entered against the original
plaintiff in the action; and if the person 60 summoned to prose
cute shall appear to such action at any time before judgment of
non-suit shall be entered as aforesaid, all proceedings in the action
had before the death shall be considered as proceedings in the
cause, and such other proceedings shall be had to bring the cause
fairly to trial as the court may deem proper.

Sec. 28. In all cases where a new party has been made to any
action under the provisions of the three preceding sections, and
the new party so made, or any other party, shall die before judgment, the proper person to prosecute or defend such action in
the place of a party so dying shall be made a party to such
action, and the same proceedings shall be had to compel the
appearance of the proper person to prosecute or defend as provided for by said sections to compel the appearance of the proper
party on the death of the original plaintiff or defendant.

Sec. 29. Any new party to any action may use and rely upon any
pleadings put in by his predecessor in such action, or shall have
the same right to amend the pleadings or proceedings in such
action as if he had been an original party thereto.

Sec. 30. In all cases where a new party is made to an action, the
costs which accrued before such new party was made shall be
taxed as part of the costs in such action, and the judgment rendered shall be the same as if the action had been originally
commenced between the persons who are the parties to such
action ; provided, that no defendant who is made a new party
to such action shall be burdened with debts, damages or costs,
further than property or assets have descended or come to his
hands from the deceased.

Sec. 31. If any heir, executor, or other proper person to be made a
party, shall reside in a different county than that in which such
action is pending, and it may be necessary to make such heir,
executor, or other person a party to such action, a summons may
be issued for such heir, executor or other proper person, directed
to the sheriff of the county where such heir, executor or proper
person resides, returnable to the court from which the same
issued; and the same proceedings shall be had as if such heir,
executor or other proper person lived in the county where the action was pending.

Sec. 32. If any defendant in any action shall die pending such
action, and the heir or executor of such defendant, or other
proper person necessary to be made party to such suit or action,
resides out of this State, the court in which such action is pending,
shall, on motion, order and direct a subpoena to be issued, directed
to such heir, executor or other proper person, commanding him
to be and appear before such court on or before the first day of
of its next session thereafter, to answer unto the plaintiff in such
action in the plea therein, if to him it shall seem meet, which
subpoena the plaintiff in the said action may serve, or procure to
be served, upon such heir, executor or other proper person ; and
upon proving to the satisfaction of the court to which such subpoena shall be made returnable, that the same has been duly
served, if the heir, executor or other proper person so served
with the said subpoena shall not appear on or before the third
day of the second term of the said court after such service, in
person or hy attorney, and defend such action, the said court, on
motion, shall order and direct a judgment to be entered for the
plaintiff in such action, by default "nisi," to become absolute on
the third day of the succeeding term of said court, if the said
heir, executor or other proper person shall fail by that day to
appear ; and if the said heir, executor or other proper person,
shall appear on or before the third day of said succeeding term,
in person or by attorney, upon application to the said court, the
said judgment shall be stricken out, and the said heir, executor
or other proper person, as the case may be, shall be permitted to
appear and defend such action.

Sec. 33. No action in any of the courts of this State, either original
or upon appeal, shall abate by reason of the marriage of any of
the parties, but on application of any of the parties, the court,
upon such terms and notice as to it shall seem proper, may
allow and order any amendment of the pleadings and the making
of any new and additional parties that such marriage may render
proper.

Sec. 34. In all suits and actions at law, any of the proceedings,
including the writ of summons, may be amended so that such
case may be tried on its real merits and the purposes of justice
subserved; writs may be amended from one form of action to
another when the ends of justice require it; and any amend
ment may be made at any time before the jury retire to make up
their verdict, in cases of jury trial ; and in cases of demurrer and
other trials before the court, at any time before judgment is
entered. Amendments may in like manner be made before jus
tices of the peace.

Sec. 35. No continuance shall be granted upon amendments of the
plots, writs, or any of the proceedings, but the case shall proceed
as if no amendment had been made, unless the court shall be sat
isfied that the ends of justice require a continuance.

Sec. 36. No writ or action shall abate because of the misnomer of
any plaintiff or defendant named therein, but the court, on suggestion, supported by the affidavit of the plaintiff or defendant,
or other proof to the satisfaction of the court, that by mistake
the plaintiff has sued in a wrong name, or that the party summoned in virtue of said writ or action is, in fact, the party in
tended to be sued by such writ, or in such action, may at any
time before judgment, direct the writ or any of the proceedings
to be amended by inserting therein the true name of any plaintiff
or defendant, at the discretion of the court; this section to apply
to foreign attachments, cases against corporations, and all other
suits and actions.

Sec. 37. If there be a non-joinder or misjoinder of plaintiffs, the
court may allow an amendment by which a plaintiff may be
added or stricken out, as the case may require.

Sec. 38. If there be a misjoinder or non-joinder of defendants, the court may allow a defendant to be stricken out or added, as the
case may require ; but if a new defendant be added, he shall be
summoned and have the same time to plead as if a new action
were brought against him.

Sec. 39. Amendments for misjoinder or non-joinder of either plain
tiffs or defendants may be made at any time before the jury re
tire to make up their verdict, or before judgment given on demurrer, or other trials before the court, as the case may be ; and
the court may grant such continuances, and may award such costs
against the party making the amendment as may be deemed just
and reasonable.

Sec. 40. In amendments for non-joinder or misjoinder, entire new
parties, either plaintiffs or defendants, cannot be introduced, but
some one of the original plaintiffs and some one of the original
defendants must remain parties to the action ; and in no case of
amendment can entire new parties, either plaintiffs or defendants,
be made.

Sec. 41. "Where an heir at law or devisee has been omitted as a
defendant, the plaintiff may amend by making such heir or
devisee a party, and such proceedings shall be had as will produce a fair trial.

Sec. 42. Nothing in the preceding sections of this article relating
to amendments shall affect any plea of limitations, in abatement,
to the jurisdiction, or other dilatory plea.

Sec. 43. Where an amendment is allowed after the jury is sworn,
and the court shall consider a continuance necessary to a fair
trial of the cause, a juror shall be withdrawn ; but if the court
considers that a continuance is not necessary to a fair administration of justice, the jury may proceed and try the case
after the amendment.

Sec. 44. In all cases of amendment, the allowance of costs shall be
in the discretion of the court.

Sec. 45. Any cause instituted in any of the courts of this State may,
by rule of court and by consent and agreement of the parties
thereto, be submitted and referred to the award and arbitrament
of any person or persons, and the court may give judgment on
the award of the person or persons to whom such submission and
reference shall be made, as of the term to which said award shall
be returned, and award execution thereon as upon verdict, confession or nonsuit.

Sec. 46. Such award shall remain four days in court during its
sitting after the return thereof before any judgment shall be
entered thereon, and if it shall appear to the court within that
time that the same was obtained by fraud or malpractice in, or by
surprise, imposition or deception of the arbitrators, or without
duo notice to the parties or their attorneys, the court may set
aside such award and refuse to give judgment thereon.

Sec. 47. All causes so referred shall be continued until an award
is returned; and if the death of either of the parties happens
before an award is returned and judgment thereon, the cause
shall not abate, but upon reasonable notice to the person succeed
ing to the interest of the deceased in the matter in contest, and
not being a minor, the arbitrators shall proceed to a determination
and return their award, upon which judgment may be entered,
notwithstanding the death of either of the parties.

Sec. 48. If any arbitrator appointed by the parties upon any refer■ence as aforesaid shall die or refuse to act, the court shall, upon
motion of either of the parties, appoint an arbitrator or arbitrators
in his place, who shall have the same power to decide the matter
in question as if appointed by the parties.

Sec. 49. If an award shall not be returned within eight months
after the cause has been referred, the court may, by order, compel
the arbitrators to return their award or give their reason for not
returning the same, or the court may in its discretion, upon
motion of either of the parties, reinstate the cause, and take such
order therein as the court may think proper, to have the same
fairly tried in court, in the same manner as if it had never been
referred.

Sec. 50. In every case where an award shall be made upon such
reference, the party in whose favor the award shall be given, shall
cause a copy thereof to be delivered to the adverse party or his
attorney at least three days before judgment is moved for thereon ;
and the clerk shall not enter judgment thereon until motion is
made to, and direction is received from the court ; and the court
shall always have satisfactory proof by the party's own oath or
otherwise, that a copy has been delivered to the adverse party or
his attorney, before judgment shall be entered thereon, unless the
parties or their solicitors file a written agreement waiving or admitting notice and assent to judgment on the award ; in which
case the court, or one of the judges thereof, may either in term
time or in recess, order the judgment on the award to be entered.

Sec. 51. Parties may, if they think fit, enter into an agreement in
writing, which may be filed and docketed as a case inter partes,
that upon the finding in the affirmative or negative by a jury of
a certain issue or issues recited in said agreement, a sum of
money fixed by the agreement, or to be ascertained by the jury
upon a question inserted in the issue for that purpose, shall be
paid by one of such parties to the other of them either with or
without the costs of the action.

Sec. 52. Upon the finding of the jury on any such issue or issues,,
judgment may be entered for such sum as shall be so agreed or
ascertained as aforesaid, with or without costs, as the case may be,
on which execution may issue as in other cases, unless otherwise
agreed, subject to the right of either side to move to set aside the
verdict or for a new trial, and such judgment shall have all the
effect and incidents of other judgments at law.

Sec. 53. Parties may after action docketed at any time before
judgment, by consent and order of the court, state any question
or questions of law in a special case for the opinion of the court
without any pleading.

Sec. 54. The parties may, if they think fit, enter into agreement
in writing, filed in the cause, that upon the judgment of the
court being given in the affirmative or negative of the question
or questions of law raised by such special case, or any of themy
a sum of money fixed in said agreement by the parties, or to be
ascertained by the court, or in such manner as the court may
direct, shall be paid by one of the parties to the other of them,
either with or without the costs of the action, and the judgment
of the court may be entered for such sum as shall be so agreed
or ascertained, with or without costs as the case may be; and
execution may at once issue on such judgment, unless otherwise
agreed, or unless stayed according to law on appeal or error, and
such judgment shall have all the effect and incidents of other
judgments at law; m case there shall be no agreement with
regard to costs, they shall be governed by the law applying to
costs in other actions at law.

Sec. 55. Upon the allowance of any writ of certiorari for the
.removal of the proceedings by a justice of the peace between
landlords and tenants, and also in all cases of inquest for a
forcible entry and detainer, or a forcible detainer, the party
obtaining the said writ of certiorari shall give bond with
security to the opposite party, to be approved by the judge or
clerk of the court allowing the writ, in such penalty as the said
judge or clerk shall direct, conditioned for the payment of all
costs and damages that may be incurred or suffered by the delay
of the proceedings, if the matter in controversy upon such writ
shall be decided against the person obtaining the same.

Sec. 56. No cause shall be continued beyond the second term after
process has been served on the defendant, unless by consent of
parties, or upon good cause shown by the party asking the continuance.

Sec. 57. Upon suggestion, supported by the affidavit of the party
or some other credible person, that the evidence of a witness who
resides in some place beyond the limits of this State, or the
evidence of a witness residing within this State, is wanting, the
court shall continue the cause for such time as may be deemed
necessary to enable the party to procure the attendance or obtain
the testimony of such absent witness ; provided, the party applying for the continuance shall comply with the provisions of the
two following sections.

Sec. 58. The party applying for a continuance under the preceding
section, shall prove by his affidavit, or the affidavit of some other
credible person, to be filed in the cause, that the testimony of the
absent witness (naming him) is material, competent and proper in
such suit ; that he believes that the cause cannot be tried with
justice to the party without such evidence ; that he has used his
proper and reasonable endeavors to procure the same, and that he
has a reasonable expectation and belief that the same can there
after be procured in some reasonable time.

Sec. 59. The court may examine on oath a party making the affidavit under the preceding section, in regard to the materiality of
the testimony, the probability of procuring the attendance of the
witness in a reasonable time, and on what information or knowledge he believes the witness will prove what he alleges ; and if,
on such examination, the court is satisfied of the truth of the
affidavit, and that the testimony is material and competent, a continuance shall be granted, unless the adverse party will admit
the facts which it is so alleged the absent witness will prove to
be in evidence to the same effect as if said absent witness had
testified thereto, saving, however, to the adverse party the same
right to impeach or contradict said testimony as if said witness
had been present.

Sec. 60. Where a new trial is granted, or a commission shall issue
for the taking of testimony, or where a judgment shall be set
aside for fraud or irregularity, the court may continue the cause
6o long as they shall deem necessary for a trial of the same on its merits.

Sec. 61. Where a party to a suit dies, and new parties are made or
to be made, the court may continue the case so long as may be
deemed necessary for the due administration of justice, not
exceeding the end of the fourth term after the death is
suggested, unless by consent of parties, or testimony or plats are
wanting.

Sec. 62. Where a party in any action to recover lands, or in which
the title thereof is involved, shall die, and the proper person to
be made a party in place of the person so dying shall be an
infant, such action shall not abate or be suspended until the
infant or infants attain full age of twenty-one years ; but the actual
guardian may and shall be made a party to prosecute or defend,
and if there be no actual guardian the court, on the motion of
any party to the suit, shall appoint a guardian ad litem, and the
case shall proceed as if all parties were of full age, and this sec
tion shall apply to pending cases.

Sec. 63. If any infant is entitled to lands by purchase, he shall not
be obliged to answer any suit or action, except in cases where the
heir would be bound by law to answer.

Sec. 64. In any case where the attendance of a witness residing
within this State to a material fact cannot be procured, the case
may be continued as long as the court thinks proper, if the
adverse party will not admit that such absent witness would testify
to such facts as provided in section 59, or consent to the taking
the deposition of such witness on interrogatories, before some
justice of the peace where the witness resides.

Sec. 65. On a special verdict, or case stated, the court shall not
continue any case on a curia advisari vult longer than two terms.

Sec. 66. If plots returned in any cause are defective, and cannot be
amended at the bar, or if plots are not returned from the neglect
of the surveyor, his sickness, or other accident, and the court
shall think a continuance necessary for a fair trial of the cause,
the same may be continued for such reasonable time as the court
may determine.

Sec. 67. Tu all cases where a continuance is granted the party
applying for the same shall pay the costs of the term, unless the
court shall otherwise direct.

Sec. 68. The court in which an action shall be after a new trial
has been ordered by the court of appeals, or by that court,
shall have power to stay all further proceedings in such action
until all or any of the costs adjudged by the court of appeals, or
by that court, shall have been paid by the party adjudged to
pay the same.

Sec. 69. The action of ejectment shall be commenced by filing a
declaration in which the real claimant shall be named as plaintiff,
and the tenant in possession or the party claiming adversely to
the plaintiff shall be defendant ; it shall be sufficient to state in the
declaration that the plaintiff was in possession of the land or
premises described in the declaration, and that the defendant
ejected him therefrom and retains possession thereof, and the
amount of damages claimed by the plaintiff ; a copy of the declaration, with a writ of summons, as in other cases, addressed to the
defendant, shall be served on each of the defendants, or, if they
cannot be found, upon the person or persons in actual possession
of the land described in the declaration ; and if there be no person
in possession of the premises, or if the same be unimproved
vacant property, a copy of the declaration and summons shall be
conspicuously posted and set up upon the premises, and notice of
the object of the suit and of the substance of the declaration shall
be published as the court shall direct, giving notice to the said
defendants to appear to and defend the said action by a day to be
named by the court, not less than twenty days from the first publication of said notice ; to this declaration the defendant or any
other person, with leave of the court, may appear and plead not
guilty to the action, which plea shall be held a confession of the
possession and ejectment, and shall only put in issue the title to
the premises and right of possession and the amount of damages
claimed by the plaintiff ; but any defendant may refuse to appear
or tile a disclaimer of title to the land or any part thereof, in
which case the plaintiff shall recover judgment against the defendant so disclaiming or refusing to defend for the land or so
much thereof as shall not be defended, but the" costs shall be sub
ject to the discretion of the court, and the trial shall then proceed
against the party making the defence under the rules and practice
of the court as the same existed prior to the year eighteen
hundred and seventy, except so far as the same are changed by
this article ; and the plaintiff shall also recover as damages in this
action the mesne profits and damages sustained by him and caused
by the ejectment and detention of the premises up to the time of
the determination of the case.

Sec. 70. In all cases between landlord and tenant, as often as it
shall happen that one-half year's rent shall be in arrear, and the
landlord or lessor to whom the same is due, hath right by law to
re-enter for the non-payment thereof, such landlord or lessor
shall and may, without any formal demand or re-entry, serve a.
copy of a declaration in ejectment for the recovery of the de
mised premises ; or in case the same cannot be legally served, or
no tenant be in actual possession of the premises, then he shall
affix the same upon the door of any demised messuage, or in case
such action of ejectment shall not be for the recovery of any
messuage, then upon some notorious place of the lands, tenements,
or hereditaments comprised in such declaration in ejectment ; and
such affixing shall be deemed legal service thereof, which service
or affixing such declaration in ejectment shall stand in the place
and stead of a demand and re-entry ; and in case of judgment
against the defendant for non-appearance, if it shall be made to
appear to the court where said suit is depending, by affidavit, or
be proved upon the trial, in case the defendant appears, that half
a year's rent was due before the said declaration was served, and
no sufficient distress was to be found on the demised premises
countervailing the arrears then due, and that the lessor or land
lord had power to re-enter, then and in every such case the lessor
or landlord shall recover judgment and execution in the same
manner as if the rent in arrear had been legally demanded, and a
re-entry made ; and in case the lessee or his assignee, or other per
son claiming or deriving under the said lease shall permit and suffer
judgment to be had and recovered on such trial in ejectment,
and execution to be executed thereon, without paying the rent
and arrears, together with full costs, and without proceeding for
relief in equity within six calendar months after such execution
executed ; in every such case the said lessee, his assignee, and all
other persons claiming and deriving under the said lease shall be
barred and foreclosed from all relief or remedy in law or equity
than by bringing error or appeal for reversal of such judgment,
in case the same shall be erroneous ; and the said lessor or land lord shall from thenceforth hold the said demised premises dis
charged from such lease; and if, on such ejectment, a verdict
shall pass for the defendant, or the plaintiff shall be non-suited
therein, then, and in every such case, the defendant shall have
and recover his costs; provided, that nothing herein contained
shall extend to bar the right of any mortgagee of such lease, or
any part thereof, who shall not be in possession, so as such mortgagee shall and do, within six calendar months after such judg-
merit obtained and execution executed, pay all costs and damages
sustained by such lessor or person entitled to the remainder or
reversion as aforesaid, and perform all the covenants and agree
ments which, on the- part and behalf of the first lessee, are and
ought to be performed.

Sec. 71. When the lands sued for lie contiguous to each other, and
in adjoining counties, suit may be brought for the whole in any
of said counties in which any of the defendants reside; and if
none of the defendants reside in any of said counties, then the
suit may be brought in the county where the largest part of the
land lies, and the sheriff and surveyor of the county in which the
suit is brought shall have power to execute and return the war
rant of resurvcy of all the lands so sued for, and said sheriff shall
also have power to execute a writ of haberefacias possessionem
for all of said lands.

Sec. 72. In any action of ejectment against two or more defendants
they may sever in their defence; but if plats be necessary, there
shall be but one set returned, which shall show the claims and
pretensions of all the parties.

Sec. 73. Where defendants in ejectment sever in their defence,
the court shall apportion the costs in such manner as may seem
reasonable and just.

Sec. 74. In all cases of a joint holding by two or more persons, they
may declare jointly whether they hold as joint tenants, tenants in
common, or in any other manner.

Sec. 75. If, on the trial of an ejectment, title be shown in any of
the plaintiffs, it shall be sufficient to authorize him to recover to
the extent of such title, though other plaintiffs may be joined who
have no interest, or may have parted with their interest.

Sec. 76. In all actions at law, where the title to land is in question,
it shall not be necessary for any party to any such action to prove
that the lands in controversy have been patented ; but a patent
shall in all cases be presumed in favor of the party showing a
title otherwise good ; and actual enclosure shall not be necessary
to' prove possession, but acts of exclusive user and ownership,
other than enclosure, may be given in evidence to the jury, to
prove possession.

Sec. 77. No warrant of resurvey shall issue in any action of ejectment unless the court shall be satisfied that there is a dispute
about the location of the lands claimed in said action ; nor shall
any issue in other actions, unless there is a dispute about the
location of the lands, for the injury of which damages are claimed,
or unless the court shall be satisfied that plats are necessary for
illustration.

Sec. 78. In any action where the parties hold or claim under the
.same title the lands in dispute, no warrant of resurvey shall issue,
except in cases where the parties claim different parcels under
the same title, and it appears to the court there is a dispute about
the location of the divisional line or lines.

Sec. 79. Where a warrant of re-survey shall be issued in any action
of ejectment or other action, the party applying for such warrant
shall first make the location of his claim and pretension, and
such other location as he may thing necessary to bring the cause
fairly to trial.

Sec. 80. It shall not be necessary in the execution of any warrant
of re-survey to locate by actual survey the whole of any tract or
parcel of land ; but it shall be sufficient to locate, by actual survey, the beginning or any call or other object by which the
location of the tract may be proved, and such portion of the
lines connected therewith as may be necessary to show the parts
of the land in controversy, and the questions to be tried and
proved by witnesses to be examined in the cause ; and all other
lines and objects may be located by protraction on the plats by
the party making the survey ; and such locations by protraction
when made by either party, shall be conclusive evidence of the
correctness of any object or line so located, unless the same shall
be differently located by the other party either by actual survey
or by protraction; and in case it is so differently located, the
jury shall judge between said locations ; and all locations by pro
traction shall be made by course and distance according to the
description of the lands so located, to be shown and proved by
some patent, deed, or other paper to be given in evidence, and
shall be connected by the course and distance of some title paper
or other competent evidence, with lines and objects located by
actual survey; but in making locations by protraction, the
surveyor may correct by protraction to calls for corners or
objects already located on the plats, either by actual survey or
by protraction, and the surveyor shall hereafter return only three
copies of the plats and certificates of survey ; and it shall not be
necessary in said certificates to incorporate any tables of courses
and distances, but said certificates shall contain only a brief explanation of the plats and of the tracts of land and objects shown
on the same, describing by a letter or device the point on the
plat where each tract begins, and describing by color, number,
fec, the lines on the plat which represent the boundaries of each
tract or parcel of land, and describing by letter or device the
manner and place where and in which all other objects are rep
resented on said plats ; and it shall not be necessary to describe
the location of any tract or object more than once in each of
said certificates, although a greater number of title papers may
be offered in evidence containing its lines ; but each party shall
file with the surveyor, to be returned along with said certificate,
a list of the deeds, patents, or other conveyances or title papers
which he means to offer in evidence at the trial of the cause,
briefly describing the same by date, place of record or other means
of identification ; and said surveyor shall return said lists along
with his certificates ; and no title paper shall be offered in evidence by either party unless such list shall have been 60 de
livered by him to said surveyor, nor unless said paper shall appear
on said list ; and if either party shall make any surveys or loca
tions which the court, in its discretion, shall think unnecessary,
the party requiring the same shall pay the cost thereof ; and any
party to any cause hereafter tried may give in evidence any
patent, deed or other paper which would be evidence in the cause,
if it shall be located in whole, or only such part thereof as may
be necessary to prove or illustrate the matters in controversy,
either by actual survey or by protraction as herein provided, if
said patent, deed or other paper shall be upon the aforesaid list
furnished to and returned by the surveyor ; and in all actions of
trespass quare cla-imtmfregit. where the alleged trespass consists
of excavations of coal, iron, ore or other mineral or material
under ground, and such excavations cannot be measured or located
on the plats by reason of the same having become inaccessible by
falls of earth or otherwise, or by the closing or partial closing of
the galleries, headings, rooms or other excavations constituting
or leading to such trespasses, then and in all such cases it shall be
lawful and proper to prove such trespasses by any evidence
otherwise competent and admissible, notwithstanding such trespasses cannot be, and have not been, located on the plats, and
notwithstanding that the defendant has taken defence on warrant.

Sec. 81. The plats and certificates of survey in every case may be
amended at bar ; where the locations do not correspond with the
variation, the same may be amended at bar to correspond there
with ; objects to which the proof applies may be placed on the
plats, and witnesses may be examined who were not sworn on the
survey ; provided, the court shall be satisfied the ends of justice
will be attained by such amendment of plats, and admission of
witnesses.

Sec. 82. In no action shall plats be considered as pleadings or
evidence per se; nor shall any counter location be necessary to
put the party locating any tract, line or object, on the proof of
such location ; and the opposite party may controvert the same
without any counter location.

Sec. 83. It shall be lawful for the defendant in any action at law
(including plaintiff in replevin where avowry or cognizance is
made) in which, if judgment were obtained, he would be entitled
to relief against such judgment on equitable grounds, to plead the
facts which entitle him to such relief, by way of defence, and the
court in which said action is pending is hereby empowered to
receive such defence by way of plea; provided, that such plea
shall begin with the words : " For defence on equitable grounds,"
or words to that effect.

Sec. 84. The plaintiff or the defendant in replevin may demur to
such plea for want of equity, or reply thereto facts which avoid
such plea upon equitable grounds; provided, that such replication shall begin with the words : " For replication on equitable
grounds," or words to the like effect.

Sec. 85. In case it shall appear to the court that any such equitable
plea or equitable replication cannot be dealt with by a court of
law, so as to do justice between the parties, it shall be lawful for
such court to order the same to be struck out, on such terms as
to costs and otherwise as to such court may seem reasonable ; all
replevin bonds and retorno habendo bonds may be given by the
plaintiff or defendant, as the case may be, or, on their behalf, the
clerk shall have power to swear all parties executing such bonds,
whether as principals or securities, as to their pecuniary sufficiency, and may also interrogate under oath the plaintiff in any
replevin touching the value of the goods and chattels proposed
to be replevied, in order to determine the proper penalty to be
named in the replevin bond.

Sec. 86. In all cases in any action on any promissory note, bill,
bond or open account, in which an interlocutory judgment or
judgment by default has been or shall hereafter be entered in
any of the courts of this State, whereby the right of the plaintiff
is established, but the damages sustained by him are not ascer
tained, the judge of the court where such judgment is, on
motion of the plaintiff, or of his attorney, and the production to
him of the promissory note, bill of exchange, bond, record or
writing obligatory, upon which the suit was brought, or upon
legal and satisfactory proof of the correctness and amount of the
claim where the suit was brought to recover a debt due upon
open account, shall assess the damages and order the judgment to
be extended for the amount so found to be due, and interest on the
same till paid, and costs of suit. In all other cases in which an
interlocutory judgment, or judgment by default has been, or shall
hereafter be entered, the judge of the court where such judgment
is, shall, on motion of the plaintiff, or his attorney, make an order
in the nature of a writ of inquiry, to charge the jury in atten
dance in such court to inquire of the damages and costs sustained
by the plaintiff in such action, which said inquiry shall be made,
and the evidence given in open court, in the same manner, and
under the same regulations as in other jury trials ; and after the
said jury, charged as aforesaid, shall have considered thereof,
they shall forthwith return their inquisition, under their hands
and seals, and the court shall order such judgment to be extended
in accordance with the terms of such finding of the jury.

Sec. 87. In all cases of actions brought for the penalty of any bond,
bill, covenant or contract with penalty, the jury may, under the
direction of the court, upon the plea of payment, or performance
of the conditions or terms of the contract, ascertain and by their
verdict find what sum of money is really and justly due to the
plaintiff; and upon such finding, judgment shall be entered by
the court for the penalty, to be released upon payment of the
sum of money so found to be due, and interest on the same till
paid, and costs of suit ; and the sum really due as aforesaid, or in
any other manner ascertained, upon bonds and other instruments
of writing, with penalty, shall be considered in law as the true
debt, and shall be so pieaded by and allowed to administrators
and others.

Sec. 88. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be sold by any
sheriff, constable, coroner or elisor, by virtue of. any process or
execution from any court or justice of the peace of this State, or
by any trustee under the decree of any court of this State, by any
trustee by appointment of any insolvent court, by any trustee
under any voluntary deed of trust, by any mortgagee under any
power in any mortgage, by any executor or executors, or any other
person nnder any power in a will, and the debtor named in such
execution or decree, the insolvent grantor or mortgagor in said
deed of trust or mortgage, or any person holding under said
debtor, insolvent grantor or mortgagor, by title subsequent to the
date of the judgment, decree, insolvent proceedings, deed of trust
or mortgage, respectively, or any person claiming under the
devisor of said will, shall be in actual possession of the lands and
tenements sold, and shall fail or refuse to deliver possession of the
same to the purchaser thereof, excepting, however, case of tenancies created in the lifetime of the devisor, which shall be fulfilled,
as now allowed by law, the judge of the circuit court for the
county in which said lands or tenements may be situate, or if
situate in the city of Baltimore the judge of the circuit court, the
superior court, the court of common pleas, or the Baltimore city
court shall, on application in writing, to be verified by the affidavit
of the purchaser, or his attorney, unless good cause to the contrary be shown by the party in actual possession as aforesaid,
his agents or attorneys, or other persons concerned, within
not less than fifteen days or more than thirty days from the
tiling of such application as aforesaid, issue a writ in the nature
of a writ of habere facias possessionem, reciting therein the
proceedings which may have been had in said process, thereby
commanding the sheriff of the county, coroner or elisor, to deliver
possession of the said lands and tenements to the purchaser thereof ;
and in cases of sales made by virtue of power contained in wills,
the judge shall grant such writs, if it appear on such application
that the contract of tenancy entered into between the devisor and
tenant in possession has expired ; and in cases where the purchaser
has entered into an agreement with the person in actual possession
of such lands and tenements at the time of such sale to permit
such person to remain in possession for a limited period, the judge
shall grant the said writ, if it appears in said application that the
period limited by such agreement between the purchaser and the
person in possession has expired.

Sec. 89. The said sheriff, coroner or elisor shall have all the powers
in the execution of said writ that he may have in the execution of
any writ of habere facias possessionem, to him directed.

Sec. 90. If the said sheriff, coroner or elisor shall die, resign or be
removed from or disqualified for office, or have his authority
otherwise terminated after such sale, and before the writ in the
nature of a writ of habere facias possessionem shall have been
issued and executed, the court shall issue said writ to any succeeding sheriff, coroner or elisor ; and if any such officer, to whom said
writ is directed, or who is charged with, or on whom may devolve
the execution of such writ, shall die, resign, be removed from or
disqualified for office, or have his authority otherwise terminated
before such writ shall be finally executed and returned, said writ
shall be delivered to and executed, and returned by any succeed
ing sheriff, coroner or elisor.

Sec. 91. The provisions of the three preceding sections shall apply
to sales made by sheriffs, upon executions issued by the clerk upon
judgments rendered by justices of the peace, and duly recorded ;
and the said writ may be issued by the court to which the pro
ceedings as to such sales shall be returned, as if the execution
under which such sales shall have been made had issued from
such court on a judgment therein recovered.

Sec. 92. No application for a writ of habere facias possessionem
under this article, shall abate by reason of the death of the pur
chaser before obtaining possession of the lands and tenements;
but his heir or devisee shall have all the rights and remedies
therein given to the purchaser.

Sec. 93. It shall be lawful for the court, in any action at law, or
cause in equity, or in any judicial .proceeding, upon the applica
tion of any party thereto, and on such terms as to it may seem
just, to make any order for the preservation, detention or inspec
tion of any property being the subject of such action, cause or
proceeding, and for all or any of the purposes aforesaid; to
authorize any person or persons to enter upon or into any land or
building in the possession of any party to such action, cause or
proceeding, and for all or any of the purposes aforesaid ; to authorize any samples to be taken, or any observations to be made, or
experiment to be tried, which may seem necessary or expedient
for the purpose of obtaining full information or evidence.
Production of Books and Answering Bill of Discovery.

Sec. 94. The court shall have power in the trial of actions at law,
on motion made at the first court after the appearance court, sup
ported by affidavit that the same is not intended for delay, and
due notice thereof being given, to require the parties to produce
copies, certified by a justice of the peace, of all such parts of all
books or writings in their possession or power as contain evidence
pertinent to the issue, or to answer any bill of discovery only
which may be filed by the second court after the appearance court,
in cases and under circumstances where they might be compelled
to produce said original books or writings or answer such bill of
discovery by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery; and
if a plaintiff shall fail to comply with any such order to produce
such books or writings, or answer such bill of discovery, it shall
be lawful for the 6aid courts on motion to give the like judgment
for the defendant as in cases of non suit ; and if a defendant shall
fail to comply with such order to produce books or writings, or to
answer any bill of discovery only, it shall be lawful for the court,
on motion as aforesaid, to give judgment against him by default ;
provided, that any plaintiff or defendant may, in compliance
with any rule for producing extracts of such books or papers,
bring into court the original books or papers.

Sec. 95. Whenever at the trial, hearing, or any other stage of an
action, suit, petition, cause or matter at law or in equity, it shall
appear to the court that the attendance or testimony of any
person or witness, or the production of any paper, document or
thing not produced by any party is necessary to the purposes of
justice, the court may require any party to produce such paper,
document or thing for inspection by court or jury, or may of its
own motion issue process for the production of such person,
witness, paper, document or thing, and may adjourn or postpone
the trial or hearing, or name a day for the further trial or hearing if the trial has begun, or if a hearing shall already have been
had, in order that such person, witness, paper, document or thing
may attend or be produced, upon such conditions in every case as
to time, notice, cost and security, as the court may deem proper.

Sec. 96. At the trial of any suit instituted upon the bond of any
clerk or register for neglect of duty, it shall be the duty of the
clerk or register, when required, to exhibit to the court his
dockets, records and fee books, and the measure of damages shall
be the sum or sums he has charged for services he has not per
formed, unless special damage has been suffered by some person,
and if so, the jury shall, in addition, allow for 6uch special
damage.

Sec. 97. The parties to any cause may submit the same to the
court for determination without the aid of a jury; and in all
suits or actions at law, issues from the orphans' court, or from any
court sitting in equity, and in all cases of presentments or indictments for offences which are or may be punishable by death,
pending in any of the courts of law in this State having jurisdiction thereof, upon suggestion in writing, under oath, of either of
the parties to said proceedings, that such party cannot have a fair
and impartial trial in the court in which the same may be pending,
the said court shall order and direct the record of proceedings in
such suit or action, issue, presentment or indictment, to be transmitted to some other court having jurisdiction in such case for
trial ; but in all other cases of presentment or indictment pending
in any of the courts of law in this State having jurisdiction
thereof, in addition to the suggestion in writing of either of the
parties to such presentment or indictment, that such party cannot
have a fair and impartial trial in the court in which the same may
be pending, it shall be necessary for the party making such suggestion to make it satisfactorily appear to the court that such
suggestion is true, or that there is reasonable ground for the
same ; and thereupon the said court shall order and direct the
record of proceedings in such presentment or indictment to be
transmitted to some other court having jurisdiction in such cases
for trial ; and such right of removal shall exist upon suggestion in
cases when all the judges of said court may be disqualified, under
the provisions of the constitution, to sit in any such case ; and said
court to which the record of proceedings in such suit or action,
issue, presentment or indictment may be so transmitted, shall
hear and determine the same in like manner as if such suit or
action, issue, presentment or indictment had been originally instituted therein.

Sec. 98. When any suit or action, issues or petitions, presentment
or indictment for offences which are or may be punishable by
death shall be removed according to the provisions of the pre
ceding section, it shall and may be lawful for the party at whose
instance the said suit or action, issues or petition, presentment or
indictment, was not removed, if he shall think that justice cannot
be done him in said court to which said suit or action, issues or petition, presentment or indictment, has been removed, to file an affidavit, as prescribed by the preceding section, in said court to which
said removal is ordered, suggesting that he cannot have justice in
such court, whereupon the said court shall remove the said cause,
suit, or action, issues or petition, presentment or indictment, to
such other court, having jurisdiction in such cases, as the said
court shall think will best tend to justice between the parties to
the said suit or action, issues or petition, presentment or indictment. When any presentment or indictment for offences which
are not or may not be punishable by death, shall be ordered to
be removed under the provisions of the preceding section,
no removal shall be ordered by the court to which the same
shall have been removed, upon the application of the party
at whose instance such presentment or indictment was not re
moved, unless in the exercise of its discretion the said court shall
be satisfied by proof that such removal is necessary for the purpose of a fair and impartial trial.

Sec. 99. It shall be in the power and discretion of the court,
should they think it proper, to cause a special panel of forty eight jurors to be selected by the sheriff from the community
at large, to try any cause or causes removed under the two
preceding sections; and the court shall direct the clerk thereof
to divide by ballot said number of jurors into two panels of
petit jurors, and may take such order for the regulating the
attendance of said panels as the said court shall see fit ; and the
said court may direct talesmen to be summoned in said cause or
causes whenever necessary.

Sec. 100. In all criminal cases removed as aforesaid, where the
party to be tried therein is detained in jail, the party so detained
shall not be removed until the first day of the session of the court
to which said case shall be removed.

Sec. 101. Any of the said circuit courts, to which any cause or
causes may be removed under the preceding sections, shall allow
such compensation, not exceeding the sum of forty dollars in any
one case, to the State's attorney, for his services in appearing
to or trying said cause or causes, as they may deem just and proper,
to be borne and paid by the county from which said cause or
causes may be removed, or by the city of Baltimore, as the case
may be.

Sec. 102. If it shall appear to any court to which any civil or
criminal case has been removed, that the transcript of the record
in said case is not a true transcript of the record or proceedings
had in the court from which the said case has been removed, it
shall be the duty of the court to which the case has been re
moved forthwith to order and direct that the said imperfect
transcript shall be delivered to the clerk of the court from which
the same was sent ; and it shall be the duty of said clerk receiving
such transcript so to him returned, to correct the same forthwith,
noting at the end thereof the corrections so made, or to prepare a
new transcript of the said record, which shall be correct in all its
parts.

Sec. 103. The court to which any imperfect transcript is sent shall
have power to order the delivery thereof to the clerk of the court
from which the case was removed as often as may be necessary to
the perfection of said transcript as a true copy of the record in
the case ; and the court to which such case is removed shall pro
ceed with the trial thereof at as early a day as may he ; and all
recognizances and other proceedings had in the court to which
the case is removed shall he as good and valid as if the transcript
of the record originally transmitted had been correct in all its
parts.

Sec. 104. In all civil cases which may be removed to another
county under the provisions of this article, and in which a final
judgment may be obtained, the clerk of the court in which such
judgment may be obtained, shall, on application of the plaintiff
therein, issue execution on said judgment or decree against the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements, rights and credits, of any
defendant lying in the county or city in which said case shall
have been originally instituted; or, if the judgment is for the
defendant, he may have the same remedy.

Sec. 105. Any such execution shall be directed to and served by
the sheriff or coroner, as the case may be, of the county or city in
which the case was originally instituted, and returned to the
circuit court for the county of which he is sheriff, or the superior
court of Baltimore city, if in said city ; and it shall be sufficient
for the plaintiff, to entitle himself to the benefit of such execution,
to produce before the court to which the same shall be returnable,
a short copy of the judgment by him obtained, attested by the
clerk of the court before which the same is had.

Sec. 106. Every court to which any cause may be removed shall
have power to issue a warrant of re-survey, order, or other process, to the sheriff, surveyor, or other officer of the county from
which such cause has been removed, or to the sheriff or other
officer of any other county; and the sheriff, surveyor or other
officer shall be bound to execute and obey the same in the same
manner as if issued from the circuit court for the county from
which such cause was removed, or for the county in which such
sheriff, surveyor or other officer may reside ; and upon neglect of
any sheriff, surveyor or other officer to execute and obey such
warrant of re-survey, order or other process, the court in which
such cause is pending, and to which such warrant of resurvey, order or other process is returnable shall, on motion and
proof of delivery thereof, amerce such sheriff, surveyor or other
officer not exceeding two hundred dollars, and enter judgment
against him in the name of the State, but for the use of the
party aggrieved by such neglect, who may issue execution thereon
as upon other judgments.

Sec. 107. Until the record in any cause has been actually transferred
from the court passing the order of removal to the court to which
it is removed, the court passing the order shall have power to
strike out the order of removal, on motion of the party applying
for the same, and when so stricken out the cause shall proceed as
if no motion for removal had been made; but the motion for
removal shall not be renewed by the same party after the expira
tion of the term at which the order for removal was stricken out ;
provided, that no such motion to strike out an order for removal
shall be entertained, unless the same shall be made in time to
admit of the trial of the cause at the same term of the court at.
which said order for removal was passed.

Sec. 108. The court, upon return of any writ of replevin, shall have
power, upon motion being made by the defendant for a return of
the property taken under the writ, to inquire into the circum
stances and manner of the defendant's obtaining possession of
such property; and if it shall appear that such possession wasforcibly or fraudulently obtained, or that the possession being
first in the plaintiff was got or retained by the defendant
without proper authority or right derived from the plaintiff, the
court may refuse to order a return to the defendant until &
judgment is given in the action.

Sec. 109. If the defendant in replevin shall be returned "sum
moned," and shall not appear in person or by attorney on or
before the fourth day of the term next succeeding that to which
such return shall be made, the court shall, on motion, enter
judgment for the plaintiff for the property replevied, and for
nominal damages and costs ; and the same proceedings shall be
had upon the return of two "rum est*" as upon a return of
"summoned."

Sec. 110. In all actions of replevin where the defendant shall have
been duly summoned and return shall have been made by the
sheriff that either all or some portion of the chattels described in
the writ have been eloigned, the plaintiff, having duly established
his right of possession to all or any portion of the chattels
described in the writ and the illegal detention of the same from
him by the defendant, shall be entitled on verdict to a judgment
for the return of such portion of said chattels as may have been
eloigned, or for their value as found by the verdict, as well a3 for
any of said chattels actually taken under the writ, together with
damages for the detention of all chattels mentioned in the writ
which the jury shall have found were unlawfully detained from
him by the defendant.

Sec. 111. Whenever in replevin or detinue there shall be a judgment in the alternative for the return of chattels, or the payment
of their value, the judgment for the return or delivery of the
goods may be enforced by a writ in the nature of a writ of
capias in withernam, and by attachment of the party or parties
adjudged to return or deliver the same, or either, unless the court,
on good cause shown, shall otherwise order, or unless the party or
parties entitled to such return or delivery shall agree of record
to accept the value of the chattels as ascertained by the judgment
in lieu of such return or delivery ; but nothing herein contained
shall prevent the party entitled to such judgment from having
his execution besides for the damages, if any, given for the
detention, and his costs; and every judgment in detinue and
replevin, and every verdict therein shall ascertain separately the
value of the goods and chattels and the damages, if any, for their
detention.

Sec. 112. When at the trial of any cause any party to such cause
shall require any point or question decided by the court to be
reserved for the consideration of the court in banc, and either of
the judges of the said court shall be disqualified to sit in such
cause, then it 3hall be lawful for the party at whose instance the
point or question shall be reserved, to elect to have such point or
question decided by the remaining judges or judge who may be
qualified to sit in such cause, or to have the cause removed to
some other court of a different circuit for the decision of the
judges thereof, or of such of said judges who may be qualified
to sit in such cause in banc, or to take an appeal to the court
of appeals ; and if such party or his counsel shall fail to make
and file such election in writing within thirty days after the
announcement of such disqualification, or within thirty days after
the trial of the cause, in case such announcement shall have been
made before the trial, then such point or question shall be decided
by the remaining judges or judge who may be qualified to sit in
such cause ; provided, that every point or question reserved upon a
motion for a new trial shall be decided by the remaining judges
or judge who may be qualified to sit in such cause.

Sec. 113. Points or questions reserved for the court in banc shall
be taken by means of exceptions, to be reduced to writing, and
signed and sealed by the judges or judge before whom the cause
may be tried, and so framed that the point or question may be
■fully presented as to both law and fact in case the cause shall be
transmitted to the court of appeals instead of being heard by the
court in banc.

Sec. 114. Whenever any cause shall be removed to any other court
upon a point or question reserved for the court in banc, as herein
provided, the said cause shall remain in the said court for trial as
if the same had originated therein.

Sec. 115. At any stage of an action or proceeding in a court of
law, the court may, on application of any party in interest, or of
its own motion if it shall appear that there is a question or questions of law which it would be convenient to have decided before
going further, direct such question or questions to be raised for
the court's decision, either upon a special case stated, or in such
other manner as the court may order ; and all such further pro
ceedings as may be rendered unnecessary by the decision of such
question or questions shall upon the decision be stayed, and such
special case stated, or such proceedings as show the questions so
decided, and the decision thereon, shall form part of the record
and be reviewable on appeal after final judgment in the case.
Summons with Claim for Injunction or Mandamus.

Sec. 116. The plaintiff in any action at law (except ejectment and
replevin), upon the bringing of the same may, in his order to the
clerk to issue in the case if by titling, or in the order to issue, if
endorsed on the declaration, direct that the writ of summons shall
be "with claim for mandamus," or "with claim for injunction,"
(or either or both of them, as the case may be), or words to the
like effect ; and the writ of summons thereon issued shall contain
such words in accordance with 6uch order, or words to like effect.

Sec. 117. Upon complying with the provisions of the foregoing
section, the plaintiff may thereupon claim in his declaration, either
together with any other demand which may be enforced in such
action, or separately, a writ of mandamus commanding the defendant to fulfil any duty, in the fulfilment of which the plaintiff
is personally interested, or directing the defendant to do any act
or acts that he may be bound by contract with the plaintiff to do,
or an injunction forbidding the defendant to do, repeat or continue to do any act or acts that it is his duty to refrain from doing,
either by contract or otherwise, or either or both of said writs.

Sec. 118. The declaration in such action shall set forth sufficient
grounds upon which the claim for mandamus or injunction is
founded, and that plaintiff is interested therein ; or, that he sus
tains, or may sustain, damage by the non-performance of such
duty or act, or, the doing of, repetition of, or continuance of any
act, and that he has demanded performance, or discontinuance,
and so forth, thereof, and the same has been refused or neglected.

Sec. 119. The pleadings and other proceedings in any action in
which a writ of mandamus or injunction is claimed shall be the
same in all respects, as nearly as may be, and costs shall be recoverable by either party as in an ordinary action at law ; and the
defendant may demur to so much of the plaintiff's declaration as
claims such writ, and such demurrer shall raise the question
whether the facts stated as the ground of such claim disclose any
such legal duty as that so sought to be enforced, but shall be subject to all rules governing general demurrers at law, both as to
the proceedings thereon and thereafter.

Sec. 120. In case judgment shall be given to the plaintiff that a
mandamus or injunction do issue, it shall be lawful for the court
in which said judgment is given, if it shall see fit, besides issuing
execution in the ordinary way for the costs and damages, also to
issue a peremptory writ of mandamus or peremptory injunction,
to the defendant, commanding him forthwith to perform the duty
to be enforced, or forbidding him to do, repeat or continue the
wrong against which an injunction is claimed.

Sec. 121. The writ so issued need not recite the declaration or
other proceedings, or the matter therein stated, but shall simply
command the performance of the duty, or forbid the doing, repe
tition or continuance of the wrong, and in other respects shall be
in the ordinary form of a writ of execution, except that it shall
be directed to the party and not to the sheriff, and may be issued
during the sittings of the court or not, and be returnable forth
with ; and no return thereto except that of compliance shall be
allowed ; but time to return it may, upon sufficient grounds, be
allowed by the court, either with or without terms.

Sec. 122. The writs issued as provided in the foregoing sections
shall have all the force of writs of mandamus as now issued by the
courts of this State, and of writs of injunction as now issued out
of the equity courts of this State ; and in case of disobedience,
such writs of mandamus and injunction may be enforced by
attachment, and in case of corporations, also by distress, in accordance with the established chancery practice.

Sec. 123. Upon application by the plaintiff the court, in addition
to or instead of proceeding against the disobedient party by
attachment, may direct that the act or acts required to be done
may be done by the plaintiff or some other person appointed by
the court, at the expense of the defendant ; and upon the act
being done the amount of such expense may be ascertained by the
court, either by a writ of inquiry or reference to an auditor, as
the court shall order ; and the court may order payment of the
amount of such expenses and costs, and enforce the payment
thereof by execution.

Sec. 124. Whenever a defendant is by law entitled to file pleas in
the nature of a cross-action, he can in such pleas claim any or all
of the writs referred to in the foregoing eight sections, and be
subject to all the provisions herein contained with reference to
the same, save such as relate to the issue of summons.

Sec. 125. Whenever the party claiming any of the above writs
would be in an ordinary action entitled to an interlocutory judgment by default, he shall be entitled in any of the actions referred
to in the nine foregoing sections to a final judgment that the writ
or writs claimed do issue.

Sec. 126. Any party to any action at law after the commencement
thereof, and whether before or after judgment, may apply by motion ex parte to the court in which it is pending, for a writ of
injunction to restrain the other party in such action from the repetition or continuance of the wrongful act or breach of contract
complained of, or the committal or injury of a like kind arising
out of the same contract, or relating to the same property or
right; and judgment may be given that such writ may be granted
or denied by the court upon such terms as to the duration of the
writ, keeping an account, giving security, or otherwise, as to such
court may seem reasonable and just.

Sec. 127. A judgment for the issue, or refusing the issue of any of
the writs referred to in any of the ten foregoing sections, shall be
subject to the same right of appeal as other final judgments, but
the operation of the writs, when issued, shall only be stayed on
appeal when the court issuing the same shall, in its discretion,
pass an order directing such stay; which order shall be conditioned upon the appellant giving bond, with penalty therein fixed,
to answer for all costs and damages caused by such stay if such
appeal be not prosecuted with effect.

Sec. 128. Nothing contained in the foregoing sections shall be
taken as in any manner modifying or impairing the jurisdiction
of the courts of common law, as now established, in regard to the
issue of the writ of mandamus, or of the court of chancery in
matters of injunction.

Sec. 129. In all civil suits or actions in the circuit courts where
capias ad respondendum formerly issued, a writ of summons
shall be issued for the defendant, in which shall be stated the
purpose for which he is summoned ; and the said summons shall
be returnable on the first day of the term next after issuing
the same ; and the sheriff of any county from which the writ of
summons for any defendant or defendants may be issued by the
circuit court for any such county, or the sheriff of the city of
Baltimore, in case the writ of summons is issued from any of the
courts of the city of Baltimore, may serve any such writ of summons on the defendant or defendants named in the writ, wherever
he may find such defendant or defendants, whether in or out of
the county or city from a court of which such process may have
issued ; or the writs of summons may be directed to and served
by the sheriff of any county or city where the defendant may
chance to be, returnable to the court where the process issued J
and any writ or summons, when so served and returned, shall
have the same effect as if it had been served on the defendant or
defendants by the sheriff of the county in said county from a
court of which the said writ of summons may issue.

Sec. 130. If the defendant is returned "summoned," and the
defendant returned, "summoned" shall fail to appear, the court
shall, on the second day of the term to which the summons is
returnable, enter the appearance of any defendant so summoned
and failing to appear, and the action shall proceed in the same
manner as if the party had appeared in person.

Sec. 131. Where there are more than one defendant, and some
shall appear, and some who have been summoned shall fail to
appear, the court shall have an appearance entered for those who
fail to appear, and the same proceedings shall be pursued as if
all had appeared.

Sec. 132. No person shall be sued out of the county in which he
resides until the sheriff or coroner of the county in which he
resides shall have returned a non est on a summons issued in such
county ; provided, that nothing herein contained shall apply to
any person who shall abscond from justice in the county where
he lives, but such person may be sued in any county where he
may be found; and provided, further, that any person who
resides in one county but carries on any regular business, or
habitually engages in any avocation or employment in another
county, may be sued in either county ; this section not to apply to
ejectment, dower, replevin, scire facias, or judgment or decree,
nor to heirs, devisees or terre-tenants, against whom process may
be issued to another county.

Sec. 133. If any trespass shall be committed on any real property,
and the person committing the same shall remove from the
county where such property may lie, or cannot be found in such
county, such trespasser may be sued in any county where he may
be found ; and an executor may be sued either in the county
where he resides or where he obtained administration.

Sec. 134. Any captain, master or owner of any steamboat or other
vessel may be sued for the non-delivery or injury of any goods or
chattels, in the county where the goods or chattels are received
on board of his vessel, or in the city or county in which the
delivery was by the contract to be made, in the same manner as
he can now be sued in the county in which he resides.

Sec. 135. Every county lying on any navigable river in this State
shall extend its jurisdiction from the shore to the channel of the
river that divides the counties, except where a dividing line has
been fixed in such river by law ; and where any ship or other
vessel shall be in said river, process may be served on board the
said ship or vessel by the officers of either county that can first
serve it ; but if she is moored or fastened to the land on either
side of said river, then she shall be considered as in the county
to whose shore she is fastened.

Sec. 136. If any person shall commit any crime or offence in any
county of which he is not an inhabitant, or if any person shall
commit any crime or offence in the county of which he is an
inhabitant and shall remove after the commission thereof and
shall be presented or indicted in the county where the crime or
offence shall have been committed, the court before which such
presentment or indictment shall be found, may issue process
against such person, directed to the sheriff of the county where
such person may reside, and the sheriff shall serve and return
such process as if issued by a court of his county, and upon
neglect or delay, may be fined by the court issuing the same.

Sec. 137. Where a testator devises lands and dies in debt, any of
his creditors may sue his devisees without making his heirs at
law parties, unless such heirs are known to the plaintiff and reside
in this State.

Sec. 138. It shall not be necessary for any officer, in serving any
writ of scire facias, or attachment with clause of scire facias,
to serve the same in the presence of witnesses.

Sec. 139. In case of writs of scire facias against heirs and terretenante, where any of the heirs or terre-tenants reside in another
county than that in which the judgment on which such scire
facias is issued was obtained, duplicates of such writ may issue
directed to the sheriff of each county wherein any of the heirs or
terre-tenants reside, and shall be served by the sheriff and re
turned to the court from which they issued, and the party
so summoned by means of such duplicates shall be proceeded
against in the same manner as if they were residents of the
county in which the judgment was obtained.

Sec. 140. In all cases where a joint action is instituted against
heirs and devisees, and any of such heirs or devisees shall be
residents of another county, a duplicate writ may issue to the
county where any of said heirs or devisees reside, directed to the
sheriff thereof, who shall serve and return the same to the court
from which it issued, and the same proceedings shall be had as if
such heirs or devisees resided in the county where the suit was
brought; provided, all such actions shall be instituted in the
county in which the deceased died, if any of his heirs reside
there, and if not, in the county in which his real estate or some,
part thereof is situated.

Sec. 141. A summons for witnesses residing in a different county
to testify in trials to be had before the circuit court, may issue,
and shall be directed to the sheriff of the county where the
witnesses reside; and all witnesses upon whom such summons
shall be served shall be liable to attachment and fine in like
manner as if such witnesses resided in the county where the trial
is had.

Sec. 142. If a witness residing in a different county from that in
which the trial is to be had 6ball be summoned, or has removed
from such county after being summoned, and shall fail to appear
after being so summoned, an attachment may issue for such
witness to the sheriff of the county where said witness resides,
returnable to the court issuing the same ; and if the sheriff take
such witness, he shall produce him before the said court to
abide its sentence thereupon.

Sec. 143. When any of the clerks of any of the courts within this
State shall be required to issue any writ or process whatever, to
be served in any other county than that in which he is clerk, he
shall issue the same directed to the sheriff, coroner or other
proper officer of such other county to whom the same ought to be
directed, and shall immediately enclose such process in a letter or
cover, sealed up and addressed to the clerk of the circuit court
for such other county, or the clerk of the superior court of Baltimore city, and on the back thereof shall endorse his name as
clerk of the court from which it issues, and shall forthwith
deposit the same in the next post office, to be conveyed by the
ensuing mail to the post office at or nearest to which the clerk of
such other court shall reside ; and in such letter or cover shall be
written the usual docket entry of such process, so as to show the
parties concerned, and the nature and purpose thereof.

Sec. 144. Each clerk of the circuit courts for the several counties,
and the clerk of the superior court of Baltimore city, shall send
to the post office nearest his residence, daily, (if mails arrive at
said office daily.) and if not, as often as they arrive, and inquire
for letters and covers addressed to him ; and if he receive any
writ or process, he shall immediately endorse the time when he
receives the same, and with all convenient speed deliver the
same to the sheriff or other officer to whom the same may be
directed, and shall also endorse thereon the time of such delivery.

Sec. 145. Every clerk who shall receive and deliver any writ or
process as directed in the preceding section, shall transmit by the
mail, and in due time before the session of the court to which
such process shall be returnable, a certificate under his hand and
seal of office, setting forth the receipt of such process, (which he
shall describe in the maimer in which it is written in the letter or
cover which contained the same,) the time when he received the
same, and delivery thereof to the officer to whom it was directed,
and the time of such delivery; which certificate he shall seal up
and address to the clerk of the court to which the process is made
returnable, and deposit it in the nearest post office, to be conveyed
to such clerk, endorsing his name thereon as hereinbefore directed ;
and such certificate in all proceedings relating to the sheriff or
other officer to whom any such writ or process was directed, shall
be competent and sufficient evidence to prove the delivery of such
process to such officer ; the provisions of this and the preceding
section to apply to writs offieri facias and attachments sent from
one county to another.

Sec. 146. Every clerk who shall neglect or delay to perform the
duties required by the three preceding sections shall forfeit and
pay a sum not exceeding fifty dollars for every refusal or neglect,
for the use of the State.

Sec. 147. The expense of postage incurred by the respective clerks,
and a reasonable compensation for their services in the transmission, delivery, and receipt of process from one county to another,
shall be allowed to them by the county commissioners of their
respective counties, and mayor and city council of Baltimore.

Sec. 148. Any process directed to another county instead of being
sent by mail as hereinbefore directed, may be sent by any person,
and upon proof of the delivery of the same to the sheriff or other
officer to the satisfaction of the court from which the same was
issued, such delivery shall have the same effect to charge the
sheriff or other officer as if delivered under the provisions of the
preceding sections.

Sec. 149. In all cases where there is no coroner in a county, the
plaintiff may file his declaration against the sheriff and his securities, or against the person who is for the time the sheriff, .when
the suit is against him on his individual account, and have a copy
thereof set up at the court house door at least ten days before the
sitting of the court in which the suit is brought, and if no appearance by the defendant before the first three days of the term be
made, judgment shall be entered up against them ; provided, that
the plaintiff shall make affidavit of the truth of the demand ; and if
the State shall be plaintiff in its own right, then a statement of
the comptroller in his own handwriting shall be evidence of the
amount due the State; but no execution shall issue on such
judgment until twelve months after said third day of the term.

Sec. 150. When the sheriff is a party to or interested in any suit
or proceeding in any court so as to be disqualified from serving
process, and there is no coroner duly qualified to serve such
process, the judge of the court in which such suit or proceeding
is to be instituted or is pending shall, on application of any party
interested, supported by affidavit or other proof of such disqualification, appoint an elisor to serve any process in such suit or
proceeding, which appointment shall be in writing, signed by the
judge and filed with the clerk issuing the process, and may be
made either in court or during the recess.

Sec. 151. Every elisor appointed as aforesaid shall have the same
power to serve any writ or process directed to him as the sheriff
has to serve similar process, and shall be entitled to the same fees
therefor.

Sec. 152. If any elisor dies or refuses to act, the judge may appoint
another in his place.

Sec. 153. The city of Baltimore shall be regarded as a county, so
far as relates to the sending of process of any kind from one
county to another; and each of its courts within its respective
jurisdiction, shall have all the powers of the circuit court for a
county in relation to such process, but all executions or attachments on judgments or decrees sent from another county shall be
made returnable to the superior court of said city.

Sec. 154. In all cases of civil process at law or in equity, or of
any civil writ whatsoever, issued out of any court, or by any
judge of this State, and directed to or against, or lawfully to be
served upon any person whatsoever, wherein the service of such
writ or process upon such person then being within the local
jurisdiction of such court or judge, shall be prevented or resisted by threats, violence, intimidation or superior force on the
part or behalf of such person ; or when the said person so liable
to be served with such writ or process shall be within any fortress,
or fortified place or building, or at any military post within said
jurisdiction, and entrance thereto, or access therein to such
person, shall be by order or on the behalf of such person refused,
obstructed or prevented, so that the officer charged with the
service of such writ or process shall be unable to serve the same,
or cannot do so without force, or personal risk, the said officer
shall leave a copy of such writ or process, if practicable or permitted, with such person or persons as shall present themselves,
where such writ or process is sought to be served, and where or
whereabout the person on whom the same is sought to be served
shall be ; or shall set up such copy upon the fortress, building 01
premises aforesaid, or as near thereto as may be practicable ; and
shall make return of the facts accordingly; which return shall
to all legal intents, purposes and effect be equivalent to a return
of actual personal service of such writ or process upon the party
named therein.
